G33|On financial frictions and firm market power|We build a static general-equilibrium model with monopolistically competitive firms that borrow funds from competitive banks in an economy subject to financial frictions. These frictions are due to non verifiability of both ex post firm returns and managerial effort. Market power has opposing effects. On one side, firms’ pricing over marginal cost reduces output compared to perfect competition. On the other, by increasing firms’ profitability, market power reduces the impact of financial frictions. The resulting tradeoff is ambiguous. We show that, other things equal, there exists an optimal positive level of market power that maximizes welfare. Such optimal degree of market power increases with moral hazard and decreases with the efficiency of firm liquidation following bankruptcy.
G33|Indicadores de alerta temprana para el sector corporativo privado colombiano|Este documento valida la utilidad de algunas variables financieras en la identificación temprana de acumulación de vulnerabilidades para el sector corporativo privado en Colombia. Para esto, se estudia la evolución de varios indicadores para firmas que han entrado en distress financiero. Adicionalmente, se valida la capacidad predictiva de los indicadores in-sample y out-of-sample. Los resultados sugieren que la razón de endeudamiento y una medida de debt-to-cashflow son las que mejor información proveen. Asimismo, se encuentra que la desagregación de las firmas por sector económico y el uso de medidas conjuntas aumentan la capacidad de identificación de situaciones de vulnerabilidad en este sector. **** ABSTRACT: This paper assesses the usefulness of some financial variables in predicting episodes of vulnerability for the private corporate sector in Colombia. We analyse the evolution of several indicators for firms that have experienced episodes of distress. Additionally, we validate the predictive power of our indicators by using in-sample and out-of-sample tests. The results suggest that the ratio of financial obligations to assets, as well as a measure of debt-to-cashflow provide better information. Likewise, we find that classifying the firms by economic sector and the use of several variables at the same time improve the ability to detect changes in the financial health of firms.
G33|The formation of hidden negative capital in banking : A product mismatch hypothesis|This paper investigates the phenomenon of hidden negative capital (HNC) associated with bank failures and introduces a product mismatch hypothesis to explain the formation of HNC. Given that troubled banks tend to hide negative capital in financial statements from regulators to keep their licenses, we attempt to capture this gambling behavior by evaluating product mismatches reflecting disproportions between the allocation of bank assets and the sources of funding. We manually collect unique data on HNC and test our hypothesis using U.S. and Russian banking statistics for the 2004{2017 period (external validity argument). To manage the sample selection concerns, we apply the Heckman selection approach. Our results clearly indicate that product mismatch matters and works similarly in both U.S. and Russian banking systems. Specifically, an increase in mismatch has two e ects: it leads to a higher probability that a bank's capital is negative and raises the conditional size of the bank's HNC. Further, we demonstrate that the mismatch e ect is heterogeneous with respect to bank size being at least partially consistent with the informational asymmetry view. Our results may facilitate improvements in the prudential regulation of banking activities in other countries that share similar features with either the U.S. or Russian banking systems.
G33|The Formation of Hidden Negative Capital in Banking: A Product Mismatch Hypothesis|This paper investigates the phenomenon of hidden negative capital (HNC) associated with bank failures and introduces a product mismatch hypothesis to explain the formation of HNC. Given that troubled banks tend to hide negative capital in financial statements from regulators to keep their licenses, we attempt to capture this gambling behavior by evaluating product mismatches reflecting disproportions between the allocation of bank assets and the sources of funding. We manually collect unique data on HNC and test our hypothesis using U.S. and Russian banking statistics for the 2004–2017 period (external validity argument). To manage the sample selection concerns, we apply the Heckman selection approach. Our results clearly indicate that product mismatch matters and works similarly in both U.S. and Russian banking systems. Specifically, an increase in mismatch has two effects: it leads to a higher probability that a bank’s capital is negative and raises the conditional size of the bank’s HNC. Further, we demonstrate that the mismatch effect is heterogeneous with respect to bank size being at least partially consistent with the informational asymmetry view. Our results may facilitate improvements in the prudential regulation of banking activities in other countries that share similar features with either the U.S. or Russian banking systems.
G33|Business tax policy under default risk|In this article we use a stochastic model with one representative firm to study business tax policy under default risk. We will show that, for a given tax rate, the government has an incentive to reduce (increase) financial instability and default costs if its objective function is welfare (tax revenue).
G33|Una breve aplicación a la predicción de la fragilidad de empresas colombianas, mediante el uso de modelos estadísticos|Resumen: Este trabajo estima diferentes modelos estadísticos para medir la probabilidad de riesgo de quiebra empresarial e identificar cuál de ellos presenta un mejor desempeño predictivo. Para lograr este objetivo, se emplean los estados financieros de las empresas colombianas para el 2015 con el fin construir indicadores financieros como variables explicativas en los modelos empleados. Las variables más relevantes para medir la probabilidad de quiebra fueron la rentabilidad del patrimonio y el nivel de endeudamiento. Entre los modelos estimados (logístico, logístico heterocedástico, logístico robusto y logístico mixto), el logístico mixto fue el que presentó el mejor desempeño para predecir la fragilidad empresarial. / Abstract : This manuscript estimates different statistical models to measure the probability of risk business failure, and identifies which one has better predicting performance. In order to achieve this objective, the financial statements of Colombian companies in 2015 are used in order to build financial indicators as explanatory variables in the used models. The most relevant variables to measure the probability of business failure were the return on equity and debt ratio. Among the estimated models (logistic, heteroscedastic logistic, robust logistic and mixed logistic), the mixed logistic has the best performance in predicting the corporate fragility.
G33|Liquidation, bailout, and bail-in: Insolvency resolution mechanisms and bank lending|We present a dynamic, continuous-time model in which risk averse inside equityholders set a bank's lending, payout, and financing policies, and the exposure of bank assets to crashes. We study how the prevailing insolvency resolution mechanism affects these policies, the insolvency rate, loss in default, value at risk (VaR), and the net value created by the bank. VaR depends non-trivially on jump (crash) risk, diffusion risk and the horizon. We examine the commonplace assertion that bailouts encourage excessive lending and risk-taking compared to the liquidation and bail-in regimes, and explore whether bailouts could be financed by banks without taxpayers' money.
G33|The Economic Costs of Financial Distress|We estimate the economic costs of financial distress by exploiting cross-supplier variation in real estate assets and leverage, and the timing of real estate shocks. We show that for the same client buying from different suppliers, its purchases from suppliers in financial distress decline by an additional 10% following a drop in local real estate prices. The effect is more pronounced in more competitive industries, manufacturing and durable goods industries, for producers of less-specific goods, and when the costs of switching suppliers are low. Our results suggest that the indirect costs of financial distress are economically important.
G33|Debt restructuring with multiple bank relationships|When the debt of distressed firms is dispersed, free riding makes it difficult to reach a restructuring agreement. We develop a multistage game in which banks come across each other frequently, allowing them to threaten punishment in case of free riding. As the number of banks grows, the chance of re-encountering a bank and of being punished for free riding increases, improving the likelihood of cooperation. Looking at Italian firms in distress, we find that the restructuring probability increases with the number of banks up to a threshold - around three banks - beyond which coordination problems prevail.
G33|Liquidity stress detection in the European banking sector|Liquidity stress constitutes an ongoing threat to financial stability in the banking sector. A bank that manages its liquidity inadequately might find itself unable to meet its payment obligations. These liquidity issues, in turn, can negatively impact the liquidity position of many other banks due to contagion effects. For this reason, central banks carefully monitor the payment activities of banks in financial market infrastructures and try to detect early-warning signs of liquidity stress. In this paper, we investigate whether this monitoring task can be performed by supervised machine learning. We construct probabilistic classifiers that estimate the probability that a bank faces liquidity stress. The classifiers are trained on a dataset consisting of various payment features of European banks and which spans several known stress events. Our experimental results show that the classifiers detect the periods in which the banks faced liquidity stress reasonably well.
G33|Credit risk in commercial real estate bank loans: the role of idiosyncratic versus macro-economic factors|The commercial real estate market is pro-cyclical. This feature, together with the relative size of the industry and the large capital inflows, has made this sector relevant for financial stability. Using a novel loan level data set covering the commercial real estate portfolios of Dutch banks we aim to uncover potential drivers of distress in commercial real estate loans. Furthermore, we estimate the relative importance of idiosyncratic and systematic factors and emphasize the importance of bank behavior for distinguishing between good and bad credit growth. We find that loans originated near the peak of the cycle are riskier, confirming the pro-cyclical nature of the market. As opposed to loans originated during busts, the risk of boom loans does not decrease when economic conditions improve. Idiosyncratic factors correlated with higher credit risk are loan-to-value ratios and interest rates, especially when coupled with variable rate contracts. Moreover, we find that collateral type plays a role, as loans for non-residential (office, retail, industrial) real estate with higher vacancy rates are riskier. These results have implications for both macroprudential and microprudential supervision, as they demonstrate the pro-cyclicality of the market and show that indicators like loan-to-value, interest rate structure and vacancy rates must be monitored more carefully in boom times.
G33|Lower bank capital requirements as a policy tool to support credit to SMEs: evidence from a policy experiment|"Starting in 2014 with the implementation of the European Commission Capital Requirement Directive, banks operating in the Euro area were benefiting from a 25% reduction (the Supporting Factor or ""SF"" hereafter) in their own funds requirements against Small and Medium-sized enterprises (""SMEs"" hereafter) loans. We investigate empirically whether this reduction has supported SME financing and to which extent it is consistent with SME credit risk. Economic capital computations based on multifactor models do confirm that capital requirements should be lower for SMEs. Taking into account the uncertainty surrounding their estimates and adopting a conservative approach, we show that the SF is consistent with the difference in economic capital between SMEs and large corporates. As for the impact on credit distribution, our differences-in-differences specification enables us to find a positive and significant impact of the SF on the credit supply."
G33|Mind the Conversion Risk: a Theoretical Assessment of Contingent Convertible Bonds|We develop a theoretical model to assess the merits of principal-write down contingent convertible (CoCo) bonds. The conversion risk is the key feature of CoCo bonds. Because of this conversion risk, CoCo bonds are hard to price and an equilibrium price does not necessarily exist. In our model, for such a price to exist, the bank needs to hold a minimum amount of equity and/or the expected return associated with its asset portfolio needs to be large enough. When an equilibrium price exists, it is a decreasing function in the amount of equity held by the bank. Well-capitalized banks can thus issue CoCo bonds at a lower price than least-capitalized banks. This is the reason why CoCo bonds are to be thought of more as a complement to equity than as a substitute. In addition, because of the conversion risk, self-fulfilling panics may occur in the CoCo bonds' market. We indeed define a game between CoCo bonds' holders and the Central Bank that allows us to exhibit situations where a panic occurs in the CoCo bonds' market. Using the global game technique, we show that the probability of crisis can be expressed as a function of the return associated with the asset portfolio of the bank. The probability of crisis is shown to be sensitive to the precision of the information available to CoCo bonds' holders. Taken together, our results call for cautiousness when assessing the relevance of regulatory requirements in CoCo bonds, especially concerning their systemic impact.
G33|CoMap: Mapping Contagion in the Euro Area Banking Sector|This paper presents a novel approach to investigate and model the network of euro area banks’ large exposures within the global banking system. Drawing on a unique dataset, the paper documents the degree of interconnectedness and systemic risk of the euro area banking system based on bilateral linkages. We develop a Contagion Mapping model fully calibrated with bank-level data to study the contagion potential of an exogenous shock via credit and funding risks. We find that tipping points shifting the euro area banking system from a less vulnerable state to a highly vulnerable state are a non-linear function of the combination of network structures and bank-specific characteristics.
G33|Do Distressed Banks Really Gamble for Resurrection?|We explore the actions of financially distressed banks in two distinct periods that include financial crises (1985-1994, 2005-2014) and differ in bank regulations, especially concerning capital requirements and enforcement. In contrast to the widespread belief that distressed banks gamble for resurrection, we document that distressed banks take actions to reduce leverage and risk, such as reducing asset and loan growth, issuing equity, decreasing dividends, and lowering deposit rates. Despite large differences in regulation between periods, the extent of deleveraging is similar, suggesting that economic forces beyond formal regulations incentivize bank managers to deleverage when their banks are in distress.
G33|Group affiliation and default prediction|Using a large sample of business groups from more than one hundred countries around the world, we show that group information matters for parent and subsidiary default prediction. Group firms may support each other when in financial distress. Potential group support represents an off-balance sheet asset for the receiving firm and an off-balance sheet liability for the firm offering support. We find that subsidiary information improves parent default prediction over and above group-level consolidated information possibly because intra-group exposures are netted out upon consolidation. Moreover, we document that the improvements in parent default prediction are decreasing in the extent of parent-country financial reporting transparency which suggests that within-group information matters most when consolidated financial statements are expected to be of lower quality. We also show that parent and other group-firms’ default risk exhibits predictive power for subsidiary default. Lastly, we find that within-group information explains cross-sectional variation in CDS spreads. Taken together, our findings contribute to prior literature on default prediction and have direct relevance to investors, credit-rating agencies and accounting regulators.
G33|Debt overhang and non-distressed debt restructuring|In this paper, we analyse the restructuring of debt in the presence of debt overhang. The firm starts out with a debt liability and an investment opportunity. Then with unrestructured debt, the firm maintains the current borrowing payments until default or investment. If the creditors allow the parties to restructure the debt with exchange offers, then the borrowing payments change as well as the default and investment points. We find that there is a unique optimal restructuring path which maintains debt at positive levels but defers default indefinitely. This path is optimal regardless of whether the debt holders or the firm control the process through superior bargaining power. Moreover, a debt-for-equity exchange to remove all existing debt takes place just before investment that is followed by the issue of an optimal amount of new debt as part of the funding for the investment cost. The optimal investment trigger is higher along the optimal restructuring path than it is for an unlevered firm. We discuss the findings in the light of existing empirical evidence
G33|Corporate Financial Distress of Industry Level Listings in an Emerging Market|Any critical analysis of the corporate financial distress of listed firms in international exchange would be incomplete without a serious dissection at the industry level because of the different levels of risks concerned. This paper considers the financial distress of listed firms at the industry level in Vietnam over the last decade. Two periods are considered, namely during the Global Financial Crisis (GFC) (2007 - 2009) and post-GFC (2010 - 2017). The logit regression technique is used to estimate alternative models based on accounting and market factors. The paper also extends the analysis to include selected macroeconomic factors that are expected to affect the corporate financial distress of listed firms at the industry level in Vietnam. The empirical findings confirm that the corporate financial distress prediction model, which includes accounting factors with macroeconomic indicators, performs much better than alternative models. In addition, the evidence confirms that the GFC had a damaging impact on each sector, with the Health & Education sector demonstrating the most impressive recovery post-GFC, and the Utilities sector recording a dramatic increase in bankruptcies post-GFC.
G33|Business Tax Policy under Default Risk|In this article we use a stochastic model with one representative firm to study business tax policy under default risk. We will show that, for a given tax rate, the government has an incentive to reduce (increase) financial instability and default costs if its objective function is welfare (tax revenue).
G33|Common Ownership Does Not Have Anti-Competitive Effects in the Airline Industry|"Institutional investors often own significant equity in firms that compete in the same product market. These ""common owners"" may have an incentive to coordinate the actions of firms that would otherwise be competing rivals, leading to anti-competitive pricing. This paper uses data on airline ticket prices to test whether common owners induce anti-competitive pricing behavior. We find little evidence to support such a hypothesis, and show that the positive relationship between average ticket prices and a commonly used measure of common ownership previously documented in the literature is generated by the endogenous market share component, rather than the ownership component, of the measure."
G33|Bottom-up Leading Macroeconomic Indicators: An Application to Non-Financial Corporate Defaults using Machine Learning|This paper constructs a leading macroeconomic indicator from microeconomic data using recent machine learning techniques. Using tree-based methods, we estimate probabilities of default for publicly traded non-financial firms in the United States. We then use the cross-section of out-of-sample predicted default probabilities to construct a leading indicator of non-financial corporate health. The index predicts real economic outcomes such as GDP growth and employment up to eight quarters ahead. Impulse responses validate the interpretation of the index as a measure of financial stress.
G33|The Firm Size and Leverage Relationship and Its Implications for Entry and Concentration in a Low Interest Rate World|Larger firms (by sales or employment) have higher leverage. This pattern is explained using a model in which firms produce multiple varieties and borrow with the option to default against their future cash ow. A variety can die with a constant probability, implying that bigger firms (those with more varieties) have lower coefficient of variation of sales and higher leverage. A lower risk-free rate benefits bigger firms more as they are able to lever more and existing firms buy more of the new varieties arriving into the economy. This leads to lower startup rates and greater concentration of sales.
G33|Fundamental characteristics of Russia’s equity market in 2018|In 2018, the Russian stock market held up its reputation as one of the most volatile markets in the world. In 2018, Russian companies’ stocks turned out to be instruments with highest returns, outperforming 36 world’s largest stock exchange markets, in contrast to 2017, when Russian stocks were at the bottom of the list of stocks with lowest returns. In 2018, the MOEX Russia Index (formerly the MICEX Index) picked up 12.3 percent, whereas the RTS Index lost 7.4 percent. In 2018, the MOEX Russia Index found itself in a small group of stock indices of Brazil, India and Argentina that managed to stay within a range of positive returns (see Fig. 1). While being composed of the same companies, the two of Russia’s indices differ in that the dollar-denominated RTS Index offers bigger returns than the ruble-denominated MOEX Russia Index. Therefore, when the Russian ruble depreciates the ruble-denominated returns on investment in the stocks composing the MOEX Russia Index are higher than the dollar-denominated returns on the RTS Index portfolio.
G33|Integrating Capital Structure, Financial and Non-Financial Performance: Distress Prediction of SMEs|Objective - The growth of SMEs in Indonesia is rising from year to year. As an anticipation of bankruptcy, predictions can be made in an integrated means from the perspective of capital structure, financial, and non-financial performance. Methodology/Technique - A sample of 39 companies were selected using purposive sampling during the research period of 2013-2017. The results of the statistical logistic regression show that profitability is an important factor in predicting financial distress of the SMEs in Indonesia. Finding - The operating income to total assets has a negative and significant effect on SMEs financial distress. Meanwhile, retained earnings to total assets have a positive impact. Indonesian SMEs must be efficient in their operational costs to avoid financial distress. Novelty - In addition, sales are also important. If the company's sales are high, and the operational cost efficiency is maintained, the retained earnings will increase. This means that the company will be safe and able to avoid financial distress. Type of Paper - Empirical.
G33|Bankruptcy Prediction Model of Banks in Indonesia Based on Capital Adequacy Ratio|Objective – The purpose of this study is to examine the influence of capital on bankruptcy banks. The hypothesis of this research is that capital has an effect on the bankruptcy of a bank. Methodology/Technique – This research examines financial reports between 2005-2014. An econometric model with a logistical regression analysis technique is used. In this study, capital is measured by CAR, taking into account credit risk; CAR by taking into account market risk; Ratio of Obligation to Provide Minimum Capital for Credit Risk and Operational Risk; Ratio of Minimum Capital Adequacy Ratio for Credit Risk, Operational Risk and Market Risk; Capital Adequacy Requirements (CAR). Findings – The results show that the capital adequacy ratio for market ratio and capital adequacy ratio for credit ratio and operational ratio support the research hypothesis and can form a logit model. The test results of CAR by taking into account credit risk, Minimum Capital Requirement Ratio for Credit Risk, Operational Risk and Market Risk and Minimum Capital Provision Obligations do not support the research hypothesis. Novelty – This paper contribute to bank bankruptcy prediction models based on time dimension and bank groups using financial ratios which are expected can influence bank in bankrupt condition. Type of Paper: Empirical.
G33|Spatial patterns and determinants of firm exit: an empirical analysis on France|Abstract The purpose of this research is to study the role of spatial agglomeration economies as drivers of firm exit in France over the period 2009–2013 by focusing on two regional variables (local financial development and local specialization). The spatial autocorrelation detected in the data leads us to apply spatial econometric techniques (Spatial Dynamic Panel models and spatial GMM) that permit us to control the estimation of spatial spillover effects. Our results show that firm exit is significantly influenced by positive spatial autocorrelation. Therefore, locations with high exit rates tend to be surrounded by similar ones. However, this phenomenon differs according to the period. In addition, we find that greater local financial development reduces the exit rate in a department, whereas local specialization seems not to exert any effect.
G33|An Economic Examination of Collateralization in Different Financial Markets|Tim Xiao: This paper attempts to assess the economic significance and implications of collateralization in different financial markets, which is essentially a matter of theoretical justification and empirical verification. We present a comprehensive theoretical framework that allows for collateralization adhering to bankruptcy laws. As such, the model can back out differences in asset prices due to collateralized counterparty risk. This framework is very useful for pricing outstanding defaultable financial contracts. By using a unique data set, we are able to achieve a clean decomposition of prices into their credit risk factors. We find empirical evidence that counterparty risk is not overly important in credit-related spreads. Only the joint effects of collateralization and credit risk can sufficiently explain unsecured credit costs. This finding suggests that failure to properly account for collateralization may result in significant mispricing of financial contracts. We also analyze the difference between cleared and OTC markets.
G33|The Impact of Default Dependency and Collateralization on Asset Pricing and Credit Risk Modeling|This article presents a comprehensive framework for valuing financial instruments subject to credit risk and collateralization. In particular, we focus on the impact of default dependence on asset pricing, as correlated default risk is one of the most pervasive threats to financial markets. Some well-known risky valuation models in the markets can be viewed as special cases of this framework. We introduce the concept of comvariance (or comrelation) into the area of credit risk modeling to capture the default relationship among three or more parties. Accounting for default correlations and comrelations becomes important, especially during the credit crisis. Moreover, we find that collateralization works well for financial instruments subject to bilateral credit risk, but fails for ones subject to multilateral credit risk.
G33|Pricing Financial Derivatives Subject to Multilateral Credit Risk and Collateralization|This article presents a new model for valuing financial contracts subject to credit risk and collateralization. Examples include the valuation of a credit default swap (CDS) contract that is affected by the trilateral credit risk of the buyer, seller and reference entity. We show that default dependency has a significant impact on asset pricing. In fact, correlated default risk is one of the most pervasive threats in financial markets. We also show that a fully collateralized CDS is not equivalent to a risk-free one. In other words, full collateralization cannot eliminate counterparty risk completely in the CDS market.
G33|Incremental Risk Charge Methodology|The incremental risk charge (IRC) is a new regulatory requirement from the Basel Committee in response to the recent financial crisis. Notably few models for IRC have been developed in the literature. This paper proposes a methodology consisting of two Monte Carlo simulations. The first Monte Carlo simulation simulates default, migration, and concentration in an integrated way. Combining with full re-valuation, the loss distribution at the first liquidity horizon for a subportfolio can be generated. The second Monte Carlo simulation is the random draws based on the constant level of risk assumption. It convolutes the copies of the single loss distribution to produce one year loss distribution. The aggregation of different subportfolios with different liquidity horizons is addressed. Moreover, the methodology for equity is also included, even though it is optional in IRC.
G33|The Valuation of Interest Rate Swap with Bilateral Counterparty Risk|This paper presents an analytical model for valuing interest rate swaps, subject to bilateral counterparty credit risk. The counterparty defaults are modeled by the reduced-form model as the first jump of a time-inhomogeneous Poisson process. All quantities modeled are market-observable. The closed-form solution gives us a better understanding of the impact of the credit asymmetry on swap value, credit value adjustment, swap rate and swap spread.
G33|How do judges judge? Evidence of local effect on French bankruptcy judgments|"Law and Economics literature recently gazed upon the ""failure of judges"" showing the various biases, psychological but also political, they can display. One of the seminal criticisms against bankruptcy judges focused on their attempt to go beyond the strict applications of law in their decisions. The main drawback is their lack of business-related expertise. The French bankruptcy system was created four centuries ago with this last problem in mind and remains unique today. The bankruptcy judges are elected among local businessmen and top executives. They rule without any professional judge along them, like in mixed courts in Belgium. They are given a key role in the decision as in the U.S.. This chapter shows how judges display a home bias when the area suffers from economic turmoil. They attempt to favor the reorganization of bankrupt firms when the local unemployment rate is high. The analysis is based on an original dataset of all filings for restructuring (Redressement Judiciaire) from 2006 to 2013. This is shown to hold robust despite several tests using survival analysis in a competing risk setting. This effect is found to reduce the time of negotiation between the firm and its creditors with no effect on the survival of the firm after the reorganization plan was agreed upon. We infer that judges cram-down decisions faster in these contexts and let creditors bear the costs of these reorganisations. It underlines how Courts wish to implement decisions that exceed solely debt-collection with a concern for the local area at the risk of hurting the firm's creditors. JEL-Classification: G33, H73, K22"
G33|Corporate Governance Index And Its Determinants In Samsung Company|The aim of this study is to examine the relationship between Corporate Governance Index and with its dependents. This Samsung Company had been chosen as the focus of our studies. Five years of data were collected from Samsung’s annual reports and websites from the year 2014 until the year 2018. The data collected is used to calculate the descriptive analysis which will be shown in the reports. Based on our studies, the dependent variables were the Corporate Governance Index. And for the independent variables, We had chosen Return on Asset (ROA), Return On Equity (ROE), Tobin’s Q, and Altman Z as the Internal factors and for the data like GDP per capita, Unemployment rate, and Exchange rate had been chosen as the external factors. The Stepwise method is used to claiming the results for the Correlations, regression results and etc to observe the most significant with the corporate governance index. Only the unemployment rate shows the most influence on the Corporate Governance Index.
G33|Tobin’s Q and Its Determinants: A Study of Market Valuation in MISC Berhad|The study examines the impact of Tobin’s Q or market valuation determinants on firm corporate governance of MISC Berhad. Tobin’s Q of the firm represents the ratio of market capitalization plus long-term debt to total assets. This study employs time series regression analysis from 2012 to 2016. The findings show that only internal factors giving significant impact to the market valuation of the firm when it has been tested solely in Model 1 and combined for both internal and external factors in Model 3. Meanwhile, there is no significant result when the external factors were tested solely in Model 2. The multiple linear regression analysis shows that the Altman Z score is the most significant and positively influenced the market valuation of MISC Berhad.
G33|Bankruptcy and Corporate Governance: The impact of firm specific factors and macroeconomic|The aim of this study is to identify the cause of scandals that faced by Malaysia Airlines Berhad (MAS) in year 2001. One of the causes of this scandals is about corporate scandals. A corporate scandal means that it is involves alleged or actual unethical behavior by people acting within or on behalf of a corporation. Many recent corporate collapses and scandals have involved false or inappropriate accounting of some sort. Besides that, this study was carried out using the secondary data which was obtained from annual report for five years that is from years 1999 until year 2003. Return on asset (ROA) has been as the dependent variable to study its relationship with the independent variables such as Return on equity (ROE), Unemployment rate, Exchange rate, corporate governance index, Tobin Q and Altman Z. The enter method was used to obtain the correlation and regression result to observe significance level of the risk with the profits. And the Altman Z data is used to identify the probability of bankruptcy in this five years because of the scandals that face by MAS. Based on the result attained, the regression result show that the company of MAS might facing the bankruptcy problem in year 2000 until 2002 where the financial performance is low. While the loan of the company is higher. This causes can refers to data of ROA, ROE and Altman Z where the data of Altman Z show that in year 2002 is lower.
G33|Determinants, Persistence and value implications of liquidity creation: An evidence from Indian Banks|This study explores the micro and macro factors affecting liquidity created by Scheduled Commercial banks (excluding Regional Rural Bank) in India using the Generalized Method of Moments. Two measures of liquidity creation, the broad and narrow measures, were formed using RBI data available on Indian banks for the period 2005 to 2018. The study found that the variation in the broad measure was explained by equity ratio, market share, GDP, gross savings and lending rate whereas narrow measure was explained by equity ratio, market share, size and lending rate. Profitability and operating profit ratios did not affect liquidity creation. The crisis negatively affected both the measures of liquidity creation. The impact was more severe for the broad measure as compared to the narrow measure. We found the negative influence of capital on liquidity created by banks, which confirms that the implementation of Basel III norms in Indian banks will have negative implications for liquidity creation. Banks are perceived positively in the market when they create more liquidity.
G33|Do banks need a supervisor?|The paper studies a simple microeconomic stochastic model of a bank operating in a competitive environment. The model allows us to describe the conditions on the model parameters that generate both the formation of bubbles in the credit market and the formation of stable banks with self-restrictive behavior, that do not require the intervention of the regulator. The comparative statics of equilibria is studied with respect to the basic parameters of the model, a theoretical assessment is carried out of the probability of bank default based on the values of exogenous factors in both the short and long term.
G33|A multivariate approach for the simultaneous modelling of market risk and credit risk for cryptocurrencies|This paper proposes a set of models which can be used to estimate the market risk for a portfolio of crypto-currencies, and simultaneously to estimate also their credit risk using the Zero Price Probability (ZPP) model by Fantazzini et al (2008), which is a methodology to compute the probabilities of default using only market prices. For this purpose, both univariate and multivariate models with different specifications are employed. Two special cases of the ZPP with closed-form formulas in case of normally distributed errors are also developed using recent results from barrier option theory. A backtesting exercise using two datasets of 5 and 15 coins for market risk forecasting and a dataset of 42 coins for credit risk forecasting was performed. The Value-at-Risk and the Expected Shortfall for single coins and for an equally weighted portfolio were calculated and evaluated with several tests. The ZPP approach was used for the estimation of the probability of default/death of the single coins and compared to classical credit scoring models (logit and probit) and to a machine learning algorithm (Random Forest). Our results reveal the superiority of the t-copula/skewed-t GARCH model for market risk, and the ZPP-based models for credit risk.
G33|Insolvency Regimes and Firms' Default Risk Under Economic Uncertainty and Shocks|One of the arguments often advanced for implementing a stronger insolvency and bankruptcy framework is that it enhances credit discipline among firms. Using a large cross-country firm-level dataset, we empirically test whether a stronger insolvency regime reduces firms' likelihood of defaulting on their debt. In particular, we examine whether it reduces default risk during increased economic uncertainty and various external shocks. Our results confirm that a stronger insolvency regime moderates the adverse effects of economic shocks on firms' default risk. The effects are more pronounced for firms in the top half of the size distribution. We also explore channels through which improved creditor rights influence firms’ default risk, including dependence on external finance, corporate leverage, and managerial ethics. Our main results are robust to an alternative measure of default risk, inclusion of currency and sovereign debt crisis episodes, and alternative estimations.
G33|Endogenous Debt Maturity: Liquidity Risk vs. Default Risk|We study the joint determination of a technology ---the degree of illiquidity of a project, its mean growth rate and the variability of the growth rate--- Â— and the optimal debt Â…financing ---the face value of the debt, its coupon rate, and expected maturityÂ—--- in an economy in which credit markets and decision makers are risk neutral and have the same discount rate. Our results show that the optimal maturity of the debt balances the risk of default due to illiquidity with the risk of strategic default. In a quantitative exercise we show how the optimal structure of debt varies with technological and environmental parameters. We Â…find that when output is low (and, hence, the probability of default is high) Â…firms choose to issue short term debt. In general, there is a positive relationship between output and maturity. We also fiÂ…nd Â… that firms operating in more uncertain environments choose to issue shorter debt, while fiÂ…rms whose assets have higher resale value (e.g. face lower costs of Â…re sales) issue longer maturity debt.
G33|Testing for information asymmetry in the mortgage servicing market|Our main objective is to test for evidence of information asymmetry in the mortgage servicing market. Does the sale of mortgage servicing rights (MSR) by the initial lender to a second servicing institution unveil any residual asymmetric information? We analyze the originator’s selling choice of MSR using a large sample of U.S. mortgages that were privately securitized during the period of January 2000 to December 2013 (more than 5 million observations). Our econometric methodology is mainly non-parametric and the main test for the presence of information asymmetry is driven by kernel density estimation techniques (Su and Spindler, 2013). We also employ the non-parametric testing procedure of Chiappori and Salanié (2000). For robustness, we present parametric tests to corroborate our results after controlling for observable risk characteristics, for econometric misspecification error, and for endogeneity issues using instrumental variables. Our empirical results provide strong support for the presence of second-stage asymmetric information in the mortgage servicing market.
G33|Recourse Loans and Ponzi Schemes|Non-recourse borrowing leaves no room for Ponzi schemes, as shown by Araujo, Pascoa and Torres-Martinez (2002). This is not the case with recourse loans, for which, in the event of default and on top of the foreclosure of the collateral, the debtor's estate can be seized or (in a way common in the GE literature) the debtor can suffer utility penalties. We focus on the latter and show that infinite horizon equilibrium with recourse exists in some interesting cases: (i) if utility penalties are low enough and the collateral does not yield utility (for example, when it is a productive asset or a security) or (ii) for a nominal promise backed by real collateral (such as mortgages, whose payments are not tied to a commodity price index).
G33|No-trade and Refined Equilibria for Secured Loans in Infinite Horizon|When loans are secured but subject to utility penalties on default, notrade equilibria induced by unduly low repayment beliefs can be trivially found for nite horizon economies but not for in nite horizon ones. We illustrate this fact and propose also a re nement of equilibrium that gets rid of spurious no-trade outcomes when they do occur. Known existence results pass this re nement criterion.
G33|A New Index Score for the Assessment of Firm Financial Risks|There are several indicators and univariate ratios that measure the soundness of firms' balance sheets (Leverage, profitability, liquidity ratio, etc.). However, each indicator alone cannot measure the overall financial risk or the financial distress level of firms. In this study, we measure the financial strength of the real sector firms quoted in Borsa Istanbul (BIST) by producing a composite index score which is a combination of several different corporate finance ratios. In the first part, we will apply multiple discriminant analysis to the variables used in Altman Z-score (1968), which is the most prevalent composite index score measuring the firms’ financial risks in the literature. In the second part, a new index, named as MFA-score (Multivariate Firm Assessment Score) will be introduced by using the ratios that best explain the characteristics of the BIST companies. Both the tailored version of Altman Z-score and our new index score have a predictive power around 90 percent. Furthermore, MFA-score is capable of detecting the impact of macro-economic developments on firm balance sheets, which enables us to use MFA-score as an early warning indicator of financial distress for Turkish firms. Our analyses with MFA-score suggest that non-exporter firms and firms with FX open position have relatively weaker balance sheets.
G33|Bond Exchange Offers or Collective Action Clauses?|This paper examines two prominent approaches to design efficient mechanisms for debt renegotiation with dispersed bondholders: debt exchange offers that promise enhanced liquidation rights to a restricted number of tendering bondholders (favored under U.S. law), and collective action clauses that allow to alter core bond terms after a majority vote (favored under U.K. law). We use a dynamic contingent claims model with a debt overhang problem, where both hold-out and hold-in problems are present. We show that the former leads to a more efficient mitigation of the debt overhang problem than the latter. Dispersed debt is desirable, as exchange offers also achieve a larger and more efficient debt reduction relative to debt held by a single creditor.
G33|Incremental Risk Charge Methodology|The incremental risk charge (IRC) is a new regulatory requirement from the Basel Committee in response to the recent financial crisis. Notably few models for IRC have been developed in the literature. This paper proposes a methodology consisting of two Monte Carlo simulations. The first Monte Carlo simulation simulates default, migration, and concentration in an integrated way. Combining with full re-valuation, the loss distribution at the first liquidity horizon for a subportfolio can be generated. The second Monte Carlo simulation is the random draws based on the constant level of risk assumption. It convolutes the copies of the single loss distribution to produce one year loss distribution. The aggregation of different subportfolios with different liquidity horizons is addressed. Moreover, the methodology for equity is also included, even though it is optional in IRC.
G33|The Valuation of Financial Derivatives Subject to Counterparty Risk and Credit Value Adjustment|This article presents a generic model for pricing financial derivatives subject to counterparty credit risk. Both unilateral and bilateral types of credit risks are considered. Our study shows that credit risk should be modeled as American style options in most cases, which require a backward induction valuation. To correct a common mistake in the literature, we emphasize that the market value of a defaultable derivative is actually a risky value rather than a risk-free value. Credit value adjustment (CVA) is also elaborated. A practical framework is developed for pricing defaultable derivatives and calculating their CVAs at a portfolio level.
G33|Do asset purchase programmes shape industry dynamics? Evidence from the ECB's SMP on plant entries and exits|Asset purchase programmes (APPs) may insulate banks from having to terminate relationships with unproductive customers. Using administrative plant and bank data, we test whether APPs impinge on industry dynamics in terms of plant entry and exit. Plants in Germany connected to banks with access to an APP are approximately 20% less likely to exit. In particular, unproductive plants connected to weak banks with APP access are less likely to close. Aggregate entry and exit rates in regional markets with high APP exposures are also lower. Thus, APPs seem to subdue Schumpeterian cleansing mechanisms, which may hamper factor reallocation and aggregate productivity growth.
G33|Benign neglect of covenant violations: Blissful banking or ignorant monitoring?|Theoretically, bank's loan monitoring activity hinges critically on its capitalisation. To proxy for monitoring intensity, we use changes in borrowers' investment following loan covenant violations, when creditors can intervene in the governance of the firm. Exploiting granular bank-firm relationships observed in the syndicated loan market, we document substantial heterogeneity in monitoring across banks and through time. Better capitalised banks are more lenient monitors that intervene less with covenant violators. Importantly, this hands-off approach is associated with improved borrowers' performance. Beyond enhancing financial resilience, regulation that requires banks to hold more capital may thus also mitigate the tightening of credit terms when firms experience shocks.
G33|Calibration of DCF Valuation in Litigation: The case of HQ|HQ was a medium-sized Swedish banking group whose banking and fund management licenses were revoked in 2010, after losses in trading in equity derivatives for its own account. The parent company of the HQ group sued the board members and the audit firm and the responsible auditor for damages. NN was an expert witness for plaintiff and submitted a DCF valuation of HQ in a but-for scenario, where the banking group would have survived. This valuation is an interesting example of choice of valuation model assumptions to obtain a specific result, i. e., calibration. The nature of the calibration depends on the purpose of the model. Two possible purposes of a DCF model used by an expert for plaintiff are mentioned, maximizing the but-for value, and legitimizing a value that has been set in advance based on other considerations. From an analysis of unusual evidence that is contained in the DCF valuation model for HQ, it appears that the purpose of that model was to legitimize a value that had been set in advance. The author served as expert witness to defendant, with the task of rebutting NN. This paper is based on expert reports by NN and the author.
G33|CDS index options in Markov chain models|We study CDS index options in a credit risk model where the defaults times have intensities which are driven by a finite-state Markov chain representing the underlying economy. In this setting we derive compact computationally tractable formulas for the CDS index spread and the price of a CDS index option. In particular, the evaluation of the CDS index option is handled by translating the Cox-framework into a bivariate Markov chain. Due to the potentially very large, but extremely sparse matrices obtained in this reformulating, special treatment is needed to efficiently compute the matrix exponential arising from the Kolmogorov Equation. We provide details of these computational methods as well as numerical results. The finite-state Markov chain model is calibrated to data with perfect fits, and several numerical studies are performed. In particular we show that under same exogenous circumstances, the CDS index options prices in the Markov chain framework can be close to or sometimes larger than prices in models which assume that the CDS index spreads follows a log-normal process. We also study the different default risk components in the option prices generated by the Markov model, an investigation which is difficult to do in models where the CDS index spreads follows a log-normal process.
G33|CoMap: mapping contagion in the euro area banking sector|This paper presents a novel approach to investigate and model the network of euro area banks’ large exposures within the global banking system. Drawing on a unique dataset, the paper documents the degree of interconnectedness and systemic risk of the euro area banking system based on bilateral linkages. We then develop a Contagion Mapping (CoMap) methodology to study contagion potential of an exogenous default shock via counterparty credit and funding risks. We construct contagion and vulnerability indices measuring respectively the systemic importance of banks and their degree of fragility. Decomposing the results into the respective contributions of credit and funding shocks provides insights to the nature of contagion which can be used to calibrate bank-specific capital and liquidity requirements and large exposures limits. We find that tipping points shifting the euro area banking system from a less vulnerable state to a highly vulnerable state are a non-linear function of the combination of network structures and bank-specific characteristics. JEL Classification: D85, G17, G33, L14
G33|Loss of a lending relationship: shock or relief?|We use loan-level data and a novel identification setting – closures of banks – to study how forced break-ups of lending relationships affect firms’ borrowing costs. We find that after a financially distressed bank closed and its best borrowers were exogenously forced to switch, their borrowing costs dropped steeply and converged to the market’s average. We document no such effect when a healthy bank closed. This suggests that distressed banks can use informational monopoly power to hold up and exploit their best borrowers. Apparently, closures of such banks can release the best-quality firms from the hold-up and allow borrowing cheaper elsewhere.
G33|Changes in New Zealand’s Business Insolvency Rates after the Global Financial Crisis|We examine the question of whether the rate of business insolvencies in New Zealand is related to overall macroeconomic conditions. In particular, our interest is in whether the rate of business insolvencies changed in the wake of the Global Financial Crisis (GFC). We find that there was a large increase in insolvencies in New Zealand following the onset of the GFC in 2008. We also find that the timing of the change did not occur uniformly over the country but occurred at different times in four key regional centres. Sharply rising relative costs were the most important macroeconomic factor influencing corporate insolvencies in New Zealand, Auckland, Waikato and Wellington, but have been immaterial in determining New Zealand’s total personal insolvencies. It is employment growth and house price inflation that have been significant in explaining total personal insolvencies.
G33|Do Distressed Banks Really Gamble for Resurrection?|We explore the actions of financially distressed banks in two distinct periods that include financial crises (1985-1994, 2005-2014) and differ in bank regulations, especially concerning capital requirements and enforcement. In contrast to the widespread belief that distressed banks gamble for resurrection, we document that distressed banks take actions to reduce leverage and risk, such as reducing asset and loan growth, issuing equity, decreasing dividends, and lowering deposit rates. Despite large differences in regulation between periods, the extent of deleveraging is similar, suggesting that economic forces beyond formal regulations incentivize bank managers to deleverage when their banks are in distress.
G33|Employee Costs of Corporate Bankruptcy|An employee’s annual earnings fall by 10% the year her firm files for bankruptcy and fall by a cumulative present value of 67% over seven years. This effect is more pronounced in thin labor markets and among small firms that are ultimately liquidated. Compensating wage differentials for this “bankruptcy risk” are approximately 2.3% of firm value for a firm whose credit rating falls from AA to BBB, about the same magnitude as debt tax benefits. Thus, wage premia for expected costs of bankruptcy are of sufficient magnitude to be an important consideration in corporate capital structure decisions.
G33|Unconventional monetary policy and productivity: Evidence on the risk-seeking channel from US corporate bond markets|We examine the relationship between lax monetary policy, access to high-yield bond markets and productivity in the US between 2008 and 2016. Using monetary policy surprises, obtained from changes in interest rates futures in narrow windows around FOMC announcements, we isolate the increased access to high-yield bond markets relative to investment-grade bond markets that is due to unconventional monetary policy (UMP). We find that through the risk-taking channel, UMP has increased investors’ appetite for high-yield US corporate bonds, thereby increasing access to high-yield bond markets for firms with a higher risk profile. Since the relationship between credit ratings and firm-level productivity is U-shaped, the aggregate effect on productivity is a priori unclear. Turning to the real economy, we thus analyse whether this additional access to finance had an effect on aggregate productivity by altering the reallocation of resources across firms. Our results show that unconventional monetary policy induced less investment in tangible capital by high-productive firms. However, before drawing conclusions on the net effects of UMP on aggregate productivity, we discuss a number of issues that this paper could not deal with due to data limitations, including prominently whether this apparent misallocation may have been offset by a shift in the composition of investments towards more intangible investment.
G33|Real options with illiquidity of exercise opportunities|This paper presents a framework to study real options with illiquidity of option exercise opportunities. I incorporate a constraint that the investment time is chosen from Poisson arrival times in the standard real option value (ROV) model. I derive the closed-form solution and show that illiquidity decreases the option value of waiting and the investment threshold. I extend the results to a case with different types of projects and show that an inferior project can be undertaken in the presence of illiquidity. I prove that the solution of the illiquid model converges to that of the ROV model for higher liquidity and converges to that of the net present value (NPV) model for lower liquidity. I also show that the solution agrees with the limit of the corresponding regime-switching model. The results fill the gaps in the NPV, ROV, and regime-switching models and reveal the effects of illiquidity on investment decisions.
G33|The effects of asset liquidity on dynamic bankruptcy decisions|We develop a dynamic bankruptcy model with asset illiquidity. In the model, a distressed firm chooses between sell-out and default, as well as its timing under the assumption that sell-out is feasible only at Poisson jump times, where the arrival rate of acquirers stands for asset liquidity. With lower asset liquidity, the firm increases the sell-out region to mitigate the risk of not finding an acquirer until bankruptcy. Despite the larger sell-out region, lower asset liquidity increases the default probability and decreases the equity, debt, and firm values. In the optimal capital structure, with lower asset liquidity, the firm reduces leverage, but the cautious capital structure does not fully offset the increased default risk. The stock price reaction caused by sell-out depends on the sell-out timing. When the firm's asset value is not sufficiently high, the stock price jump size is an inverted U-shape with the economic state variable. Lower asset liquidity increases the jump size due to greater surprise. These results fit empirical observations.
G33|Bank Survival in European Emerging Markets|We analyze bank survival on large dataset covering 17 European emerging markets during the period of 2007-2015 by estimating the Cox proportional hazards model. We group banks across countries and according to their financial soundness. Our results show that progress in banking reforms positively affects bank survival. The economic impact of various determinants is largest for average banks measured by their soundness. Financial indicators predict bank survival rate with intuitively expected impact that is economically less significant in comparison to other factors. Specifically, ownership structure and legal form are the key economically significant factors that exhibit strongest economic effect on bank survival. We further document importance of banks being listed with respect to their survival. We also show that probability of exit increases after number of directors increases beyond a threshold. The results are robust no matter how bank are grouped, with respect to alternative specifications as well as alternative assumptions on survival distribution.
G33|Institutions and determinants of firm survival in European emerging markets|We analyze the impact of institutional quality on firm survival in 15 European emerging markets. We employ the Cox proportional hazards model with a large dataset of firms during 2006–2015. Our results show that institutional quality (IQ) is a significant preventive factor for firm survival, and it displays diminishing returns as its effect is largest for low-level IQ countries and smallest for high-level IQ countries. In terms of specific indicators, the level of national governance and the extent of corruption control exhibit the key impacts. In terms of firmspecific controls, indicators of ownership structure and aggregate financial performance are the economically most significant factors associated with increased survival probability of firms in European emerging markets.
G33|Survival of Service Firms in European Emerging Economies|Using a dataset of 126,591 service firms in 17 European emerging economies, this paper aims to estimate firm survivability in the years 2007–2015 and examine its determinants. We found that 31.3%, or 39,557 firms, failed during the observation period. At the same time, however, the failure risk greatly differed among regions, perhaps due to the remarkable gap in the progress of economic and political reforms. Moreover, the results of survival analysis revealed that large shareholding, labor productivity, and firm age played strong roles in preventing business failure beyond differences in regions and sectors.
G33|Firm Failure in Russia during Economic Crises and Growth : A Large Survival Analysis|In this paper, we trace the survival status of more than 110,000 Russian firms in the years of 2007–2015 and examine the determinants of firm survival across periods of economic crisis and growth. Applying the Cox proportional hazards model, we find that the effects of some variables regarded as key determinants of firm survival are not always robust across business cycles. Among the variables that constantly affect firm survival across business cycles and industries, concentration of ownership, the number of board directors and auditors, firm age, and business network are included. By contrast, the effects of some ownership-related variables on firm survival vary depending on the nature of economic recessions such as a global crisis and a local one. There is also evidence that an international audit firm increases the probability of firm survival; however, gaps in the quality between international audit firms and those from Russia decrease over time. These findings suggest that one should not make hasty generalizations regarding the determinants of firm survival by looking at a specific economic period or industry.
G33|The Implied Bail-in Probability in the Contingent Convertible Securities Market|The issuance of contingent convertible securities (CoCos) has increased not only in Europe but also in Asia and other areas over the past several years. In this paper, we extend the existing model used to price CoCos to estimate the implied bail-in probability for a variety of CoCos by modifying loss rates for investors due to bail-ins of CoCos. Using our model for empirical analyses, we find that when the credit events occur, the bail-in probability of a CoCo increases by more than the default probability implied by credit default swaps (CDS). The result suggests that the bail-in probability can be used as an early warning indicator of financial crises. We also find that the conditional default probability after bail-in tends to be lower the more CoCos a bank has issued. This finding indicates that investors believe financial institutions become less likely to default as issuing more CoCos strengthens their loss absorption capacity. Overall, our analysis suggests that the market prices of CoCos contain useful information on financial stability.
G33|“The robustness of the sovereign-bank interconnection: Evidence from contingent claims analysis”|We analyze the interconnection between the sovereign and banking sector risk in the peripheral euro area countries over the 2004Q4-2013Q2 period. Applying the contingent claims methodology, we build indicators of sovereign and banking sector risk (incorporating both market and balance sheet based information) and assess their interconnection in comparison with existing market-based indicators of banking and sovereign distress. We use three different statistical measures of interconnection based on principal components analysis, Granger causality network and Diebold-Yilmaz's connectedness index, and apply them to quarterly credit risk data. The empirical results shows strong connectedness and comovement between country-level banking and sovereign risk indicators. We find evidence of bi-directional bank-sovereign linkage for Spain and Italy during the European sovereign debt crisis period. For the late crisis period, we find weak interconnection and more divergence across the various risk indicators. Our findings also suggest that secondary and derivatives market indices are more driven by common underlying factors than are contingent claim based risk measures.
G33|Corporate insolvency procedures in England: The uneasy case for liquidations|Our paper investigates a comprehensive sample of 574 English corporate insolvency cases, including direct liquidation cases. In contrast to other insolvency procedures, liquidations perform poorly on average and fail to produce satisfactory repayments to creditors. We run multinomial Logit regressions to explain the choice between liquidation and reorganization. We obtain three main results. First, we confirm that size matters: distressed firms owning low assets have higher chances of being liquidated immediately. Second, the presence of secured creditors decreases the risk of direct liquidation. This provides a clue that in England, the most-informed creditors adapt their strategies and turn away from the less-performing procedures. Third, we find that the likelihood of administration—which appears nowadays as the main alternative to direct liquidation—significantly depends on the proportion of fixed/current assets owned by the firms.
G33|Valuation reports in the context of banking resolution: What are the challenges?|The paper discusses the problem of valuation in bank resolution. In an overview over the most relevant principles of valuation theory, the paper notes the difficulties inherent in valuing risks and illiquidity in holding non-traded assets. Subsequently, the paper briefly reviews the resolution of Banco Popular Español, and then discusses the need for clarification of the no-investor-worse-off principle, the relation between the price in a sale of business and the presumed outcome in an insolvency procedure, and the difficulties attached to assessing the value of an illiquid asset that is held. The paper concludes with a discussion of the need for time, for valuation and in resolution, warns against a moratorium on withdrawals and payouts, and argues that time pressures would be much reduced if funding in resolution was provided for.
G33|Trade Creditors’ Information Advantage|Using information on the sales of debt claims for 132 U.S. Chapter 11 bankruptcy cases, we show that large trade creditors’ decisions to sell receivables of a distressed company in bankruptcy are predictive of lower recovery rates, and that in such cases these creditors sell ahead of less informed suppliers and other creditors. This result is especially pronounced for more opaque distressed firms, when trade creditors’ information advantage is likely largest. This evidence shows that suppliers that extend significant amounts of trade credit hold private information about their trade partners. Trade creditors who are geographically closer or in similar industries tend to lend the most, suggesting that these are two channels through which suppliers hold an information advantage.
G33|How Redeployable are Patent Assets? Evidence from Failed Startups|Entrepreneurial firms are important sources of patented inventions. Yet little is known about what happens to patents “released” to the market when startups fail. This study provides a first look at the frequency and speed with which patents originating from failed startups are redeployed to new owners, and whether the value of patents is tied to the original venture and team. The evidence is based on 1,766 U.S. patents issued to 285 venture capital-backed startups that disband between 1988 and 2008 in three innovation-intensive sectors: medical devices, semiconductors, and software. At odds with the view that the resale market for patented inventions is illiquid, we find that most patents from these startups are sold, are sold quickly, and remain “alive” through renewal fee payment long after the startups are shuttered. The patents tend to be purchased by other operating companies in the same sector and retain value beyond the original venture and team. We do find, however, that the patents and people sometimes move jointly to a new organization following the dissolution of the original venture, and explore the conditions under which such co-movement is more likely. The study provides new evidence on a phenomenon—of active markets for buying and selling patents—underexplored in the literature and consequential for both entrepreneurial and established firms.
G33|Government Guarantees and the Valuation of American Banks|Banks’ ratio of the market value to book value of their equity was close to 1 until the 1990s, then more than doubled during the 1996–2007 period, and fell again to values close to 1 after the 2008 financial crisis. Some economists argue that the drop in banks’ market-to-book ratio since the crisis is due to a loss in bank franchise value or profitability. In this paper we argue that banks’ market-to-book ratio is the sum of two components: franchise value and the value of government guarantees. We empirically decompose the ratio between these two components and find that a large portion of the variation in this ratio over time is due to changes in the value of government guarantees.
G33|Government Guarantees and the Valuation of American Banks|Banks' ratio of the market value to book value of their equity was close to 1 until the 1990s, then more than doubled during the 1996-2007 period, and fell again to values close to 1 after the 2008 financial crisis. Sarin and Summers (2016) and Chousakos and Gorton (2017) argue that the drop in banks' market-to-book ratio since the crisis is due to a loss in bank franchise value or profitability. In this paper we argue that banks' market-to-book ratio is the sum of two components: franchise value and the value of government guarantees. We empirically decompose the ratio between these two components and find that a large portion of the variation in this ratio over time is due to changes in the value of government guarantees.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
G33|Bank Resolution and the Structure of Global Banks|We study the resolution of global banks by national regulators. Single-point-of-entry (SPOE) resolution, where loss-absorbing capital is shared across jurisdictions, is efficient but may not be implementable. First, when expected transfers across jurisdictions are too asymmetric, national regulators fail to set up SPOE resolution ex ante. Second, when required ex-post transfers are too large, national regulators ring-fence assets instead of cooperating in SPOE resolution. In this case, a multiple-point-of-entry (MPOE) resolution, where loss-absorbing capital is preassigned, is more robust. Our analysis highlights a fundamental link between efficient bank resolution and the operational structures and risks of global banks.
G33|Low Inflation: High Default Risk AND High Equity Valuations|We develop an asset-pricing model with endogenous corporate policies that explains how inflation jointly impacts real asset prices and corporate default risk. Our model includes two empirically grounded nominal frictions: fixed nominal coupons and sticky profitability. Taken together, these two frictions result in higher real equity prices and credit spreads when inflation falls. An increase in inflation has opposite effects, but with smaller magnitudes. In the cross section, the model predicts the negative impact of inflation on real equity values is stronger for low leverage firms. We find empirical support for the model predictions.
G33|Fear the walking dead: Zombie firms, spillovers and exit barriers|Productivity growth is slowing down among OECD countries, coupled with increased misallocation of resources. A recent strand of literature focuses on the role of non-viable firms (“zombie firms”) to explain these developments. Using a rich firm-level dataset for one of the OECD countries with the largest drop in barriers to firm exit and restructure, we assess the role of zombies on firm dynamics, both in the extensive and intensive margins. We confirm the results on the high prevalence of zombie firms, significantly less productive than their healthy counterparts and thus dragging aggregate productivity down. Moreover, while we find evidence of positive selection within zombies, with the most productive restructuring and the least productive exiting, we also show that the zombies' productivity threshold for exit is much lower than that of nonzombies, allowing them to stay in the market, distorting competition and sinking resources. Zombie prevalence curbs the growth of viable firms, in particular the most productive, harming the intra-sectoral resource reallocation. We show that a reduction in exit and restructuring barriers promotes a more effective exit channel and fosters the restructuring of the most productive. These results highlight the role of public policy in addressing zombies' prevalence, fostering a more efficient resource allocation and enabling productivity growth.
G33|Optimal Mechanism Design with Resale: An Ex-Ante Price Default Model|This paper investigates the optimal ex-ante price mechanism design of selling a single indivisible object in a market that comprises one public risky buyer and one regular risky buyer under unlimited or limited liability where resale is allowed. First, we propose an endogenous liquidation rule requiring that the public buyer acquires the object in the liquidation stage. Next, we design an optimal bankruptcy transfer to prevent the buyer's strategic default. On the basis of this liquidation rule, the optimal ex-ante price mechanism is designed to achieve the seller's upper bound revenue under unlimited and limited liability when resale cannot be prohibited prior to the liquidation stage. Comparing the two mechanisms, the results illustrate that the effect on the seller's behavior and that revenue over the liability and information change in each case. In other words, (i) when faced with limited liability buyers, the regular buyer will obtain the object in the initial market, whereas they will become the loser under the unlimited liability case; (ii) the seller's expected revenue under unlimited liability is weakly higher than that under limited liability; and (iii) when faced with the risky buyer, the seller prefers the buyer's resale behavior and is averse to the speculator only under the limited liability case.
G33|A framework for early-warning modeling with an application to banks|This paper proposes a framework for deriving early-warning models with optimal out-of-sample forecasting properties and applies it to predicting distress in European banks. The main contributions of the paper are threefold. First, the paper introduces a conceptual framework to guide the process of building early-warning models, which highlights and structures the numerous complex choices that the modeler needs to make. Second, the paper proposes a flexible modeling solution to the conceptual framework that supports model selection in real-time. Specifically, our proposed solution is to combine the loss function approach to evaluate early-warning models with regularized logistic regression and cross-validation to find a model specification with optimal real-time out-of-sample forecasting properties. Third, the paper illustrates how the modeling framework can be used in analysis supporting both microand macro-prudential policy by applying it to a large dataset of EU banks and showing some examples of early-warning model visualizations. JEL Classification: G01, G17, G21, G33, C52, C54
G33|Government Debt And Banking Fragility: The Spreading Of Strategic Uncertainty|This article studies the interaction of government debt and financial markets. This interaction, termed a “diabolic loop,” is driven by government choice to bail out banks and the resulting incentives for banks to hold government debt instead of self‐insure through equity buffers. We highlight the role of bank equity issuance in determining whether the “diabolic loop” is a Nash equilibrium of the interaction between banks and the government. When equity is issued, no diabolic loop exists. In equilibrium, banks' rational expectations of a bailout ensure that no equity is issued and the sovereign‐bank loop is operative.
G33|Limited Liability and Investment: Evidence from Changes in Marital Property Laws in the U.S. South, 1840-1850|We study the impact of marital property legislation passed in the U.S. South in the 1840s on household investment. These laws protected the assets of newly married women from creditors in a world of virtually unlimited liability. We compare couples married after the passage of a law with couples from the same state who were married before. Consistent with a simple model of household borrowing that trades off agency costs against risk sharing, the effect on household asset holdings was heterogeneous: if most household property came from the husband (wife), the law led to an increase (decrease) in total assets.
G33|Shadow Bank run, Housing and Credit Market: The Story of a Recession| This paper proposes a DSGE model with bank runs which improves Gertler and Kiyotaki (2015) to assess the impact of housing and credit markets in financial instability and shadow banking activities. This paper illustrates that a negative TFP shock is amplified by macro-financial and macro-housing channels through household’s balance sheet, bank’s balance sheet and liquidity channels. If the shock makes the shadow banking system insolvent, two equilibria, no-run and run equilibrium, coexist. In this view, run is a sunspot coordination failure; if households receive a negative signal from fundamentals and stop rolling over deposits to the financial sector, banks are not able to fund their losses by new deposits. So they are forced to liquidate their assets at an endogenous fire sale price. The main finding of this paper is that the model with housing comprehensively details the consequences of economic crises, namely home price double-dip, the output downward spiral and lengthy recovery period. In addition, the paper indicates that macroprudential policy tools in the form of capital adequacy buffers and loan-to-value ratios can be helpful for eliminating bank-run equilibrium. They safeguard the economy against extreme busts and help mitigate systemic risks by insulating asset prices.
G33|Collateral Unchained: Rehypothecation Networks, Concentration and Systemic Effects|We study how network structure affects the dynamics of collateral in presence of rehypothecation. We build a simple model wherein banks interact via chains of repo contracts and use their proprietary collateral or re-use the collateral obtained by other banks via reverse repos. In this framework, we show that total collateral volume and its velocity are affected by characteristics of the network like the length of rehypothecation chains, the presence or not of chains having a cyclic structure, the direction of collateral flows, the density of the network. In addition, we show that structures where collateral flows are concentrated among few nodes (like in core-periphery networks) allow large increases in collateral volumes already with small network density. Furthermore, we introduce in the model collateral hoarding rates determined according to a Value-at-Risk (VaR) criterion, and we then study the emergence of collateral hoarding cascades in different networks. Our results highlight that network structures with highly concentrated collateral flows are also more exposed to large collateral hoarding cascades following local shocks. These networks are therefore characterized by a trade-off between liquidity and systemic risk.
G33|Collateral Runs|This paper models an unexplored source of liquidity risk faced by large broker-dealers: collateral runs. By setting different contracting terms on repurchase agreements with cash borrowers and lenders, dealers can source funds for their own activities. Cash borrowers internalize the risk of losing their collateral in case their dealer defaults, prompting them to withdraw it. This incentive creates strategic complementarities for counterparties to withdraw their collateral, reducing a dealer's liquidity position and compromising her solvency. Collateral runs are markedly different than traditional wholesale funding runs because they are triggered by a contraction in dealers' assets, rather than their liabilities.
G33|Financial frictions, real estate collateral, and small firm activity in Europe|We observe significant heterogeneity in the correlation between changes in house prices and the growth of small firms across certain countries in Europe. We find that, overall, the correlation is far greater in Southern Europe than in Northern Europe. Using a simple model, we show that this heterogeneity may relate to financial frictions in a country. We confirm the model’s propositions in a number of empirical analyses for the following countries in Northern and Southern Europe: the United Kingdom, Norway, France, Italy, Spain, and Portugal. Small firms in countries with higher financial frictions (for example, places where bankruptcy resolution is more difficult and/or takes longer) see a greater dependence on “stable” real estate collateral. This is most pronounced for opaque (for example, very young) firms. Through an extension to our model and our choice of specification, we show that our findings are most consistent with a collateral-value-based credit supply channel and rule out a consumer-driven demand effect.
G33|On the Measurement of Large Financial Firm Resolvability|"We say that a large financial institution is ""resolvable"" if policymakers would allow it to go through unassisted bankruptcy in the event of failure. The choice between bankruptcy or bailout trades off the higher loss imposed on the economy in a potentially disruptive resolution against the incentive for excessive risk-taking created by an assisted resolution or a bailout. The resolution plans (""living wills"") of large financial institutions contain information needed to evaluate this trade-off. In this paper, we propose a tool to complement the living will review process: an impact score that compares expected losses in the economy stemming from a resolution in bankruptcy with those expected under an assisted resolution or a bailout, based solely on objective characteristics of a bank holding company. We provide a framework that allows us to discuss the data needed and the concepts that underlie the construction of such a score. Importantly, the same firm characteristics may be ascribed different impacts under different resolution methods or crisis scenarios, and these impacts can depend on policymakers' assessments. We say that a firm's structure is acceptable if its impact score under bankruptcy is lower than that of any other resolution method. We study the current score used to designate firms as GSIBs and propose a modified version that we view as a starting point for an impact score."
G33|Contingent Debt and Performance Pricing in an Optimal Capital Structure Model with Financial Distress and Reorganization|Building on the trade-off between agency costs and monitoring costs, we develop a dynamic theory of optimal capital structure with financial distress and reorganization. Costly monitoring eliminates the agency friction and thus the risk of inefficient liquidation. Our key assumption is that monitoring cannot be applied instantaneously. Rather, transitions between agency and monitoring are subject to search frictions. In the optimal contract, the firm seeks a monitoring opportunity whenever it is financially distressed, i.e., when the risk of liquidation is high. If a monitoring opportunity arrives in time, the manager is dismissed, the capital structure is reorganized as in Chapter 11 bankruptcy, and the search for a new manager begins. In agency, an optimal capital structure consists of equity, long-term debt, contingent long-term debt, and a credit line with performance pricing. In financial distress, coupon payments to contingent debt are suspended but the interest rate on the credit line is stepped-up, which gives the firm simultaneously debt relief and a steep incentive to improve its financial position. An episode of distress can end with financial recovery, transition to bankruptcy reorganization, or liquidation.
G33|Financial Markets and Financial Institutions in Russia in 2017|In 2017, the Russian stock market once again reaffirmed its reputation of being one of the most volatile in the world. In contrast to the situation in 2016, when Russia's stock market, in terms of its rates of return, set a world record among the other 36 stock markets included in the analysis, in 2017 it joined the group of outsiders. Over that year, the RTS Index gained only 0.1 percent vs. 52.3 percent in 2016, and the MICEX Index (MOEX Russia Index)[1] at year-end demonstrated a negative rate of return of 5.5 percent, while over the previous year it had gained 26.8 percent (Fig. 1). The different movement patterns of the two Russian indexes with the same issuer portfolio can be explained by the higher rate of return of the RTS Index (which is denominated in foreign currencies) relative to the (ruble-denominated) MOEX Russia Index that it displays in response to the weakening USD-to-RUB exchange rate.
G33|Collateral Unchained: Rehypothecation networks, concentration and systemic effects|We study how network structure affects the dynamics of collateral in presence of rehypothecation. We build a simple model wherein banks interact via chains of repo contracts and use their proprietary collateral or re-use the collateral obtained by other banks via reverse repos. In this framework, we show that total collateral volume and its velocity are affected by characteristics of the network like the length of rehypothecation chains, the presence or not of chains having a cyclic structure, the direction of collateral flows, the density of the network. In addition, we show that structures where collateral flows are concentrated among few nodes (like in core-periphery networks) allow large increases in collateral volumes already with small network density. Furthermore, we introduce in the model collateral hoarding rates determined according to a Value-at-Risk (VaR) criterion, and we then study the emergence of collateral hoarding cascades in different networks. Our results highlight that network structures with highly concentrated collateral flows are also more exposed to large collateral hoarding cascades following local shocks. These networks are therefore characterized by a trade-off between liquidity and systemic risk.
G33|Shock Diffusion in Large Regular Networks: The Role of Transitive Cycles|We study how the presence of transitive cycles in the interbank network affects the extent of financial contagion. In a regular network setting, where the same pattern of links repeats for each node, we allow an external shock to propagate losses through the system of linkages (interbank network). The extent of contagion (contagiousness) of the network is measured by the limit of the losses when the initial shock is diffused into an infinitely large network. This measure indicates how a network may or may not facilitate shock diffusion in spite of other external factors.\r\nOur analysis provides two main results. First, contagiousness decreases as the length of the minimal transitive cycle increases, keeping the degree of connectivity (density) constant. Secondly, as density increases the extent of contagion can decrease or increase, because the addition of new links might decrease the length of the minimal transitive cycle. Our results provide new insights to better understand systemic risk and could be used to build complementary indicators for financial regulation.
G33|Bankruptcy Prediction: SMEs Case Study in Pontianak, Indonesia|Objective – This study aims to examine the risk of bankruptcy among SMEs to determine whether there are any significant differences in the financial performance between SMEs that apply accounting standard and those that do not. Methodology/Technique – This research uses a case study method to examine SMEs in the business incubator under the auspices of the Bank Indonesia in Pontianak. Descriptive analysis and independent sample tests are also used in this study. Findings – The results show that neither of the SME groups are predicted bankrupt under the financial distress model. Furthermore, the independent sample tests show that, if using a significance level of 5%, there is no difference in the financial performance of both groups. However, if using a significance level of 10%, there is a significant difference in both groups
G33|Determinants of the Success of Corporate Recovery in Financial Distressed Company|Objective - This study aims to examine and analyze the influence of severity, free assets, company size, asset retrenchment and CEO expertise on the success of recovery companies experiencing financial distress that are listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange (IDX). Methodology/Technique - The population used in this study are all companies listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange between 2011 and 2016. This study uses a simple logistic regression analysis to test the hypotheses. Findings - The results indicate that free assets and CEO expertise have a significant and positive effect on the success of a company's recovery. Meanwhile, variable severity, asset retrenchment and firm size do not affect the success of the company's recovery.
G33|Did specialised courts affect the frequency of business bankruptcy petitions in Spain?|Abstract Spanish small businesses rarely file for bankruptcy, and Spanish bankruptcy rates are abnormally small. The historical inadequacy of the Spanish insolvency system has led most enterprises to rely on the de facto alternative mortgage system and to overinvest in fixed tangible assets: a distortion that may trigger significant adverse effects, for instance on the enabling environment of novel entrepreneurship. The reform of the bankruptcy law that took place in Spain some 10 years in order to modernise the insolvency system involved, as a main novelty, the establishment of specialised commercial courts (Juzgados de lo Mercantil). Since the net benefits of specialised judicial functions are in principle ambiguous, we study empirically whether these new bodies had any impact, over and above the economic crisis, on the use of the bankruptcy system. Exploiting the staggered timing of the new courts geography, we estimate an endogenous treatment model with a binary policy variable which allows to measure the effect of the reform on bankruptcy rates. The results support the view that the new bankruptcy law took the right path, but the size of the estimated parameters call for further policy efforts in that direction.
G33|Risk and competitiveness in the Italian banking sector|In this paper, we analyse the relationship between risk and competition in the Italian banking sector over the period from 2006 to 2010. We employ OLS and panel estimators to estimate the impact of the Lerner index, a measure of bank market power, on the Altman Z-score, a proxy of the insolvency probability. Our results are consistent with the traditional charter value paradigm and reject the new risk-shifting paradigm proposed by Boyd-De NicolÃ² (2005). We find that the relationship between bank risk and competition becomes more tightening during the financial crisis. Our results are robust to different definitions of crisis and different specifications.
G33|Bargaining tools for the resolution of distressed firms: judicial composition with creditors|The paper provides a large set of new evidence about the workings of judicial composition with creditors (concordato preventivo) procedures based on a new dataset, specifically compiled, which constitutes the richest source of information currently available on the functioning of these procedures. Judicial composition with creditors is mainly used for the piecemeal liquidation of firms (about 70 per cent of the cases). Less than a quarter of judicial compositions with creditors fulfill the provisions of the plans. The recovery rate for secured loans is almost 100 per cent for all types of compositions, while for unsecured loans, recovery rates vary considerably: from 18 per cent in the case of piecemeal liquidation to 37 per cent in the case of restructuring (23 per cent for judicial composition with creditors that provides for the sale of the entire firm or of a branch). Regression analysis shows that better performance of judicial compositions with creditors is associated with a less chronic crisis at the time the judicial composition with creditors is initiated, measured as the time that passes between the earliest persistent difficulties faced by the firm in fulfilling its obligations to bank creditors and the initiation of the procedure.
G33|Dealing with corporate crises in a timely way. Notes on the optimal design of an «Early warning and composition system»|Since the 2005 Bankruptcy Law reform, policymakers have set the goal to detect and manage corporate crises at an early stage, in order to both improve the chances of a company restoring its economic-financial equilibrium and of limiting the dispersion of its values. However, the tools developed over the years have not fully achieved the desired outcomes. We start by surveying the economic benefits stemming from timely action. Then, by using a law and economics approach, we map the disincentives to taking action that affect debtors and creditors, looking separately at the phases of detection and management. On the basis of our findings, the paper discusses the characteristics of effective regulatory strategies, taking into account recent changes in the law. We argue in favour of both strengthening the governance of distressed companies and fine-tuning the existing restructuring and liquidation tools. These objectives are also pursued, to some extent, by the Enabling Bill for the Bankruptcy Law. We highlight the critical issues related to the new «early warning and composition proceedings», especially where they commence automatically if some economic and financial thresholds are breached.
G33|Optimal Forbearance of Bank Resolution|We analyze optimal strategic delay of bank resolution ('forbearance') and deposit insurance in a setting where, after bad news on the bank, depositors fear for the uninsured part of their deposit and withdraw while the regulator observes withdrawals and needs to decide when to intervene. Under low insurance coverage the optimal intervention policy is to walk away. Optimal deposit insurance coverage is always interior. Fast intervention cannot minimize public losses and be optimal at the same time. The paper sheds light on the differences between the U.S. and the European Monetary Union in terms of their bank resolution policies.
G33|Flight-to-safety and the Credit Crunch: A new history of the banking crisis in France during the Great Depression|Despite France's importance in the interwar world economy, the scale and consequences of the French banking crises of 1930-1931 were never assessed quantitatively due to lack of data in the absence of banking regulation. Using a new dataset of individual balance sheets from more than 400 banks, we show that the crisis was more severe and occurred earlier than previously thought, and it was very asymmetric, without affecting main commercial banks. The primary transmission channel was a flight-to-safety of deposits from banks to savings institutions and the central bank, leading to a major, persistent disruption in business lending. In line with the gold standard mentality, cash deposited with savings institutions and the central bank was used to decrease marketable public debt and increase gold reserves, rather than pursue countercyclical policies. Despite massive capital inflows, France suffered from a severe, persistent credit crunch.
G33|Predicting default more accurately: to proxy or not to proxy for default?|No abstract is available for this item.
G33|Credit auctions and bid caps|In this paper we offer two contributions to the field of credit auctions. First, we compare first- and second-price credit auctions and provide solvency-dependent conditions such that one mechanism dominates the other in terms of expected payoffs of all the parties involved. In addition, we present a new possibility of using bid caps in credit auctions. We study the equilibria in the capped mechanisms and show that bid caps can increase the seller's expected payoff and, in some cases, the expected payoffs of all sides (a win–win situation).
G33|Forbearance Patterns in the Post-Crisis Period|Using supervisory loan-level data on corporate loans, we show that banks facing high levels of non-performing loans relative to their capital and provisions were more likely to grant forbearance measures to the riskiest group of borrowers. More specifically, we find that risky borrowers are more likely to get an increase in the overall limit or the maturity of a loan product from a distressed lender. As a second step, we analyse the effectiveness of this practice in reducing the probability of default. We show that the most common measure of forbearance is effective in the short run but no forbearance measure significantly reduces the probability of default in the long run. Our evidence also suggests that forbearance and new lending are substitutes for banks, as high shares of forbearance are negatively correlated with new lending to the same group of borrowers.
G33|Equity, debt and moral hazard: the optimal structure of banks’ loss absorbing capacity|This paper develops a model to analyse the optimal ex-ante capital and total loss absorbing capacity (TLAC) requirements, and the ex-post resolution policy of banks. Banks in our model are subject to two types of moral hazard: i) ex-ante, they have the incentive to shirk on project monitoring, thus increasing the risk of failure, and ii) ex-post, poorly capitalised banks have the incentive to engage in asset substitution by ‘gambling for resurrection’. Ex-ante moral hazard can be eliminated by ensuring that banks have sufficient capital and uninsured ‘bail-inable’ debt, while ex-post moral hazard is mitigated by triggering resolution when the minimum capital requirement is breached. We argue that optimal regulation consists of a high TLAC requirement and high capital buffer. Our analysis also suggests that higher system-wide risk would call for a higher capital buffer, but TLAC could be lowered if it does not jeopardise the credibility of bail-in itself.
G33|Incentive-Compatibility, Limited Liability and Costly Liquidation in Financial Contracting|We characterize an optimal financial contract when the firmâ€™s realized cash flow is unobservable to the investor and the firmâ€™s collateral can only be liquidated partially by resorting to the services of a costly third party. An optimal contract may exhibit a piecewise structure and vary with the liquidation cost and the firmâ€™s actual liquidity shortage. Partial liquidation and wholesale transfers of collateral can coexist in an optimal contract. In contrast to part of the literature, the incentive-compatibility constraint incorporates the firmâ€™s limited liability, and may be slack at the optimum. Allowing the firm to overcome an ex-post liquidity shortage by borrowing surreptitiously from a third party may reduce the firmâ€™s ex-ante expected utility.
G33|Creditor Rights, Technology Adoption, and Productivity: Plant-Level Evidence|I analyze the impact of stronger creditor rights on productivity using plant-level data from the U.S. Census Bureau. Following the adoption of anti-recharacterization laws that give lenders greater access to the collateral of firms in financial distress, total factor productivity of treated plants increases by 2.6 percent. This effect is mainly observed among plants belonging to financially constrained firms. Furthermore, treated plants invest in capital of younger vintage and newer technology, and become more capital-intensive. My results suggest that stronger creditor rights relax borrowing constraints and help firms adopt more efficient production technologies.
G33|Low Inflation: High Default Risk AND High Equity Valuations|We develop an asset-pricing model with endogenous corporate policies that explains how inflation jointly impacts real asset prices and corporate default risk. Our model includes two empirically grounded nominal frictions: fixed nominal coupons and sticky profitability. Taken together, these two frictions result in higher real equity prices and credit spreads when inflation falls. An increase in inflation has opposite effects, but with smaller magnitudes. In the cross section, the model predicts the negative impact of inflation on real equity values is stronger for low leverage firms. We find empirical support for the model predictions.
G33|Inefficiency and Bank Failures: A Joint Bayesian Esti-mationof a Stochastic Frontier Model and a Hazards Model|In modeling bank failure, estimating inefficiency separately from the hazards modelresults in inefficient, biased, and inconsistent estimators. We develop a method to si-multaneously estimate a stochastic frontier model and a hazards model using Bayesiantechniques. This method overcomes issues related to two-stage estimation methods,allows for computing the marginal effects of the inefficiency over the probability offailure, and facilitates statistical inference of the functions of the parameters such aselasticities, returns to scale, and individual inefficiencies. Simulation exercises showthat our proposed method performs better than two-stage maximum likelihood, spe-cially in small samples. In addition we find that inefficiency plays a statistically and economically significant role in determining the time to failure of U.S. commercial banks during 2001 to 2010.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
G33|Inefficiency and Bank Failures: A Joint Bayesian Estimationof a Stochastic Frontier Model and a Hazards Model|In modeling bank failure, estimating inefficiency separately from the hazards modelresults in inefficient, biased, and inconsistent estimators. We develop a method to si-multaneously estimate a stochastic frontier model and a hazards model using Bayesiantechniques. This method overcomes issues related to two-stage estimation methods,allows for computing the marginal effects of the inefficiency over the probability offailure, and facilitates statistical inference of the functions of the parameters such aselasticities, returns to scale, and individual inefficiencies. Simulation exercises showthat our proposed method performs better than two-stage maximum likelihood, spe-cially in small samples. In addition we find that inefficiency plays a statistically and economically significant role in determining the time to failure of U.S. commercial banks during 2001 to 2010.
G33|Optimal Short-Termism|This paper studies incentives in a dynamic contracting framework of a levered firm. In particular, the manager selects long-term and short-term efforts, while shareholders choose initially optimal leverage and ex-post optimal default policies. There are three results. First, shareholders trade off the benefits of short-termism (current cash flows) against the benefits of higher growth from long-term effort (future cash flows), but because shareholders only split the latter with bondholders, they find short-termism ex-post optimal. Second, bright (grim) growth prospects imply lower (higher) optimal levels of short-termism. Third, the endogenous default threshold rises with the substitutability of tasks and, for a positive correlation of shocks, the endogenous default threshold is hump-shaped in the volatility of permanent shocks, but increases monotonically with the volatility of transitory shocks. Finally, we quantify agency costs of short-term and long-term effort, cost of short-termism, effects of investor time horizons, credit spreads, and risk-shifting.
G33|The Levered Equity Risk Premium and Credit Spreads: A Unified Framework| We embed a structural model of credit risk inside a dynamic continuous-time consumption-based asset pricing model, which allows us to price equity and corporate debt in a unified framework. Our key economic assumptions are that the first and second moments of earnings and consumption growth depend on the state of the economy, which switches randomly, creating intertemporal risk, which agents prefer to resolve sooner rather than later, because they have Epstein-Zin-Weil preferences. Agents optimally choose dynamic capital structure and default times. For a dynamic cross-section of firms, our model endogenously generates a realistic average term structure and time series of actual default probabilities and credit spreads, together with a reasonable levered equity risk premium, which varies with macroeconomic conditions. The Author 2009. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The Society for Financial Studies. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oxfordjournals.org, Oxford University Press.
G33|Bank Resolution and the Structure of Global Banks|We study the resolution of global banks by national regulators. Single-point-of-entry (SPOE) resolution, where loss-absorbing capital is shared across jurisdictions, isefficient but may not be implementable. First, when expected transfers across jurisdictions are too asymmetric, national regulators fail to set up SPOE resolution ex ante. Second, when required ex-post transfers are too large, national regulators ring-fence assets instead of cooperating in SPOE resolution. In this case, a multiple-point-of-entry (MPOE) resolution, where loss-absorbing capital is pre-assigned, is more robust. Our analysis highlights a fundamental link between efficient bank resolution and the operational structures and risks of global banks.
G33|Teams and Bankruptcy|We study the impact of corporate bankruptcies on teams and inventor productivity in the United States. We show that bankruptcy reduces team stability. After a bankruptcy, team inventors produce fewer and less impactful patents, and they are more likely to cease patenting. This points to the loss of team-specific human capital as a cost of resource reallocation through bankruptcy. Our findings also suggest that the labor market values teams and their stability. Past collaboration increases the probability of inventors jointly moving to a new firm after bankruptcy, and the productivity of inventors that relocate together with their team increases.
G33|Flight-to-safety and the Credit Crunch: A new history of the banking crisis in France during the Great Depression|Despite France's importance in the interwar world economy, the scale and consequences of the French banking crises of 1930–1931 were never assessed quantitatively due to lack of data in the absence of banking regulation. Using a new dataset of individual balance sheets from more than 400 banks, we show that the crisis was more severe and occurred earlier than previously thought, and it was very asymmetric, without affecting main commercial banks. The primary transmission channel was a flight-to-safety of deposits from banks to savings institutions and the central bank, leading to a major, persistent disruption in business lending. In line with the gold standard mentality, cash deposited with savings institutions and the central bank was used to decrease marketable public debt and increase gold reserves, rather than pursue countercyclical policies. Despite massive capital inflows, France suffered from a severe, persistent credit crunch.
G33|Default risk and equity value: forgotten factor or cultural revolution?|Default risk is the forgotten factor when it comes to equity valuation. And yet, in this article, we show that default risk has a bigger impact on equity values than it does on bond values. Our work is based on a default intensity model that we extrapolate to equities. This model does not presuppose a particular method for estimating distance to default. As a result, unlike Merton structural models, which only apply to indebted companies, it can be used to assess default risk for any company. Highlighting a default risk premium in the cost of capital calculation makes it possible to reconcile the CAPM with evaluation methods based on forecasts in the event of survival. At the same time, the CAPM and default risk can explain the vast majority of bond spreads. The test consisting of estimating “physical” implied default probabilities and the share of systemic risk included in corporate euro bond spreads at end-2015 led us to detect the likely existence of excessive remuneration of investment grade bonds. This finding corroborates identical conclusions reached earlier by other researchers. This potential market anomaly could indicate a windfall for investors. Performing this test again at various points in the economic and financial cycle would help establish whether the bond market is serving a free lunch to investors not bound by regulatory reserve requirements.
G33|Shock Diffusion in Regular Networks: The Role of Transitive Cycles|We study how the presence of transitive cycles in the interbank network affects the extent of financial contagion. In a regular network setting, where the same pattern of links repeats for each node, we allow an external shock to propagate losses through the system of linkages (interbank network). The extent of contagion (contagiousness) of the network is measured by the limit of the losses when the initial shock is diffused into an infinitely large network. This measure indicates how a network may or may not facilitate shock diffusion in spite of other external factors. Our analysis highlights two main results. First, contagiousness decreases as the length of the minimal transitive cycle increases, keeping the degree of connectivity (density) constant. Second, as density increases the extent of contagion can decrease or increase, because the addition of new links might decrease the length of the minimal transitive cycle. Our results provide new insights to better understand systemic risk and could be used to build complementary indicators for financial regulation.
G33|Determinants of Corporate Failure: The Case of the Johannesburg Stock Exchange|The aim of this paper is to estimate the probability of default for JSE listed companies. Our distinctive contribution is to use the multi-sector approach in estimating corporate failure instead of estimating failure in one sector, as failing companies are faced with the same challenge regardless of the sectors they operate in. The study creates a platform to identify the effect of Book-value to Market-value ratio on the probability to default, as this variable is often used as a proxy for corporate default in asset pricing models. Moreover, the use of Classification and Regression Trees uncovers other variables as reliable predictors to estimate corporate failure as the model is designed to choose the covariates with respect to classification ability. Our study also serves to add to the literature on how Logistic model performance compares to Machine Learning methods such as Classification and Regression Trees and Support Vector Machines. The study is the first to apply Support Vector Machines to predict failure on South African listed companies.
G33|Динамички Коефицијенти: Нови Приступ У Анализи Солвентности Предузећа<BR>[The Dynamic Coefficients: New Approach to the Analysis of Company’s Solvency]|Serbian. У чланку се разматра коришћење двају приступа анализи солвентности предузећа – традиционалног, заснованог на показатељима из биланса стања и биланса успеха, и новог, заснованог на показатељима из извештаја о кретању новчаних средстава. Уз помоћ дисперзионе анализе показано је да та два приступа резултирају значајно различитим оценама солвентности. То омогућује закључак, да за анализу солвентности (превасходно) треба користити и динамичке показатеље. English. The article considers the use of two approaches in the analysis of enterprise’s solvency – traditional, based on balance and profit and loses balance, and new, based on indicators from cash-flow report. With the analysis of variance, on the data for one of the branches of Serbian economy, it was showed, that these two approaches give significantly different estimates of enterprise’s solvency. It makes possible to conclude, that for analysis of solvency it is necessary to use too (at first) dynamic indicators.
G33|Panel Modeling of Z-score: Evidence from Islamic and Conventional Saudi Banks|Several studies on the banking sector have shown that Islamic banks are more financially robust and stable compared to conventional banks, mostly in periods of financial crises. The aim of this research is to measure and compare the level of stability between Islamic and conventional banks in Saudi Arabia using quarterly data. The sample covers around two-thirds of banks operating in the Saudi stock market, and data comprises the last global financial crisis. The panel data model shows that Islamic banks relatively reduce the financial stability index; meanwhile, they contribute efficiently to enhance financial stability through the diversification of their assets. According to our findings Riyad Bank and SAMBA positively impact the financial stability, while Al-Rajhi bank has a positive but moderate role in enhancing the banking stability. As well, the Saudi banking sector exhibits a weak competitiveness which negatively impact the banking stability. Consequently, the limited presence of Islamic banks in the Saudi banking sector menaces any efforts to improve the financial stability.
G33|Panel Modeling of Z-score: Evidence from Islamic and Conventional Saudi Banks|Several studies on the banking sector have shown that Islamic banks are more financially robust and stable compared to conventional banks, mostly in periods of financial crises. The aim of this research is to measure and compare the level of stability between Islamic and conventional banks in Saudi Arabia using quarterly data. The sample covers around two-thirds of banks operating in the Saudi stock market, and data comprises the last global financial crisis. The panel data model shows that Islamic banks relatively reduce the financial stability index; meanwhile, they contribute efficiently to enhance financial stability through the diversification of their assets. According to our findings Riyad Bank and SAMBA positively impact the financial stability, while Al-Rajhi bank has a positive but moderate role in enhancing the banking stability. As well, the Saudi banking sector exhibits a weak competitiveness which negatively impact the banking stability. Consequently, the limited presence of Islamic banks in the Saudi banking sector menaces any efforts to improve the financial stability.
G33|Fear the walking dead: zombie firms, spillovers and exit barriers|"Productivity growth is slowing down among OECD countries, coupled with increased misallocation of resources. A recent strand of literature focuses on the role of non-viable firms (""zombie firms"") to explain these developments. Using a rich firm-level dataset for one of the OECD countries with the largest drop in barriers to firm exit and restructure, we assess the role of zombies on firm dynamics, both in the extensive and intensive margins. We confirm the results on the high prevalence of zombie firms, significantly less productive than their healthy counterparts and thus dragging aggregate productivity down. Moreover, while we find evidence of positive selection within zombies, with the most productive restructuring and the least productive exiting, we also show that the zombies' productivity threshold for exit is much lower than that of non-zombies, allowing them to stay in the market, distorting competition and sinking resources. Zombie prevalence curbs the growth of viable firms, in particular the most productive, harming the intra-sectoral resource reallocation. We show that a reduction in exit and restructuring barriers promotes a more effective exit channel and fosters the restructuring of the most productive, highlight the role of public policy in addressing zombies' prevalence, fostering a more efficient resource allocation and enabling productivity growth."
G33|Socialising the losses and privatising the gains The case of Cyprus five years after the bail-in of bank deposits|Private sector indebtedness in Cyprus remains extremely high. Yet the Government and the banks in Cyprus continue to define the problem as being the non-performing loans (NPLs) and the proposed solution as being any tools and legislation which will improve repayment but also enable the banks to take these off their balance sheets. It is argued that reducing the NPLs in this manner is treating a symptom of the disease. Such sale of loans will not reduce the private debt which is the real problem of the Cyprus economy. On the contrary, it is likely to make private indebtedness a lot worse as the allowed provisions that the banks have been making will be used as discounts to entice the funds and other “investors” to buy them. This is likely to throw the country into a balance sheet recession. This means that because of the excessive and quite unprecedented levels of private debt (3 to 4 times the size of the country’s GDP) weighing on households and corporations alike, it is practically impossible for the country to overcome the recessionary effects of the austerity and forced repayment conditions that would be imposed through the adoption of such myopic and one sided Government policy. The article concludes that the government should not create a bad bank for the NPLs of the banks but rather should establish a reconstruction and development financing institution that will be able to provide solutions and spin back into the economy economically viable projects.
G33|The strength of sensitivity to ambiguity|Abstract We report an experiment where each subject’s ambiguity sensitivity is measured by an ambiguity premium, a concept analogous to and comparable with a risk premium. In our design, some tasks feature known objective risks and others uncertainty about which subjects have imperfect, heterogeneous, information (“ambiguous tasks”). We show how the smooth ambiguity model can be used to calculate ambiguity premia. A distinctive feature of our approach is estimation of each subject’s subjective beliefs about the uncertainty in ambiguous tasks. We find considerable heterogeneity among subjects in beliefs and ambiguity premia; and that, on average, ambiguity sensitivity is about as strong as risk sensitivity.
G33|Strategic Default in Financial Networks|This paper investigates a model of strategic interactions in financial networks, where the decision by one agent on whether or not to default impacts the incentives of other agents to escape default. Agents’ payoffs are determined by the clearing mechanism introduced in the seminal contribution of Eisenberg and Noe (2001). We first show the existence of a Nash equilibrium of this default game. Next, we develop an algorithm to find all Nash equilibria that relies on the financial network structure. Finally, we explore some policy implications to achieve efficient coordination.
G33|How Do Laws and Institutions affect Recovery Rates on Collateral?| We show that laws and institutions that grant creditors stronger enforcement rights and bargaining power upon default increase expected recovery rates on collateral. Using unique data that provides ex-ante appraised liquidation values on secured loans for a single global bank, we estimate within-borrower effects of enforcement law on expected recovery rates. We show that movable collateral, which is less redeployable, susceptible to agency problems, and faster to depreciate, exhibits lower expected recovery rates that are more vulnerable to enforcement. Further, the bank compensates for lower expected recovery rates through higher interest rates. The results highlight that a lender’s expected recovery rate is a firststage mechanism through which stronger enforcement law affects loan-to-value ratios, lending decisions, and real outcomes.
G33|Decomposing global bank productivity growth: the role of non-performing loans, equity and technology|We propose a flexible functional form for estimating production performance that allows for endogeneity of the underlying inputs and outputs. The proposed model opts for a novel local likelihood estimation method that adequately deals with issues of endogeneity, whilst accounts for non-parametric heteroskedasticity in the covariance matrix of the error term. We argue that bank productivity as provided by our model based on bank micro-foundations is better suited to measure bank performance compared to efficiency. In the empirical section, we show the destructive effect of nonperforming loans on bank-specific TFP growth in advanced, emerging and developing economies. Technology, though, appears to positively contribute to bank TFP growth across the world. Furthermore, we show that bank risk-taking and raising capital by equity are negatively related to TFP growth, while liquidity has a positive impact.
G33|Hiding the bankruptcy through creative accounting|Bankruptcy is one of the most important business externalities. Prediction of corporate failures has become a challenging and discussed issue over the years. However, there is no research dedicated to the opportunity to hide the possible bankruptcy of the company through the creative accounting. Therefore, the main goal of presented study is to identify the challenging scientific gap represented by Earnings management models, through which companies can legally modify, hide and play with their financial data. We focus on the proper literature review in selected issue emphasizing the need to concentrate on the creation of a quality model for the detection and quantification of Earnings Management, which will take into account the specificities of the national environment as well as of the global development trends in the area concerned.
G33|Investment Decisions and Financial Leverage under a Potential Entry Threat|This study examines investment and financing decisions of a pioneering firm and agency costs of debt in the presence of an entry threat by a potential competitor. It demonstrates that the over-investment problem demonstrated by Mauer and Sarkar (2005) remains in the presence of the potential entry threat. In addition, it demonstrates that when the pioneering firm increases leverage, a potential competitor expedites its market entry. Furthermore, high leverage creates the potential for inducing the competitor to enter the market in a downturn and exposing the pioneering firm to a risk of forced bankruptcy. Therefore, the potential entry threat hinders the pioneering firm from debt financing, and thus mitigates agency conflicts between shareholders and bondholders over investment decisions.
G33|The variance risk premium and capital structure|This paper investigates how the asset-return variance risk premium changes leverage. I find that the premium lowers leverage by increasing risk-neutral bankruptcy probability and costs in a model where asset returns have stochastic variance with risk premium. Empirically, the model calibrations verify significant reduction in optimal leverage, closer to observed leverage than the model without the premium. In model-free regressions, I also document negative correlation between leverage and the variance premium. The most negative correlation is among investment-grade firms with low asset beta and historical variance but high variance premium because their assets have high exposure to market variance premium. JEL Classification: G32, G33, G12
G33|Korruption und die Finanzmärkte - Das Problem der Non-Performing-Loans im Kreditgeschäft|Die europäische Union hat Programme installiert (ESM) oder ist dabei dies zu tun (Europäische Einlagensicherung), die darauf hinauslaufen, dass Kapital von weniger korrupten Ländern in Länder mit höherem Korruptionsgrad transferiert wird. Die Literatur deckt einen deutlichen Zusammenhang zwischen Kreditgeschäft und Korruption auf. In korrupteren Regionen verzeichnen Banken mehr Kreditausfälle und verbuchen mehr Non-Performing-Loans. Korruption im Kreditgeschäft ist sowohl auf der Schuldnerseite (i), wie auch auf der (ii) Gläubigerseite wie auch auf der (iii) Seite der Regierung bzw. Regulatorik anzutreffen. Korrupte Länder zeichnen sich durch schwache Rechtssysteme aus, die es Gläubigern erschweren, ihre Rechte durchzusetzen. In Griechenland spricht man von „strategischen“ Kreditnehmern, die es von vornherein darauf anlegen, Kredite nicht ordnungsgemäß zu bedienen. Außer privaten Schuldnern zeigen auch öffentliche Schuldner in korrupteren Ländern eine höhere Ausfallquote ihrer Kredite („Moratorium“). Im Ergebnis bedeutet dies, dass es für Kapitalgeber ein großes Risiko darstellt, finanzielle Hilfen an korrupte Länder zu leisten. In Zukunft sollten bei allen europäischen Projekten, die mit rückzahlbaren Geldtransfers in Länder mit hohem Korruptionsgrad verbunden sind oder sein können, eine Korruptionsauswirkungsanalyse („corruption impact assessment“) angefertigt werden, welche die voraussichtlichen Folgen der Korruption für das Projekt darlegt. Außerdem sollten Banken in korrupteren Ländern mehr Eigenkapital halten. Die Europäische Einlagensicherung sollte aufgeschoben werden.
G33|On the Option Effects of Short-Time Work Arrangements|We analyse the short term work (STW) regulations that several OECD countries introduced after the 2007 financial crisis. We view these measures as a collection of real options and study the dynamic effect of STW on the endogenous liquidation decision of the firm. While STW delays a firm’s liquidation, it is not necessarily welfare enhancing. Moreover, it turns out that firms use STW too long. We show (numerically) that providers of capital benefit more than employees from STW. Benefits for employees can even be negative. A typical Nordic policy performs better than a typical Anglo-Saxon policy for all stakeholders.
G33|Classifying Firms with Text Mining|Statistics on the births, deaths and survival rates of firms are crucial pieces of information, as they enter as an input in the computation of GDP, the identification of each sectorâ€™s contribution to the economy, and the assessment of gross job creation and destruction rates. Official statistics on firm demography are made available only several months after data collection and storage, however. Furthermore, unprocessed and untimely administrative data can lead to a misrepresentation of the life-cycle stage of a firm. In this paper we implement an automated version of Eurostatâ€™s algorithm aimed at distinguishing true startup endeavors from the resurrection of pre-existing but apparently defunct firms. The potential gains from combining machine learning, natural language processing and econometric tools for pre- processing and analyzing granular data are exposed, and a machine learning method predicting reactivations of deceptively dead firms is proposed.
G33|Pre-emptive sovereign debt restructuring and holdout litigation|We offer an analytical framework for studying ‘pre-emptive’ debt exchanges. Countries can tailor a sovereign bankruptcy framework by choosing provisions (or ‘haircuts’) ex ante, but must contend with the market discipline of holdout litigation ex post. Secondary markets play a role in shaping the holdout costs facing the sovereign, and our results suggest that it is optimal to prioritize the rights of holdout creditors during litigation so that they are always paid in full. We clarify how macroeconomic and legal factors influence the choice of haircut. Our model contributes to the debate on sovereign debt restructuring by formalizing Bolton and Skeel’s notion of a ‘Designer SDRM’.
G33|Die Nutzung insolvenzrechtlicher Sanierungswege durch kleine und mittlere Unternehmen: Das Beispiel der Eigenverwaltung|Mit der Einführung des ESUG wurde das Insolvenzrecht Deutschlands im Jahr 2012 reformiert. Das ESUG eröffnet neue Sanierungswege, z. B. das eigenverwaltete Schutzschirmverfahren vor der Insolvenz und die Eigenverwaltung während des Eröffnungsverfahrens. Insgesamt beantragen weiterhin nur einige hundert Unternehmen diese Verfahren: Das entspricht 1 bis 2 % aller insolventen Unternehmen. Die Nutzung steigt ab einer Unternehmensgröße von 10 Mitarbeitern und mit dem Unternehmensalter deutlich an. Nur noch jeder zehnte Eigenverwaltungsantrag wird vom Gericht abgelehnt, das bietet den Unternehmen mehr Planungssicherheit für Sanierungen.
G33|Financing Costs and the Efficiency of Public-Private Partnerships|The paper compares provision of public infrastructure via public-private partnerships (PPPs) with provision under government management. Due to soft budget constraints of government management, PPPs exert more effort and therefore have a cost advantage. At the same time, hard budget constraints for PPPs introduce a bankruptcy risk and bankruptcy costs. Consequently, PPPs may be less efficient, although this does not result from PPPs’ higher interest costs.
G33|Firms’ Default – from Prediction Accuracy to Informational Capacity of Predictors|Research background: Bankruptcy literature is populated with scores of (econometric) models ranging from Altman’s Z-score, Ohlson’s O-score, Zmijewski’s probit model to k-nearest neighbors, classification trees, support vector machines, mathematical programming, evolutionary algorithms or neural networks, all designed to predict financial distress with highest precision. Purpose of the article: We believe corporate default is too an important research topic to be identified with the prediction accuracy only. Despite the wealth of modelling effort, a unified theory of default is yet to be proposed. Due to the disagreement, both on the definition and hence the timing of default as well as on the measurement of prediction accuracy, the comparison (of predictive power) of various models can be seriously misleading. The purpose of the article is to argue for the shift in research focus from maximizing accuracy to the analysis of the information capacity of predictors. By doing this, we may yet come closer to understand default itself. Methodology/methods: We have critically appraised the bankruptcy research literature for its methodological variety and empirical findings. Default definitions, sampling procedures, in and out-of-sample testing and accuracy measurement have all been scrutinized. We believe the bankruptcy models currently used are, using the language of Feyerabend, incommensurable. Findings: Instead of what we call the population of models paradigm (the comparison of predictive power of different models) prevailing today, we propose the model of population paradigm, consisting in the estimation a single unified default forecasting platform for both listed and non-listed firms, and analyze the marginal contribution of the different information sources. In addition to classical corporate financial data, information on both firm's strategic position and its macroeconomic environment should be studied.
G33|Bail-in as an instrument protecting the banking sector from system risk vs. capital adequacy of banks in the EU|Research background: The article refers to the introduced bank regulations aiming at maintaining capital adequacy of banks and a stable situation in the banking sector, allowing to keep the financial system stable at a time of a possible financial or systemic crisis. Purpose of the article: This article aims at presenting methods of protecting banks. It mostly focuses on the capital structure and the use of capital assets to repay liabilities in a situation that poses a risk to the continued functioning of a banking sector or a financial system. Methodology/methods: Our research was conducted by ways of analysing literature on using bail-in in the banking sector during an ordered bank restructuring or a winding up process. Data analysis was conducted with the use of statistical methods, including correlation analysis, followed by a comparative analysis of obtained results. The level of interdependence was determined on the basis of Pearson’s correlation analysis, and the results were verified with the use of J. Guildford’s classification of interdependence. Findings & Value added: The article presents bail-in — an instrument aiming at performing ordered restructuring or winding up of a bank in the context of capital adequacy of banks in the European Union. The text shows how quickly and strongly capital adequacy rate of banks was changing in specific EU member states between 2006 and 2016, including the variation value evaluated with regard to the division into developed and developing countries. What is more, the article also points at current directions of changes in capital structure of banks in EU member states.
G33|Risk Based Corporate Governance in Damansara Realty Berhad: A Case Study Approach|The main purpose of this analysis to study the performance of corporate governance in Damansara Realty Berhad related to the risk management in the company. It not only assumed all the financial analysis but had to make sure that the accuracy of the financial with using SSPS application to determine the relationship between one elements with another elements. Here, for the financial trending analysis, ROA are relatively relationship with leverage, total assets, average collection period, current ratio, and ROE. The regression and anova analysis showed that only one variable profitability (ROA) that gives positively relationship with remuneration (BOD), size (total assets), GDP and average collection period. At the end of the analysis, it can be seen that the effect of financial performance accordance to the corporate governance structure in the company
G33|The Influence of Corporate Governance on Changes In Risk Following The Plantation Industry: Evidence From Chin Teck Plantation Bhd|The purpose of this study sought to examine the overall performance of Chin Teck Plantation Bhd with explicit risk factors and macroeconomic factor on profitability performance. The data obtained from annual report of Chin Teck Plantation Bhd. Starting from 2011-2015. The measurement of index for corporate governance, return on asset, few risk assessment and used to see the overall performance of Chin Teck Plantation Bhd. The further measurement is the asset size, this variable has a negative and no significant relationship with return on asset. To see the relationship of risks factors to the profitability, this paper is utilizing liquidity, inflation ratio, GDP and operating ratio. Data was analyzed by utilizing regression. The regression analysis shows factor of profitability is significant to liquidity and leverage ratio which is ROA with the highest impact to the profitability. However, the liquidity and GDP is not significant to profitability with low impact to the profitability.
G33|Evaluation the Impact of Specific Risk Factors on Inventory Turnover and Macroeconomics: Evidence from KUB Malaysia Sdn Bhd|Business companies may face a number of speculative financial risks. Successful in every firms based on how they manage the financial risks that are exposures to lose or profit. This study issue to identify the liquidity, a macroeconomic phenomenon and inventory turnover in KUB Malaysia Sdn Bhd. This study was according to 5 years period from year 2011 to 2015. The data were taken from annual report that are listed in Bursa Malaysia. Liquidity ratios and inventory turnover ratio are measured by using certain formulae. We can see the significantly between quick ratio and inventory turnover in descriptive results. A higher value of quick ratio indicates a higher degree of liquidity. (Ali, 2005) found that liquidity adds to number of disappointment in Islamic banks and ordinary banks alike in spite of having admittance to outer liquidity of traditional banks. Thus, a higher value of inventory ratio indicates that inventory can be sold and replaced more frequently. The data was conducted by using regression and bivariate correlation.
G33|Firm Risk And Performance: Spritzer Berhad|This study is aiming to analyse and measure Spritzer Berhad performance with sprcific risk factors and macroeconomics factor on performance. The data obtained from annual report of Spritzer Berhad starting from year 2012 to 2016. The measurement of liquidity ratio and operating ratio used to see the overall performance of Spritzer Berhad for 5 years. Data was analysed by utilizing regression and correlation. This study found that liquidity has nearly strong relationship with performance and external factors have weak relationship with performance.
G33|The Relationship of Financial Risks Towards the Performance of Vivocom Intl Holdings Berhad|The purpose of this study is to examine the overall performance of Vivocom Intl Holdings Berhad with specific risk and corporate governance variables on profitability performance. The data obtained from annual report of Vivocom Intl Holdings Berhad starting from 2011-2015. The measurement of liquidity ratio and operating ratio used to see the overall performance of Vivocom Intl Holdings Berhad in 5 years which allegedly beyond benchmark. To see the relationship of risks factors to the profitability, this paper is utilizing liquidity (current ratio), operating ratio, corporate governance (index and BOD’s remuneration). Data was analysed by utilizing regression and bivariate correlation. The regression analysis and bivariate correlation shows that index, BOD’s remuneration, current ratio, liquidity ratio, operating ratio, and size have a significant relationship on profitability. However, the leverage, exchange rate, inflation rate, GDP and unemployment rate is not significant to profitability with low impact to the profitability.
G33|The Impact Of Corporate Environmental Performance Of Market Risk On Tropicana Corporation Berhad|The purpose of this study is to examine the overall performance of Tropicana Corporation Berhad with specific risk factors and macroeconomic factor on profitability performance. The data obtained from annual report of Tropicana Corporation Berhad is starting from year 2011 until year 2015. The measurement of liquidity ratio, operating ratio and leverage ratio is used to see the overall performance of Tropicana Corporation Berhad in 5 years which allegedly beyond benchmark. The additional measurement is the asset size, this variable has a negative and no significant relationship with liquidity risk. To see the relationship of risks factors to the profitability, this paper is utilizing liquidity (current ratio), leverage ratio and operating ratio. Data was analyzed by utilizing regression and bivariate correlation. The regression analysis and bivariate correlation shows only one factor of profitability is significant to leverage ratio which is ROA with the highest impact to the profitability. However, the liquidity and operational is not significant to profitability with low impact to the profitability.
G33|Do individual investors ignore transaction costs ?|Using close to 800,000 (2,000,000) transactions by 66,000 (303,000) households in the United States (in Finland), this paper shows that individual investors with longer holding periods choose to hold less liquid stocks in their portfolios, consistent with Amihud and Mendelson's (1986) theory of liquidity clienteles. The relationship between holding periods and transaction costs is stronger among more financially sophisticated households. Households whose holding periods are positively related to transaction costs also earn higher gross returns on their investments before accounting for transaction costs, suggesting that attention to non-salient transaction costs is an indication of investing ability. The main findings are confirmed by analyzing changes in investors'holding periods around exogenous shocks to stock liquidity.
G33|Point-in-Time PD Term Structure Models with Loan Credit Quality as a Component|Most point-in-time PD term structure models used in industry for stress testing and IFRS9 expected loss estimation apply only to macroeconomic scenarios. Loan level credit quality is not a factor in these models. In practice, credit profile at assessment time plays an important role in the performance of the loan during its lifetime. A forward-looking point-in-time PD term structure model with loan credit quality as a component is widely expected. In this paper, we propose a forward-looking point-in-time PD term structure model based on forward survival probability, extending the model proposed in [8] by including a loan specific credit quality score as a component. The model can be derived under the Merton model framework. Under this model, the forward survival probability for a forward term is driven by a loan credit quality score in addition to macroeconomic factors. Empirical results show, the inclusion of the loan specific credit score can significantly improve the performance of the model. The proposed approaches provide a tool for modeling point-in-time PD term structure in cases where loan credit profile is essential. The model can be implemented easily by using, for example, the SAS procedure PROC NLMIXED.
G33|Factors determining capital structure of Pakistani non-financial firms|This study is undertaken to discover the factors determining the capital structure decision of non-financial Pakistani firms. The capital structure irrelevance theory, trade off theory and pecking order theory stipulates different factors affecting a firm’s optimal debt/equity choice. However, the literature is still inconclusive about which factors and theories best defines the ideal capital structure mix. Thus, making it an unanswered, open empirical question, that, needs to be explored especially for sectors not previously studied. The effect of firm’s profitability, liquidity, size, tangibility and non-debt tax shield on capital structure decision of ten non-financial firms operating at Pakistan Stock Exchange is investigated for a period of ten years i-e from 2005-2014. By using fixed effects panel estimation method it is found that leverage ratio is inversely affected by profitability and current ratio of a firm. While, firm size, tangibility and non-debt tax shield positively effects leverage ratio. The influence of profitability is weakly significant whereas that of liquidity, size, tangibility and non-debt tax shield are strongly significant. The study also shows that results for profitability and liquidity are in accordance with the Pecking Order Theory and the result for size; tangibility and non-debt tax shield are in line with the Trade-Off Theory.
G33|Factors Effecting Commercial Banks Profitability in Pakistan|Due to significant contribution of commercial banks in the economic progress of Pakistan, this research has been carried out to analyse the possible effect of different relevant factors on the profitability of commercial banks in the country. Profitability is measured by return on assets (ROA). Using pooled regression analysis on yearly data collected from the annual reports for a panel of 14 commercial banks for eight years from 2007 to 2014, it was found that equity to assets, debts to assets, deposits to assets, bank size and assets management have a significant influence on the commercial banks profitability in Pakistan.
G33|Portfolio Homogenization and Systemic Risk of Financial Network|In this paper, we argue that systemic risk should be understood from two different perspectives, the homogeneity of portfolios (or called asset homogeneity) and the contagion mechanism. The homogenization of portfolios held by different financial institutions increases the positive correlations among them and therefore the probability of simultaneous collapses of a considerable part of the network, which are prerequisites and amplifiers of contagion. We first theoretically analyze the influence of asset homogeneity on the initial risk, fragility and systemic risk of the network. Based on the theoretical predictions, we perform simulations on regular networks and Poisson random networks to illustrate the effects of portfolio homogeneity on systemic risk. It is shown that the relationship between asset homogeneity and systemic risk is not always positively related. When the network contagion is weak, then a high asset homogeneity will lead to a high systemic risk. However, if the network contagion is considerably strong, the systemic risk is quite likely to be negative related to the asset homogeneity, so that a high homogeneity will produce a low systemic risk. Moreover, networks with strong contagion and low asset homogeneity tend to have the greatest systemic risk. Results from logistic regression analysis further clarify the relationships between systemic risk and asset homogeneity.
G33|Neglect Private Debt at the Economy’s Peril: Applying Balance Sheet Recession Analysis to the Post Bail-in Cyprus Economy|The authors discuss the role of private debt in financial crises and attempt to apply the debt deflation logic to the data and facts surrounding the post bail-in years in Cyprus. It is found that the financial crisis in Cyprus was indeed predictable and that a key problem facing the country remains that of avoiding a balance sheet recession which threatens to impede sustainable economic growth. Another interesting finding is that for the three years after the bail-in Cyprus households have been living off their savings rather than making the required additional savings to reduce their debt and restore balance sheet positions. With greater forced or needed savings and the resultant contraction of aggregate demand a downward spiral of debt/deflation can inevitably be expected to set in along lines expounded most notably by Richard Koo. In addition policy recommendations aimed at countering the onset of a balance sheet recession are advanced.
G33|Private debt is the problem: Why the economic recovery of Cyprus remains an elusive and distant dream|Cyprus suffers from a developing acute case of Balance Sheet Recession. This means that because of the excessive and quite unprecedented levels of private debt (3 to 4 times the size of the country’s GDP) weighing on households and corporations, it is practically impossible for the country to overcome the recessionary effects of the austerity conditions that were imposed since the bail-in in 2013 and which still constitute the core of the Government policy. The article concludes that therefore the government should stand ready to have in place the institutions and provide for such fiscal measures which will mitigate and cushion the deflationary effects of the coming, but very foreseeable, recession.
G33|Private debt is the problem: Why the economic recovery of Cyprus remains an elusive and distant dream|Cyprus suffers from a developing acute case of Balance Sheet Recession. This means that because of the excessive and quite unprecedented levels of private debt (3 to 4 times the size of the country’s GDP) weighing on households and corporations, it is practically impossible for the country to overcome the recessionary effects of the austerity conditions that were imposed since the bail-in in 2013 and which still constitute the core of the Government policy. The article concludes that therefore the government should stand ready to have in place the institutions and provide for such fiscal measures which will mitigate and cushion the deflationary effects of the coming, but very foreseeable, recession.
G33|Equilibrium theory of banks’ capital structure|We study an environment where the capital structure of banks and firms are jointly determined in equilibrium, so as to balance the benefits of the provision of liquidity services by bank deposits with the costs of bankruptcy. The risk in the assets held by firms and banks is determined by the technology choices by firms and the portfolio diversification choices by banks. We show competitive equilibria are efficient and the equilibrium level of leverage in banks and firms depend on the nature of the shocks affecting firm productivities. When these shocks are co-monotonic, banks optimally choose a zero level of equity. Thus all equity should be in firms, where it does “double duty” protecting both firms and banks from default. On the other hand, if productivity shocks have an idiosyncratic component, portfolio diversification by banks may be a more effective buffer against these shocks and, in these cases, it may be optimal for banks, as well as firms, to issue equity.
G33|On the Role of Menus in Sequential Contracting: a Multiple Lending Example|We study a capital market in which multiple lenders sequentially attempt at financing a single borrower under moral hazard. We show that restricting lenders to post take-it-or-leave-it offers involves a severe loss of generality: none of the equilibrium outcomes arising in this scenario survives if lenders offer menus of contracts. This result challenges the approach followed in standard models of multiple lending. From a theoretical perspective, we offer new insights on equilibrium robustness in sequential common agency games.
G33|Early Warning Modeling For Financial Failure: Borsa Istanbul Case|This study aims at financial failure prediction. The data consist of financial ratios and bankrupt information of the randomly selected 39 real sector companies listed in Borsa ?stanbul over the period 2012 to 2014 and 15 real sector companies for the following year, i.e. 2015. As real-life bankruptcy is rarely observed for publicly traded companies, a proxy is used for failure behavior. The proxy used is ?being transferred to Watchlist Companies Market of Borsa ?stanbul (BIST)?. Multiple discriminant analysis (MDA) was used in analyzing data. To validate identification ability of the MDA model, 4 scenarios are created. To assess the prediction ability of the MDA model, z-scores of the companies are calculated for the year 2015. The discriminant function achieved a 100% classification success for the model data and 73.3% for the forthcoming year failure behavior prediction.
G33|A tale of fire-sales and liquidity hoarding|We extend the analysis of the interbank market model of Gale and Yorulmazer (2013) by introducing randomized trading (lotteries). In contrast to Gale and Yorulmazer, we find that fire-sale asset prices are efficient and that no liquidity hoarding occurs in equilibrium. While Gale and Yorulmazer find that the market provides insufficient liquidity, we find that it provides too much liquidity. We also show how to decentralize the efficient lottery mechanism.
G33|Entrepreneurs, legal institutions and firm dynamics|Abstract This paper assesses the impact of legal institutions on firm dynamics in a model where entrepreneurs have heterogeneous risk aversion, credit constraints and may default. Entrepreneurs choose firm size, capital structure, consumption, default and whether to incorporate. We find that less risk-averse entrepreneurs tend to incorporate while more risk-averse entrepreneurs do not; this occurs because leaving some personal assets exposed by not incorporating allows more risk-averse borrowers to credibly commit to lower default rates. We show that incorporation is determined by two effects: the standard effect that bankruptcy insures low firm returns and a new “scale effect”—more risk-averse entrepreneurs run smaller firms and default more often. The more risk-averse choose to leave some personal assets unshielded in bankruptcy due to a commitment problem that dominates the value of insurance. The less risk-averse run larger firms, default less and incorporate.
G33|Estimation risk and auditor conservatism|Abstract Estimation risk occurs when individuals form beliefs about parameters that are unknown. We examine how auditors respond to the estimation risk that arises when they form beliefs about the likelihood of client bankruptcy. We argue that auditors are likely to become more conservative when facing higher estimation risk because they are risk-averse. We find that estimation risk is of first-order importance in explaining auditor behavior. In particular, auditors are more likely to issue going-concern opinions, are more likely to resign, and charge higher audit fees when the standard errors surrounding the point estimates of bankruptcy are larger. To our knowledge, this is the first study to quantify estimation risk using the variance-covariance matrix of coefficient estimates taken from a statistical prediction model.
G33|A dynamic theory of mutual fund runs and liquidity management|I model an open-end mutual fund investing in illiquid assets and show that the fund’s endogenous cash management can generate shareholder runs even with a flexible NAV. The fund optimally re-builds its cash buffers at time t + 1 after outflows at t to prevent future forced sales of illiquid assets. However, cash rebuilding at t + 1 implies predictable voluntary sales of illiquid assets, generating a predictable decline in NAV. This generates a first-mover advantage, leading to runs. A time-inconsistency problem aggravates runs: the fund may want to pre-commit not to re-build cash buffers but cannot credibly do so absent a commitment device. JEL Classification: G01, G21, G23, G32, G33, D92
G33|Contracting Sequentially with Multiple Lenders: the Role of Menus|We study a capital market in which multiple lenders sequentially attempt at financing a single borrower under moral hazard. We show that restricting lenders to post take-it-or-leave-it offers involves a severe loss of generality: none of the equilibrium outcomes arising in this scenario survives if lenders offer menus of contracts. This result challenges the approach followed in standard models of multiple lending. From a theoretical perspective, we offer new insights on equilibrium robustness in sequential common agency games.
G33|Schumpeterian Banks: Credit Reallocation and Capital Requirements|Capital reallocation from unprofitable to profitable firms is a key source of productivity gain in an innovative economy. We present a model of credit reallocation and focus on the role of banks: Weakly capitalized banks hesitate to write off non-performing loans to avoid a violation of regulatory requirements. This results in insufficient credit reallocation across sectors and a distorted capital allocation. Reducing the cost of equity and tightening capital requirements can mitigate distortions.
G33|Do Individual Investors Ignore Transaction Costs?|Using close to 800,000 (2,000,000) transactions by 66,000 (303,000) households in the United States (in Finland), we show that individual investors with longer holding periods choose to hold less liquid stocks in their portfolios, consistent with Amihud and Mendelson’s (1986) theory of liquidity clienteles. The relationship between holding periods and transaction costs is stronger amongst more financially sophisticated households. Households whose holding periods are positively related to transaction costs also earn higher gross returns on their investments before accounting for transaction costs, suggesting that attention to non-salient transaction costs is an indication of investing ability. We confirm our findings by analyzing changes to investors’ holding periods around exogenous shocks to stock liquidity.
G33|Die Beziehungen der Norddeutschen Wollkämmerei und Kammgarnspinnerei zu den Banken|The Relationship of the Norddeutsche Wollkämmerei und Kammgarnspinnerei (Nordwolle Group) with the Banks: Research into the relationship between banking and industry has long held the view that banks had dominated their clientele from industry, trade and retailing and they had established a position of power that was almost impossible to reign in. More recent studies question this assessment and deliver impressive evidence that the relationship between industry and banks was often characterized by information asymmetries. For example, major companies often withheld information about their earnings performance during credit negotiations so that the banks had to make large risk provisions which reduced their profitability. This was also true for the Nordwolle textile group, which had financed the expansion of its business during the Weimar Republic primarily from outside capital, first and foremost using loans from various banks. In obtaining these loans, the Group's management succeeded repeatedly in playing competing banks against one another. Even major banks such as Danat-Bank, Berliner Handelsgesellschaft, and probably Dresdner Bank as well, placed major bets on getting Nordwolle to commit itself as a client. As long as the banks could be talked into believing that company was profitable and continually expanding, the banks were ready to grant new loans. Not until the spring of 1931, after indications about the Group's actual situation had made the rounds did the banks push through extensive audits of the company's financial statements. That the efforts to rescue Nordwolle ultimately remained fruitless was not least a result of the new-found caution in awarding additional loans.
G33|Shareholder bargaining power and the emergence of empty creditors|Credit default swaps (CDSs) can create empty creditors who potentially force borrowers into inefficient bankruptcy but also reduce shareholders' incentives to default strategically. We show theoretically and empirically that the presence and the effects of empty creditors on firm outcomes depend on the distribution of bargaining power among claimholders. Firms are more likely to have empty creditors if these would face powerful shareholders in debt renegotiation. The empirical evidence confirms that more CDS insurance is written on firms with strong shareholders and that CDSs increase the bankruptcy risk of these same firms. The ensuing effect on firm value is negative.
G33|Rent-seeking in elite networks|We employ a unique dataset on members of an elite service club in Germany to investigate how social connections in elite networks affect the allocation of resources. Specifically, we investigate credit allocation decisions of banks to firms inside the network. Using a quasi-experimental research design, we document misallocation of bank credit inside the network, with bankers with weakly aligned incentives engaging most actively in crony lending. Our findings, thus, resonate with existing theories of elite networks as rent extractive coalitions that stifle economic prosperity.
G33|Schumpeterian Banks: Credit Reallocation and Capital Requirements|Capital reallocation from unprofitable to profitable firms is a key source of productivity gain in an innovative economy. We present a model of credit reallocation and focus on the role of banks: Weakly capitalized banks hesitate to write off non-performing loans to avoid a violation of regulatory requirements or even insolvency. Such behavior blocks credit to expanding industries and results in insufficient credit reallocation across sectors and a distorted capital allocation. Reducing the cost of bank equity, tightening capital requirements, and improving insolvency laws relaxes constraints and mitigates distortions.
G33|Regional Quality and Impaired Firms: Evidence from Italy|We analyze how regional quality affects firm’s efficiency by identifying the impaired firms receiving financial assistance as those paying an implicit interest rate lower than the prime rate. Then, we decompose them into: real impaired firms unable to repay their loans, and those not repaying their debts even if financially they could. The regions with a high share of loans and crime exhibit a higher concentration of distressed firms, and crime increases the performance of existing companies.
G33|Bankruptcy and the difficulty of firing|Firms may use layoffs as an ex ante mechanism to avoid filing for bankruptcy. However, the national labor law may impose some restrictions that delay or hamper the firing decision of the employer. This study proposes a different legal pathway for policymakers whose goal is to reduce the use of bankruptcy without acting on the design of the bankruptcy law. Using a sample of 33 countries from 2007 to 2015, we show that the total amount of firing restrictions leads to more bankruptcies. The employer's legal obligation to notify a third party prior the dismissal of one employee tends to increase the number of bankruptcies. It is very likely that the employer's rescue strategy endures an intense ex post monitoring of the employment contracts and/or a strong legal opposition to the layoff decision from such third party. In addition, labor codes that apply priority rules in case of reemployment can increase the use of bankruptcy.
G33|The Time Dimension of the Links Between Loss Given Default and the Macroeconomy|Most studies focusing on the determinants of loss given default (LGD) have largely ignored possible lagged effects of the macroeconomy on LGD. We fill this gap by employing a wide set of macroeconomic covariates on a retail portfolio that represents 15% of the Czech consumer credit market over the period 2002–2012. We find an important time dimension to the links between LGD and the aggregate economy in the Czech Republic. The model that allows exclusively for contemporaneous effects includes a number of significant macroeconomic variables, some of which have non-intuitive signs. Nonetheless, a more general time structure of the LGD model makes current macroeconomic variables largely irrelevant and highlights the importance of delayed responses of LGD to the macroeconomic environment.
G33|Corporate Deleveraging and Financial Flexibility|Most firms deleverage from their historical peak market-leverage (ML) ratios to near-zero ML, while also markedly increasing cash balances to high levels. Among 4,476 nonfinancial firms with five or more years of post-peak data, median ML is 0.543 at the peak and 0.026 at the later trough, with a six-year median time from peak to trough and with debt repayment and earnings retention accounting for 93.7% of the median peak-to-trough decline in ML. The findings support theories in which firms deleverage to restore ample financial flexibility and are difficult to reconcile with most firms having materially positive leverage targets.
G33|Optimal Corporate Taxation under Financial Frictions|We study the optimal design of corporate taxation when firms are subject to financial constraints. We find that corporate taxes should be levied on unconstrained firms, since those firms value resources inside the firm less than financially constrained firms. When the government has complete information about which firms are and are not constrained, this principle is sufficient to characterize optimal corporate tax policy. When the government (and other outsiders) do not know which firms are and are not constrained, the government can use the payout policies of firms to elicit whether or not the firm is constrained, and assess taxes accordingly. Using this insight, we discuss conditions under which a tax on dividends paid is the optimal corporate tax. We then extend this result to a dynamic setting, showing that, if the government lacks commitment, the optimal sequence of tax mechanisms can be implemented with a dividend tax. With commitment, we reach a very different conclusion--a lump sum tax on firm entry is optimal. We argue that these two models demonstrate an underlying principle, that optimal corporate taxes should avoid exacerbating financial frictions, and demonstrate that the structure of the financial frictions can drastically change the optimal policy.
G33|Effects of customer financial distress on supplier capital structure|We study how financial distress of a significant customer impacts capital structure of suppliers. Using a sample of U.S. firms that filed for Chapter 11 between 1980 and 2013, we find that the suppliers of these firms increase their leverage ratio over the two years prior to the filing date. This change is economically significant and consistent with the bargaining power theory, which states that an increase in suppliers' debt decreases the surplus available for negotiations. Therefore, suppliers increase their financing leverage to fortify their bargaining power with significant, distressed customers. We also find evidence that suppliers reduce their leverage after the customer reorganizes its liabilities and capital structure in the Chapter 11 process, indicating a return to a previous status quo.
G33|Governmental and independent venture capital investments in Europe: A firm-level performance analysis|This paper examines the impact of government versus private independent venture capital (VC) backing on the exit performance of entrepreneurial firms. Our analyses are based on the VICO dataset, which avoids the coding problems of VC type in the Thompson Financial SDC dataset. The data indicate that private independent VC-backed companies have better exit performance than government-backed companies. Mixed-syndicates of private-independent and governmental VC investors give rise to a higher (but not statistically different) likelihood of positive exits than that of IVC-backing. Our findings are not influenced by the composition of the syndicate in terms of size and institutional heterogeneity. Our results remain stable after controlling for endogeneity concerns, selection bias, omitted variable bias, legal and institutional differences across countries and over time through several econometric techniques. Moreover, our results are not driven by: i) the holding period of the different types of VC investors; ii) the potential signaling effect of GVC towards IVC investors; iii) the firm's financial structure and net cash-flow ratio; iv) the investment stage; and v) the distance between the VC investor and the target company.
G33|Financial distress and customer-supplier relationships|Using a customer-supplier matched sample from 1980 to 2014, I study the role of customer-supplier relationships on suppliers' financial distress. If a significant amount of a supplier's sales is tied to a major customer, the supplier's financial health is influenced by the major customer's financial conditions. I find that a supplier's probability of financial distress is positively related to its major customer's financial distress status. This relation persists up to two years after a major customer is in financial distress. Further, I show that the relationship is more pronounced when customer-supplier relationships are stronger, when a major customer is more likely to fail in the future, and when the supplier makes unique products. The results highlight the importance of understanding customer-supplier relationships when analyzing a firm's probability of financial distress.
G33|Do financial constraints matter when firms engage in CSR?|Studies in corporate social responsibility find that financial performance (ROA and ROE) is associated with the corporate social performance (CSP). Margolis et al. (2007) observed that “the mechanisms connecting prior corporate financial performance (CFP) to subsequent CSP” is an important issue for further investigation. In this study, we examine whether different states of cash flow liquidity impact the extent of a firm’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities. If firms perform well in CSP, we assume they have greater cash flow liquidity as measured by the KZ index and Altman’s Z-score. We posit that firm engagement in CSR is negatively linked with financial constraint dummies, which are computed as above 20% on the KZ index, or an Altman’s Z-score below 1.81. In this study, we compute the ratio of CSR strengths to concerns for each firm, which allows us to assign a specific CSR ‘Focus’ for each sample firm. Based on data from MSCI ESG STATS ratings, all firms are divided into seven focuses: an Environment Focus (ENV), a Community (COM) Focus, an Employee (EMP) Focus, a Diversity (DIV) Focus, a Product (PRO) Focus, a Governance (CGOV) Focus and a Human Rights (HUM) Focus. Furthermore, a multiple logit regression is conducted based on these seven focuses to examine the impact of financial constraints/liquidity proxies on firms with different CSR focuses. Our results confirm a significant negative association between CSR activities and the degree of financial constraints/distress. Our finding confirms the view of Campbell (2007). For the CSR focuses, we find that in general firms facing financial constraints do not engage in any CSR activities, especially when the degree of financial constraints is assessed by the KZ index. Our findings are robust using various CSR measures and financial constraint measures, and potentially useful to market participants when making investment decisions. Our findings also provide greater understanding of the characteristics of CSR firms.
G33|Complexity and bank risk during the financial crisis|We construct a novel dataset to measure banks’ complexity and relate it to banks’ riskiness. The sample covers stock listed Euro area banks from 2007 to 2014. Bank stability is significantly affected by complexity, whereas the direction of the effect differs across complexity measures.
G33|When secured and unsecured creditors recover the same: The emblematic case of the Tunisian corporate bankruptcies|Bankruptcy is an essential screening mechanism for developing economies. This paper focuses on the way bankruptcy is managed in Tunisia, a country characterized by the importance of its banking sector. We collected data on a set of bankrupt firms (1995–2009). We address several questions. Do the Tunisian bankruptcy procedures generate substantial overall recoveries? Are the secured creditors (mostly banks) well-enough protected under bankruptcy, and do they influence the courts' decisions? To which extent the creditors compete together? The highest recoveries are found mostly under reorganization procedures. Yet, despite a high level of competition between the classes of claimholders, the secured creditors' recovery rate remains similar to one of the unsecured creditors. Last, the court's decision to liquidate/reorganize the debtor seems not influenced by the structure of claims. The likely consequences on development are twofold: higher risks of capital misallocation/credit rationing, and stronger incentives for the banks to prioritize informal workouts.
G33|Financial distress prediction: The case of French small and medium-sized firms|Financial distress prediction is a central issue in empirical finance that has drawn a lot of research interests in the literature. This paper aims to predict the financial distress of French small and medium firms using Logit model, Artificial Neural Networks, Support Vector Machine techniques, Partial Least Squares, and a hybrid model integrating Support Vector Machine with Partial Least Squares. Empirical results indicate that for one year prior to financial distress, Support Vector Machine is the best classifier with an overall accuracy of 88.57%. Meanwhile, in the case of two years prior to financial distress, the hybrid model outperforms Support Vector Machine, Logit model, Partial Least Squares, andArtificial Neural Networks with an overall accuracy of 94.28%. Distressed firms are found to be smaller, more leveraged and with lower repayment capacity. Moreover, they have lower liquidity, profitability, and solvency ratios. Besides the academic research contribution, our findings can be useful for managers, investors, and creditors. With respect to managers, our findings provide them with early warnings signals of performance deterioration in order to take corrective actions and reduce the financial distress risk. For investors, understanding the main factors leading to financial distress allows them to avoid investing in risky firms. Creditors should correctly evaluate the firm financial situation and be vigilant to signs of impending financial distress to avoid capital loss and costs related to counterpart risk.
G33|Complete discounted cash flow valuation|This paper concerns discounted cash flow valuation of a company. When the company is in trouble, the owners have an option to provide it with a new capital; otherwise it is liquidated. In the absence of capital outflows and inflows, the company’s own funds are modelled by a spectrally negative Lévy process. Within this framework, we look for a strategy of dividend payments and capital injections which maximizes the firm’s value. We provide an optimal strategy as well as the corresponding valuation formula. Illustrative examples are given.
G33|Do bank failures still matter in affecting regional economic activity?|Using a panel dataset covering all 50 states and the District of Columbia for 1984–2014, this study examines the consequences of commercial bank failures on the regional economy. Employing both single-equation panel estimations as well as panel VAR models, I find credit crunch and bank-business relationship channels to be operative at the state-level. Although the deleterious effect of bank failures is found on different measures of regional economic activity including industry-specific labor and goods markets, it is most pronounced on construction-sector employment and GDP growth rates. The findings imply when credit flows are disrupted, potential borrowers like construction companies and building contractors may not be able to secure funds to undertake investment activities, leading to a decline in employment and output growth. The results call for constant monitoring of banks by banking regulatory authorities and identifying early warning signals of bank failures to mitigate their potential real sector losses.
G33|Debt enforcement, investment, and risk taking across countries|We argue that the prospect of an imperfect enforcement of debt contracts in default reduces shareholder–debtholder conflicts and induces leveraged firms to invest more and take on less risk as they approach financial distress. To test these predictions, we use a large panel of firms in 41 countries with heterogeneous debt enforcement characteristics. Consistent with our model, we find that the relation between debt enforcement and firms’ investment and risk depends on the firm-specific probability of default. A differences-in-differences analysis of firms’ investment and risk taking in response to bankruptcy reforms that make debt more renegotiable confirms the cross-country evidence.
G33|Underfunding or distress? An analysis of corporate pension underfunding and the cross-section of expected stock returns|The pension underfunding anomaly (Franzoni & Marín, 2006) is mainly concentrated in financially distressed sponsors. The predictability of pension underfunding levels on the cross-sectional stock returns disappears after considering sponsor financial distress. It exists when underfunding is primarily due to poor operating performance and during the initial five years of underfunding; it diminishes when underfunding is due to bad pension investment returns and when firms underfund for more than five years. The potential financial distress inherent in the most underfunded firms and the prospect of intervention by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation make the arbitrage opportunity not entirely risk free.
G33|Optimal capital structure with moral hazard|This paper extends the classic optimal capital structure model to the case of moral hazard based on the principal-agent problem, where the firm's output dynamically depends on the agent's efforts. We derive closed-form results for the value of risky debt, credit spread, default threshold, and for optimal capital structure with moral hazard. The numerical results indicate that the firm issues more debt with higher coupon ex ante and defaults earlier ex post than without manager moral hazard. The different initial values of firms' cash flow induce different risk preferences of the manager to his value and consequently the manager acts in the opposite approaches especially when the firm is on the verge of bankruptcy. The paper also consider the occasions in which hiring a manager is optimal for the principal.
G33|The effects of revenue diversification and cross border banking on risk and return of banks in Africa|The paper analyses the implications of revenue diversification and cross-border banking for risk and return. We sample 320 banks across 29 African countries and employ System GMM estimator as a methodological approach to shed further light on the diversification-stability nexus by examining the complex interaction between three key variables: cross-border banking, diversification and bank stability. The results suggest that exploration risk reduces diversification as the level of capital increases when banks cross border to diversify across revenue generating activities. Our analyses further show that, banks in Africa derive absolute benefits from diversification if they cross border and diversify their revenue base concurrently. These results are robust to a range of controls including alternative variable specifications, regulatory environment that bank operate and methodology.
G33|Can Italy grow out of its NPL overhang? A panel threshold analysis|This paper examines whether a tipping point exists for real GDP growth in Italy above which the ratio of non-performing loans (NPLs) to total loans falls significantly. Estimating a heterogeneous dynamic panel–threshold model with data on 17 Italian regions over the period 1997–2014, we find that growth above 1.2%, if sustained for a number of years, is associated with a significant decline in the NPL ratio.
G33|Resaleable debt and systemic risk|Many debt claims, such as bonds, are resaleable, whereas others, such as repos, are not. There was a fivefold increase in repo borrowing before the 2008 crisis. Why? Did banks’ dependence on non-resaleable debt precipitate the crisis? In this paper, we develop a model of bank lending with credit frictions. The key feature of the model is that debt claims are heterogeneous in their resaleability. We find that decreasing credit market frictions leads to an increase in borrowing via non-resaleable debt. Borrowing via non-resaleable debt has a dark side: it causes credit chains to form, since if a bank makes a loan via non-resaleable debt and needs liquidity, it cannot sell the loan but must borrow via a new contract. These credit chains are a source of systemic risk, since one bank’s default harms not only its creditors but also its creditors’ creditors. Overall, our model suggests that reducing credit market frictions may have an adverse effect on the financial system and may even lead to the failures of financial institutions.
G33|Are international accounting standards more credit relevant than domestic standards?|We examine whether the credit relevance of financial statements, defined as the ability of accounting numbers to explain credit ratings, is higher after firms are required to report under International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). We find an improvement in credit relevance for firms in 17 countries after mandatory IFRS reporting is introduced in 2005; this increase is higher than that reported for a matched sample of US firms. The increase in credit relevance is particularly pronounced for higher risk speculative-grade issuers, where accounting information is predicted to be more important; and for IFRS adopters with large first-time reconciliations, where the impact of IFRS is expected to be greater. These tests provide reassurance that the overall enhancement in estimated credit relevance is driven by accounting changes related to IFRS adoption. Our results suggest that credit rating analysts’ views of economic fundamentals are more closely aligned with IFRS numbers, and that analysts anticipate at least some of the effects of the IFRS transition.
G33|Fiscal unions redux|Abstract Before the advent of sophisticated international financial markets, a widely accepted belief was that within a monetary union, a union-wide authority orchestrating fiscal transfers between countries is necessary to provide adequate insurance against country-specific economic fluctuations. A natural question is then: Do sophisticated international financial markets obviate the need for such an active union-wide authority? We argue that they do. Specifically, we show that in a benchmark economy with no international financial markets, an activist union-wide authority is necessary to achieve desirable outcomes. With sophisticated international financial markets, however, such an authority is unnecessary if its only goal is to provide cross-country insurance. Since restricting the set of policy instruments available to member countries does not create a fiscal externality across them, this result holds in a wide variety of settings. Finally, we establish that an activist union-wide authority concerned just with providing insurance to member countries is optimal only when individual countries are either unable or unwilling to pursue desirable policies.
G33|Equilibrium Theory of Banks' Capital Structure|We study an environment where the capital structure of banks and firms are jointly determined in equilibrium, so as to balance the benefits of the provision of liquidity services by bank deposits with the costs of bankruptcy. The risk in the assets held by firms and banks is determined by the technology choices by firms and the portfolio diversification choices by banks. We show competitive equilibria are efficient and the equilibrium level of leverage in banks and firms depend on the nature of the shocks affecting firm productivities. When these shocks are co-monotonic, banks optimally choose a zero level of equity. Thus all equity should be in firms, where it does “double duty,” protecting both firms and banks from default. On the other hand, if productivity shocks have an idiosyncratic component, portfolio diversification by banks may be a more effective buffer against these shocks and, in these cases, it may be optimal for banks, as well as firms, to issue equity.
G33|The time dimension of the links between loss given default and the macroeconomy|Most studies focusing on the determinants of loss given default (LGD) have largely ignored possible lagged effects of the macroeconomy on LGD. We fill this gap by employing a wide set of macroeconomic covariates on a retail portfolio that represents 15% of the Czech consumer credit market over the period 2002 JEL Classification: C02, G13, G33
G33|Safe Collateral, Arm's-Length Credit : Evidence from the Commercial Real Estate Mortgage Market|When collateral is safe, there are less opportunities for things to go wrong. We examine matching between collateral and creditors in the commercial real estate mortgage market by comparing loans in commercial mortgage backed securities (CMBS) conduits and bank portfolios. We model CMBS financing as lower cost but less informed, such that only safe collateral is funded by CMBS. This prediction is tested using the 2007-2009 shutdown of the CMBS market as a natural experiment. The loans funded by banks that would have been securitized are less likely to default or be renegotiated, indicating that the securitization channel, when available, funds safe collateral.
G33|A Macroeconomic Model with Financial Panics|This paper incorporates banks and banking panics within a conventional macroeconomic framework to analyze the dynamics of a financial crisis of the kind recently experienced. We are particularly interested in characterizing the sudden and discrete nature of the banking panics as well as the circumstances that makes an economy vulnerable to such panics in some instances but not in others. Having a conventional macroeconomic model allows us to study the channels by which the crisis affects real activity and the effects of policies in containing crises.
G33|Reorganization or Liquidation: Bankruptcy Choice and Firm Dynamics|In this paper, we ask how bankruptcy law affects the financial decisions of corporations and its implications for firm dynamics. According to current U.S. law, firms have two bankruptcy options: Chapter 7 liquidation and Chapter 11 reorganization. Using Compustat data, we first document capital structure and investment decisions of non-bankrupt, Chapter 11, and Chapter 7 firms. Using those data moments, we then estimate parameters of a firm dynamics model with endogenous entry and exit to include both bankruptcy options in a general equilibrium environment. Finally, we evaluate a bankruptcy policy change recommended by the American Bankruptcy Institute that amounts to a “fresh start” for bankrupt firms. We find that changes to the law can have sizable consequences for borrowing costs and capital structure which via selection affects productivity (allocative efficiency rises by 2.58%) and welfare (rises by 0.54%).
G33|Endogenous/Exogenous Segmentation In The A-Irb Framework And The Pro-Cyclicality Of Capital: An Application To Mortgage Portfolios|This paper investigates the pro-cyclicality of capital in the advanced internal ratings-based (A-IRB) Basel approach for retail portfolios and identifies the fundamental assumptions required for stable A-IRB risk weights over the economic cycle. Specifically, it distinguishes between endogenous and exogenous segmentation risk drivers and, through application to a portfolio of first mortgages, shows that risk weights remain stable over the economic cycle when the segmentation scheme is derived using exogenous risk drivers, while segmentation schemes that include endogenous risk drivers are highly pro cyclical. Also analyzed is the sensitivity of the A-IRB framework to model risk resulting from the selection, at the quantification stage, of a data sample period that does not include a period of significant economic downturn. The analysis illustrates important limitations and sensitivities of the A IRB framework and sheds light on the implicit restrictions embedded in recent regulatory guidance that underscore the importance of rating systems that remain stable over time and throughout business cycles.
G33|Financial Markets and Financial Institutions in Russia in 2016|In 2016, Russia's stock market, in terms of its rates of return, set a world record among all the other stock markets. Over that year, the RTS Index gained 52.3%, and the MICEX Index –26.8% (Fig. 1). The faster growth rate of the RTS Index, which reflects the price of shares in US dollar terms, can be explained by the ruble's strengthening in 2016. The other forces behind the growth of the Russian stock indexes were the rising oil prices, the inflow of non-residents' money in response to the strengthening ruble and the stably high key interest rate, and investor expectations of recovery economic growth.
G33|Corporate control market: stages, specific features, regulation|Russia’s market for mergers and acquisitions came into being in the early 1990s when mass privatization of state-owned property gained momentum. More specifically, it was not until after the Russian financial crisis of 1998 that mergers and friendly takeovers took place in Russia. Up until then there were ‘acquisitions through privatization’ that can be regarded as a primary manifestation of the initial stage of building a market for corporate control (from 1992 till the onset of the financial crisis of 1998). Reorganization proceeded privatization in 1/3 of cases, was coupled with privatization in 1/3 of cases and followed privatization in 1/3 of cases. Also, the practice of consolidating Russian assets through both M&A and outsider shareholding was adopted in the mid-1990s. In 1998, the equity of about 40% of surveyed enterprises was partially held by outside corporate shareholders, and more than 13% of those enterprises were integrated with suppliers or consumers.
G33|The Assessment of Client Creditworthiness Using Predictive Methods Based on Multivariate Discriminant Analysis|"""Objective – Trade credit is the most important source of external finance for many companies. It appears on every balance sheet and represents more than 50 percent of company’s short-term liabilities and a third of all company’s total liabilities in OECD countries. Late payment of invoices may suffer firm’s solvency. The European economies are now putting the years of financial turmoil and debt crisis behind them and several macro-economic indicators are pointing towards a brighter future. The aim of this paper is to assess creditworthiness of companies. Methodology/Technique – Assessment of client creditworthiness carried out using predictive methods based on multivariate discriminant analysis Findings – The situation in the enterprise can be characterized as stable. An enterprise that chooses this client to provide it a trade credit should also consider supplementing the predictive models by complex financial and economic analysis and review of available. If the firm provides trade credit to more clients, it is necessary to consider that the terms of trade credits may not be the same for everyone but also it is not in the power of company to approach to each client individually. Novelty – The study suggests that client groups can be created by using cluster analysis. Thus, the company may increase efficiency in the provision of trade credit."""
G33|The impact of state aid on the survival and financial viability of aided firms|We estimate the causal impact of restructuring aid granted by the European Commission between 2000 and 2012 on the survival and financial viability of aided firms. Using a comprehensive dataset we find that restructuring aid decreases the hazard rate of a market exit by 58–68% and increases firms’ average survival time by 8–15 years, depending on the definition of firm survival. We also find that aid receiving firms have a significantly higher probability to improve their financial viability than the counterfactual group in the longer run.
G33|Political influence, firm performance and survival|We examine how regional-level political influence affects firm financial performance and survival. Combining representative survey data on mid-sized manufacturing firms in Russia with official registry data, we find that politically influential firms exhibit higher profitability and retain larger financial investments than non-influential firms. At the same time, we find no association between regional political influence and access to bank lending. Most importantly, our empirical analysis suggests that the benefits of influence may be transient. Influential firms experienced significantly lower growth during our 2004–2010 sample period than non-influential firms. Moreover, influential firms had a significantly higher probability of going bankrupt after the 2008 global financial crisis than non-influential firms.
G33|Firm survival in new EU member states|We analyze firm survival determinants in four new European Union member states (the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, and Slovakia). We employ the Cox proportional hazards model on firm-level data for the period of 2006 to 2015. We show that in all four countries, less concentrated control of large shareholders, higher solvency, and more board directors are linked with the increased probability of firm survival. However, an excessive number of board directors has a detrimental effect. Firms with foreign owners and higher returns on their assets exhibit better survival chances. Conversely, across countries and industries, larger firms and those hiring international auditors have lower probabilities of survival. A number of specific determinants influence firm survival in different ways, emphasizing the importance of country and industry differences when studying firm survival. We also document that in an economic sense, determinants associated with the legal form, ownership structure and corporate governance show the most beneficial effects with respect to firm survival.
G33|Measuring the Systemic Risk in Interfirm Transaction Networks|Using a unique and massive data set that contains information on interfirm transaction relationships, we examine default propagation along the trade credit channel and for the first time provide direct and systematic evidence of its existence and relevance. Not only do we implement simulations in order to detect prospective defaulters, we also estimate the probabilities of actual firm bankruptcies and compare the predicted defaults and actual defaults. We find, first, that an economically sizable number of firms are predicted to fail when their customers default on their trade debt. Second, these prospective defaulters are indeed more likely to go bankrupt than other firms. Third, a certain type of firm-bank relationships, in which a bank extends loans to many of the firms in the same supply chain, significantly reduces firms' bankruptcy probability, providing evidence for the existence and relevance of ”deep pockets” as documented in Kiyotaki and Moore (1997).
G33|Bankruptcy Choice with Endogenous Financial Constraints|In this paper we study firm dynamics and industry equilibrium when firms under financial distress face a non-trivial choice between alternative bankruptcy procedures. Given limited commitment and asymmetric information, financial contracts specify default, renegotiation and reorganization policies. Renegotiation entails a redistribution of social surplus, while reorganization takes the form of enhanced creditor monitoring. Firms with better contract histories are less likely to default, but, contingent on default, firms with better outside options successfully renegotiate, in line with the empirical evidence. Unless monitoring is too costly, renegotiation leads to reorganization, which resembles actual bankruptcy practice. We calibrate the model to match certain aspects of the data on bankruptcy and firm dynamics in the U.S.. Our counterfactual experiments suggest that poorly designed bankruptcy arrangements can increase substantially the fraction of firms facing financial constraints, with sizable negative implications for aggregate output and TFP. (Copyright: Elsevier)
G33|Voluntary Bankruptcy as Preemptive Persuasion|This paper examines the phenomenon of management-initiated, court-supervised reorganization of companies in U.S. bankruptcy court. The proposed in-court persuasion mechanism reconciles excessive reorganizations of non-viable companies (and subsequent repeat failures) with management-initiated filings and a judge who aims to always take appropriate action. In the model, management makes a preemptive voluntary filing to retain control of the process, and thereby engage in a game of Bayesian Persuasion with asymmetric information vis-à-vis the judge. This mechanism endogenously results in the reorganization of some non-viable companies, and exclusively management-initiated (i.e., voluntary) bankruptcy filings. This paper, therefore, explains why non-viable companies could be permitted to reorganize and why there are repeat offender firms that enter bankruptcy multiple times.
G33|Banking Crises and the Japanese Legal Framework|This paper presents an overview of the Japanese system to deal with the distress of banks, providing a classification of the regulation and remedies based on the level of systemic risk of the troubled entity. The paper differentiates between the types of actions available and analyses in detail the instruments and their application. While the regulation is disperse and its apprehension is complicated for a foreign reader, Japan counts on a modern, thorough and adequate group of institutions and instruments to tackle bank distress. Its most notable feature is the proportionality of measures and the flexibility enjoyed by a resolution authority that may accommodate its intervention to the characteristics of the case and the degree of contagion risk. Although mainly inspired by the American model, the system is compared with the new European framework and FSB recommendations are considered. Although a few elements could be reconsidered, its high institutional level and flexibility make the Japanese system one capable of dealing with financial crises at both national and international levels.
