G34|Drivers of Productivity in the Spanish Banking Sector: Recent Evidence|Abstract We analyse the drivers of total factor productivity of Spanish banks from early 2000, including the last financial crisis and the post-crisis period. This allows us to study changes in productivity following a major restructuring process in the banking sector such as the one experienced in Spain. Overall, we find that following a period of continued growth, productivity declined after the height of the crisis, though large banks were less affected. We also find that risk, capital levels, competition and input prices were important drivers of the differences in productivity change between banks. Finally, our results suggest that, by the end of our sample period, there was still some room for potential improvements in productivity via exploiting scale economies and enhancing cost efficiency. These opportunities appear to be generally greater for the smaller banks in our sample.
G34|Recession CEOs and bank risk taking|We extend the existing literature on the role of CEO personal characteristics in bank risktaking by showing that the economic conditions at the time when bank CEOs enter the labor market have a significant impact on risk-taking. Specifically, using a unique hand-collected dataset of bank CEOsâ€™ career profiles and demographic characteristics, we find that banks managed by CEOs who started their careers during recessions (i.e., recession CEOs) take less risk than their non-recession counterparts. We also show that recession CEOs are more likely to implement conservative bank policies, have a traditional bank business model, and are negatively related to bank opaqueness. Furthermore, banks with recession CEOs produce superior performance during the recent financial crisis, while they do not outperform those with non-recession CEOs in general or over the pre-crisis period. The negative effect of recession CEOs on bank risk-taking persists after we attempt to address endogeneity concerns and is robust to the introduction of additional robustness checks. Overall, these findings highlight the empirical relevance of the association between the initial labor market conditions when a bank CEO starts her career and bank risk-taking.
G34|Money laundering and bank risk: evidence from US banks|We test for a link between money laundering and bank risk in US banks. We find that money laundering increases bank risk according to several measures of risk, with the effect on risk only partly mitigated by large and independent executive boards and accentuated by powerful CEOs.
G34|Ownership Structure, Board of Directors and Firm Performance: Evidence from Taiwan| Purpose Using a dataset of listed firms domiciled in Taiwan, the main aim of this paper is empirically assess the effects of ownership structure, board of directors on firm value. Design/methodology/approach Using a sample of Taiwanese listed firms from 1997 to 2015, the study uses a panel estimation to exploit both the cross-section and time-series nature of the data. Furthermore, a 2SLS regression model is used as robustness test to mitigate the endogeneity issue. Findings Our main results show that the higher the proportion of independent directors, the smaller the board size, and together with a two-tier board system and no CEO duality, the stronger the firmâ€™s performance. With respect to ownership structure, block-holdersâ€™ ownership, institutional ownership, foreign ownership and family ownership, are all positively related to firm value. Practical implications Although the Taiwanese corporate governance reform concerning the independent director system which is mandatory only for newly-listed companies is a successful, the regulatory authority should require all listed companies to appoint independent directors to further enhance the Taiwanese corporate governance. Originality/value First, unlike much of the previous literature on western developed countries, this study examines the effects of corporate governance mechanisms on firm performance in a newly-industrialised country, Taiwan. Second, while a number of studies use a single indicator of firm performance this study examines both accounting-based and market-based firm performance. Third, this study addresses the endogeneity issue between corporate governance factors and firm performance by using two stage least squares (2SLS) estimation, and details the econometric tests for justifying the appropriateness of using 2SLS estimation
G34|Ownership structure and the cost of debt : Evidence from the Chinese corporate bond market|Drawing upon evidence from the Chinese corporate bond market, we study how ownership structure affects the cost of debt for firms. Our results show that state, institutional and foreign ownership formats reduce the cost of debt for firms. The benefits of state ownership are accentuated when the issuer is headquartered in a province with highly developed market institutions, operates in an industry less dominated by the state or during the period after the 2012 anti-corruption reforms. Institutional ownership provides the most benefits in environments with lower levels of marketization, especially for firms with low credit quality. Our evidence sheds light on the nexus of ownership and debt cost in a political economy where state and private firms face productivity and credit frictions. It is also illustrative of how the market environment interacts with corporate ownership in affecting the cost of bond issuance.
G34|Takeover, Distress, and Equity Issuance: Evidence from Korea|We study the motive and the economic effects of takeover in Korea, which has not been actively studied due to difficulties in collecting data. Using the data of largest shareholder change disclosed in the Korea Exchange's public disclosure system in 2004-2017, we estimate logit regressions of the likelihood that the firms to be a target. We also estimate panel regressions to examine the effect of takeovers on financial performances. The results show that takeovers in Korea occur in relation to financial distress, and that some companies tend to be targeted repeatedly. However, after the takeover, the financial distress is not resolved, indicating poor performance of takeovers motivated by financial distress.
G34|Shareholder Activism in Germany|Shareholder activism by hedge funds has taken hold in Germany in spite of large ownership concentration. This essay uses the example of Stada Arzneimittel AG to highlight features of activism, German style. It goes on to discuss the legal issues raised by activist campaigns at the two stages of acquiring a shareholding in the target company and, subsequently, of interacting with its management and pressuring for strategic or corporate governance changes. In light of the theory and evidence on the short-term and long-term effects of shareholder activism, the essay concludes that German and European law has rightly refrained from intervening in this most recent corporate governance development. The law lacks a reliable filter to sort desirable from undesirable forms of activism. The essay is forthcoming in Holger Fleischer, Hideki Kanda, Kon Sik Kim, and Peter O. Mülbert (eds.), German and East Asian Perspectives on Corporate and Capital Market Law: Investors versus Companies.
G34|The Impact of the 2012 NZX Listing Rule Change on Board Composition and Company Performance|We examine the impact of the December 2012 NZX listing rule change that introduced compulsory disclosure about gender diversity on NZ boards. Although criticised for its timidity, the rate of growth in female-held directorships increased significantly after the introduction of the new rule, resulting in, by 2016, average female board representation being approximately double what it had been in 2012. However, we find no relationship between this response and company performance. Across six measures of operating and financial performance, firms that responded most strongly to the listing rule change fared, on average, no better or worse than those that stuck closer to the status quo.
G34|The Intangibles Song in Takeover Announcements: Good Tempo, Hollow Tune|Mergers and acquisitions are often motivated by the intention of creating value from intangible assets. We develop a novel word list of intangibles and apply it to takeover announcements. Deals presented with more “intangibles talk” complete more quickly. However, the value of these deals to the acquirer is questionable: One standard deviation more in intangibles talk results in 0.45 percentage points lower abnormal announcement returns of bidders. Agency problems explain little of these results. Instead, payment mode choices and insider trades suggest that intangibles talk reflects managerial overoptimism. Overall, takeover announcements can provide important information regarding the quality of deals.
G34|Technological Disruptiveness and the Evolution of IPOs and Sell-Outs|We show that the recent decline in IPOs on U.S. markets is related to changes in the technological disruptiveness of startups, which we measure using textual analysis of patents from 1930 to 2010. We focus on VC-backed startups and show that those with ex-ante disruptive technologies are more likely to exit via IPO and less likely to exit via sell-out. This is consistent with IPOs being favored by firms with the potential to carve out independent market positions with strong defenses against rivals. We document an economy-wide trend of declining technological disruptiveness since World War II that accelerated since the late 1990s. This trend predicts fewer IPOs and more sell-outs, and we find that roughly 20% of the recent dearth of IPOs, and 49% of the surge in sell-outs, can be attributed to changes in firms' technological characteristics.
G34|Innovation Activities and Integration through Vertical Acquisitions|We examine the determinants of vertical acquisitions using product text linked to product vocabulary from the input-output tables. We find that the stage of innovation is important in understanding vertical integration. R\&D-intensive firms are less likely to become targets in vertical acquisitions. In contrast, firms with patented innovation are more likely to sell to vertically-related buyers. Firms' R&D intensity is a more important deterrent to their vertical acquisitions when the provision of innovation incentives by potential acquirers is more difficult. The role of patents in fostering vertical acquisitions is more prevalent when potential buyers face a higher risk of hold-up.
G34|Are U.S. Industries Becoming More Concentrated?|In the last two decades, over 75% of U.S. industries have experienced an increase in concentration levels. We find that firms in industries with the largest increases in product market concentration have enjoyed higher profit margins and more profitable M&A deals. At the same time, we do not find evidence of a significant increase in operational efficiency, which suggests that market power is becoming an important source of value. These findings are robust to the inclusion of private firms, factors that account for foreign competition, as well as to the use of alternative measures of concentration. We also show that the higher profit margins associated with an increase in concentration are reflected in higher returns to shareholders. Overall, our results suggest that the nature of U.S. product markets has undergone a shift that has potentially weakened competition across the majority of industries.
G34|Firm Ownership And Green Patents. Does Family Involvement In Business Matter?|This paper investigates how family and non-family firms differ in terms of their capability to introduce environmental innovation, which is measured by green patents. The analysis is carried out using a large patenting data set related to the inventions produced by about 4200 Italian manufacturing firms over the period 2009–2017. The results show that family firms are less likely than non-family firms to implement innovations in green technologies. Moreover, the role played by the stock of knowledge and the environmental management system certification differs across firm type.
G34|Disclosure Regulation and Corporate Acquisitions|This paper examines the effect of disclosure regulation on the market for corporate control. We study the implementation of a recent European regulation imposing tighter disclosure requirements regarding the financial and ownership information provided by public firms. We find a substantial drop in the number of control acquisitions after the implementation of the regulation, a decrease that is concentrated in countries with more dynamic takeover markets. Consistent with the idea that the disclosure requirements increased acquisition costs, we also observe that, under the new disclosure regime, target (acquirer) stock returns around the acquisition announcement are higher (lower), and toeholds are substantially smaller. Overall, our evidence suggests that tighter disclosure requirements can impose significant acquisition costs on bidders and thus slow down the market for corporate control.
G34|The Intangibles Song in Takeover Announcements: Good Tempo, Hollow Tune|"Mergers and acquisitions are often motivated by the intention of creating value from intangible assets. We develop a novel word list of intangibles and apply it to takeover announcements. Deals presented with more ""intangibles talk"" complete more quickly. However, the value of these deals to the acquirer is questionable: One standard deviation more in intangibles talk results in 0.45 percentage points lower abnormal announcement returns of bidders. Agency problems explain little of these results. Instead, payment mode choices and insider trades suggest that intangibles talk reflects managerial overoptimism. Overall, takeover announcements can provide important information regarding the quality of deals."
G34|The Politics of CEOs|CEOs of public companies have influence over the political spending of their firms, which has been attracting significant attention since the Supreme Court decision in Citizens United. Furthermore, the policy views expressed by CEOs receive substantial consideration from policymakers and the public. The political preferences of CEOs, we argue, are therefore important for a full understanding of U.S. policymaking and politics. To contribute to this understanding, we provide empirical evidence on the partisan leanings of public-company CEOs. We use Federal Election Commission (FEC) records to put together a comprehensive database of the political contributions made by over 3,500 individuals who served as CEOs of S&P 1500 companies during the period 2000-2017. We find that these political contributions display substantial partisan preferences in support of Republican candidates. We identify how this pattern is related to the company’s industry, geographical region, and CEO gender. To highlight the significance of CEO’s partisan preferences for some corporate decisions, we show that public companies led by Republican CEOs tend to be less transparent to investors with respect to their political spending. We conclude by discussing the potential policy implications of our analysis.
G34|Liquidation, bailout, and bail-in: Insolvency resolution mechanisms and bank lending|We present a dynamic, continuous-time model in which risk averse inside equityholders set a bank's lending, payout, and financing policies, and the exposure of bank assets to crashes. We study how the prevailing insolvency resolution mechanism affects these policies, the insolvency rate, loss in default, value at risk (VaR), and the net value created by the bank. VaR depends non-trivially on jump (crash) risk, diffusion risk and the horizon. We examine the commonplace assertion that bailouts encourage excessive lending and risk-taking compared to the liquidation and bail-in regimes, and explore whether bailouts could be financed by banks without taxpayers' money.
G34|Moral Hazard and the Property Rights Approach to the Theory of the Firm|In the Grossman-Hart-Moore property rights theory, there are no frictions ex post (i.e., after non-contractible investments have been sunk). In contrast, in transaction cost economics ex-post frictions play a central role. In this note, we bring the property rights theory closer to transaction cost economics by allowing for ex-post moral hazard. As a consequence, central conclusions of the Grossman-Hart-Moore theory may be overturned. In particular, even though only party A has to make an investment decision, B-ownership can yield higher investment incentives. Moreover, ownership matters even when investments are fully relationship-specific (i.e., when they have no impact on the parties' disagreement payoffs).
G34|Ownership, wealth, and risk taking: Evidence on private equity fund managers|We examine the incentive effects of private equity (PE) professionals' ownership in the funds they manage. In a simple model, we show that managers select less risky firms and use more debt financing the higher their ownership. We test these predictions for a sample of PE funds in Norway, where the professionals' private wealth is public. Consistent with the model, firm risk decreases and leverage increases with the manager's ownership in the fund, but largely only when scaled with her wealth. Moreover, the higher the ownership, the smaller is each individual investment, increasing fund diversification. Our results suggest that wealth is of first order importance when designing incentive contracts requiring PE fund managers to coinvest.
G34|Family Ownership and Antitrust Violations|We study how family ownership shapes the firms' likelihood of being involved in antitrust indictments. Using data from Italy, we show that family firms are significantly less likely than other firms to commit antitrust violations. To achieve identification, we exploit a law change that made it easier to transfer family control. Studying the mechanisms at play, we find that family firms are especially less likely to commit antitrust violations when they feature a more prominent size relative to the city where they are located, which magnifies reputational concerns. Next, we show that family firms involved in antitrust violations appoint more family members in top executive positions in the aftermath of the indictment. Moreover, these firms invest less and curb equity financing as compared to nonfamily firms. Collectively, our findings suggest that family control wards off reputational damages but, at the same time, it weakens the ability to expand in order to keep up with fiercer competition following the dismantlement of the anticompetitive practice.
G34|How general is managerial human capital? : Evidence from the Retention of Managers after M&As|This paper investigates the transferability of managerial experience by examining how managers' tenures in target firms influence their probability of retention as board members after mergers or acquisitions in Japanese firms. It develops a general equilibrium model that distinguishes several hypotheses on managerial experiences based on the coefficients of tenure on separation, given several data limitations. In particular, the paper provides a novel method to correct for selection biases by utilizing the timing of selection in a selected sample, which does not require a random sample from the population. Our results suggest that Japanese firms value both target firm-specific and general human capital after M&As and that experience as an employee increases firm-specific skills, but at the expense of the accumulation of general skills. However, experience as a board member does not have this effect.
G34|Lobbying, Regulatory Enforcement and Corporate Governance: Theory and Evidence from Regulatory Enforcement Actions against US Banks|We explore protection against enforcement as a motive for lobbying and present evidence for bank holding companies with good corporate governance but a poorly performing portfolio of subsidiaries to be more likely to lobby. A simple theoretical model of lobbying as a means for banks to communicate otherwise private information on their quality rationalizes regulators' responsiveness to lobbying, even though lobbying banks inadvertently expose themselves as violators of the regulation. Using a composite governance indicator as a proxy for a bank's quality, we take the hypotheses from the model to a panel dataset of 173 large bank holding companies and their subsidiaries. In line with the theoretical hypotheses, we find that subsidiaries of lobbying, high-governance parent companies are less likely to receive a regulatory enforcement action, but the reverse is true for poor-governance parent companies. Furthermore, banks whose parent companies have lobbied perform better (worse) after five years if the bank holding has a high (low) governance indicator. On a policy note, our paper highlights a potential benefit of the lobbying system and makes the case for carefully designed incentives and commitment powers of bank regulators in order to make the most of this benefit.
G34|The relationship between announcements of complete mergers and acquisitions and acquirers' abnormal CDS spread changes|Employing a sample of 492 merger and acquisition (M&A) announcements from 284 acquirers across North America and Europe between 2005 and 2018, this study analyzes the impact of M&A announcements on an acquirers abnormal CDS spread changes. We find that spreads from CDS which are written on acquirers increase by 310 bps during a symmetric five-day event window suggesting that investors expect an increase in the acquirers credit risk exposure due to M&As. Next to this baseline finding, we conduct a large variety of sensitivity analyses to gain more insight into the driving factors of the rising risk perception of CDS investors due to M&A announcements.
G34|Competitors In Merger Control: Shall They Be Merely Heard Or Also Listened To?|There are legal grounds to hear competitors in merger control proceedings, and competitor involvement has gained significance. To what extent this is economically sensible is our question. The competition authority applies some welfare standard while the competitor cares about its own profit. In general, but not always, this implies a conflict of interest. We formally model this setting with cheap talk signaling games, where hearing the competitor might convey valuable information to the authority, but also serve the competitor's own interests. We find that the authority will mostly have to ignore the competitor but, depending on the authority's own prior information, strictly following the competitor's selfish recommendation will improve the authority's decision. Complementary to our analysis, we provide empirical data of competitor involvement in EU merger cases and give an overview of the legal discussion in the EU and US.
G34|Takeovers, Shareholder Litigation, and the Free-riding Problem|When shareholders of a target firm expect a value improving takeover to be successful, they are individually better off not tendering their shares to the buyer and the takeover potentially fails. Squeeze-out procedures can overcome this free-riding dilemma by allowing a buyer to enforce a payout of minority shareholders and seize complete control of the target firm. However, it is often argued that shareholder protection laws and litigation restore or intensify the free-riding dilemma. Applying a game theoretic setting, we demonstrate that it is not shareholder litigation that brings back the free-riding dilemma, but rather the strategic gambling of buyers for lower prices and flaws in the design and application of squeeze-out laws. We find, for example, that lawmakers should refrain from setting separate legal thresholds for corporate control and squeeze-outs. We also analyze a favorable change in jurisdiction of the German Federal Court and provide implications for legal policy.
G34|Institutional Investor Attention and Firm Disclosure|We study how short-term changes in institutional owner attention affect managers’ short-term disclosure choices. Holding institutional ownership constant and controlling for industry-quarter effects, we find that managers respond to attention by increasing the number of forecasts and 8-K filings. Rather than alter the decision of whether to forecast or to provide more informative disclosures, attention causes minor disclosure adjustments. Although attention explains significant variation in the quantity of disclosure, we find little change in abnormal volume and volatility, the bid-ask spread, or depth. Overall, our evidence suggests that management responds to temporary institutional investor attention by making disclosures that have little effect on information quality or liquidity.
G34|Corporate Governance and Its Determinants: A Study on Wells Fargo Scandal|Despite having the perfect board, Wells Fargo was hit with a scandal in 2016 as a result from its cross-selling tactics and intense pressure to its employee to achieve impossible targets. Due to its decentralized management, fake accounts were created without customer knowledge, sometimes forging their signatures. This study aims to investigate the impact of corporate governance index in relation to bankruptcy, firm value, company performance and macroeconomics. Multiple regression analysis is applied on the sample of five years of Wells Fargo data from the year 2014 to 2018. The findings shows that corporate governance index has been influenced and affected by internal factors specifically by return on asset (ROA). Moreover, there is a moderate significant relationship between corporate governance index and unemployment rate. The analysis further explained that ROA negatively influence CGI which supports the results from Wells Fargo decentralized management that led to the crisis of the firm.
G34|Corporate Governance Index And Its Determinants In Samsung Company|The aim of this study is to examine the relationship between Corporate Governance Index and with its dependents. This Samsung Company had been chosen as the focus of our studies. Five years of data were collected from Samsung’s annual reports and websites from the year 2014 until the year 2018. The data collected is used to calculate the descriptive analysis which will be shown in the reports. Based on our studies, the dependent variables were the Corporate Governance Index. And for the independent variables, We had chosen Return on Asset (ROA), Return On Equity (ROE), Tobin’s Q, and Altman Z as the Internal factors and for the data like GDP per capita, Unemployment rate, and Exchange rate had been chosen as the external factors. The Stepwise method is used to claiming the results for the Correlations, regression results and etc to observe the most significant with the corporate governance index. Only the unemployment rate shows the most influence on the Corporate Governance Index.
G34|Tobin's Q of Honda Motor Company, Limited and its Determinants from 2013 to 2017|A firm’s market capitalization can be influenced by internal or external factors. This may be caused by and linked to corporate governance failures and the changes of macroeconomic factors. This paper attempted to investigate the internal determinants (corporate governance index, return on assets, return on equity, Altman Z) and external determinants (gross domestic product, unemployment rates and exchange rate) of Tobin’s Q and how they influence Tobin’s Q of Honda Motor Company, Limited from 2013 to 2017. The importance of corporate governance will also be delivered indirectly in this study. Ordinary Least Square analysis (OLS) was used to study the significance of independent variables towards Tobin’s Q. The findings showed that Altman Z (internal determinant) was positively significant to the Tobin’s Q ratio and influenced Tobin’s Q the most. This study also suggested the firm to focus on its corporate governance principle, which is transparency to avoid bankruptcy.
G34|Market concentration and bank M&As: Evidence from the European sovereign debt crisis|Using a sample of 312 bank M&As announced between 1998 and 2016 in the EU-27 countries, this paper investigates the impact of market concentration and the European sovereign debt crisis on the way investors react to these corporate events. In Western European countries, we find results which contrast the conventional wisdom that acquiring banks lose around the merger announcement date. In fact, since 2009, acquiring banks shareholders gain approximately $34 million around the announcement, a $56 million improvement compared to the pre-crisis period. These documented shareholder gains are also accompanied by significant improvements in post-merger profitability. Markedly, we link this superior performance of the post-2008 acquirers with the degree of market concentration in the Western European region. Finally, results for the Eastern European countries indicate that the crisis did not have a significant impact on the quality of bank M&As in the region.
G34|Do board structure and compensation matter for bank stability and bank performance? Evidence from European banks|This paper investigates the impact of bank governance on European bank performance and risk- taking. More precisely, using a sample of 75 banks from 18 European countries over the 2004-2016 period, we examine the relationship between bank governance variables namely board size, age of directors, financial experience, board independency, gender diversity, governance system and compensation on bank performance and risk-taking. Our empirical analysis shows that experienced directors increase bank performance and reduce risk-taking. Moreover, female directors have a positive impact on bank performance but the results are mixed for risk-taking. We also find that the one-tier system improves bank performance and reduces credit risk. Moreover, compensation is positively related with bank performance. The empirical findings are inconclusive regarding risk-taking. In addition, the impact of board size and age on bank performance differs, depending on the measure. We find that older members increase risk-taking. Finally, equity linked wealth leads to better bank performance but it also increases risk-taking. Our results differ according to time period and location criteria.
G34|What type of microfinance institutions comply with International Financial Reporting Standards?|What are the characteristics of microfinance institutions (MFIs) that choose to draft their financial statements according to international accounting standards? That is the question this article investigates. We study a pooled sample of 5,290 audited financial statements from 2007 to 2015 and find consistent evidence that the institutional framework, for-profit status, and maturity, are likely to drive the MFIs choice to comply with international financial reporting standards. Results are robust after controlling for whether MFIs operate in a country where IFRS are permitted or required.
G34|Failure and Success in Mergers and Acquisitions|This paper provides an overview of the academic literature on the market for corporate control, and focuses specifically on firms’ performance around and after a takeover. Despite the aggregate M&A market amounting to several trillions USD on an annual basis, acquiring firms often underperform relative to non-acquiring firms, especially in public takeovers. Although hundreds of academic studies have investigated the deal- and firm-level factors associated with M&A announcement returns, short-run returns are often not sustained in the long run. Moreover, the wide variety of performance measures and heterogeneity in sample sizes complicates the drawing of accurate and unambiguous conclusions. In this light, our survey compiles the recent literature and aims to identify the areas of research for which short-run returns predict (or fail to predict) long-run performance. We find that post-takeover deal performance is affected by key determinants including serial acquisitions, CEO overconfidence, acquirer-target relatedness and complementarity, and shareholder intervention in the form of voting or activism.
G34|CEO age and organic growth among European firms|We examine the relation between the age of CEOs and firm organic growth. In a large sample of mostly privately held European manufacturing firms with more than 10 employees, we find that firms managed by a young CEO grow faster in terms of both sales and assets. Our results are robust to the inclusion of a large vector of firm and CEO characteristics and to controls for endogeneity, survival bias and time horizon. We submit that this relation is explained by an incentive of young CEOs to boost firm growth in order both to signal their talent in the market for managers and to get a longer stream of future compensation benefits. In turn, this may create an agency problem, due to a divergence of this corporate strategy from shareholdersâ€™ targets. Consistently, we find that a concentrated ownership, allowing a more effective monitoring, moderates the negative relation between CEO age and firm organic growth.
G34|Firm Size, Corporate Debt, R&D Activity, and Agency Costs: Exploring Dynamic and Non-Linear Effects|This paper empirically investigates firm-specific determinants of agency costs, a relatively new and unexplored area in corporate finance. We estimate dynamic agency costs models, linking debt, firm size, and R&D activity to agency costs for a panel of U.S. information and communication technology (ICT) firms over 1990-2013. We adopt the Blundell and Bond (1998) two-step system GMM technique, which explicitly accounts for persistence, endogeneity, and unobservable firm heterogeneity. We provide the first evidence that our inverse proxy for agency costs, namely asset turnover (Ang, et al., 2000), exhibits an inverted U-shaped relationship with debt and a U-shaped relationship with firm size and R&D activity. These findings imply that agency costs experience a minimum value (in case of debt) and a maximum value (in case of firm size and R&D activity) and, therefore, that agency costs are higher at both low and high levels of debt, and lower at both low and high levels of firm size and R&D activity. We find that the level of debt of the average firm in the sample falls below the level that minimizes agency costs. We also document that, consistent with the agency literature, short-term debt provides an additional effective monitoring mechanism to alleviate agency costs. Our findings reveal that agency costs are dynamic in nature, mean-reverting, and persistent over time. This notion confirms the Florackis and Ozkan (2009) conjecture that managers behave as though an optimal level of agency costs exist that they pursue. Finally, we find a positive association between firm profitability and agency costs and a negative association between agency costs and firm growth. Extensive additional analysis confirms the robustness of our results.
G34|Determinants of Optimal Capital Structure and Speed of Adjustment: Evidence from the U.S. ICT Sector|We employ a dynamic adjustment model (Flannery and Rangan, 2006) to investigate the determinants of capital structure and speed of adjustment (Drobetz and Wanzenried, 2006) in a panel of 85 U.S. ICT firms over the years 1990 to 2013. We estimate the capital structure using a wide range of factors commonly used in the empirical literature (growth and investment opportunities, profitability, firm size, default risk, and industry median capital structure). We expand on this literature to include two additional determinants: asset turnover, an inverse measure of firm agency costs (Morellec, et al., 2012; Ang, Cole, and Lin, 2000), and R&D activity (Aghion, et al., 2004). We find that the speed of adjustment increases with firm size, growth opportunities, and distance from the target capital structure, and decreases with default risk and agency costs. We also find that R&D expenditures and agency costs cause firms to maintain lower levels of debt. We employ four recently developed estimators in dynamic panel-data econometrics: the double-censored fractional estimator (Elsas and Florysiak, 2011), the bias-corrected least-squares dummy-variable estimator (Bruno, 2005), the iterative bootstrap-based bias correction for the fixed-effects estimator (Everaert and Pozzi, 2007), and the fixed-effects quasi-maximum-likelihood estimator (Kripfganz, 2016; Hsiao, et al., 2002). In addition, our panel-data regression results show that in the ICT sector, the leverage ratio exhibits high persistence. Moreover, it positively relates to growth and investment opportunities, firm size, capital investment, and industry median capital structure, and negatively relates to profitability and default risk.
G34|CEO turnover and volatility under long-term employment contracts|We study the role of the contractual time horizon of CEOs for CEO turnover and corporate policies. Using hand-collected data on 3,954 fixed-term CEO contracts, we show that remaining time under contract predicts CEO turnover. When contracts are close to expiration, turnover is more likely and is more sensitive to performance. We also show a positive within-CEO relation between remaining time under contract and firm risk. Our results are similar across short and long contracts and are driven neither by firm or CEO survival, nor technological cycles. They are consistent with incentives to take long-term projects with interim volatility.
G34|Debt overhang and non-distressed debt restructuring|In this paper, we analyse the restructuring of debt in the presence of debt overhang. The firm starts out with a debt liability and an investment opportunity. Then with unrestructured debt, the firm maintains the current borrowing payments until default or investment. If the creditors allow the parties to restructure the debt with exchange offers, then the borrowing payments change as well as the default and investment points. We find that there is a unique optimal restructuring path which maintains debt at positive levels but defers default indefinitely. This path is optimal regardless of whether the debt holders or the firm control the process through superior bargaining power. Moreover, a debt-for-equity exchange to remove all existing debt takes place just before investment that is followed by the issue of an optimal amount of new debt as part of the funding for the investment cost. The optimal investment trigger is higher along the optimal restructuring path than it is for an unlevered firm. We discuss the findings in the light of existing empirical evidence
G34|Corporate Financial Distress of Industry Level Listings in an Emerging Market|Any critical analysis of the corporate financial distress of listed firms in international exchange would be incomplete without a serious dissection at the industry level because of the different levels of risks concerned. This paper considers the financial distress of listed firms at the industry level in Vietnam over the last decade. Two periods are considered, namely during the Global Financial Crisis (GFC) (2007 - 2009) and post-GFC (2010 - 2017). The logit regression technique is used to estimate alternative models based on accounting and market factors. The paper also extends the analysis to include selected macroeconomic factors that are expected to affect the corporate financial distress of listed firms at the industry level in Vietnam. The empirical findings confirm that the corporate financial distress prediction model, which includes accounting factors with macroeconomic indicators, performs much better than alternative models. In addition, the evidence confirms that the GFC had a damaging impact on each sector, with the Health & Education sector demonstrating the most impressive recovery post-GFC, and the Utilities sector recording a dramatic increase in bankruptcies post-GFC.
G34|Common Ownership Does Not Have Anti-Competitive Effects in the Airline Industry|"Institutional investors often own significant equity in firms that compete in the same product market. These ""common owners"" may have an incentive to coordinate the actions of firms that would otherwise be competing rivals, leading to anti-competitive pricing. This paper uses data on airline ticket prices to test whether common owners induce anti-competitive pricing behavior. We find little evidence to support such a hypothesis, and show that the positive relationship between average ticket prices and a commonly used measure of common ownership previously documented in the literature is generated by the endogenous market share component, rather than the ownership component, of the measure."
G34|The Impact of Stricter Merger Control on Bank Mergers and Acquisitions. Too-Big-To-Fail and Competition|The effect of regulations on the banking sector is a key question for financial intermediation. This paper provides evidence that merger control regulation, although not directly targeted at the banking sector, has substantial economic effects on bank mergers. Based on an extensive sample of European countries, we show that target announcement premia increased by up to 16 percentage points for mergers involving control shifts after changes in merger legislation, consistent with a market expectation of increased profitability. These effects go hand-in-hand with a reduction in the propensity for mergers to create banks that are too-big-to-fail in their country.
G34|Causal Impact of Risk Oversight Functions on Bank Risk: Evidence from a Natural Experiment|Our goal is to document the causal impact of having a board-level risk committee (RC) and a management-level executive designated as chief risk officer (CRO) on bank risk. The Dodd Frank Act requires bank holding companies with over $10 billion of assets to have an RC, while those with over $50 billion of assets are additionally required to have a CRO to oversee risk management. The innovation that allows us to document a causal impact is our research design. First, we use the passage of the Dodd Frank Act as a natural experiment that forced noncompliant firms to adopt an RC and appoint a CRO. We adopt the difference-in-difference approach to estimate the change in risk following RC and CRO adoption. Second, we use the regression discontinuity approach centered on the $10 billion and $50 billion thresholds whereby firms that were just below the threshold were not required by the law to install an RC and to recruit a CRO, while those just above the thresholds had to comply with the regulation. Our contribution is to document that neither the RC nor the CRO have a causal impact on risk near these thresholds. However, we do find strong evidence of risk reduction following the passage of the law.
G34|The Firm Size and Leverage Relationship and Its Implications for Entry and Concentration in a Low Interest Rate World|Larger firms (by sales or employment) have higher leverage. This pattern is explained using a model in which firms produce multiple varieties and borrow with the option to default against their future cash ow. A variety can die with a constant probability, implying that bigger firms (those with more varieties) have lower coefficient of variation of sales and higher leverage. A lower risk-free rate benefits bigger firms more as they are able to lever more and existing firms buy more of the new varieties arriving into the economy. This leads to lower startup rates and greater concentration of sales.
G34|The Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) and Bank Branching Patterns|This paper examines the relationship between the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) and bank branching patterns, measured by the risk of branch closure and the net loss of branches at the neighborhood level, in the aftermath of Great Recession. Between 2009 and 2017, there was a larger decline in the number of bank branches in lower-income neighborhoods than in more affluent ones, raising concerns about access to mainstream financial services. However, once we control for supply and demand factors that influence bank branching decisions, we find generally consistent evidence that the CRA is associated with a lower risk of branch closure, and the effects are stronger for neighborhoods with fewer branches, for larger banks, and for major metro areas. The CRA also reduces the risk of net bank losses in lower-income neighborhoods. The evidence from our analysis is consistent with the notion that the CRA helps banks meet the credit needs of underserved communities and populations by ensuring the continued presence of brick-and-mortar branches.
G34|Bank Size and Household Financial Sentiment: Surprising Evidence from the University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers|We analyze comparative advantages/disadvantages of small and large banks in improving household sentiment regarding financial conditions. We match sentiment data from the University Of Michigan Surveys Of Consumers with local banking market data from 2000 to 2014. Surprisingly, the evidence suggests that large rather than small banks have significant comparative advantages in boosting household sentiment. Findings are robust to instrumental variables and other econometric methods. Additional analyses are consistent with both scale economies and the superior safety of large banks as channels behind the main findings. These channels appear to more than offset stronger relationships with and greater trust in small banks.
G34|The Human-Centred Business Model and Hybrid Business Forms: A Primer and a Roadmap|The paper was written as part of the preliminary research for the Human Centred Business Model Project, a project developed within the Global Forum on Law, Justice and Development and now supported by the OECD Development Centre. In a preliminary fashion, the paper skims the surface of â€˜socialâ€™ businesses, in the broadest sense, around the world, identifying some general trends and commonalities and some differences. The paper covers jurisdictions from North and South America, Europe, Asia and Australia and describes the organisations that can be used to carry out social business.
G34|The impact of financialisation on the wage share: a theoretical clarification and empirical test|It is frequently asserted that financialisation has contributed to the decline in the wage share. This paper provides a theoretical clarification and a systematic empirical investigation. We identify four channels through which financialisation can affect the wage share: (1) enhanced exit options of firms; (2) rising price mark-ups due to financial overhead costs for businesses; (3) increased competition on capital markets and shareholder value orientation; and (4) the role of household debt in increasing workers’ financial vulnerability and undermining their class consciousness. The paper compiles a comprehensive set of empirical measures of financialisation and uses it to test these hypotheses with a panel regression of 14 OECD countries over the 1992-2014 period. We find strong evidence for negative effects of financial liberalisation and financial payments of non-financial corporations on the wage share that are in the same order of magnitude as the effects of globalisation.
G34|Integrating Capital Structure, Financial and Non-Financial Performance: Distress Prediction of SMEs|Objective - The growth of SMEs in Indonesia is rising from year to year. As an anticipation of bankruptcy, predictions can be made in an integrated means from the perspective of capital structure, financial, and non-financial performance. Methodology/Technique - A sample of 39 companies were selected using purposive sampling during the research period of 2013-2017. The results of the statistical logistic regression show that profitability is an important factor in predicting financial distress of the SMEs in Indonesia. Finding - The operating income to total assets has a negative and significant effect on SMEs financial distress. Meanwhile, retained earnings to total assets have a positive impact. Indonesian SMEs must be efficient in their operational costs to avoid financial distress. Novelty - In addition, sales are also important. If the company's sales are high, and the operational cost efficiency is maintained, the retained earnings will increase. This means that the company will be safe and able to avoid financial distress. Type of Paper - Empirical.
G34|Bootstrapping the Gini Index of the Network Degree: An Application for Italian Corporate Governance|We propose a new approach based on bootstrapping to compare complex networks. This is an important task when we wish to compare the effect of a (policy) shock on the structure of a network. The bootstrap test compares two values of the Gini index, and the test is performed on the difference between them. The application is based on the interlocking directorship network. At the director level, Italian corporate governance is characterized by the widespread occurrence of interlocking directorates. Article 36 of Law 214/2011 prohibited interlocking directorates in the financial sector. We compare the interlocking directorship networks in 2009 (before the reform) with 2012 (after the reform) and find evidence of an asymmetric effect of the reform on the network centrality of the different companies but no significant effects on Gini indices.
G34|Doing safe by doing good: ESG investing and corporate social responsibility in the U.S. and Europe|This paper examines the profitability of investing according to environmental, social and governance (ESG) criteria in the U.S. and Europe. Based on data from 2003 to 2017, we show that a portfolio long in stocks with the highest ESG scores and short in those with the lowest scores yields a significantly negative abnormal return. Interestingly, this is caused by the strong positive return of firms with the lowest ESG activity. As we find that increasing ESG scores reduce firm risk (particularly downside risk), this hints at an insurance-like character of corporate social responsibility: Firms with low ESG activity need to offer a corresponding risk premium. The perception of ESG as an insurance can be shown to be stronger in more volatile capital markets for U.S. firms, but not for European firms. Socially responsible investment may therefore be of varying attractiveness in different market phases.
G34|Deutsche Bank AG und Commerzbank AG: Neubewertung der Unternehmen im Rahmen einer potenziellen Bankenfusion|"[Einleitung und Problemstellung] Es ist still geworden in Frankfurt. Nachdem die Deutsche Bank AG und die Commerzbank AG am 17.03.2019 bekannt gegeben haben, dass sie in ergebnisoffene Gespräche über einen möglichen Zusammenschluss eintreten (vgl. Kröner et al. 2019), sind die Informationen, die hierüber an die Öffentlichkeit gelangen, eher spärlich. Spekulationen und Analysen über die Themen, die dort vermeintlich besprochen werden, sind hingegen zahlreich. Kritiker und Befürworter einer potenziellen Fusion wechseln sich in der medialen Berichterstattung mit ihren Argumentationen für oder gegen einen Zusammenschluss regelmäßig ab. Man duzt sich, heißt es aus der einen Ecke (vgl. Maisch und Osman 2019), ein Vorstandvorsitzender für das Gesamtunternehmen stehe bereits fest, aus der anderen (vgl. Maisch 2019b). Und dann sind da auch noch die Mitarbeiter, die unter dem Slogan ""Getrennt in den Farben, gemeinsam in den Zielen"" ihrem Unmut über die Gespräche Luft machen (vgl. Osman und Kröner 2019b), bei der Zahl, die über den möglichen Personalabbau kursiert, nicht weiter verwunderlich. Doch die Deutsche Bank und die Commerzbank halten sich bedeckt. Über eine Tendenz, in welche Richtung die Gespräche sich tatsächlich entwickeln, ob sie vertieft oder abgebrochen werden, ist nichts zu vernehmen. Die große Frage, die im Raum steht, lautet: ""Lohnt sich eine Fusion der beiden großen deutschen Geldhäuser oder lohnt sie sich nicht?"" An diesem Punkt knüpft die vorliegende Arbeit an. Sie soll einen Eindruck darüber vermitteln, welche Punkte hinter verschlossenen Türen möglicherweise betrachtet werden, welche Synergien aus einer Fusion zu erwarten sind, aber auch, mit welchen Kosten die Realisierung verbunden sein kann. Letztlich soll ein Urteil gefällt werden, ob und unter welchen Bedingungen zu erwarten ist, dass ein Zusammenschluss tatsächlich in Betracht gezogen werden kann. Zunächst werden hierfür die beiden potenziellen Fusionspartner kurz vorgestellt und allgemeine Begrifflichkeiten definiert sowie Arten und Motive von Fusionen identifiziert. Da die Beurteilung der Vorteilhaftigkeit der Fusion im Rahmen einer Unternehmensbewertung erfolgt, wird anschließend aufgezeigt, welche Verfahren sich für die Bewertung von Banken eignen und welche Besonderheiten hierbei zu berücksichtigen sind. Im Anschluss werden sowohl die Deutsche Bank als auch die Commerzbank einzeln anhand von zwei unterschiedlichen Verfahren bewertet. Danach wird in zwei verschiedenen Fusionsszenarien der Unternehmenswert für das entstehende Gesamtunternehmen bestimmt und mit den Ergebnissen aus den Einzelbewertungen verglichen, um über die Vorteilhaftigkeit des Zusammenschlusses zu entscheiden. Schlussendlich werden die Ergebnisse kritisch gewürdigt, und es wird ein Fazit gezogen."
G34|Benign neglect of covenant violations: Blissful banking or ignorant monitoring?|Theoretically, bank's loan monitoring activity hinges critically on its capitalisation. To proxy for monitoring intensity, we use changes in borrowers' investment following loan covenant violations, when creditors can intervene in the governance of the firm. Exploiting granular bank-firm relationships observed in the syndicated loan market, we document substantial heterogeneity in monitoring across banks and through time. Better capitalised banks are more lenient monitors that intervene less with covenant violators. Importantly, this hands-off approach is associated with improved borrowers' performance. Beyond enhancing financial resilience, regulation that requires banks to hold more capital may thus also mitigate the tightening of credit terms when firms experience shocks.
G34|Zur Empfehlung von Abfindungsobergrenzen für Vorstandsmitglieder|In diesem Beitrag wird untersucht, ob Vorstandsabfindungen von börsennotierten Unternehmen durch die Empfehlung 4.2.3 Abs. 4 Satz 1 des Deutschen Corporate Governance Kodex in ihrer Höhe begrenzt werden. Die Analyse umfangreicher empirischer Daten zu Entsprechenserklärungen aller CDAX-Unternehmen und tatsächlichen Abfindungshöhen vorzeitig ausgeschiedener Vorstandsmitglieder von DAX-Unternehmen in den Jahren 2010 bis 2014 zeigt, dass die empfohlenen Obergrenzen trotz anderslautender Entsprechenserklärungen mehrheitlich überschritten wurden. Mithilfe institutionenökonomischer, rechtswissenschaftlicher und soziologischer Ansätze wird theoretisch erklärt, warum das Comply-or-Explain-Prinzip des § 161 AktG, das der Konzeption der Empfehlungen des DCGK zugrunde liegt, bei der untersuchten Empfehlung versagt. Auf dieser Basis wird eine Gestaltungsempfehlung für die Praxis abgeleitet, welche der Empfehlung zu einer stärkeren Wirkung verhelfen kann.
G34|Corporate governance reporting: Compliance with upper limits for severance payments to members of executive boards in Germany|This paper examines how corporate governance reporting corresponds to actual conduct regarding severance payment caps for prematurely departing members of companies' executive boards in Germany. For this purpose, we first evaluate the declarations of conformity for all companies listed in the CDAX between 2010 and 2014, which we use to determine conformity and deviation rates, and analyse reasons for deviation. In a further full survey, we assess the compensation amounts of all severance payments made and published by DAX companies to their executive board members who were prematurely terminated, which allows us to compare the respective severance ratio with the cap recommended by the German Corporate Governance Codex (GCGC). We find that more than 20% of companies listed in the CDAX declared deviation in the declaration of conformity, and one-third of all deviations were justified by a rejection of the normative decision of the recommendation. Moreover, in 57% of actual severance cases where DAX companies had previously declared their compliance, the cap was exceeded; yet, none of the companies that had exceeded the cap in a severance case disclosed this in the following declaration of conformity. In the years under review, for the majority of severance cases in companies listed in the DAX, the GCGC's cap did not have any factual binding effect. Finally, in most cases the corporate reports deviated from reality and therefore could not serve as a suitable basis for decisions by the capital market.
G34|Clawback Provisions and Firm Risk|Panel OLS and GMM-IV estimates indicate that executives respond to the adoption of a compensation clawback provision by decreasing firm risk. The mechanisms that transmit incentives to decisions and decisions to risk appear to be more conservative investment and financial policies and preemptive management of ESG, legal, and cyberattack risks. The stock market reaction to the announcement of a clawback adoption, as well as post-adoption stock and accounting performance, are significantly and positively related to the actual and predicted reduction in firm risk. The reduction in firm risk, arising from adoption of a clawback policy, appears to benefit shareholders.
G34|Corporate social responsibility and M&A uncertainty|We contribute to the corporate social responsibility (CSR) literature by investigating whether the CSR of acquirers impacts mergers and acquisitions (M&A) completion uncertainty. Using arbitrage spreads following initial acquisition announcements as a measure of deal uncertainty, we document –for an international sample of 726 M&A operations spanning the 2004–2016 period– a negative association between arbitrage spreads and acquirers' CSR. Specifically, we show arbitrage spreads are reduced by 1.10 percentage points for each standard deviation unit-increase in the acquirer's CSR score. Findings are qualitatively similar when we focus on individual CSR dimensions (environmental, social, and governance). Our results suggest the CSR of acquirers is an important determinant of the way market participants assess the outcome of M&As worldwide.
G34|Stock market impact of cross-border acquisitions in emerging markets|Entry by multinational enterprises (MNEs) into emerging markets has increased substantially over the last decades. Many of these MNE entries have taken place in concentrated markets. To capture these features, we construct a strategic interaction model of MNE cross-border acquisition and greenfield entry into an oligopolistic market. In particular, we provide an event study framework suitable to derive predictions for the stock market values of MNE entries. We show that share values of acquirers will increase when an acquisition is announced if and only if the domestic assets are not too strategically important or when bidding competition is not too stiff. Extending the analysis to the case where there is risk associated with cross-border M&As, we show that such risks reduce the likelihood and the acquisition price of cross-border M&As. These mechanisms provide an explanation for why acquirers tend to overperform when acquiring in emerging markets but underperform when acquiring in developed markets. We also explain why the shareholders of targets firms in emerging markets may benefit from not selling their firms too early in the development phase.
G34|A Theory of Gazelle Growth: Competition, Venture Capital Finance and Policy|This paper proposes a theory of gazelle growth in which gazelles can either grow organically or by acquisitions. In the model, there are three types of firms: incumbent, target, and gazelle. We show that the lower cost of organic growth can increase the incentives for acquisition growth. The reason for this is that the incumbent understands that if it acquires the target firm, the gazelle will then invest organically anyway to grow, and therefore, the acquisition will not be sufficient to protect the incumbent's market power. The gazelle could then acquire the target firm at a good price. We also show that financial support for the organic growth of gazelles can increase gazelles' growth by acquisitions since incumbents' preemptive motives are reduced.
G34|The Influence Of Ownership Structure And Board Independence On The Cost Of Debt In Bric Countries|This paper presents an empirical analysis of the influence of ownership structure and board independence on bond yield spread in BRIC countries, 2007-2016. The main finding of the study is the presence of significant country-specific effects of ownership structure on the cost of debt, and the absence of effects of board independence. According to our results, in Brazil, insider ownership and concentrated ownership of corporations increase the cost of debt, while institutional investors help to mitigate the risks of debt holders. Only state and insider ownership matter in Russia: the larger the government stake, the higher the cost of debt, while insider ownership has a non-linear effect. In India insider ownership has an increasing effect, while state ownership has the inverse effect. Evidence from China reveals the decreasing influence of corporations’ ownership concentration, which can be a result of the co-insurance effect. We contribute to the literature by providing evidence from emerging markets, taking into account the specific features of each country and investigating the effect on market indicator of the cost of debt, the data on which is scarce. The results of this study can be used by rating agencies or investors for the evaluation of the risks related to bond issuers, as well as by debt issuers for attracting finance with lower costs
G34|Under pressure: listing status and disinvestment in Japan|We provide the first large sample comparisons of disinvestment by listed and unlisted firms. This study focuses on Japanese firms from 2001-2017, as this was a period of economic stagnation and financial reforms encouraging companies to restructure. We show that stock market listing is positively related to disinvestment. Listed firms disinvest 1.9% more than similar unlisted firms. Disinvestment activities of listed companies are also more sensitive to investment opportunities. Additionally, firms that disinvest show improvements in ROA and increases in future investment. Finally, we find that foreign (financial institution) ownership is positively (negatively) related to disinvestment.
G34|Corporate Ownership and Managerial Turnover in China and Eastern Europe: A Comparative Meta-Analysis|In this paper, we perform a meta-analysis of 736 estimates extracted from 31 previous studies to compare China and Eastern Europe from the viewpoint of the relationship between corporate ownership and managerial turnover. Our results strongly suggest the presence of asymmetric circumstances between the two: Namely, in Eastern Europe, private outside investors and large shareholders exert a positive influence on managerial discipline of the companies they invest in, and the government is also actively involved in the corporate governance of state-owned enterprises. In contrast, the Chinese government and the Communist Party of China have such significant control over companies as corporate owners that private shareholders only have limited influence over top management. In this sense, Chinese firms are more likely than their East European counterparts to face a greater problem in corporate governance.
G34|Private benefits from control block trades in the Spanish stock exchange|A control block trade can be explained by the expectation of financial gains, shared by all shareholders, or by the expectation of private benefits (PB), exclusive for the buyer and possibly at the expense of other shareholders’ rents. The market for corporate control contributes to social welfare when it improves the efficiency in the allocation of resources. When the purpose of block transaction is PB, social welfare could be damaged as minority shareholders could withdraw from the stock market. So the evaluation of PB will allow to assess the efficiency of the stock market. Using a sample of partial control transactions in the Spanish market over the period 1990-2016, we find that, in median, PB are null. Their variability is explained in a significant way by the controlling position of the buyers in the target firm after the transaction, the size of control of the “rival” insider and to the size of the firm. La compra de un bloque de control puede explicarse por los beneficios financieros esperados, compartidos por todos los accionistas, o por la expectativa de beneficios privados (BP), exclusivos para el comprador y obtenidos posiblemente a expensas de las rentas de los demás accionistas. El mercado de control societario contribuye al bienestar social cuando mejorar la eficiencia en la asignación de recursos. Cuando el objetivo de la compra del bloque son los BP, el bienestar social podría verse perjudicado ya que los accionistas minoritarios podrían retirarse del mercado de valores. Por lo tanto, la medición de los BP permitirá evaluar la eficiencia de la bolsa. Utilizando una muestra de transacciones de control parcial en el mercado español durante el período 1990-2016, encontramos que, en mediana, el BP es nulo. Su variabilidad se explica de forma significativa por la posición de control que alcanza el comprador tras la operación, el tamaño del control que posee el accionista “rival” y el tamaño de la empresa.
G34|The Gender Composition of Corporate Boards and Firm Performance: Evidence from Russia|"This paper studies economic effects of the gender composition of corporate boards, employing a new and unique longitudinal dataset of virtually all Russian companies whose shares were traded on the national stock market between 1998 and 2014. Using multiple identification approaches, alternative measures of gender diversity, and several performance indicators, we find some evidence that companies with gender-diverse boards have higher market values and better profitability. These effects are particularly pronounced when firms appoint several women directors, which is consistent with the critical mass theory. The effects appear to be stronger in bad economic times or for firms experiencing economic difficulties. Overall, the Russian data lend some support to ""the business case"" for more women on corporate boards."
G34|Does board gender diversity influence firm profitability? A control function approach|We investigate the relation between board gender diversity and firm profitability using the control function (CF) approach recently suggested by Wooldridge (2015). The CF method takes account of the problem of endogenous explanatory variables that have potential to bias the results. Using a sample of firms that made up the S&P 500 over the period 2004-2015, we find that the presence of women on corporate boards (measured either by the percentage of female directors on corporate boards or the Blau index of heterogeneity) has a positive and significant (at the 1% level) effect on firm profitability (measured by the return on assets). We compare our results to more traditional approaches (such as pooled OLS or the fixed-effects model). Through this study, we shed light on the effect of women on corporate boards on firm performance, as it is still a controversial issue (Post and Byron, 2015).
G34|Endogenous choice of minority shareholdings: Effects on product market competition|Non-controlling minority shareholdings in rivals (NCMS) lower the sustainability of collusion under a wide variety of circumstances. Nevertheless, NCMS are sometimes deemed to facilitate collusion, in particular if the level of NCMS is exogenous. The present paper endogenizes firms' choice of NCMS and answers the question: Would colluding firms find it rational to acquire NCMS in rivals? The study of the acquisition reveals that firms have an incentive to acquire NCMS which are accompanied by a shift from collusive to competitive behaviour.
G34|Common Ownership in America: 1980-2017|When competing firms possess overlapping sets of investors, maximizing shareholder value may provide incentives that distort competitive behavior, affecting pricing, entry, contracting, and virtually all strategic interactions among firms. We propose a structurally consistent and scaleable approach to the measurement of this phenomenon for the universe of S&P 500 firms between 1980 and 2017. Over this period, the incentives implied by the common ownership hypothesis have grown dramatically. Contrary to popular intuition, this is not primarily associated with the rise of BlackRock and Van- guard: instead, the trend in the time series is driven by a broader rise in diversified investment strategies, of which these firms are only the most recent incarnation. In the cross-section, there is substantial variation that can be traced, both in the theory and the data, to observable firm characteristics – particularly the share of the firm held by retail investors. Finally, we show how common ownership can theoretically give rise to incentives for expropriation of undiversified shareholders via tunneling, even in the Berle and Means (1932) world of the “widely held firm.”
G34|Who’s Paying Attention? Measuring Common Ownership and Its Impact on Managerial Incentives|We derive a measure that captures the extent to which overlapping ownership structures shift managers’ incentives to internalize externalities. A key feature of the measure is that it allows for the possibility that not all investors are attentive to whether a manager’s actions benefit the investor’s overall portfolio. Empirically, we show that potential drivers of ownership overlap, including mergers in the asset management industry and the growth of indexing, could in fact diminish managerial motives. Our findings illustrate the importance of accounting for investor inattention and cast doubt on the possibility that the growth of common ownership has had a significant impact on managerial incentives.
G34|Institutional Trading Around M&A Announcements|Takeover targets often experience substantial share price appreciations around public announcements of mergers and acquisitions. We analyze hedge fund and mutual fund holdings around takeover announcements to assess the differences in investment strategies across institutions. Our results indicate that hedge funds in the aggregate increase their holdings of soon-to-be takeover targets by 7.2% during the quarter prior to the public announcement. Conversely, mutual funds reduce their equity holdings in impending targets by 3.0% during the quarter before M&A announcements and therefore potentially forgo profitable investment opportunities.
G34|The Politics of CEOs|CEOs of public companies have influence over the political spending of their firms, which has been attracting significant attention since the Supreme Court decision in Citizens United. Furthermore, the policy views expressed by CEOs receive substantial consideration from policymakers and the public. The political preferences of CEOs, we argue, are therefore important for a full understanding of U.S. policymaking and politics. To contribute to this understanding, we provide empirical evidence on the partisan leanings of public-company CEOs. We use Federal Election Commission (FEC) records to put together a comprehensive database of the political contributions made by over 3,500 individuals who served as CEOs of S&P 1500 companies during the period 2000-2017. We find that these political contributions display substantial partisan preferences in support of Republican candidates. We identify how this pattern is related to the company's industry, geographical region, and CEO gender. To highlight the significance of CEO's partisan preferences, we show that public companies led by Republican CEOs tend to be less transparent to investors with respect to their political spending. We conclude by discussing the policy implications of our analysis.
G34|Business Groups and the Incorporation of Firm-specific Shocks into Stock Prices|In lower-income economies, stocks exhibit less idiosyncratic volatility and business groups are more prevalent. This study connects these two findings by showing that business group affiliated firms’ stock returns exhibit less idiosyncratic volatility than do the returns of otherwise similar unaffiliated firms. Global commodity price shocks are common shocks that contribute to firm-level idiosyncratic risk because they affect industries heterogeneously. Idiosyncratic components of commodity shocks are incorporated less into idiosyncratic returns of group affiliates than unaffiliated firms in the same industry and economy. Identification follows from difference-in-difference tests exploiting successful and matched-exogenously-failed control block transactions.
G34|The Specter of the Giant Three|This paper examines the large, steady, and continuing growth of the Big Three index fund managers—BlackRock, Vanguard, and State Street Global Advisors. We show that there is a real prospect that index funds will continue to grow, and that voting in most significant public companies will come to be dominated by the future “Giant Three.” We begin by analyzing the drivers of the rise of the Big Three, including the structural factors that are leading to the heavy concentration of the index funds sector. We then provide empirical evidence about the past growth and current status of the Big Three, and their likely growth into the Giant Three. Among other things, we document that the Big Three have almost quadrupled their collective ownership stake in S&P 500 companies over the past two decades; that they have captured the overwhelming majority of the inflows into the asset management industry over the past decade; that each of them now manages 5% or more of the shares in a vast number of public companies; and that they collectively cast an average of about 25% of the votes at S&P 500 companies. We then extrapolate from past trends to estimate the future growth of the Big Three. We estimate that the Big Three could well cast as much as 40% of the votes in S&P 500 companies within two decades. Policymakers and others must recognize—and must take seriously—the prospect of a Giant Three scenario. The plausibility of this scenario makes it important to understand the incentives of index fund managers, a topic that we study in other work.
G34|Evidence for the Effect of Monitoring Costs on Foreign Direct Investment|A proposed reason for the significant inverse relationship between distance (both physical and cultural) and foreign direct investment is the increased costs for a parent firm to monitor an affiliate when there is greater distance between them. We provide the first direct test of this hypothesis using O*NET data on occupational skills to construct industry-level measures of the importance of monitoring-related skills. We then exploit this cross-industry variation to examine whether physical and cultural distances have a greater impact on cross-border M&A in industries where monitoring-related skills are more important. Using data on worldwide cross-border M&A activity from 1985 through 2014, we find significant evidence for the effect of monitoring costs on cross-border M&A activity. We also show that the relatively low importance of monitoring-related costs in manufacturing industries compared to those in other sectors is an important factor in explaining why cross-border M&A in manufacturing is so large despite its relatively small share of the modern economy.
G34|Acquisition Prices and the Measurement of Intangible Capital|We use 1,521 acquisition purchase price allocations to estimate intangible capital stocks. The estimated depreciation of knowledge capital (R&D) is 32%, some 28% of SG&A represents investment in organizational capital and parameter estimates exhibit significant industry variation. Aggregating these accounts, 75% of intangibles come from organizational capital, and total stocks are 10% smaller versus stocks using prior parameters. Adjusting for intangibles, average market-to-book falls from 1.74 to an average of one. Relative to existing approaches, our stocks improve the explanatory power of enterprise value, human capital and brand rankings, while exhibiting the expected correlations with patent valuations and investment rates.
G34|Mergers and Acquisitions and wage effects in the Portuguese banking sector|This study examines the impacts of mergers and acquisitions (hereafter M&A) on wages of workers for the period 1993-2007. The results suggest a positive effect of M&A on wages; however, for workers that have participated in M&A in an acquired bank, it seems that M&A has a detrimental impact reflected by a reduction of the positive effect. We have also observed that the effects of acquisitions differ over time indicating that time dimension is an important element to consider, as the positive effect is not so manifest in the second year after the M&A; moreover we observe that the positive effect decreases even more in the third year after the M&A. The research also tries to assess if the effects differ according to the M&A type and the worker qualification level. Empirical results show that for highly qualified workers, M&A seems to be positive for wages. M&A may also produce different effects on employees’ wages according to the type of operation. Domestic acquisitions tend to have a positive effect on wages, but when analysing the impact on workers of foreign acquisitions, the results show a negative effect.
G34|Rationality of Corporate Cash Holdings|Cash equivalents (cash/deposit) held by Japanese firms were as much as 222 trillion yen in Fiscal Year 2017, but their value is discounted by the market. The background may be that cash is not effectively used because it is built up with ROE remaining low. Individual firms may think that their cash holdings behavior is reasonable, but it does not improve market valuation and the firms fail to properly increase their corporate value. Means to improve corporate value using cash they hold may include investment in people and businesses, and return to shareholders if there are surplus funds. We analyzed the rate of stock price increase of firms that had acquired shares of its own shares, and found that the rate of stock price increase of gfirms with room for improvement in capital efficiency h is higher compared with gthe other firms. h In addition, investment toward human capital is important for firms f growth. Corporate managers are required to make more rational decisions concerning cash holdings also with consideration of valuation by the market.
G34|The impact of market structure of the banking sector on the growth of bank loans in the EU after the global financial crisis|The aim of this research is to investigate the issue of asymmetry of the credit market determinants of bank loans (corporate, consumer, and residential mortgage loans) between the CEE-11 countries (Bulgaria, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Slovakia, Slovenia, Rumania) and the other countries (Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Greece, Italy, Spain, the Netherlands, Ireland, Luxembourg, Germany, Portugal, Sweden, United Kingdom, Malta, and Cyprus) after the global financial crisis (GFC) of 2007–09. For the analysis, we used annual bank-level data, which are collected from the Bankscope-Orbis database and interest rates for different loans from the European Central Bank and macroeconomic data on GDP growth. Panel data includes commercial banks, savings banks, and cooperative banks that were operating in the EU countries from the period 2010–2016. Using the methodology of panel regression, this study finds differences of the determinants of the growth of loans for two groups of countries after the global financial crisis. Panel data analysis of CEE-11 countries against other EU countries also finds differences between determinants of different types of bank loans.
G34|What Is the Impact of Successful Cyberattacks on Target Firms?|We examine which firms are targets of successful cyberattacks and how they are affected. We find that cyberattacks are more likely to occur at larger and more visible firms, more highly valued firms, firms with more intangible assets, and firms with less board attention to risk management. These attacks affect firms adversely when consumer financial information is appropriated, but seem to have little impact otherwise. Attacks where consumer financial information is appropriated are associated with a significant negative stock market reaction, an increase in leverage following greater debt issuance, a deterioration in credit ratings, and an increase in cash flow volatility. These attacks also affect sales growth adversely for large firms and firms in retail industries, and there is evidence that they decrease investment in the short run. Affected firms respond to such attacks by cutting the CEO's bonus as a fraction of total compensation, by reducing the risk-taking incentives of management, and by taking actions to strengthen their risk management. The evidence is consistent with cyberattacks increasing boards' assessment of target firm risk exposures and decreasing their risk appetite.
G34|Selecting Directors Using Machine Learning|Can an algorithm assist firms in their hiring decisions of corporate directors? This paper proposes a method of selecting boards of directors that relies on machine learning. We develop algorithms with the goal of selecting directors that would be preferred by the shareholders of a particular firm. Using shareholder support for individual directors in subsequent elections and firm profitability as performance measures, we construct algorithms to make out-of-sample predictions of these measures of director performance. We then run tests of the quality of these predictions and show that, when compared with a realistic pool of potential candidates, directors predicted to do poorly by our algorithms indeed rank much lower in performance than directors who were predicted to do well. Deviations from the benchmark provided by the algorithms suggest that firm-selected directors are more likely to be male, have previously held more directorships, have fewer qualifications and larger networks. Machine learning holds promise for understanding the process by which existing governance structures are chosen, and has potential to help real world firms improve their governance.
G34|Selection versus Talent Effects on Firm Value|Measuring the value of labor-market hires for stock prices, be it underwriters when firms go public (IPOs) or chief executive officers (CEOs), is difficult due to selection. Opaque firms with higher costs of capital benefit more from prestigious underwriters, while productive firms benefit more from talented CEOs. Using assignment models, we show that the importance of talent (or agent heterogeneity) relative to selection (or firm heterogeneity) is measured by wage increases across agents of different compensation ranks divided by changes in output across their firms. The median of this ratio is 0.5% for underwriters and 2% for CEOs.
G34|Capital Reallocation|Capital reallocation is procyclical, despite measured productive reallocative opportunities being acyclical, or even countercyclical. This paper reviews the advances in the literature studying the causes and consequences of capital reallocation (or lack thereof). We provide a comprehensive set of capital reallocation stylized facts for the US, and an illustrative model of capital reallocation in equilibrium. We relate capital reallocation to the broader literatures on business cycles with financial frictions, and on resource misallocation and aggregate productivity. Throughout, we provide directions for future research.
G34|Discretionary Loan-Loss Provision Behavior in the US Banking Industry|Earnings management can be either opportunistic, adding noise to reported earnings, or informative about a firm’s underlying economic performance, adding valuable information to financial reports. This study examines earnings management in banks with differing levels of information asymmetry. Specifically, we compare earnings management between public and private banks by using discretionary loan-loss provisions (DLLPs) as proxies. Employing a large dataset of US public and private banks from 1986:Q1 to 2013:Q4, this study provides evidence of stronger earnings management behavior in public banks versus private banks. The evidence remains robust under a battery of sensitivity tests. Since incentives for earnings management are more relevant within a specific context, we identify the conditions that motivate different earnings management incentives, which allows us to better observe specific managerial motives. Greater DLLPs observed in public banks are utilized to send private information to investors, consistent with the signaling hypothesis. We also find evidence that capital requirements alter DLLPs, consistent with the capital management hypothesis. Banks with relatively low (high) earnings tend to decrease (increase) their earnings through manipulation of DLLPs, inconsistent with our income-smoothing hypothesis. The study extends to current debates on earnings management between public and private firms, and also provides a better understanding of the determinants of earnings management.
G34|Ownership Structure and Bank Risk: The Effects of Crisis, Market Discipline and Regulatory Pressure|Using a large panel of US BHC over the 2001:Q1-2015:Q4, we investigate the risk-taking behaviors of banks within a comparison perspective – between public and private banks - where there exists substantial differences of asymmetry information and agency problems. We document evidence of greater stability of public banks versus their private peers. However, public banks become riskier than private banks during the last crisis. These findings suggest a mixed evidence of risk-taking mitigating role of listing status. Regulatory pressure is effective in limiting risk taking by undercapitalized public banks before, but not during the crisis, casting doubt the effectiveness of regulators during the turmoil times. Public banks with high franchise value expose to risk less than others during the crisis. Debtholders discipline is ineffective in curbing the risk-taking behavior of banks. Our study is of interest for regulators, policymakers who are in search of improving bank risk-taking behavior.
G34|Activity Strategies, Information Asymmetry, and Bank Opacity|Using a large panel of US bank holding companies from 2001 to 2015, we investigate the association between functional diversification and bank earnings management. We document a positive relationship between bank earnings management and bank diversification. Our findings are consistent with the hypothesis that diversification increases the asymmetric information of banks, leading to greater discretionary power by bank managers. This effect is most prevalent in smaller banks and non-dividend paying banks. The impact of diversification on earnings management is less pronounced during the crisis. Our study is of interest to regulators and other stakeholders who examine factors which affect behavior of bank managers.
G34|Merger and Acquire of Series: A New Approach of Time Series Modeling|Present paper proposes an autoregressive time series model to study the behaviour of merger and acquire concept which is equally important as other available theories like structural break, de- trending etc. The main motivation behind newly proposed merged autoregressive (M-AR) model is to study the impact of merger in the parameters as well as acquired series. First, we recommend the estimation setup using popular classical least square and posterior distribution under Bayesian method with different loss function. Then, we obtain Bayes factor, full Bayesian significance test and credible interval to know the significance of the merger series. A simulation as well as empirical study is illustrated.
G34|Information Production, Misconduct Effort, and the Duration of Financial Misrepresentation|We examine the link between information produced by auditors and analysts and fraud duration. Using a hazard model, we analyze misstatement periods related to SEC accounting and auditing enforcement releases (AAERs) between 1982 and 2012. Results suggest that misconduct is more likely to end just after firms announce an auditor switch or issue audited financial statements, particularly when the audit report contains explanatory language. Analyst following increases the fraud termination hazard. However, increases (decreases) in analyst coverage have a negative (positive) marginal impact on the termination hazard, suggesting that analysts signal whistleblowers with their choice to add or drop coverage. Finally, our results suggest that misconduct lasts longer when it is well planned, more complex, or involves more accrual manipulation. Taken together, our findings are consistent with auditors and analysts playing a key informational role in fraud detection, while managerial effort to conceal misconduct significantly extends its duration.
G34|Tapping into Financial Synergies : Alleviating Financial Constraints Through Acquisitions|The paper examines whether financially constrained firms are able to use acquisitions to ease their constraints. The results show that acquisitions do ease financing constraints for constrained acquirers. Relative to unconstrained acquires, financially constrained firms are more likely to use undervalued equity to fund acquisitions and to target unconstrained and more liquid firms. Using a propensity score matched sample in a difference-in-difference framework, the results show that constrained acquirers become less constrained post-acquisition and relative to matched non-acquiring firms. This improvement is more pronounced for diversifying acquisitions and constrained firms that acquire rather than issue equity and retain the proceeds. Following acquisition, constrained acquirers raise more debt and increase investments, consistent with experiencing reductions in financing constraints relative to matched non-acquirers. These improvements are not seen for unconstrained acquirers. Finally, the familiar diversification discount is non- existent for financially constrained acquirers.
G34|The Long and Short of It : Do Public and Private Firms Invest Differently?|Using data from U.S. corporate tax returns, which provide a sample representative of the universe of U.S. corporations, we investigate the differential investment propensities of public and private firms. Re-weighting the data to generate observationally comparable sets of public and private firms, we find robust evidence that public firms invest more overall, particularly in R&D. Exploiting within-firm variation in public status, we find that firms dedicate more of their investment to R&D following IPO, and reduce these investments upon going private. Our findings suggest that public stock markets facilitate greater investment, on average, particularly in risky, uncollateralized investments.
G34|The Effect of Common Ownership on Profits : Evidence From the U.S. Banking Industry|"Theory predicts that ""common ownership"" (ownership of rivals by a common shareholder) can be anticompetitive because it reduces the weight firms place on their own profits and shifts weight toward rival firms held by common shareholders. In this paper we use accounting data from the banking industry to examine empirically whether shifts in the profit weights are associated with shifts in profits. We present the distribution of a wide range of estimates that vary the specification, sample restrictions, and assumptions used to calculate the profit weights. The distribution of estimates is roughly centered around zero, but we find statistically significant estimates in either direction in some cases. Economically, most estimates are fairly small. Our interpretation of these findings is that there is little evidence for economically important effects of common ownership on profits in the banking industry."
G34|How Important Are Local Community Banks to Small Business Lending? Evidence from Mergers and Acquisitions [REVISED]|[REVISED AUG 2019]We investigate the shrinking community banking sector and the impact on local small business lending (SBL) in the context of mergers and acquisitions. From all mergers that involved community banks, we examine the varying impact on SBL depending on the local presence of the acquirers’ and the targets’ operations prior to acquisitions. Our results indicate that, relative to counties where the acquirer had operations before the merger, local SBL declined significantly more in counties where only the target had operations before the merger. This result holds even after controlling for the general local SBL market or local economic trends. These findings are consistent with an argument that SBL funding has been directed (after the mergers) toward the acquirers’ counties. We find even stronger evidence during and after the financial crisis. Overall, we find evidence that local community banks have continued to play an important role in providing funding to local small businesses. The absence of local community banks that became a target of a merger or acquisition by nonlocal acquirers has, on average, led to local SBL credit gaps that were not filled by the rest of the banking sector.
G34|Government Intervention, Innovation, and Entrepreneurship| We study how government intervention affects innovation and entrepreneurship, using a model in which two agents (e.g., one entrepreneur and one venture capitalist) engage in teamwork to launch a new business in which a moral hazard problem may persist for both parties. One feature of our model is that the government's financial support (grant) may have (positive) externalities on the teamwork of both parties, but is also constrained by budget costs. We compare two major forms of government intervention: indirect intervention and hybrid intervention. Contrasted to the case without government intervention, indirect government intervention always raises the efforts of both parties and promotes social surplus (welfare) while hybrid government intervention may not always raise the efforts of both parties or promote social surplus. Hybrid government intervention may, however, deliver even higher social surplus than indirect government intervention when the government's share in the enterprise is dominant and its marginal contribution to the project is sufficiently high.
G34|Corporate Governance, State Ownership and Firm Performance: An Empirical Study of State-Owned Enterprises in Indonesia|Objective – The purpose of this research is to determine the effect of good corporate governance (GCG) on Indonesia's SOEs and the influence of state ownership on company performance. Methodology/Technique – This study examines State Owned Enterprises in Indonesia that were listed on the Indonesia Stock Exchange between 2011 and 2015. Findings – The empirical results show that GCG and state ownership both have a positive influence on the company's financial performance (in this case, Return On Assets). However, the percentage of state ownership has a negative effect on the relationship between Good Corporate Governance and Return On Assets. Novelty – One agency cost is monitoring expenditure by the principal. Privatization is one way to improve the performance of SOEs. Privatization is believed to improve the performance of SOEs, as a result of increased supervision of the performance of SOEs in Indonesia.
G34|Opportunistic Behavior, External Monitoring Mechanisms, Corporate Governance, and Earnings Management|Objective - The purpose of this research is to analyze the effect of motivational bonus, leverage, firm size, corporate governance (audit committee's size, the proportion of independent commissioners, institutional ownership, managerial ownership) and free cash flow on earnings management. Methodology/Techniques - Earnings management is analyzed in this research using the modified Jones model. The population for the research consists of manufacturing companies listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange (IDX) between 2013-2015. The final sample includes 60 manufacturing companies. Findings - The result of this study indicate that motivational bonus, leverage, firm size and free cash flow have an influence on earnings management practices. Motivational bonuses and free cash flow as opportunistic behavior also influence earnings management. In addition, leverage and firm size as external monitoring mechanism influence earnings management practices while audit committee size, the proportion of independent commissioners, institutional ownership and managerial ownership as corporate governance practices in companies has no significant effect on earnings management practices. Hence, it is concluded that corporate governance has no effect on earnings management practices in Indonesia.
G34|An Analysis of the Implementation of PSAK 69 at PT Perkebunan Nusantara V (Persero)|Objective - This study aims to identify the impact of the application of the PSAK 69 in plantation companies in Riau, particularly in PT Perkebunan Nusantara V (Persero), and the impact of PSAK 69 to the profit gained by PT Perkebunan Nusantara V (Persero). Methodology/ Technique - This research is a qualitative descriptive research. The approach used in this research is a case study. The object of this research is PT Perkebunan Nusantara V (Persero). PT Perkebunan Nusantara V (Persero) is a company engaged in the field of palm oil plantations. This study uses the data from PT Perkebunan Nusantara V (Persero)'s annual report in 2016 and the data is collected using interviews and documentation techniques. Findings - The results of this study indicate that PT Perkebunan Nusantara V (Persero) has not implemented the PSAK 69 in its agricultural business. In addition, there are differences in the measurement and recording of the biological assets applied by PT Perkebunan Nusantara V (Persero) under the PSAK 69 (IAS 41). PT Perkebunan Nusantara V (Persero) measures and records its biological assets based on historical cost, so there is no gain or loss in the current period. In addition, the profit gained by PTPN V for the year ending on 31 December 2016 is too low. Novelty - The results of this study are expected to be used as a reference for other plantation companies in implementing the PSAK 69. In addition, the results of this study are also useful to regulating agencies in developing rules and policies in the field of accounting, including in re-evaluating the PSAK 69.
G34|Financial constraints, institutions, and foreign ownership|We develop a model of cross-border acquisitions in which the foreign acquirer's ownership choice reflects a trade-off between easing the target's credit constraints and the costs of operating in an environment with weak institutions. Data on domestic and foreign acquisitions in emerging markets over the period 1990–2007 support the model predictions. The share of full foreign acquisitions is higher in sectors more reliant on external finance, in countries with lower financial development, and in countries with higher institutional quality. Sectoral external finance dependence accentuates the effect of country-level financial development and institutional quality. By contrast, the level of foreign ownership in partial acquisitions is insensitive to institutional factors and depends weakly on financial factors.
G34|Internal capital markets in Italian business groups: evidence from the financial crisis|Using unique detailed data, we describe the role of internal capital markets in Italian business groups before and after the financial crisis, an exogenous event which provides an ideal setting to assess whether the working of internal capital markets helps group-affiliated firms to mitigate external financial constraints. Our findings support the hypothesis that internal capital markets are typically activated by firms standing at the top of the control chain given their easier access to external borrowing. Larger and more profitable firms serve as internal suppliers of capital and support financially constrained group members that struggle to stay viable. We also show that firms affiliated to larger and diversified groups benefit from the existence of internal mechanisms of resource reallocation that can substitute external finance when it becomes more expensive and hard to access. During the crisis, group-affiliated firms were more likely to survive than unaffiliated firms.
G34|Corporate Culture and Merger Success|What role does corporate culture play in merger success? We show that corporate culture influences both the probability to act as an acquirer and the outcome of the deal itself. We use text analysis to measure corporate culture for all US listed companies relying on the Competing Values Framework. We disentangle companies culturally oriented inside their organization (focused on collaboration and cost control) from companies oriented outside their organization (focused on competition and innovation). We then study the impact of corporate culture on merger participation and outcome: we show that an internally-oriented corporate culture significantly decreases the participation to merger deals, but has a positive impact on the merger outcome as captured by announcement returns and by post-merger operating performance. Our results suggest that companies focused on collaboration and on their internal processes create more value through their acquisitions.
G34|Who Improves or Worsens Liquidity in the Korean Treasury Bond Market?|This study analyzes how heterogenous institutional investors affect Korean Treasury bond liquidity in the over-the-counter (OTC) market using a unique individual bond-level data set over the period from January 2007 to December 2016. We find that bonds with higher foreign bond holding have a greater price impact of trades and lower trading activities, all indicating lower liquidity. The liquidity-reducing effects of foreign investors are stronger for off-the-runs than on-the-runs and for the post-crisis period (2010-2016) than the crisis period (2007-2009). In contrast, bond holdings by domestic financial investment companies contribute to enhancing liquidity. Furthermore, the effect of bond holdings by domestic banks, insurance companies and pension funds on liquidity varies with issuance maturities.
G34|Nowhere Else to Go: The Determinants of Bank-Firm Relationship Discontinuations after Bank Mergers|The decision to change or terminate a bank-firm relationship has been demonstrated to be crucial for firm performance following bank mergers. We find both competition and the available firm collateral to be important factors in enabling firms to switching banks, instead of dropping their bank relationships. We also provide novel evidence that firms who are able to \textit{add} a bank relationship following a merger exhibit much stronger post-merger performance. Our findings are consistent with the interpretation that bank-mergers cause a reduction in lending to most firms, leading them to search for alternative sources of finance.
G34|Technical efficiency of Slovak general hospitals|In this study, technical efficiency of Slovak general hospitals was investigated. The well-known non-parametric Data Envelopment Analysis was used to compare performance of Slovak health care providers. Results are based on four slightly differentiated models. Both CRS and VRS variation with different input approaches were used. Our results suggest low average efficiency in Slovak hospitals in the range 0.45 to 0.62 with great variations in efficiency score between individual Decision Making Units (DMUs). These results are relative without appropriate cross-country comparisons. Furthermore, in type of hospital entity there is no significant difference in efficiency score. However there is not a single efficient DMU in a group of municipality hospitals. Although, these results must be taken with caution due to questionable quality of data, this paper provides some valuable overview on technical efficiency of health care providers
G34|Investigating New Types of 'Decoupling': Minority Shareholder Protection in the Law & Corporate Practice|The study of decoupling – i.e. the discrepancies between formal policies and actual practices and outcomes – has seen a remarkable revival. Importantly, a distinction between policy-practice and means-ends decoupling has become widely-used. We argue that the decoupling literature still neglects a key feature of decoupling, namely that it is inherently a multi-level concept. Distinguishing explicitly the macro- (country) and the micro- (organisation) levels, we develop a more fine-grained typology of policy–practice and means–ends decoupling. We hypothesise that differences in the macro-environment may influence the type and extent of decoupling that prevails in a given country. We test our hypotheses in the context of the adoption of legal minority shareholder protection in four European countries. We go beyond previous studies that have investigated policy–practice and means-end decoupling in the same context by using a unique dataset for firm-level corporate governance practices that allows us to investigate the multi-level nature of decoupling more directly. Our findings suggest that that decoupling is context specific and the extent to which policy-practice decoupling occurs may depend on a country's legal style.
G34|An Economic Analysis of Blockchains|The blockchain is a technology that goes beyond timestamping, bitcoin and secure financial transactions. The development of an ecosystem around smart connected objects will probably not happen without the blockchain (in one form or another). The blockchain opens the door to the liquification of the physical world, to the economy of real-time micro-transactions and to smart data sharing. However, it is necessary to distinguish between the different types of blockchains, especially between public and private blockchains, because their economic properties are contrasted. Moreover, governance issues in public blockchains seem to indicate that the technology alone cannot guarantee trust.
G34|Common Ownership Concentration and Corporate Conduct|The question of whether and how partial common-ownership links between strategically interacting firms affect firm behavior has been the subject of theoretical inquiry for decades. Since then, consolidation and increasing concentration in the asset-management industry has led to more pronounced common ownership concentration (CoOCo). Moreover, recent empirical research has provided evidence consistent with the literature's key predictions. The resulting antitrust concerns have received much attention from policy makers worldwide. However, the implications are more general: CoOCo affects the objective function of the firm, and therefore has implications for all subfields of economics studying corporate conduct -- including corporate governance, strategy, industrial organization, and all of financial economics. This article connects the papers establishing the theoretical foundations, reviews the empirical and legal literatures, and discusses challenges and opportunities for future research.
G34|How Do Banks Interact with Fintechs? Forms of Alliances and their Impact on Bank Value|The increasing pervasiveness of technology-driven firms that offer banking services has led to a growing pressure on traditional banks to modernize their core business activities. Banks attempt to confront the challenges of digitalization by cooperating with financial technology firms (fintechs) in various forms. In this paper, we investigate the factors that drive banks to form alliances with fintechs. Furthermore, we analyze whether such bank-fintech alliances affect the market valuation of banks. We provide descriptive evidence on the different forms of alliances occurring in practice. Using hand-collected data covering the largest banks from Canada, France, Germany, and the United Kingdom, we show that banks are significantly more likely to form alliances with fintechs when they pursue a well-defined digital strategy and/or employ a Chief Digital Officer. We evidence that markets react more strongly if digital banks rather than traditional banks announce a bank-fintech alliance. Finally, we find that alliances are most often characterized by a product-related collaboration between the bank and the fintech and that banks most often cooperate with fintechs providing payment services.
G34|Foreign ownership and skill-biased technological change|We conduct an empirical investigation into the effects of foreign ownership on worker skills using firm-level data from Spain. To control for endogeneity bias due to selection into foreign ownership, we combine a difference-in-differences approach with a propensity score weighting estimator. Our results provide novel evidence that foreign-acquired firms actively raise the skills of their workforce in response to the acquisition by hiring high-skilled workers and providing worker training. To pin down the mechanism, we exploit unique information on whether firms use their foreign parent in exporting to foreign markets. Our results suggest a fundamental role for market access through the foreign parent in explaining skill upgrading in foreign-acquired firms. We reveal substantial productivity gains within foreign-acquired firms and we show that these gains derive from a concurrent effort to raise worker skills and adopt more advanced technology, suggesting a skill bias in technological innovations. We develop a simple theoretical model of foreign ownership featuring technology-skill complementarities in production that can rationalize our findings.
G34|The Importance of Network Recommendations in the Director Labor Market|Directors are more likely to obtain additional directorships or be promoted if the CEO and peer directors of their current board are well-connected. The impact of CEO and peer director connections is stronger for additional appointments and promotions at firms in the CEO’s and peer directors’ networks. CEO connections are particularly important for directors with a weaker labor market. There is no evidence that the appointments of referred directors are less well-received by the market than other appointments. Overall, connections are important in the director labor market. Access to additional networks provides strong incentives for directors to join corporate boards.
G34|What Are the Shareholder Value Implications of Non-Voted Shareholder Proposals?|Managerial resistance precludes half of shareholder-initiated proposals from reaching the ballot stage. I construct a novel dataset of excluded and withdrawn proposals from the Securities and Exchange Commission's responses to managers' exclusion requests. An examination of announcement returns to the exclusion and withdrawal decisions reveals that non-voted proposals have a value-destroying nature. Special interest investors pursuing self-serving agendas and retail investors advocating for one-size-fits-all reforms explain the harmful character of non-voted proposals. I correct for the selection bias induced by managerial resistance and show that focusing only on voted proposals overstates the shareholder proposals-driven value creation.
G34|Clawback Provisions, Executive Pay, and Accounting Manipulation|Clawback provisions allow shareholders to recover previously-awarded compensation from managers involved in accounting manipulation or misconduct. I assess theoretically and empirically the effects of clawback provisions on the structure of managerial compensation and the frequency of accounting manipulation. In a principal-agent model I show how, in the presence of clawback enforcement frictions, clawback adoption can tilt the optimal compensation schedule towards the long-term. I test the empirical relevance of the theoretical implication using data from U.S. public firms in the 2002-2016 period. The identification deals with the endogenous timing of adoption and measurement error by exploiting variation in clawback adoption across a firm's board interlock. I find that, in those firms with fewer pre-adoption independent directors, clawback adoption increases the wealthperformance sensitivity of unvested (long-term) compensation, while reduces the frequency of earnings manipulation. The results suggest that enforcement frictions are relevant, particularly for firms where managers face weak monitoring by shareholders.
G34|How Important are Dismissals in CEO Incentives? Evidence from a Dynamic Agency Model|I estimate a dynamic agency model to quantify the importance of dismissals in CEO incentives vis-à-vis pecuniary compensation. The model features endogenous dynamics in deferred and ow compensation, as well as exogenous departures, and endogenous dismissals after poor firm performance. Thus, the model functions as a classification device for CEO turnover events that exploits information from all the departures in the data. I estimate the model via the Simulated Method of Moments, using data for CEOs in U.S. public firms appointed from 1993 to 2013. The estimated CEO dismissal rate is 1.2 percent, and the CEO replacement cost represents 3.4 percent of firm assets, 64 million in 2015 U.S. dollars for the median firm. Poor governance, proxied by director independence, increases the replacement costs in big firms. The relationship reverses in small firms, so board independence must also capture better hiring policies or career concerns of directors. The results confirm that CEO dismissals are infrequent. However, changes in the cost of replacements that generate small increases in the underlying dismissal rate lead to substantial reductions in the size of incentive compensation.
G34|Does board diversity affect institutional investor preferences? Evidence from Latin America|This paper enquires whether institutional investors have specific preferences on the composition of the board of directors in Latin American firms they hold shares in. The result show that preferences vary significantly in terms of the type of institutional investor. The econometric results suggest grey institutional investors (pension funds and insurance companies) prefer experience and education, while dislike CEO entrenchment. Independent institutional investors value more directors’ professional experience i.e., former CEOs and founders of any firm. Grey investors are more concern on firm corporate governance mechanisms consistent with the agency view, while independent investors are focused in business opportunities in accordance with the resource-based-view of board of directors.
G34|Board Capital Diversity and Firm Value: Evidence from Latin-America|This paper analyzes the effects of diversity of boards of directors’ human and relational capital on the performance of firms in Latin America. Using a large database of 442 firms in 6 countries (Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, and Peru) from 2001 to 2012, we construct a Board Capital Diversity Index that includes educational backgrounds and work experiences for each board member. We find a positive relationship between board capital diversity and firm performance, as measured by Tobin’s Q. In particular, we find that both human capital diversity (educational background) and relational capital diversity (experience in the private and public sector) increase the value of the company. Our results confirm the resource dependence theory, where the board, in addition to its monitoring role, is seen as a provider of resources.
G34|Measuring Profit Efficiency of Colombian Banks: A Composite Nonstandard Profit Function Approach|We analyze the profit efficiency of the Colombian banking industry during theperiod 2001 - 2013. Unlike previous studies, we estimate revenue and cost efficiencyseparately and then compute profit efficiency as a composite measure of both costand revenue efficiency. This approach overcomes the mis-specification problems ofthe traditional nonstandard profit function approach used in most of the literatureregarding profit efficiency. We find that profit efficiency improved during the periodunder analysis mainly because gains in revenue efficiency. In addition, and in contrastwith previous studies but in line with economic intuition, we find that while revenue andcost efficiency tend to be negatively correlated, each correlates positively with profitefficiency. Thus, improving either revenue efficiency or cost efficiency has a positiveimpact on profit efficiency.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
G34|Measuring Profit Efficiency of Colombian Banks: A Composite Nonstandard Profit Function Approach|We analyze the profit efficiency of the Colombian banking industry during theperiod 2001 - 2013. Unlike previous studies, we estimate revenue and cost efficiencyseparately and then compute profit efficiency as a composite measure of both costand revenue efficiency. This approach overcomes the mis-specification problems ofthe traditional nonstandard profit function approach used in most of the literatureregarding profit efficiency. We find that profit efficiency improved during the periodunder analysis mainly because gains in revenue efficiency. In addition, and in contrastwith previous studies but in line with economic intuition, we find that while revenue andcost efficiency tend to be negatively correlated, each correlates positively with profitefficiency. Thus, improving either revenue efficiency or cost efficiency has a positiveimpact on profit efficiency.
G34|International Evidence on Firm Level Decisions in Response to the Crisis: Shareholders vs. Other Stakeholders|The relationship between changes in GDP and unemployment during the 2008 financial crisis differed significantly from previous experiences and across countries. We study firm-level decisions in France, Germany, Japan, the UK, and the US. We find significant differences between the response of US and non-US firms. US firms significantly decreased their production costs relative to firms in other countries. They have also reduced debt, reduced dividend payout, and increased their cash holdings compared to firms in other countries. The differences are, in general, explained by differences in financial leverage. However, financial leverage does not explain differences between production decisions in German and U.S. firms and between Japanese and US firms. We argue that differences in firm governance between US firms and firms in Germany and Japan drive these responses. US firms are more prone to cut labor costs and reduce leverage compared to German firms and Japanese firms in order to achieve larger profits and a larger cash-cushion in the short-run.
G34|Common-Ownership Concentration and Corporate Conduct|The question of whether and how partial common-ownership links between strategically interacting firms affect firm objectives and behavior has been the subject of theoretical inquiry for decades. Since then, the growth of intermediated asset management and consolidation in the asset-management sector has led to more pronounced common ownership links at the beneficial-owner level. Recent empirical research has provided evidence consistent with the literature’s prediction that common ownership concentration (CoOCo) can affect product market outcomes. The resulting antitrust concerns have received worldwide attention. However, because CoOCo can change the objective function of the firm, the potential implications span all fields of economics that involve corporate conduct, including corporate governance, strategy, industrial organization, and financial economics. This article connects the papers establishing the theoretical foundations, reviews the empirical and legal literatures, and discusses challenges and opportunities for future research.
G34|Activism and Takeovers|At the core of agency problems in widely held firms is a dual coordination failure: Dispersed shareholders neither share in the cost of governance interventions (ex post free riding) nor sell shares unless the price at least matches the expected value improvement (ex ante free riding). Whether to confront the free-rider problem in its ex post or ex ante variant amounts to the choice between activism and takeovers. For small toeholds, the returns to these governance mechanisms have inverse comparative statics, and though less efficient, activism is more profitable when the potential value improvement is large. Activists are most effective when, instead of restructuring firms themselves, they broker takeovers. Such takeover activism is Pareto-improving and should earn superior returns, in part because it must pay more than what could be earned by free-riding on a tender offer instead.
G34|The Effect of Minority Veto Rights on Controller Tunneling|"A central challenge in the regulation of controlled firms is curbing controller tunneling. As independent directors and fiduciary duties are widely seen as not up to the task, a number of jurisdictions have given minority shareholders veto rights over these transactions. To assess these rights' efficacy, we exploit a 2011 regulatory reform in Israel that gave the minority the ability to veto pay packages of controllers and their relatives (""controller executives""). We find that the reform curbed the pay of controller executives and led some controller executives to quit their jobs, or work for free, in circumstances suggesting their pay would not have received approval. These findings suggest that minority veto rights can help curb controller tunneling."
G34|Does the Potential to Merge Reduce Competition?|We study anti-competitive mergers in a dynamic model with noisy collusion. At each instant, firms either privately choose output levels or merge, which trades off benefits of avoiding price wars against the costs of merging. There are three results. First, mergers are optimal when collusion fails (i.e., firms sufficiently deviate from a collusive regime). Second, long periods of collusion are likely, because colluding is dynamically stable. Therefore, mergers are rare. Third, mergers (and, in particular, lower merger costs) decrease pre-merger collusion, as punishments by price wars are weakened. Thus, although anti-competitive mergers harm competition ex-post, barriers and costs of merging due to regulation should be reduced to promote competition ex-ante.
G34|Horizontal mergers and product innovation|We set up a stylized oligopoly model of uncertain product innovation to analyze the effects of a merger on innovation incentives and on consumer surplus. The model incorporates two competitive channels for merger effects: the “price coordination” channel and the internalization of the “innovation externality”. We solve the model numerically and find that price coordination between the two products of the merged firm tends to stimulate innovation, while internalization of the innovation externality depresses it. The latter effect is stronger in our simulations and, as a result, the merger leads to lower innovation incentives for the merged entity, absent cost efficiencies and knowledge spillovers. In our numerical analysis both overall innovation and consumer welfare fall after a merger.
G34|Winning by Losing: Evidence on the Long-run Effects of Mergers|We propose a novel approach for measuring returns to mergers. In a new data set of close bidding contests, we use losers’ post-merger performance to construct the counterfactual performance of winners had they not won the contest. Stock returns of winners and losers closely track each other over the 36 months before the merger, corroborating our identification approach. Bidders are also very similar in terms of Tobins q, profitability, and other accounting measures. Over the 3 years after the merger, however, losers outperform winners by 24%. Commonly used methodologies, such as announcement returns, fail to identify acquirer underperformance. Received October 31, 2016; editorial decision October 29, 2017 by Editor Francesca Cornelli.
G34|Loyalty Shares with Tenure Voting - a Coasian bargain? Evidence from the Loi Florange Experiment|French listed companies can issue shares that confer two votes per share after a holding period of at least two years (loyalty shares with tenure voting rights). In 2014 the default rule changed from one-share-one-vote to loyalty shares. The Coase theorem predicts that ceteris paribus shareholders rewrite the corporate charter to preserve the pre-reform structure. The theorem also predicts that the proportion of loyalty shares in initial public offerings is unchanged. The paper shows that most one-share-one-vote companies reverted to the prereform contract. The exception were firms with a stake held by the French state. In initial public offerings, the new default rule had an impact; the proportion of loyalty share statutes increased from about forty to fifty percent after the passage of the law. Companies that kept the same statutes have a significantly higher market to book ratio than companies forced into a different regime. The evidence is broadly consistent with the predictions of the Coase theorem, but only in the absence of conflicted parties with veto power.
G34|CEO Performance in Severe Crises: The Role of Newcomers|A firm’s optimal choice of a CEO involves a trade-off between hiring newcomers – who take time to profit from learning by doing – and avoiding CEO turnover or opting for internal successions – risking that the old guard fall prey to an experience trap, repeating the same old business practices. When firms are hit by an aggregate economic shock, exogenous, unexpected, and unprecedented in nature, reach, magnitude and persistence, conducting ‘business as usual’ no longer applies and having in office a newcomer – a CEO hired recently from another firm – may turn out to be particularly valuable to efficiently abandon old management practices. We use a unique matched firm-employee dataset for Portuguese firms in the wake of the last economic crisis, to estimate the value of a newcomer CEO, who is by nature prone to avoid the experience trap. During the crisis, firms run by newcomer CEOs outperform those run by high tenured and/or internally promoted CEOs in terms of both value added (GVA) and sales. We estimate a performance gap of approximately 18%, and confirm that no such gap exists prior to the crisis. Firms managed by newcomers are also less likely to fail during the crisis. Propensity Score matching confirms our difference-in-differences results. Our findings are robust to different measures of firm performance, across different samples and specifications, and to the inclusion of several CEO and firm controls, including fixed effects. Finally, we show that newcomer CEOs make different decisions in terms of personnel, expenditure, investment and international trade, attaining higher productivity levels.
G34|Minority Share Acquisitions and Collusion: Evidence from the Introduction of National Leniency Programs|There is a growing concern that minority shareholding (MS) in rival firms may facilitate collusion. To examine this concern, we exploit the fact that leniency programs (LPs) are generally recognized as a shock that destabilizes collusive agreements and study the effect that the introduction of an LP has on horizontal MS acquisitions. Using data from 63 countries over the period 1990-2013, we find a large increase in horizontal MS acquisitions in the year in which an LP is introduced, especially in large rivals. The effect is present however only in countries with an effective antitrust enforcement and low levels of corruption and only when the acquisitions involve stakes of 10% - 20%. These results suggest that MS acquisitions may stabilize collusive agreements that were destabilized by the introduction of the LP.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
G34|The Benchmark Inclusion Subsidy|We study the impact of evaluating the performance of asset managers relative to a benchmark portfolio on firms’ investment, merger and IPO decisions. We introduce asset managers into an otherwise standard asset pricing model and show that firms that are part of the benchmark are effectively subsidized by the asset managers. This “benchmark inclusion subsidy” arises because asset managers have incentives to hold some of the equity of firms in the benchmark regardless of the risk characteristics of these firms. Contrary to what is usually taught in corporate finance, we show that the value of an investment project is not governed solely by its own cash-flow risk. Instead, because of the benchmark inclusion subsidy, a firm inside the benchmark would accept some projects that an identical one outside the benchmark would decline. The two types of firms’ incentives to undertake mergers or spinoffs also differ and the presence of the subsidy can alter a decision to take a firm public. We show that the higher the cash-flow risk of an investment, the larger the benchmark inclusion subsidy; the subsidy is zero for safe projects. Benchmarking also leads fundamental firm-level cash-flow correlations to rise. We review a host of empirical evidence that is consistent with the implications of the model.
G34|State-Owned Enterprises: Rationales for Mergers and Acquisitions|The paper contributes to the empirical literature on M&A deals performed by SOEs with a detailed analysis of the reported rationales from a sample of SOE-led acquisitions over the last decade. The sample includes 355 worldwide M&A deals performed by SOEs as acquirers over the period 2002-2012. The data set was obtained by combining firm-level information from two sources, Zephyr and Orbis (Bureau Van Dijk). The analysis is on a case-by-case basis for the rationales of the sample. Overall, the most important message arising from our analysis is that rescue of firms in financial distress is a relatively minor one role played by contemporary SOEs in spite of the Great Recession, while shareholder value maximization and long term strategic goals are more frequently the objective of the observed deals.
G34|How do manager incentives influence corporate hedging?|We explain the diversity of corporate hedging behavior in a single model. The hedging ratio is obtained by maximizing expected utility that is a combination of the corporate level utility and a component that models the incentives of the financial manager. We derive a theoretical model that gives back the classic result of the literature if the financial manager has no other incentive than to maximize corporate utility. In the case the financial manager expects that his evaluation will be based exclusively on the financial profit (the profit of the hedging transactions), being risk averse, he decides not to hedge at all. The hedging ratio depends on the weight of these contradictory effects. We test our theoretical results on Hungarian corporate survey data.
G34|CEO Performance in Severe Crises: The Role of Newcomers|A firm's optimal choice of a CEO involves a trade-off between hiring newcomers - who take time to profit from learning by doing - and avoiding CEO turnover or opting for internal successions - risking that the old guard fall prey to an experience trap, repeating the same old business practices. When firms are hit by an aggregate economic shock, exogenous, unexpected, and unprecedented in nature, reach, magnitude and persistence, conducting 'business as usual' no longer applies and having in office a newcomer - a CEO hired recently from another firm - may turn out to be particularly valuable to efficiently abandon old management practices. We use a unique matched firm-employee dataset for Portuguese firms in the wake of the last economic crisis, to estimate the value of a newcomer CEO, who is by nature prone to avoid the experience trap. During the crisis, firms run by newcomer CEOs outperform those run by high tenured and/or internally promoted CEOs in terms of both value added (GVA) and sales. We estimate a performance gap of approximately 18%, and confirm that no such gap exists prior to the crisis. Firms managed by newcomers are also less likely to fail during the crisis. Propensity core matching confirms our difference-in-differences results. Our findings are robust to different measures of firm performance, across different samples and specifications, and to the inclusion of several CEO and firm controls, including fixed effects. Finally, we show that newcomer CEOs make different decisions in terms of personnel, expenditure, investment and international trade, attaining higher productivity levels.
G34|Does Corporate Governance add value to Islamic banks? A quantitative analysis of cost efficiency and financial stability|In this paper, we examine the impact of corporate governance practices on cost efficiency and financial stability for a sample of Islamic and conventional banks. In our analysis we use a set of corporate governance variables which include, board size, board independence, director gender, board meetings, board attendance, board committees, chair independence and CEO characteristics. The above corporate governance data set was constructed by the study of annual reports and other documents of Islamic banks, and is unique in this field. In our analysis we employ stochastic frontier analysis and panel VAR (PVAR) models in order to quantify long run and short run statistical relationships between operational efficiency of Islamic banks and corporate governance practices. According to our results, Islamic and conventional banks exhibit important differences in the effects of corporate governance practices on cost efficiency and financial stability. Our results warrant caution when Islamic banks select international corporate governance practices. A blind general adoption of corporate governance practices of conventional banks might lead to losses in terms of efficiency of Islamic banks as such adoption of, for example, a third layer of binding practices over and above the already existing ones imposed by the Sharia Board and the Board of Directors may lead to cumbersome business operations. In this respect we believe that our results may be of a certain value to regulators, policy makers and managers of Islamic banks.
G34|The Governance of Risk Management: The Importance of Directors’ Independence and Financial Knowledge|This paper tests the effects of the independence and ﬁnancial knowledge of directors on risk management and ﬁrm value in the gold mining industry. Our original hand-collected database on directors’ ﬁnancial education, accounting background, and ﬁnancial experience allows us to test the effect of each dimension of ﬁnancial knowledge on risk management activities. We show that directors’ ﬁnancial knowledge increases ﬁrm value through the risk management channel. This effect is strengthened by the independence of the directors on the board and on the audit committee. Extending the dimension of education, we show that, following unexpected shocks to gold prices, educated hedgers are more effective than average hedgers in the industry. As a policy implication, our results suggest adding the experience and education dimensions to the 2002 Sarbanes–Oxley Act and New York Stock Exchange requirements for ﬁnancial literacy.
G34|Determinants of merger and acquisition activity in Poland|Despite the increasing importance of the emerging mergers and acquisitions (M&A) markets, the theoretical backgrounds of factors determining the level of activity of enterprises in taking up consolidation processes have not been adequately recognized. Not much attention has yet been paid in global researches to those markets for corporate control which are at earlier stage of development than highly mature markets with long history, such as the US, UK, Germany, or Japan. The primary purpose of the research is to identify the factors determining the level of activity on the M&A market in Poland, the leading M&A market among CEE countries. Analysis covers the impact of factors identified in prior researches conducted on mature corporate control markets on the degree of activity on the M&A market, as well as unique factors selected for the Polish market. According to the prevailing theoretical paradigm, particular markets - due to their institutional environment and degree of development - have a specific set of factors that determine their tendency for exogenous growth and acquisitions by other market players, such as investment funds or individual investors. Research commences with structuring, classification and analysis of the current state of knowledge. With the use of descriptive methods, the objective of identifying and characterizing the collection of universal factors determining M&A market activity has been achieved. Reasoning on specific research problems has been proceeded using deduction, followed by statistical analysis to test the formulated hypothesis. With the use of relevant statistical and econometric methods, including multiple regression analysis, a relationship has been sought between the number of M&A transactions in Poland and the previously identified and selected explanatory variables and groups thereof. The results of regression analysis have been supplied with results of relative value analysis in order to determine, whether importance of national specific factors in explaining the dynamics of M&A deals is greater than universal factors.Both the applied methodology and the extent of contemplated research in terms of space and time is innovative for an emerging M&A market. Unlike such areas as transaction efficiency, choice of payment method in acquisition, or business valuation in M&A processes, no comprehensive research has yet been carried out on factors determining the activity on the Polish corporate control market involving state-of-the-art econometric analysis.
G34|Financial Intermediation In Post Bank Consolidation Era And Economic Growth In Nigeria|The study examine the relationship between financial intermediation and economic growth in Nigeria after the consolidation of the banking sector reform in Nigeria. Augmented Dickey Fuller Unit root test was conducted as a pretest to avoid giving spurious results. Granger causality was also employed to look at the direction of relationship between the dependent variable and the independent variables, the result shows a bidirectional relationship between Money Supply (MoS) and Gross Domestic Product (GDP) while Credit to Private Sector (CPS) does not granger GDP and GDP does not granger cause CPS, a unidirectional relationship however exist between CPS and MoS all at 5% level of significance. The Ordinary least square (OLS) method of analysis with data spanning 13 years shows that the variables for financial intermediation significantly affect economic growth in Nigeria. CPS has a positive impact on economic growth and so does MoS even though MoS contributes more to GDP than CPS contributes to GDP. Thus the result provide evidence that financial intermediation role of Nigerian banks have increased during the period of study an indication that people are having increased confidence on Nigerian banks after the consolidation and hence depositing the money in the banks. The study therefore recommend increase in granting credit to the private sector, expansionary monetary policy and policies aimed at strengthening further the banks in Nigeria so that their intermediation function can improve hence economic growth.
G34|Long-Term performance of Corporate Governance in Thailand|The purpose of this study is to review the impact of the market on Adoption of Corporate Governance in Thailand for a decade during 2003-2017. The study examines the firm-level return in both operations, from ROA & ROE, and equity price return from different level of Corporate Governance rating in comparison to the market-Stock Exchange of Thailand through out the period. The study employs the long-term cross sectional comparison between firms which separate the Corporate Governance Rating firms into four quartile rank as Excellence, Very Good, Good and Poor Corporate Governance Rating. The test of quartile differences indicated that the Excellent level of Corporate Governance firms were performing better in comparison to the Poor level in four measures of returns which are Annual Monthly Return and Annual Holding Period Return, ROE and ROA as well as the TOBINQ.
G34|Ownership structure of family business groups of Pakistan|This study analysis the family business groups ownership structure in the framework of corporate legal system, regulatory institutions and codes of corporate governance of Pakistan. The study uses unique handpicked data comprising a sample of 326 non-financial firms listed on Pakistan Stock Exchange for a period of 2009-13. The results reveal that Pakistani corporations have high degree of concentration of ownership. The controlling shareholders own about 87 % of firms with 10 % or more shareholding and 60 % of firms with 20 % or more shareholding. Most of the businesses are controlled by families. In 63 % of business group firms, families own 20 % or more top shareholdings. The novel contribution of the study is to develop the ownership structure of family businesses and measure the cash flow leverage, cash flow and voting rights of ultimate owners in family business groups. The study finds the considerable difference in voting and cash flow rights in family business group firms. This has strong implications for regulators, minority shareholders and dispersed investors.
G34|Marking to Market versus Taking to Market|Building on the idea that accounting matters for corporate governance, this paper studies the equilibrium interaction between the measurement rules that firms find privately optimal, firms' governance, and the liquidity in the secondary market for their assets. This equilibrium approach reveals an excessive use of market-value accounting: corporate performance measures rely excessively on the information generated by other firms' asset sales and insufficiently on the realization of a firm's own capital gains. This dries up market liquidity and reduces the informativeness of price signals, thereby making it more costly for firms to overcome their agency problems.
G34|Strong Boards and Risk-taking in Islamic Banks|This paper examines whether variations in strong boards explain the differences between risk-taking in Islamic and conventional banks. From an analysis of a pooled sample of Islamic and conventional banks, we find that strong boards in general serve their shareholders through engaging in higher risk-taking activities across both types of banks. In Islamic banks, however, the Shari'ah Supervisory Board (SSB) is found to mitigate risk-taking when integrated with a strong board, as religiosity restrains risk-taking.
G34|Why female board representation matters: The role of female directors in reducing male CEO overconfidence in corporate decisions|We provide novel manifestations why female board representation matters. We find that male CEOs at firms with female directors are less likely to be overconfident as they hold fewer deep-in-the-money options. Female directors are associated with less aggressive investment policies, better acquisition decisions, and improved firm performance. This is the case for industries with high overconfidence prevalence, but not for those with low overconfidence prevalence. Finally, firms with female directors experience less of a drop in performance during the 2007-2009 financial crisis. These results are consistent with the view that female directors improve firm outcomes through reducing male CEO overconfidence in corporate decisions.
G34|CEO general managerial skills and corporate social responsibility|This study examines the impact of managerial skill sets on corporate social responsibility (CSR). We show that firms with chief executive officers (CEOs) who gain general managerial skill sets through their lifetime work experience (i.e., generalist CEOs) tend to engage in less CSR. This finding remains consistent after considering potential endogenous matching between CEO types and firms, as well as alternative measures of CSR. We further show that the negative relationship between generalist CEOs and CSR becomes more prominent when CEOs are close to the timing of job-hopping, especially for firms with a higher level of institutional ownership and institutional investors who frequently alter their holding positions. These findings are consistent with the argument that CEOs who frequently face the short-term performance pressure from the labor market are reluctant to invest in projects which are likely to generate profits over the long run.
G34|Does CDS trading affect risk-taking incentives in managerial compensation?|We find that managers receive more risk-taking incentives in their compensation packages once their firms are referenced by credit default swap (CDS) trading, particularly in firms with bank debt, greater institutional holdings, and in financial distress. These findings suggest that boards offer pay packages that encourage greater managerial risk taking to take advantage of the reduced creditor monitoring after CDS trade initiation. Further, we find that the onset of CDS trading attenuates the effect of vega on leverage, consistent with the view that the threat of exacting creditors restrains managerial risk appetite.
G34|Elective Stock and Scrip Dividends|We investigate firms’ decisions to pay elective stock dividends, known in the UK as scrip dividends. Scrip dividends give investors the choice between receiving new shares or the equivalent value as a cash dividend. UK firms paying scrip dividends are more likely to be financially constrained, and scrip dividends are used more when access to external financing is costly. Our results are robust to using the 2008 financial crisis as an exogenous shock to credit supply. Cash preservation is the most important corporate incentive to use scrip dividends as they tend to be distributed in combination with dividend cuts and with major corporate investments such as debt-financed mergers and acquisitions. Analysis of US dividend reinvestment plans by which investors purchase new shares confirms firms’ cash-preservation motives.
G34|Insider trading and networked directors|We analyze the relation between insider trading and the networks of executive and non-executive directors in UK listed companies. While most existing studies focus on firm-specific private information, we find that non-firm-specific information – such as information on other companies and information on industry and market trends – plays an important role in insider trading behavior and performance. Well-connected directors trade shares less frequently and for smaller values. However, their transactions are more profitable, especially when they make consecutive opportunistic purchases in the multiple companies on whose boards they sit. Taken together, well-connected directors are likely to outperform their peers with inferior connections.
G34|The impact of mandatory governance changes on financial risk management|This paper uses the staggered adoption of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for a difference-in-difference identification of the impact of corporate governance on hedging. In a large panel of listed US firms, we focus on two indexes of the legally required governance reforms, but also a wide index of governance quality. We find that the substantial improvements in governance standards robustly lead to less foreign exchange exposure and more foreign exchange derivatives hedging, and that the economic magnitude of the effect is large. Also, the adoption of mandatory governance measures is a stronger predictor of hedging than voluntary improvements. Dynamic panel GMM estimates confirm a significant positive relationship between governance quality and hedging.
G34|Divisional buyouts by private equity and the market for divested assets|We study the role and performance of private equity (PE) in corporate asset sales. Corporate sellers obtain significantly positive excess returns in PE deals, gains in wealth significantly greater than for intercorporate asset sales. Based on exit valuations for 98% of PE deals, we find gains in enterprise value in buyouts are significantly greater than for benchmark firms. Corporate seller excess returns are positively correlated with subsequent gains in asset enterprise value. A parsimonious auction model suggests that only restructuring capabilities of PE (not acquisition of undervalued assets) can explain the pattern of the gains generated in these PE deals.
G34|La diversité des capitalismes financiers, le cas des Fusions-Acquisition en France|Les opérations de fusions acquisitions sont des moments particuliers sur le marché du capital car elles finalisent un arrangement marchand : le capital d’une PME ou la filiale d’un groupe qui n’existait pas en tant qu’objet échangeable librement sur un marché, se trouve doter de qualités marchandes, d’une valeur financière et fait l’objet d’un achat. Observer ces opérations permet de comprendre comment le capital d’une entreprise devient un objet financier. Pour aborder empiriquement le secteur des fusions-acquisitions, nous avons travaillé sur la base CARFI qui a recensé 363 opérations de FUSAC en 2010 en France. Nous avons complété cette base en ajoutant le niveau des organisations financières. Nous avons mené une ACM qui nous a permis de distinguer trois régimes financiers : le capitalisme bancaire impliquant les banques européennes, le capitalisme financier lié à la présence de banques d’investissement américaines et le capitalisme financier d’entreprise associé à des conseillers indépendants.
G34|Reforming the large business groups to promote productivity and inclusion in Korea|Large business groups, which played a key role in Korea's economic development, are still dominant today, especially in exporting. The concentration of economic power creates a number of problems and risks. Ensuring a level-playing field between the business groups, also called chaebols, and SMEs and start-ups is essential to promote innovation and inclusive growth. While the business groups have long been subject to a number of special regulations, a comprehensive strategy is needed. The top priority is to improve corporate governance by strengthening the role of outside directors and protecting minority shareholders. A greater say for institutional investors and more active use of private remedies, such as class action suits, would also be beneficial. In addition, strengthening competition by reducing barriers to trade and FDI and activating a market for corporate control would lead to better performance by the groups. The ownership structure of the groups needs to be improved, notably by phasing out circular shareholding among their affiliates. This Working Paper relates to the 2018 OECD Economic Survey of Korea (www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/economic-survey-korea.htm)
G34|The Norwegian Gender Balance Law. A reform that failed?|The Norwegian Gender Balance Law (GBL) was proposed in June 14th 2003, made into a law on December 9th 2005, and implemented from January 1st 2006 with a two-year grace period. The law mandates at least 40% board representation for both gender in PLC companies. The government gave two main promises, one that gender equality would increase with the law, the other that companies' financial performance would improve. I review research literature and add descriptive long-term developments on these dimensions. This essay concludes that the promises were not fulfilled, and that the corporate governance consequences that did follow are mostly negative. Companies attain the 40% female director target, but besides this, the law does not bring more female managers or CEOs, and the gender segregated labour market remains segregated. Today, the law applies to about 500 women, half of the number at its maximum. An unintended consequence of the legislation is the mass exodus of companies from the PLC register. I find it difficult to compare results from research on financial performance. Researchers perform before-and-after study, a natural experiment, but the reform has a long gestation period and attrition of companies from the PLC register. I conclude that the law should be repealed. In a wider context the experiment casts doubt as to the usefulness of legislation to promote gender equality in the boardroom and in society at large.
G34|Male pupils taught by female homeroom teachers show higher preference for Corporate Social Responsibility in adulthood|On the demand side, we test how early childhood education creates preferences for Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) through teacher-student gender randommatching. Using originally collected individual-level data, we examine how female teachers in elementary school influence students f CSR stated preferences in their adulthood. In a quasi-natural experiment setting, our major findings are: (1) female teachers affect pupils f preferences for corporate responsibility later in life, (2) the effect of a female teacher is robust if she was a class teacher in first grade, (3) the effect of a female teacher is observed only for different-gender pupils but not for same-gender ones. These findings imply that the gender gap in adulthood is reduced by matching female teachers with male students in earlier years. We examine and support the female socialization hypothesis.
G34|How effective are remedies in merger cases? A European and national assessment| Remedies form an essential tool of any enforcement action and need to be devised with great caution from National Competition Authorities (NCAs). If the remedy is ineffective, the enforcement action does not reach the desired objective and resources will have been wasted. If the remedy is disproportionate, the decision is put at risk in a possible subsequent appeal. Remedies either behavioural or structural imposed by competition authorities seek to eliminate unilateral or/and coordinated effects as a result of the merger and restore competition on the relevant market(s) to the status quo ante. Moreover, remedy packages have typically included extensive structural divestments to remove competition concerns. The scope of this paper is to examine various issues relating to the imposition of remedies in merger cases focusing on the gas and electricity sectors (i.e. commodity and capacity release programmes, customer release schemes, network related remedies). This study relies on the energy sector with a view to developing general principles for imposing effective remedies in other sectors as well. Given the nature of competition in energy markets, particularly effective remedies are those that involve gas release programmes, the sale of price-setting generation plants, network assets, and controlling stakes in merging parties’ competitors.
G34|CEO Compensation, Pay Inequality, and the Gender Diversity of Bank Board of Directors|Greater gender diversity on bank board of directors is associated with higher compensation inequality because CEOs at these banks have higher base salary. This effect disappears during the financial crisis, largely due to adjustment of non-salary compensation.
G34|Треба Ли Компанијама Управљати У Интересу Акционара?<BR>[Whether Companies Need to Be Managed in the Interests of the Shareholders?]|Serbian. Једна од основних и широко заступаних поставки корпоративног управљања јесте управљање предузећима у интересу акционара, односно власника предузећа. Овај концепт заснован је на аргументима да власници имају најјачи интерес у предузећу и да од тог интереса директно зависи ефикасност пословања, док су истовремено интереси акционара најмање заштићени међу интересима свих конституената. У неким земљама тај концепт уздигнут је до апсолута (у САД као једини интерес који треба штитити истиче се интерес акционара), али и тамо где то није случај, односно где се респектују и интереси других конституената, интерес акционара је неприкосновен и истиче се у први план. У раду се разматрају основи и модалитети којима се у различитим земљама и различитим условима мотивише такав облик корпоративног управљања, као и консеквенце које такви захтеви и њихово испуњавање производе. Посебно се указује на крах концепције максимизације тржишних вредности акција, која је била изузетно популарна у последњим деценијама 20. и почетком овог века. One of the basic and widely represented corporate governance settings is corporate governance in the interests of shareholders, or company owners. This concept is based on the arguments that the owners have the strongest interest in the company and that the efficiency of the business depends directly on this interest, while at the same time the interests of shareholders are at least protected among the interests of all constituents. In some countries, this concept has been elevated to the absolute (in the United States as the only interest to be protected, the interest of shareholders is emphasized), but where this is not the case, or where the interests of other constituents are respected, the interest of the shareholders is inviolable and stands out in the first plan. The paper discusses the basis and modalities that motivate different forms of corporate governance in different countries and different conditions, as well as the consequences that such requirements and their fulfillment produce. In particular, the crash of the concept of maximizing the market value of shares, which was extremely popular in the last decades of the 20th and the beginning of this century, is particularly indicative.
G34|Money laundering, Tax havens, Transparency and Board of Directors of Banks|Among other characteristics, money laundering notably occurs across national borders and primarily through banks, and mainly because banks, which are both legitimate and ‘ubiquitous’ financial services institutions, engage primarily in financial intermediation. We ask, are the levers of control over banks’ involvement in money laundering and other financial crimes, more effective when pulled from the outside by government agencies or is there a less arm’s-length role for banks’ board of directors, by way of appropriately nuanced corporate governance? To answer this question, we first attempt to understand money laundering, its antecedents, its support mechanisms, and then how it may be tamed; with emphasis on the potential productive role of banks’ boards. At a general and/or high level, we recommend that the intervention of banks’ boards must focus (i.e., insist) on: (i) the primacy of transparency and upholding of both real and perceived reputational capital of the bank, and (ii) ascertaining that their banks’ relations with corresponding banks distributed across several national borders or association with banks domiciled in notorious tax havens, are demonstrably above board.
G34|Family firms and labour productivity: the role of enterprise-level bargaining in the Italian economy|We investigate the role of Italian firms in labour productivity performance. We find that family-owned firms have lower labour productivity than their non-family counterparts. In a second step, we estimate the role of firm-level bargaining (FLB) to determine whether family-controlled firms that adopt this type of bargaining may partially close the gap in terms of labour productivity with their non-family competitors. Our results, obtained through IV estimation to control for endogeneity bias, suggest that enterprises under family governance achieve significant labour productivity gains — greater than those achieved by their non-family counterparts — when they adopt firm-level bargaining.
G34|Contemporary Criticism of Corporate Behaviour|Abstract: Nowadays, corporations play an important role in the economic, social and political life. During the last century, they contributed to the economic and technological development of our world. We may say that this evolution led to a better wellbeing, which means more wealth, more speed, more options, more freedom and spare time. They have brought mankind, things without which we couldn’t imagine our existence: planes, communication means, computers, pharmaceutical products etc. But at what price? And who is going to pay it? Over the last decades, people and organizations were getting worried about the negative impact that corporations might have on their lives (and the next generations’ live) from an economic, social and environmental perspective. This paper is focused on corporate dominance and its aim is to bring into light the main critics of corporate behaviour classified according to different criteria.
G34|Conceptual Approaches to Public Governance. Corporate Governance vs. Public Governance|Abstract: This paper tries to define the concepts of corporate governance and public governance, to describe and analyze the most significant models while trying to answer the question What would be the most efficient model of corporate governance/ public governance? The article is structured in two parts, in the first part are presented conceptual explanations on corporate governance in the context of globalization, while in the second part there will be presented conceptual references regarding the public governance. From the content of this article the concept of corporate governance plays an important role in the business sector, which represents a central and dynamic aspect of economic reality and is increasingly present in many countries of the world. The concept of public government implies more than the provision of quality for public services, preserving the life and freedom of citizens and their participation in the decision-making process.
G34|Les éditos des rapports de développement durable servent-ils à quelque chose? Une étude empirique de leur capacité à prédire la performance RSE|(VF)La plupart des grandes entreprises éditent un rapport de développement durable. Ce document commence par un édito signé du dirigeant ou d’un top manager. Nous proposons un modèle explicatif de la performance RSE future des grandes entreprises françaises en menant une analyse textuelle du contenu des éditos en référence à la définition de la RSE de Carroll (1979). L'étude empirique menée confirme que la présence des quatre dimensions de la RSE dans les éditos peut être considérée comme un indicateur avancé de la performance RSE, ce lien étant plus fort lorsque les éditos sont signés par le CEO.
G34|L’évolution des rémunérations des dirigeants dans les sociétés cotées françaises|The highest levels of CEO pay trigger public outrage on a regular basis. A panel of large French listed companies show that these most outrageous levels of pay do not exhibit an upward trend during the 2001-2016 period. On the contrary, the equity-based part of these pays tends to recede since their fair values have been publicly disclosed. On the opposite side, CEO pay rose tremendously in less exposed firms. While public opinion focuses on the highest levels of pay, below-average CEOs catch up with their peers and in the end, they significantly contribute to rising income inequalities. Overall, cash pay rose significantly during the observed period. Market forces, such as pay competitiveness on the market for CEOs and shareholder pressure to increase performance-based components, partly explain rising managerial pays. Classification JEL : G32, G34, M12, M14.
G34|Working in family firms|Family firms are ubiquitous in most countries. The differences in objectives, governance, and management styles between those firms and their non-family counterparts have several implications for the workforce, which scholars have only recently started to investigate. Family firms offer greater job security, employ different management practices, have a comparative advantage to avoid conflicts when employment relations are more hostile, and provide insurance to workers through implicit contracts when labor market regulation is limited. But all this also comes at a cost.
G34|CAPM-Based Company (Mis)valuations|There is a discrepancy between CAPM-implied and realized returns. As a result, using the CAPM in capital budgeting decisions - as is recommended in finance textbooks should have valuation effects. For instance, low beta projects are expected to be valued more by CAPM-using managers than by the market. This paper empirically tests this hypothesis using publicly announced M&A decisions. We show that takeovers of lower beta targets are accompanied by lower CARs for the bidder. Consistent with our hypothesis, the effect is more pronounced for larger acquisitions, higher growth targets, and private targets. Furthermore, low beta bidders are more likely to use their own stock to finance the deal. More generally, low beta firms are less likely to issue equity, and more likely to repurchase shares. These effects are not reversed in the long-run, suggesting that CAPM-using managers may be irrational, though this last test lacks power.
G34|Strengthened State Capitalism: Nationalized Firms in China|We examine the nationalization of listed firms in China. Using a manually collected data set of 115 cases of ownership transfer from private to state control, we find that nationalization is positively associated with firm performance. When we analyze potential mechanisms through which nationalization may affect firm performance, we find a positive effect on benefits in the form of market power, government subsidies and bank financing. We also identify significant costs in the form of a higher tax burden, higher employment costs, and higher levels of corporate donations following nationalization. Finally, we show that weak local institutions exacerbate the influence nationalization has on firm performance and the benefits and costs tied to a shift to state control. These findings shed light on the effects when the government actively takes a more prominent role in the economy by becoming a controlling shareholder in large companies.
G34|Threatening to buy: Private equity buyouts and antitrust policy|Private equity firms (PE firms) have become common owners of established firms in concentrated markets. We show that the threat of a PE acquisition can trigger incumbent mergers in an otherwise merger-stable industry. This can help antitrust authorities maximize consumer surplus because previously privately unprofitable – but consumer surplus-enhancing – mergers now take place. We thus predict that merger waves among incumbents should follow the development of a local PE industry.
G34|Post-acquisition dynamics of technology start-ups: drawing the temporal boundaries of post-acquisition restructuring process|The evolutionary perspective is important in order to understand post-acquisition restructuring as a dynamic process. In particular, this paper focuses on how the survival pattern of target start-ups as autonomous business units changes over time. This study observes a large sample of Swedish technology start-ups entering from 1997 to 2002 and follows them until 2009. Based on a discrete-time duration analysis, we find that acquisition affects the survival of target start-ups differently in the short-run and the long-run. Within 4 years after acquisition, acquisition is found to lower the probability of survival of start-ups as autonomous business units. However, from the 5th year after acquisition, the acquisition effects tend to become positive, although not statistically significant after possible endogeneity of acquisition is controlled for. It is inferred that acquired start-ups experience an extensive selection and experimentation internally by acquirers through post-acquisition restructuring within 4 years after acquisition. During the process, target start-ups’ operations are temporally disrupted
G34|The Anchoring Effect in Mergers and Acquisitions: Evidence from an Emerging Market|This article examines the presence of the reference price effect in mergers and acquisitions in Russia, which can act as a distortion in investor perception of the influence a deal has on a company. In this study we use the Russian market as a laboratory for the investigation of behavioral effects in a relatively inefficient market. We find a relationship between the acquirer’s announcement period return and the proximity of its pre-announcement share price to the 52-week high. The 52-week high serves as a salient anchor even though it is economically irrelevant for valuation purposes. This effect appears to be stronger for deals associated with higher levels of uncertainty. The findings confirm the presence of the anchoring bias in evaluating the effect of a merger or acquisition announcement by Russian investors. We demonstrate a significant anchoring effect even for deals with a blocking (>10%) or a controlling stake (>25%) in an emerging market with a highly concentrated ownership.
G34|Do Boards Of Directors Affect CEO Behavior? Evidence From Payout Decisions|We test the ability of boards of directors to eliminate the negative impact of CEO behavior on payout policy. We contribute to the literature by testing the ability of boards to influence CEO payout propensity. First, we show that if the compensation scheme of a CEO does not stimulate him or her to take more risk, the level of payout will be higher. Second, by introducing an index of corporate governance quality we show that corporate governance tools may reduce the negative effects of CEO risk preferences: in companies with good corporate governance, the risk preferences of the CEO do not affect payout decisions. Third, based on a set of specifications for risk preferences, we show how the impact of CEO attitudes to risk influences the types of payouts
G34|Institutions and determinants of firm survival in European emerging markets|We analyze the impact of institutional quality on firm survival in 15 European emerging markets. We employ the Cox proportional hazards model with a large dataset of firms during 2006–2015. Our results show that institutional quality (IQ) is a significant preventive factor for firm survival, and it displays diminishing returns as its effect is largest for low-level IQ countries and smallest for high-level IQ countries. In terms of specific indicators, the level of national governance and the extent of corruption control exhibit the key impacts. In terms of firmspecific controls, indicators of ownership structure and aggregate financial performance are the economically most significant factors associated with increased survival probability of firms in European emerging markets.
G34|Ownership Concentration and Firm Performance in European Emerging Economies: A Meta-Analysis|This paper aims to perform a large-scale meta-analysis to examine the relationship between ownership concentration and firm performance in emerging economies of Central and Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union. A meta-synthesis of 1517 estimates collected from 69 previous studies indicated the presence of a statistically significant and positive effect of ownership concentration on firm performance. The synthesized effect size, however, is only modest at best. A meta-regression analysis conducted to identify the factors underlying the small effect size revealed that differences in target industries, estimation periods, design of ownership variables, data sources, estimators, and choices of control variables could have had systematic and profound effects on the empirical results presented in previous studies. We have also noted that publication selection bias is strongly suspected in this research field, and that, due to the magnitude of this bias, existing studies cannot be expected to provide genuine evidence regarding the effect of ownership concentration on firm performance in European emerging economies. Further empirical studies are required to identify the true effect in this region.
G34|When Japanese Banks Become Pure Creditors: Effects of declining shareholding by banks on bank lending and firms' risk taking|Utilizing the regulatory change relating to banks' shareholding in Japan as an instrument, this study examines the causal effects of declining shareholding by banks on bank lending and firms' risk taking. Banks may hold equity claims over client firms for either of the following two reasons: (i) gaining a competitive advantage by exploiting complementarity between shareholding and lending activities, and (ii) mitigating shareholder-creditor conflict. Exogenous reduction in a bank's shareholding would then impair the competitiveness of the bank's lending activities and aggravate the risk-shifting behavior of client firms. Using a firm-bank matched dataset of Japan's listed firms during the period 2001-2006, we empirically tested several hypotheses and obtain the following findings. First, a bank's removal from the list of major shareholders of a client firm (extensive margin) and the reduction in the ratio of the bank's shareholding to the firm's total shares on issue (intensive margin) decreases the bank's share of the firm's loans. Second, a reduction in the extensive margin of a bank's shareholding increases the volatility of the client firm's return on assets and reduces its Sharpe ratio. However, we do not find the same effect when a bank reduces the intensive margin of its shareholding.
G34|Firm Failure in Russia during Economic Crises and Growth : A Large Survival Analysis|In this paper, we trace the survival status of more than 110,000 Russian firms in the years of 2007–2015 and examine the determinants of firm survival across periods of economic crisis and growth. Applying the Cox proportional hazards model, we find that the effects of some variables regarded as key determinants of firm survival are not always robust across business cycles. Among the variables that constantly affect firm survival across business cycles and industries, concentration of ownership, the number of board directors and auditors, firm age, and business network are included. By contrast, the effects of some ownership-related variables on firm survival vary depending on the nature of economic recessions such as a global crisis and a local one. There is also evidence that an international audit firm increases the probability of firm survival; however, gaps in the quality between international audit firms and those from Russia decrease over time. These findings suggest that one should not make hasty generalizations regarding the determinants of firm survival by looking at a specific economic period or industry.
G34|A New model of mergers and innovation|This paper reexamines the impact of merger on innovation. Unlike as in Federico et al (2017), it considers the scenario where merged firms combine their research labs. It shows that, in equilibrium, each firm chooses a higher R&D effort after the merger, while industry effort may rise or fall due to the merger. Furthermore, it shows that given a sufficient condition, profits of the merged firm falls and consumer surplus rises in the post merger scenario. These results are in sharp contrast to the findings of Federico et al (2017).
G34|Constraints of Spanish Insolvency Law. A predictive bankruptcy model for Spanish industrial SMEs (2007-2015)|Why almost 90% of Spanish SMEs that declare insolvency end up in liquidation? Academic works on insolvency focus either on legal terms – normative bias, impact on business’ death rate, and contrast to internal restructuring processes, to name a few – or on financial aspects – especially bankruptcy predictive models – . This work argues that a combined approach could be elucidating. For this purpose, it configures a predictive model – inspired on Atlman’s z-score – for Spanish SMEs of industrial sectors for the period 2007-2015. This investigation argues that operative difficulties can be detected well in advance to official declaration of insolvency; and provides specific evidence of Spanish Law constraints.
G34|Should Investors Care Where Private Equity Managers Went To School?|In this paper, we investigate whether the educational background of private equity managers, which represents an important part of their human capital, impacts fund performance. In particular, we explore three potential channels how the educational background may influence fund performance: (i) institutional quality, (ii) individual performance, and (iii) academic variety. We find that a combination of top-tier education and work experience identifies individual performance in the management team. In addition, academic variety, in particular among graduates of high-ranked universities, rather than uniform institutional quality, is an important return driver.
G34|Buy Low, Sell High? Do Private Equity Fund Managers Have Market Abilities?|When investors commit capital to a private equity fund, the money is not immediately invested but is called by the fund manager throughout an investment period of up to five years. This business model allows private equity fund managers to invest the committed capital at their own discretion, which gives them the flexibility to time the markets. Based on 5,366 private equity deals, which are benchmarked against around 11,000 transaction market multiples and 170,000 trading market multiples, we find evidence that on average private equity funds are able to add value by timing the markets. Throughout the holding period, private equity funds achieve on average a 0.5 EBITDA market multiple expansion. Market timing ability is not captured by performance measures such as the PME, yet it is a potential source of returns for investors.
G34|Managerial Networks and Shareholder Value: Evidence from Sudden Deaths|This paper investigates the causal effect of connections among top executives and directors of different firms on shareholder value using a quasi-natural experiment. Our identification strategy rests on the idea that sudden deaths trigger unexpected and exogenous dissolutions of connections, which enables us to isolate the value of managerial connections by studying stock price reactions at firms where managers connected to a suddenly deceased manager work. Our results show that firms connected to a suddenly deceased manager experience a statistically significant reduction in shareholder value between 1.6 and 2.6 million USD, which is consistent with the notion that managerial connections foster shareholder value. When exploring the cross-sectional variation, we find evidence that connections to inside directors, connections established via previously shared work engagements, and within-industry connections are most valuable.
G34|An interval variables approach to address measurement uncertainty in governance indicators|Many variables in governance are measured with uncertainty. This paper addresses this problem, showing that interval variables are a suitable way to handle it, providing an application in corporate governance. We build two constructs, one for Investor protection and the other for Constraints on shareholders based on the original dataset by La Porta et al. (1998) and we find that for very low levels of investor protection, constraints are a suitable way to provide some form of safeguard. We also provide evidence for the theoretical claim that investor protection and constraints on shareholders work as substitutes under specific circumstances.
G34|Taxes and the Location of Targets|This paper uses firm-level data to investigate the impact of taxes on the international location of targets in M&A. In principle, a higher tax rate in the target’s country could make an acquisition there more likely, less likely, or have no effect at all. We combine financial and ownership data for companies in ORBIS in 2005 with domestic and cross-border acquisitions in ZEPHYR between 2006 and 2008. We estimate a random parameters form of mixed logit model. We find that the statutory tax rate in the target country has a negative impact on the probability of an acquisition in that country, with an average elasticity of around 1. The size of the effect differs (i) between acquirers that were multinational or domestic in 2005; (ii) between domestic and cross-border acquisitions; and (iii) depending on whether the acquirer’s country has a worldwide or territorial tax system.
G34|Corporate governance|Corporate governance is a recent concept that encompasses the costs caused by managerial misbehavior. Corporate governance is concerned with how organizations in general, and corporations in particular, produce value and how that value is distributed among the members of the corporation, its stakeholders. The interrelation of value production and value distribution links the ubiquitous technological aspect (the production of value) with the moral and ethical dimension (the distribution of value). Corporate governance is concerned with this link in general, but more specifically with the moral and ethical dimensions of distributing the generated value among the stakeholders. Value in firms is created by firm-specific investments, and the motivation and coordination of value enhancing activities and investment is protected by the power concentrated at the pyramidal top of the organization. In modern companies, it is the CEO and the top management deciding how to create value and how to distribute it among the relevant stakeholders. Due to asymmetric information and the imperfect nature of markets and contracts, adverse selection and moral hazard problems occur, where delegated (selected) managers could act in their own interest at the costs of other relevant stakeholders. Corporate governance is a two-tailed concept. The first aspect is about identifying the (most) relevant stakeholder(s), separating theory and practice into two different and conflicting streams: the stakeholder value approach and the shareholder value approach. The second aspect of the concept is about providing and analyzing different mechanisms, reducing the costs induced by moral hazard and adverse selection effects, and to balance out the motivation and coordination problems of the relevant stakeholders. Corporate governance is an interdisciplinary concept encompassing academic fields like finance, economics, accounting, law, taxation and psychology, among others. Like countries differ according to their institutions (i.e. legal and political systems, norms, and rules), firms differ according to their size, age, dominant shareholders or industries. Thus concepts in corporate governance differ along these dimensions as well. And while the underlying characteristics vary in time, continuously or as an exogenous shock, concepts in corporate governance are dynamic and static, offering a challenging field of interest for academics, policy makers and firm managers.
G34|On the choice of CEO duality: Evidence from a mandatory disclosure rule|We adopt a novel approach to explain why firms opt for or against CEO duality and the value implications of this choice. Exploiting the 2009 amendments to Regulation S-K, we provide unique evidence on the first-time disclosure of the reasons firms state for combining (separating) the roles of CEO and chairman. The stated reasons support both agency theory and organization theory. They are more numerous and comprise more words, including more positive words, for firms with duality. Examining the announcement returns to firms' disclosures, we find that investors evaluate the main reasons for CEO duality by considering the firm's characteristics.
G34|The corporate equity puzzle|Why don't non-financial companies in Europe issue more equity? Using experimental data on firms from Europe, this paper analyses how firms trade-off between debt and external equity financing. It finds that firms are willing to pay a substantial premium on debt when presented with an equity participation as an alternative. Companies are willing to pay an interest rate that is about 8.8pp higher than the cost of equity to obtain a loan instead of external equity. This preference for debt can be explained only partially by the more favourable tax treatment of debt, fear of loss of corporate control and positive growth expectations. This paper discusses what else may explain this striking aspect of firm behaviour in the EU.
G34|Die Nutzung insolvenzrechtlicher Sanierungswege durch kleine und mittlere Unternehmen: Das Beispiel der Eigenverwaltung|Mit der Einführung des ESUG wurde das Insolvenzrecht Deutschlands im Jahr 2012 reformiert. Das ESUG eröffnet neue Sanierungswege, z. B. das eigenverwaltete Schutzschirmverfahren vor der Insolvenz und die Eigenverwaltung während des Eröffnungsverfahrens. Insgesamt beantragen weiterhin nur einige hundert Unternehmen diese Verfahren: Das entspricht 1 bis 2 % aller insolventen Unternehmen. Die Nutzung steigt ab einer Unternehmensgröße von 10 Mitarbeitern und mit dem Unternehmensalter deutlich an. Nur noch jeder zehnte Eigenverwaltungsantrag wird vom Gericht abgelehnt, das bietet den Unternehmen mehr Planungssicherheit für Sanierungen.
G34|Effectiveness and (in)efficiencies of compensation regulation: Evidence from the EU banker bonus cap|We investigate the (unintended) effects of bank executive compensation regulation. Capping the share of variable compensation did not induce an executive director exodus from EU banking because banks raised fixed compensation sufficiently to retain executives. However, risk-adjusted bank performance deteriorated, consistent with reduced incentives to exert effort and insurance effects associated with fixed compensation components. We also find that banks with directors that are more affected by the bonus cap exhibit more systemic as well as systematic risk. This result casts doubts on the effectiveness of the policy to achieve its aim to enhance financial stability.
G34|Strategic alliances between banks and fintechs for digital innovation: Motives to collaborate and types of interaction|In times of digitalization, firms increasingly need to form alliances due to the higher complexity and greater dynamics of markets. Digital innovation poses challenges for established institutions (e.g., banks) in adapting to changing rules that are set by new competitors and higher customer expectations. However, young firms providing technical solutions for the financial services industry (fintechs) also face difficulties, such as meeting regulatory requirements. Due to the shortcomings of both banks and fintechs, firms in the financial services industry are increasingly forming alliances. We conducted interviews to examine the motivations of both banks and fintechs to join forces. The resulting motives are categorized as matching, complementary, and neutral. The alliances in our sample can be differentiated into financial investments and customer-service provider relationships, with the second category being most common. However, our findings reveal that the occurrence of particular motives is not linked to certain types of alliances. Building on these findings, we develop a motivation framework and derive practical implications.
G34|International Taxation and Productivity Effects of M&As|We investigate the effect of international differences in corporate taxation on the realization of productivity gains in M&A deals. We argue that tax differentials distort the efficient allocation of productive factors following an M&A and thus mitigate the resulting productivity improvement. Using firm-level data on inputs and outputs of production as well as on corporate M&As, we estimate that a 1 percentage point increase in the absolute tax differential between the locations of two merging firms reduces the subsequent total factor productivity gain by 4.5%. This effect is less pronounced when firms can use international profit shifting to attenuate effective differences in taxation. In a complementary analysis, we use an event study design and a fixed effects model to explore the timing of the response of productivity, as well as, labor and capital input to the tax rate differential after the merger separately for the acquirer and the target. We show that our findings are mainly driven by deals with targets residing in locations with a tax advantage with respect to the acquirer. In these transactions, tax differentials reduce the post-merger adjustment in the target firm and inhibit the full realization of productivity gains.
G34|Tax Influence on Financial Structures of M&As|A well-known strategy of tax avoidance by multinationals is to locate debt in subsidiaries in countries with a high tax rate. In case of M&As it is particularly advantageous to locate debt at the level of holdings. By using firm-level data provided by the German Central Bank, I show empirically that indeed the probability that a firm is held by a holding in the same country increases with the local tax rate. Furthermore, consolidating the balance sheets of firms and their holdings leads to a stronger effect of taxes on the debt ratio. However, I find this effect only for a sample of all firms and no additional effect in case of M&As. I conclude that those findings may be one explanation why previous studies have found relatively low effects of taxes on debt financing.
G34|Co-determination: A driving force for corporate social responsibility in German companies?|"This discussion paper examines the relationship between co-determination and corporate social responsibility (CSR) in German companies, thereby addressing two distinct literatures. On the one hand, most quantitative studies of co-determination focus on its economic impact, with relatively little attention paid to other kinds of outcomes. On the other hand, few studies on CSR have looked at the role of worker representatives. Using a new measure of co-determination strength, the Mitbestimmungsindex (MB-ix), it is demonstrated that co-determination strength is positively related to the presence of ""substantive"" CSR policies, such as the adoption of targets for reducing pollution, but is unrelated to ""symbolic"" CSR policies, such as membership in UN Global Compact. The paper therefore sheds new light on the role of co-determination and provides a more differentiated view of the spread of what has been termed ""explicit"" CSR in Germany, one of the most prominent of the ""coordinated market economies""."
G34|Tax influence on financial structures of M&As|In this paper, I investigate the influence of tax incentives on the financial structures of mergers and acquisitions (M&A) conducted by multinational entities (MNE). Previous research has already found evidence for tax avoidance by debt shifting. I analyze the importance of locating debt at holdings which own the operating firm. Placing debt at the level of the holding is more advantageous since it allows inter alia for debt financing up to the purchase price. Accordingly, by using firm-level data provided by the German Central Bank I show empirically that the probability that a firm is held by a holding in the same country increases with the tax rate in that country (though the effect is rather small). As a limitation, I find this effect only for a sample of all firms and no additional effect in case of M&As (denoted as M&A firms). Since this way of debt financing requires that interest payments of holdings are used to offset profits of the operating firms, I consolidate financial structures of holdings and the operating firms. I discuss theoretically and show with descriptive statistics that this consolidation - the major contribution of my paper - leads to a higher total debt ratio compared to the unconsolidated case. However, this effect can only be observed in particular for the subsample of those M&A firms which actually belong to such structures of holdings and operating firms and does not lead to an increase of the debt ratio in the sample of all M&A firms. Finally, I show that the tax sensitivity of external debt financing increases with the consolidation (though again with no additional effect in case of M&A firms). I conclude that those findings may be one explanation why previous studies have found relatively low effects of taxes on debt financing.
G34|Impact du financement par fonds de pension sur la performance des entreprises du CAC 40|As pension saving managers, pension funds are able to finance long term investment, R&D and innovation while assuring their role as traditional institutional investors (activism, outsourcing of internal management bias...). As such pension funds can play a crucial role in the French investment dynamic which is mostly characterized by the use of credit. However, among the studies on the influence of institutional investors, few are those specifically interested in pension funds, and none focuses on the French case. This article aims to fill this gap in the literature by studying the impact of pension fund investments of CAC 40 firms' performance. Our results, over the period 2004-2016, highlight a negative influence of pension funds' participation. We explain those findings by the weakness of pension funds' participation and their foreign origin.
G34|Between Regulatory Field Structuring and Organizational Roles: Intermediation in the Field of Sustainable Urban Development|Recent contributions in the domains of governance and regulation elucidate the importance of rule-intermediation (RI), the role that organizations adopt to bridge actors playing regulatory or “rule-making” (RM) roles, and those adopting target or “rule-taking” (RT) roles. Intermediation not only enables diffusion and translation of regulatory norms, but also allows for the representation of different actors in policy-making arenas. While prior studies have explored the roles that such RIs adopt to facilitate their intermediation functions, we have yet to consider how field-level structuring processes influence (and are influenced by) the various and changing roles adopted by RIs. In this study, we focus on the mutually constitutive relations between field-level change processes and the evolving roles of RIs by studying the rise of ICLEI (International Council for Local Environmental Initiatives/Local Governments for Sustainability), an RI serving as a bridge for sustainable urban development policies between the United Nations and urban authorities. Using ICLEI as an illustrate case, we theorize four different processes of regulatory field consolidation and fragmentation including: problematization, role specialization, marketization and orchestrated decentralization. We discuss their implications for the RI roles in the field and further theorize the changing dynamics of trickle-up intermediation processes as an RI gains power and influence.
G34|Loyalty Shares with Tenure Voting - a Coasian bargain? Evidence from the Loi Florange Experiment|French listed companies can issue shares that confer two votes per share after a holding period of at least two years (loyalty shares with tenure voting rights). In 2014 the default rule changed from one-share-one-vote to loyalty shares. The Coase theorem predicts that ceteris paribus shareholders rewrite the corporate charter to preserve the pre-reform structure. The theorem also predicts that the proportion of loyalty shares in initial public offerings is unchanged. The paper shows that most one-share-one-vote companies reverted to the pre-reform contract. The exception were firms with a stake held by the French state. In initial public offerings, the new default rule had an impact; the proportion of loyalty share statutes increased from about forty to fifty percent after the passage of the law. Companies that kept the same statutes have a significantly higher market to book ratio than companies forced into a different regime. The evidence is broadly consistent with the predictions of the Coase theorem, but only in the absence of conflicted parties with veto power.
G34|What is the Impact of Successful Cyberattacks on Target Firms?|We examine which firms are targets of cyberattacks and how they are affected. We find that cyberattacks cause firms to reassess the risks that they are exposed to and their consequences, so that they have real effects on firm policies even when targets are not financially constrained. Cyberattacks are more likely to occur at more visible firms, firms with more intangible assets, and firms with less board attention to risk management. Attacks where personal financial information is appropriated are associated with a negative stock-market reaction, a decrease in sales growth for large firms and retail firms, an increase in leverage, a deterioration in financial health, and a decrease in investment in the short run. Firms further respond to cyberattacks by reducing CEO bonuses and risk-taking incentives and by strengthening their risk management.
G34|Selecting Directors Using Machine Learning|Can algorithms assist firms in their decisions on nominating corporate directors? We construct algorithms to make out-of-sample predictions of director performance. Tests of the quality of these predictions show that directors predicted to do poorly indeed do poorly compared to a realistic pool of candidates. Predictably poor performing directors are more likely to be male, have more past and current directorships, fewer qualifications, and larger networks than the directors the algorithm would recommend in their place. Machine learning holds promise for understanding the process by which governance structures are chosen, and has potential to help real-world firms improve their governance.
G34|Do Short Sellers Cause CEOs to Be Fired? Evidence from a Randomized Experiment|We study the short-selling effect on forced CEO turnover. Using difference-in-differences analyses based on the SEC Regulation SHO Pilot Program, we find short selling increases the likelihood of forced turnover. Theories suggest two potential mechanisms: informed short sellers reveal negative information (Revelation), while uninformed short sellers manipulate prices (Manipulation). Consistent with Revelation, we find stronger effects when firms have more earnings management, less informative stock prices, and less competitive product markets. Consistent with Manipulation, we find stronger effects when firms have more growth opportunities, fewer blockholders, and less volatile stock. Manipulative short selling decreases the efficiency of forced turnover.
G34|Going Public in China: Reverse Mergers versus IPOs|We study firmsâ€™ choice to go public through reverse mergers (RMs) versus initial public offerings (IPOs) in a regime with strict entry regulations. Using a manually-assembled data set from China, we show that Chinese RM firms are larger and more profitable than IPO firms prior to public listing. Chinese RM firms also have superior post-listing performance, in terms of both operations and stock returns, compared to IPOs matched on industry and size. Unlike IPOs, Chinese RM firms do not underperform the market in the long run. These results are in sharp contrast to the evidence on RMs from developed countries. We trace these differences to Chinaâ€™s stringent IPO policies, which appear to block even high-quality firms from accessing public markets.
G34|Long-Term Economic Consequences of Hedge Fund Activist Interventions|We examine the long-term effects of interventions by activist hedge funds. Prior papers document positive equal-weighted long-term returns and operating performance improvements following activist interventions, and typically conclude that activism is beneficial. We extend prior literature in two ways. First, we find that equal-weighted long-term returns are driven by the smallest 20% of firms with an average market value of $22 million. The larger 80% of firms experience insignificant negative long-term returns. On a value-weighted basis, which likely best gauges effects on shareholder wealth and the economy, we find that pre- to post-activism long-term returns are insignificantly different from zero. For operating performance, we find that prior results are a manifestation of abnormal trends in pre-activism performance. Using an appropriately matched sample, we find no evidence of abnormal post-activism performance improvements. Overall, our results do not strongly support the hypothesis that activist interventions drive long-term benefits for the typical shareholder, nor do we find evidence of shareholder harm.
G34|Private Equity and Financial Fragility during the Crisis|Does private equity (PE) contribute to financial fragility during economic crises? Academics and regulators have worried that the proliferation of poorly structured transactions during booms may increase the vulnerability of the economy to downturns. During the 2008 financial crisis, we find PE-backed companies decreased investments less than their peers, while experiencing greater equity and debt inflows. The effects are stronger among financially constrained companies and those whose PE investors had more resources at the onset of the crisis. PE-backed companies consequentially experienced higher asset growth and increased market share during the crisis. In a large-scale survey, we find that private equity firms were active investors during the crisis, spending more time with their portfolio companies to address operational and financial considerations.
G34|Participation des capital-investisseurs à la gouvernance et performance des entreprises introduites en bourse:une étude empirique du marché français de 1997 à 2013 - Corporate governance and performance of IPOs backed by private equity investors: A French case study|(VF)Cet article s’interroge sur le lien entre la participation des capital-investisseurs (CI) à la gouvernance et la performance des entreprises introduites en bourse. À partir d’un échantillon de 267 sociétés françaises financées par capital-investissement, s’introduisant en bourse sur le marché français entre 1997 et 2013, nous étudions plus précisément dans quelle mesure la présence des CI dans la structure de propriété et la syndication, leur représentation dans le conseil d’administration et la mise en place d’un financement séquentiel ont une incidence sur le niveau de performance des sociétés financées. Nos résultats montrent l’importance de la syndication puisqu’elle apparaît comme le seul mécanisme de gouvernance associé à la performance des entreprises introduites. En outre, d’autres facteurs déterminant la réussite de l’opération à savoir la réputation de la banque intermédiaire, le type de procédure ainsi que la taille de l’émission en ressortent significatifs. Ce résultat met en relief le rôle indirect des CI dans la performance des entreprises introduites.(VA)This study focuses on the involvement of venture capital firms in the corporate governance structure and the impact on the performance level of venture backed IPOs. Using a sample of 267 French venture backed initial public offerings (IPOs) on the French stock exchange market, we examine to what extent the presence of venture capital firms in the ownership structure and the syndicate, their representation at the board of directors and the use of stage financing, may affect the performance level of venture backed IPOs. Our findings suggest that syndication is relevant as it appears as the only corporate governance mechanism positively associated with the performance level of venture backed companies. Additionally, we show the indirect role of venture capital firms in structuring the IPO’s transaction in terms of the listing procedure, the setting up of the offer price defining the market capitalization or the underwriter choice, determinant factors of the performance of venture backed IPOs.
G34|Climate Protection and a New Operator: The Eastern German Lignite Industry Is Changing|According to the German federal government’s climate protection targets, there will be a continuous reduction of lignite-based electricity well before 2030. Simulations show that the currently authorized lignite mines in eastern Germany would not be fully depleted if the climate protection targets for 2030 were complied with. This makes planning for new mines or the expansion of existing ones superfluous. For the planning security of all the actors involved, policy makers should bindingly exclude permits for additional surface mines. In terms of the follow-up costs of lignite mining, the issue is whether or not the companies’ provisions are high enough and insolvency-proof. In this context, the new ownership structures in the eastern German lignite industry, after Vattenfall’s sale of its lignite division to Czech Energeticky a Prumyslovy Holding (EPH), have become a matter of importance. Simulations show that only under optimistic assumptions, the current provisions of 1.5 billion euros for the Lusatian lignite region are sufficient to cover recultivation costs. However, alternative scenarios show significant shortfalls. For this reason, policy makers should work toward independent, transparent cost estimates. Additional measures should be considered as required, such as the creation of a public sector fund to permanently protect the general public against being forced to take on the costs of recultivation. This is also animportant theme for the government’s new Commission on Growth, Structural Change, and Regional Development (Kommission Wachstum, Strukturwandel und Regionalentwicklung). Individual federal states also have key roles to play in the creation of a dependable roadmap for a coal phase-out. For example, the government of Brandenburg is now in the process of revising its energy strategy for 2030 (Energiestrategie 2030).
G34|Klimaschutz und Betreiberwechsel: die ostdeutsche Braunkohlewirtschaft im Wandel|According to the German federal government’s climate protection targets, there will be a gradual “lights out” for lignite-based electricity well before 2030. Simulations show that the currently authorized strip mines in eastern Germany would not be depleted of coal if the climate protection targets for 2030 were complied with. This makes planning for new mines or the expansion of existing ones superfluous. For the planning security of all the actors involved, policy makers should stop granting permits for additional surface mines. In terms of the follow-up costs of lignite mining, the issue is whether or not the companies’ reserves are high enough and immune to insolvency as well. Vattenfall, a major power company that also serves Germany, sold its lignite divi-sion to Czech Energeticky a Prumyslovy Holding (EPH) last fall. Given this context, the new ownership structures in the eastern German lignite industry have become a matter of importance. Based on the calculations in the simulation and optimistic assumptions, the current reserves of 1.5 billion euros for the Lusatia region are sufficient to cover recultivation costs. However, alternative scenarios show significant shortfalls. For this reason, policy makers should work toward independent, transparent cost estimates. Additional measures should be considered as required, such as the creation of a public sector fund to permanently protect the population against being forced to takeon the costs of recultivation. This is also an important theme for the government’s new Commission on Growth, Structural Change, and Regional Development (Kommission Wachstum, Strukturwandel und Regionalentwicklung). Individual federal states also have key roles to play in the creation of a dependable roadmap. For example, the government of Brandenburg is now in the process of revising its energy strategy for 2030 (Energiestrategie 2030). Den Klimaschutzzielen der Bundesregierung zufolge muss dieBraunkohleverstromung in Deutschland bereits deutlich vor demJahr 2030 kontinuierlich abnehmen. Simulationen zeigen, dass diebereits genehmigten Tagebaufelder in den ostdeutschen Revierenbei einer Einhaltung der Klimaschutzziele bis 2030 nicht vollständigausgekohlt würden. Pläne für neue bzw. zu erweiterndeTagebaufelder erübrigen sich somit. Um Planungssicherheit für alleAkteure herzustellen, sollte die Politik die Genehmigung weitererTagebaufelder daher verbindlich ausschließen.In Hinblick auf die Folgekosten des Braunkohlebergbaus stelltsich die Frage, ob die Unternehmensrückstellungen hoch genugund insolvenzfest sind. In diesem Zusammenhang sind nach demKauf der Braunkohlesparte von Vattenfall durch die tschechischeEnergeticky a Prumyslovy Holding (EPH) auch die neuen Eigentümerstrukturenin der ostdeutschen Braunkohlewirtschaft vonBedeutung. Simulationsrechnungen zufolge könnten die derzeitigenRückstellungen von 1,5 Milliarden Euro für das LausitzerRevier unter optimistischen Annahmen zur Deckung der Rekultivierungskostenausreichen, in anderen Szenarien könnte es jedoch zudeutlichen Fehlbeträgen kommen. Die Politik sollte daher auf unabhängigeund transparente Kostenschätzungen hinwirken.Bei Bedarf könnten weitere Maßnahmen erfolgen wie etwa dieSchaffung eines öffentlich-rechtlichen Fonds, um die Allgemeinheitdauerhaft vor der ungewollten Übernahme von Rekultivierungslastenzu schützen. Dies ist auch ein wichtiges Thema für die neueKommission „Wachstum, Strukturwandel und Regionalentwicklung“der Bundesregierung. Bei der Erstellung eines verlässlichenFahrplans für den Kohleausstieg kommt zudem einzelnen Bundesländerneine wichtige Rolle zu, derzeit beispielsweise der LandesregierungBrandenburg bei der Überarbeitung ihrer Energiestrategie2030.
G34|Quorum Rules and Shareholder Power|This paper characterizes the equilibria of a costly voting game in which shareholders heterogeneous in both size and preferences strategically vote for or against a proposed resolution or withhold. It is shown that a minimum quorum generates (1) equilibria in which one or several shareholders form voting coalitions in favor of the resolution that is adopted (2) an equilibrium in which shareholders strategically abstain from voting and the resolution is rejected. The size of blockholders and their preferences (in favor or against the resolution) play a crucial role in the existence of equilibria, their nature, the size and the number of voters in coalitions. We derive conditions under which the dominant shareholder controls the meeting. We also examine how large shareholders influence the result of the vote. In particular, we analyze the interaction between blockholders and discuss the situations in which large shareholders jointly control annual meetings or form coalitions to counter the dominant shareholder.
G34|The Negative Effects of Mergers and Acquisitions on the Value of Rivals|Average stock price reactions of industry rivals in horizontal U.S. mergers and acquisitions around deal announcements are robustly negative. This finding is in contrast to the results in the existing literature, which focuses on smaller samples of deals involving mostly publicly listed firms. Rivals’ returns are more negative in growing and concentrated industries. Moreover, the negative rivals’ stock price reactions are related to future decreases in operating performance, increased probability of bankruptcy and challenges by antitrust authorities, and increased probability of rivals’ future acquisitions. Overall, these results suggest that M&As have strong competitive effects for the rivals of target companies.
G34|Anti-Competitive Effects of Common Ownership|Many natural competitors are jointly held by a small set of large institutional investors. In the US airline industry, taking common ownership into account implies increases in market concentration that are ten times larger than what is ¿presumed likely to enhance market power¿ by antitrust authorities. We find a robust correlation between within-route changes in common ownership concentration and route-level changes in ticket prices, also when we only use variation in ownership due to the combination of two large investors. We conclude that a hidden social cost ¿ reduced product market competition ¿ accompanies the private benefits of diversification and good governance.
