G38|Business Tax Policy under Default Risk|In this article we use a stochastic model with one representative firm to study business tax policy under default risk. We will show that, for a given tax rate, the government has an incentive to reduce (increase) financial instability and default costs if its objective function is welfare (tax revenue).
G38|Common Ownership Does Not Have Anti-Competitive Effects in the Airline Industry|"Institutional investors often own significant equity in firms that compete in the same product market. These ""common owners"" may have an incentive to coordinate the actions of firms that would otherwise be competing rivals, leading to anti-competitive pricing. This paper uses data on airline ticket prices to test whether common owners induce anti-competitive pricing behavior. We find little evidence to support such a hypothesis, and show that the positive relationship between average ticket prices and a commonly used measure of common ownership previously documented in the literature is generated by the endogenous market share component, rather than the ownership component, of the measure."
G38|Causal Impact of Risk Oversight Functions on Bank Risk: Evidence from a Natural Experiment|Our goal is to document the causal impact of having a board-level risk committee (RC) and a management-level executive designated as chief risk officer (CRO) on bank risk. The Dodd Frank Act requires bank holding companies with over $10 billion of assets to have an RC, while those with over $50 billion of assets are additionally required to have a CRO to oversee risk management. The innovation that allows us to document a causal impact is our research design. First, we use the passage of the Dodd Frank Act as a natural experiment that forced noncompliant firms to adopt an RC and appoint a CRO. We adopt the difference-in-difference approach to estimate the change in risk following RC and CRO adoption. Second, we use the regression discontinuity approach centered on the $10 billion and $50 billion thresholds whereby firms that were just below the threshold were not required by the law to install an RC and to recruit a CRO, while those just above the thresholds had to comply with the regulation. Our contribution is to document that neither the RC nor the CRO have a causal impact on risk near these thresholds. However, we do find strong evidence of risk reduction following the passage of the law.
G38|"Beyond the doomsday economics of ""proof-of-work"" in cryptocurrencies"|"This paper discusses the economics of how Bitcoin achieves data immutability, and thus payment finality, via costly computations, ie ""proof-of-work"". Further, it explores what the future might hold for cryptocurrencies modelled on this type of consensus algorithm. The conclusions are, first, that Bitcoin counterfeiting via ""double-spending"" attacks is inherently profitable, making payment finality based on proof-of-work extremely expensive. Second, the transaction market cannot generate an adequate level of ""mining"" income via fees as users free-ride on the fees of other transactions in a block and in the subsequent blockchain. Instead, newly minted bitcoins, known as block rewards, have made up the bulk of mining income to date. Looking ahead, these two limitations imply that liquidity is set to fall dramatically as these block rewards are phased out. Simple calculations suggest that once block rewards are zero, it could take months before a Bitcoin payment is final, unless new technologies are deployed to speed up payment finality. Second-layer solutions such as the Lightning Network might help, but the only fundamental remedy would be to depart from proof-of-work, which would probably require some form of social coordination or institutionalisation."
G38|Risk Management for Sovereign Debt Financing with Sustainability Conditions|We develop a model of debt sustainability analysis with optimal financing decisions in the presence of macroeconomic, financial and fiscal uncertainty. We define a coherent measure of refinancing risk, and trade off the risks of debt stock and flow dynamics, subject to debt sustainability constraints and endogenous risk and term premia. We optimize both static and dynamic financing strategies, compare them with several simple rules and consol financing to demonstrate economically significant effects of optimal financing, and show that the stock-flow tradeoff can be critical for sustainability. We quantify the minimum refinancing risk and the maximum rate of debt reduction that a sovereign can achieve given its economic fundamentals, and extend the model to identify optimal timing for debt flow adjustments that allow the sovereign to go beyond these limits. We put the model to the data on three real-world cases: a representative euro zone crisis country, a low-debt country (Netherlands) and a high-debt country (Italy). These applications illustrate the use of the model in informing diverse policy decisions on sustainable public finance. The model is part of the European Stability Mechanism toolkit to assess debt sustainability and repayment capacity of member states in the context of financial assistance.
G38|Banks as Regulated Traders|This paper uses detailed high-frequency regulatory data to evaluate whether trading increases or decreases systemic risk in the U.S. banking sector. We estimate the sensitivity of weekly bank trading net profits to a variety of aggregate risk factors, which include equities, fixed-income, derivatives, foreign exchange, and commodities. We find that U.S. banks had large trading exposures to equity market risk before the introduction of the Volcker Rule in 2014 and that they curtailed these exposures afterwards. Pre-rule equity risk exposures were large across the board of the main asset classes, including fixed-income. There is also evidence of smaller exposures to credit and currency risk. We corroborate the main finding on equity risk with a quasi-natural experiment that exploits the phased-in introduction of reporting requirements to refine identification, and an optimal changepoint regression that estimates time-varying exposures to address rebalancing. A stress-test calibration indicates that the Volcker Rule was an effective financial-stability regulation, as even a 5% drop in stock market returns would have led to material aggregate trading losses for banks in the pre-Volcker period, as large as about 3% (1.5%) of sector-wide market risk weighted assets (tier 1 capital).
G38|How does the interaction of macroprudential and monetary policies affect cross-border bank lending?|We combine a rarely accessed BIS database on bilateral cross-border lending flows with cross-country data on macroprudential regulations. We study the interaction between the monetary policy of major international currency issuers (USD, EUR and JPY) and macroprudential policies enacted in source (home) lending banking systems. We find significant interactions. Tighter macroprudential policy in a home country mitigates the impact on lending of monetary policy of a currency issuer. For instance, macroprudential tightening in the UK mitigates the negative impact of US monetary tightening on USD-denominated cross-border bank lending outflows from UK banks. Vice-versa, easier macroprudential policy amplifies impacts. The results are economically significant.
G38|What if dividends were tax-exempt? Evidence from a natural experiment|We study the effect of dividend taxes on the payout and investment policy of listed firms and discuss their implications for agency problems. To do so, we exploit a unique setting in Switzerland where some, but not all, firms were suddenly able to pay tax-exempted dividends to their shareholders following the corporate tax reform of 2011. Using a difference-in-differences specification, we show that treated firms increased their payout by around 30% compared to control firms after the tax cut. Differently, treated firms did not concurrently or subsequently increase investment. We show that the tax-inelasticity of investment was due to a significant drop in retained earnings ̶ as the rise in dividends was not compensated by an equally-sized reduction in share repurchases. Furthermore, treated firms did not raise more equity than control firms. Lastly, we show that an unintended consequence of cutting dividend taxes is to mitigate the agency problems that arise between insiders and minority shareholders.
G38|The Human-Centred Business Model and Hybrid Business Forms: A Primer and a Roadmap|The paper was written as part of the preliminary research for the Human Centred Business Model Project, a project developed within the Global Forum on Law, Justice and Development and now supported by the OECD Development Centre. In a preliminary fashion, the paper skims the surface of â€˜socialâ€™ businesses, in the broadest sense, around the world, identifying some general trends and commonalities and some differences. The paper covers jurisdictions from North and South America, Europe, Asia and Australia and describes the organisations that can be used to carry out social business.
G38|A Theory of Gazelle Growth: Competition, Venture Capital Finance and Policy|This paper proposes a theory of gazelle growth in which gazelles can either grow organically or by acquisitions. In the model, there are three types of firms: incumbent, target, and gazelle. We show that the lower cost of organic growth can increase the incentives for acquisition growth. The reason for this is that the incumbent understands that if it acquires the target firm, the gazelle will then invest organically anyway to grow, and therefore, the acquisition will not be sufficient to protect the incumbent's market power. The gazelle could then acquire the target firm at a good price. We also show that financial support for the organic growth of gazelles can increase gazelles' growth by acquisitions since incumbents' preemptive motives are reduced.
G38|Corporate Ownership and Managerial Turnover in China and Eastern Europe: A Comparative Meta-Analysis|In this paper, we perform a meta-analysis of 736 estimates extracted from 31 previous studies to compare China and Eastern Europe from the viewpoint of the relationship between corporate ownership and managerial turnover. Our results strongly suggest the presence of asymmetric circumstances between the two: Namely, in Eastern Europe, private outside investors and large shareholders exert a positive influence on managerial discipline of the companies they invest in, and the government is also actively involved in the corporate governance of state-owned enterprises. In contrast, the Chinese government and the Communist Party of China have such significant control over companies as corporate owners that private shareholders only have limited influence over top management. In this sense, Chinese firms are more likely than their East European counterparts to face a greater problem in corporate governance.
G38|Financial cycles as early warning indicators - Lessons from the Nordic region|Frameworks to handle cyclical systemic risk usually contain a wide selection of early warning indicators. Different indicators sometimes send diverging signals which can be hard to interpret. However, measures of aggregate financial cycles can serve as a way to synthesize information from many indicators. There are however many ways to construct a measure of such cycles. Many methods exist for cycle extraction, variable choice represents another dimension, and cycle aggregation the third. We tackle each step of the way by selecting the best out of six cycle extraction methods, then comparing variables from three groups: credit, house prices and bank funding, and lastly arguing for a simple method of cycle aggregation based on cycle correlation and frequency domain analysis. We then construct a trivariate financial cycle measure which outperforms the ’Basel gap’, all univariate cycles and all other multivariate combinations for the Nordic countries in terms of a noise-to-signal ratio. In addition, it peaks much closer to crisis onset and does relatively well at real-time turning point identification. The trivariate band-pass filtered measure contains the best variable from each group, and outperforms them all. This indicates that aggregate cycles can be more than the sum of their parts, as early warning indicators. Furthermore, we examine potential weaknesses of our analysis in terms of small-sample problems, spurious cycles and the timing of crisis onset. We conclude with 15 lessons from the Nordic countries.
G38|Private benefits from control block trades in the Spanish stock exchange|A control block trade can be explained by the expectation of financial gains, shared by all shareholders, or by the expectation of private benefits (PB), exclusive for the buyer and possibly at the expense of other shareholders’ rents. The market for corporate control contributes to social welfare when it improves the efficiency in the allocation of resources. When the purpose of block transaction is PB, social welfare could be damaged as minority shareholders could withdraw from the stock market. So the evaluation of PB will allow to assess the efficiency of the stock market. Using a sample of partial control transactions in the Spanish market over the period 1990-2016, we find that, in median, PB are null. Their variability is explained in a significant way by the controlling position of the buyers in the target firm after the transaction, the size of control of the “rival” insider and to the size of the firm. La compra de un bloque de control puede explicarse por los beneficios financieros esperados, compartidos por todos los accionistas, o por la expectativa de beneficios privados (BP), exclusivos para el comprador y obtenidos posiblemente a expensas de las rentas de los demás accionistas. El mercado de control societario contribuye al bienestar social cuando mejorar la eficiencia en la asignación de recursos. Cuando el objetivo de la compra del bloque son los BP, el bienestar social podría verse perjudicado ya que los accionistas minoritarios podrían retirarse del mercado de valores. Por lo tanto, la medición de los BP permitirá evaluar la eficiencia de la bolsa. Utilizando una muestra de transacciones de control parcial en el mercado español durante el período 1990-2016, encontramos que, en mediana, el BP es nulo. Su variabilidad se explica de forma significativa por la posición de control que alcanza el comprador tras la operación, el tamaño del control que posee el accionista “rival” y el tamaño de la empresa.
G38|Gains from Early Support of a New Political Party|We study the potential benefits and mechanisms of firms' political connections by analyzing the Italian experience, where, in the early nineties, Silvio Berlusconi, a rich TV tycoon, became the leader of the conservative political coalition. Using firm-level data, we find that the 101 companies supporting Berlusconi's successful bid to become prime minister did better than controls in terms of sales and employment but not of productivity. The results are confirmed when we instrument the decision to support Berlusconi with electoral outcomes in the 1921 elections. We also find suggestive evidence that the supporters' superior performance is stronger in sectors with high external financial dependence and high advertising intensity.
G38|The Role of Institutional Investors in Corporate Lobbying|This study investigates whether and how institutional investors affect corporate lobbying of firms in their portfolios. I find that firmsâ lobbying activities are positively associated with ownership by institutional investors who also lobby. The effect is stronger for the firms that face more constraints to lobbying. I use the Russell index reconstitution to establish causality. I further document three plausible channels. First, institutional investors support firmsâ lobbying by pushing for the same congressional bills. Second, institutional investors share political resources such as lobbyists with firms. Third, institutional investors protect firmsâ private information by voting against proposals on additional lobbying disclosure. Overall, the study shows that institutional investors can alleviate the constraints and costs in corporate lobbying.
G38|Sustainable Finance for Sustainable Development|The paper explores how ethical and sustainable oriented finance is key to reach sustainable development by tackling environmental risk through green finance and showing empirical evidence on the link between finance and inequality. The theory provided puts in the right mind frame to analyze markets, intermediaries and instruments with a sustainable lens to focus on the benefits that have brought to sustainable development. A discussion is presented between different intermediaries and highlights the benefits of cooperative banks especially the close relationship of customers and bank and the resilience it gives to Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in difficult times. Different investments strategies are discussed walking through the evolution of Sustainable and Responsible Investing (SRI) funds and diving into the ESG analysis to use as criteria to allocate investments based on environmental, social and governance principles. Microfinance is introduced as a different market that has reached the people at the bottom of the pyramid and highlights the key role it will play to bring financial inclusion. Islamic finance and Fintech are also discussed. Different instruments are presented to understand the current landscape of how different investors are using innovative products to attack social and environmental problems. Finally, five different ways are presented on how policies can strengthen and support sustainable development arguing that the most important is by promoting sustainable footprint certification.
G38|One size does not fit all. Cooperative banking and income inequality|The re-regulation wave following the global financial crisis is putting pressure on local community and cooperative banks. In this paper, we show that cooperative banking can play a pivotal role in reducing income inequalities in local communities. By analyzing Italian local (provincial) credit markets over the 2001-2011 period, we find that cooperative banks mitigate income inequality more than their commercial counterparts. This effect remains significant when we account for the pervasiveness of relationship lending in the provinces, suggesting that it is the specific nature and orientation of cooperative banks, rather than their lending technologies, that improve income distribution. The impact of cooperative banking on inequality appears to be mainly channeled by reduced migratory flows and lower business turnover.
G38|Artificial Intelligence, Data, Ethics: An Holistic Approach for Risks and Regulation|An extensive list of risks relative to big data frameworks and their use through models of artificial intelligence is provided along with measurements and implementable solutions. Bias, interpretability and ethics are studied in depth, with several interpretations from the point of view of developers, companies and regulators. Reflexions suggest that fragmented frameworks increase the risks of models misspecification, opacity and bias in the result; Domain experts and statisticians need to be involved in the whole process as the business objective must drive each decision from the data extraction step to the final activatable prediction. We propose an holistic and original approach to take into account the risks encountered all along the implementation of systems using artificial intelligence from the choice of the data and the selection of the algorithm, to the decision making
G38|On the impact of capital and liquidity ratios on financial stability|In response to the 2007-2008 global financial crisis, the G20 mandated the Basel Committee to put in place prudential regulations capable of ensuring financial stability: the Basel III agreements. This paper tackles this issue by investigating the impact of capital and liquidity ratios on financial stability for a sample of 1600 banks from 23 countries over the 2005-2016 period. We pay particular attention to the nonlinear character of this potential effect through the estimation of a polynomial model with interaction terms and a panel smooth transition regression. Distinguishing between different types of banks depending on their level of systemicity, we find evidence of a nonlinear effect of prudential ratios on financial stability: a low level of capital improves financial stability, but its effect tends to diminish for higher values. Finally, we show that bank profitability is a significant determinant of financial stability.
G38|When losses turn into loans: the cost of undercapitalized banks|We provide evidence that a weak banking sector has contributed to low productivity growth following the European sovereign debt crisis. An unexpected increase in capital requirements for a subset of Portuguese banks in 2011 provides a natural experiment to study the effects of reduced bank capital adequacy on productivity. Affected banks respond not only by cutting back on lending but also by reallocating credit to firms in financial distress with prior underreported loan loss provisioning. We develop a method to detect when banks delay loss reporting using detailed loan-level data. We then show that the credit reallocation leads to a reallocation of production factors across rms. A partial equilibrium exercise suggests that the resulting increase in factor misallocation accounts for 20% of the decline in productivity in Portugal in 2012. JEL Classification: G21, G38, E51, D24, O47
G38|The CSPP at work: Yield heterogeneity and the portfolio rebalancing channel|We assess the impact of the corporate sector purchase programme (CSPP), the corporate arm of the ECB's quantitative easing, over its first year of activity (June 2016 – June 2017). Focusing on the primary bond market, we find evidence of a significant impact of the CSPP on yield spreads, both directly on purchased and targeted bonds and indirectly on all other bonds. The magnitude and the timing of the changes in yield spreads, coupled with the evolution of bond placements, are fully consistent with the proper unfolding the portfolio rebalancing channel.
G38|The architecture of supervision|The architecture of supervision – how we define the allocation of supervisory powers to different policy institutions – can have implications for policy conduct and for the economic and financial environment in which these policies are implemented. Theoretically, an integrated structure for monetary policy and supervision brings important benefits arising from better information flow and policy coordination. Aggregate supervisory information may significantly improve the conduct of monetary policy and the effectiveness of the lender of last resort function. As long as the process towards an integrated structure does not shrink the set of available tools, monetary policy and supervision are no less effective in pursuing their objectives than a separated structure. Additionally, an integrated structure does not seem to be correlated with more price and/or financial instability, as suggested by analysing a large global set of countries with different supervisory set-ups. A centralised structure for supervision entails significant benefits in terms of fewer opportunities for supervisory arbitrage by banks and less informational asymmetry. A large central supervisor can take advantage of economies of scale and scope in supervision and gain a broader perspective on the stability of the entire banking sector, which should result in improved financial stability. Potential drawbacks of a centralised supervisory structure are the possible lack of specialisation relative to local supervisors and the increased distance between the supervisor and the supervised institutions. We discuss the implications of our findings in the euro area context and in relation to the design of the Single Supervisory Mechanism (SSM). JEL Classification: E5, G21, G38
G38|Traditional and Shadow Banks|We propose a theory of the coexistence of traditional and shadow banks. In our model, shadow banks escape the costly regulation traditional banks must comply with, but forgo deposit insurance, which traditional banks can rely upon. In a crisis, shadow banks repay their creditors by selling assets at fire-sale prices to traditional banks, which fund these purchases with insured deposits. Our model is consistent with several facts from the 2007 financial crisis. The analysis implies an increase in traditional banks' debt capacity leads to an increase in the relative size of the shadow banking sector.
G38|Optimal Corporate Taxation Under Financial Frictions|We study optimal corporate taxation when firms are financially constrained. We describe a corporate taxation principle: taxes should be levied on unconstrained firms, which value resources inside the firm less than constrained firms. Under complete information, this principle completely characterizes optimal corporate tax policy. With incomplete information, the government can use payout policy to elicit whether a firm is constrained, and tax accordingly. In our static model, optimal corporate taxation can be implemented by a corporate dividend tax, and in our dynamic model, the optimal sequence of mechanisms can also be implemented by a corporate dividend tax.
G38|Bank Leverage, Welfare, and Regulation|We take issue with claims that the funding mix of banks, which makes them fragile and crisis-prone, is efficient because it reflects special liquidity benefits of bank debt. Even aside from neglecting the systemic damage to the economy that banksâ€™ distress and default cause, such claims are invalid because banks have multiple small creditors and are unable to commit effectively to their overall funding mix and investment strategy ex ante. The resulting market outcomes under laissez-faire are inefficient and involve excessive borrowing, with default risks that jeopardize the purported liquidity benefits. Contrary to claims in the literature that â€œequity is expensiveâ€ and that regulation requiring more equity in the funding mix entails costs to society, such regulation actually helps create useful commitment for banks to avoid the inefficiently high borrowing that comes under laissez-faire. Effective regulation is beneficial even without considering systemic risk; if such regulation also reduces systemic risk, the benefits are even larger.
G38|Building an effective financial stability policy framework: lessons from the post-crisis decade|A decade after the global financial crisis, the task of building a financial stability policy framework has unfinished business. Fundamental questions about the goal of financial stability and the policies to achieve it were sidelined by the excessive focus on the minutiae of macroprudential policy. Increased responsibilities were given to central banks without a proper discussion about the right degree of delegation and accountability. A comprehensive framework for financial stability should have three pillars: macroprudential policy, microprudential supervision, and financial safety nets. Sufficient operational independence should be given to the agency(ies) responsible for financial stability but determining the goal, institutional architecture, and agency assignments, resolving any policy tradeoffs, and ensuring accountability should be a political responsibility. Even with the best framework, however, given the variety of structural, behavioral, and political economy factors affecting financial stability and our limited understanding of the financial system, securing this goal will remain a challenge.
G38|Social Progress and Corporate Culture|Social progress through improved treatment of minority groups (the embrace of anti-racist and anti-sexist norms, for example) may or may not spread to corporate cultures through competition. Sometimes the market fails to adapt on its own and government must pass legislation to secure changes in the workplace. We show how corporate culture is determined, why a variety of corporate cultures exist, and whether progressive corporate cultures can oust regressive ones.
G38|Optimal Corporate Taxation Under Financial Frictions|We study optimal corporate taxation when firms are financially constrained. We describe a corporate taxation principle: taxes should be levied on unconstrained firms, which value resources inside the firm less than constrained firms. Under complete information, this principle completely characterizes optimal corporate tax policy. With incomplete information, the government can use payout policy to elicit whether a firm is constrained, and tax accordingly. In our static model, optimal corporate taxation can be implemented by a corporate dividend tax, and in our dynamic model, the optimal sequence of mechanisms can also be implemented by a corporate dividend tax.
G38|Bank risk dynamics and distance to default|We adapt structural models of default risk to take into account the special nature of bank assets. The usual assumption of log-normally distributed asset values is not appropriate for banks. Typical bank assets are risky debt claims, which implies that they embed a short put option on the borrowers' assets, leading to a concave payoff. This has important consequences for banks’ risk dynamics and distance to default estimation. Due to the payoff non-linearity, bank asset volatility rises following negative shocks to borrower asset values. As a result, standard structural models in which the asset volatility is assumed to be constant can severely understate banks’ default risk in good times when asset values are high. Bank equity payoffs resemble a mezzanine claim rather than a call option. Bank equity return volatility is therefore much more sensitive to big negative shocks to asset values than in standard structural models.
G38|Adoption of CSR and Sustainability Reporting Standards: Economic Analysis and Review|This study provides an economic analysis of the determinants and consequences of corporate social responsibility (CSR) and sustainability reporting. To frame our analysis, we consider a widespread mandatory adoption of CSR reporting standards in the United States. The study focuses on the economic effects of standards for disclosure and reporting, not on the effects of CSR activities and policies themselves. It draws on an extensive review of the relevant academic (CSR and non-CSR) literatures in accounting, economics, finance, and management. Based on a discussion of the fundamental economic forces at play and the key features and determinants of (voluntary) CSR reporting, we derive and evaluate possible economic consequences, including capital-market effects for select stakeholders as well as potential firm responses and real effects in firm behavior. We also highlight issues related to the implementation and enforcement of CSR reporting standards. Our analysis yields a number of insights that are relevant to the current debate on CSR and sustainability reporting and provides scholars with avenues for future research.
G38|Dancing With Activists|An important milestone often reached in the life of an activist engagement is entering into a “settlement” agreement between the activist and the target’s board. Using a comprehensive hand-collected data set, we analyze the drivers, nature, and consequences of such settlement agreements. Settlements are more likely when the activist has a credible threat to win board seats in a proxy fight and when incumbents’ reputation concerns are stronger. Consistent with incomplete contracting, face-saving benefits and private information considerations, settlements commonly do not contract directly on operational or leadership changes sought by the activist but rather on board composition changes. Settlements are accompanied by positive stock price reactions, and they are subsequently followed by changes of the type sought by activists, including CEO turnover, higher shareholder payouts, and improved operating performance. We find no evidence to support concerns that settlements enable activists to extract rents at the expense of other investors. Our analysis provides a look into the “black box” of activist engagements and contributes to understanding how activism brings about changes in target companies.
G38|The Potential for Blockchain Technology in Corporate Governance|Beyond bitcoin, blockchain technology has acquired attention and importance in its own right. Today, it is conceptually accepted that blockchain stands out as a disruptive technology that will change a number of processes in financial services and could in turn impact corporate governance. This paper explores the recent applications of blockchain technology in financial services and outlines regulatory responses, to set the scene for future work in this area on corporate governance. This paper provided background for the Corporate Governance Committee’s roundtable discussion on blockchain technology and the implementation of the G20/OECD Principles of Corporate Governance on 10 April 2018. A subsequent presentation of the paper was given at the OECD Workshop on Digital Financial Assets on the 16 May 2018, and at the OECD-Asian Roundtable on Corporate Governance in Malaysia on 7-8 November 2018. This work also provides a contribution to the work of the OECD Blockchain Policy Centre.
G38|Public policy reforms to further improve Portuguese export performance|Portugal’s export performance over the past decade has been impressive, helping to reduce external imbalances. This partly owed to a sequence of structural reforms that benefited the productivity of the export sector and led to an increase in its size. Nonetheless, exports as a share of GDP and the stock of foreign direct investment remain below that of other comparable small European economies. Further shifting the orientation of the economy to the external sector is vital for Portugal given the strong link between trade openness and GDP per capita. To do this, policymakers must ensure that policy settings incentivise exporting firms to expand and improve their competitiveness, both through lower price and improved quality. For example, regulatory barriers that reduce competition in professional services should be lowered to improve the cost and quality of intermediate inputs. Increasing the efficiency of domestic infrastructure is also key, especially through competition-enhancing reforms to the port sector. To further differentiate and improve Portuguese export products, skills in the business sector need to be enhanced through better-targeted lifelong learning opportunities. At the same time, there is a need to focus innovation policies on raising the participation of small and medium enterprises in innovative activities.
G38|Measuring distortions in international markets: the aluminium value chain|This report builds on the OECD’s longstanding work measuring government support in agriculture, fossil fuels, and fisheries in order to estimate support and related market distortions in the aluminium value chain. Results show that non-market forces, and government support in particular, appear to explain some of the recent increases in aluminium-smelting capacity. While government support is commonly found throughout the aluminium value chain, it is especially heavy in the People’s Republic of China and countries of the Gulf Cooperation Council. Looking across the whole value chain also shows subsidies upstream to confer significant support to downstream activities, such as the production of semi-fabricated products of aluminium. Overall, market distortions appear to be a genuine concern in the aluminium industry, and one that has implications for global competition and the design of trade rules disciplining government support.
G38|The Risk Spiral: The Effects of Bank Capital and Diversification on Risk Taking|We present a model where bank assets are a portfolio of risky debt claims and analyze stockholders' risk-taking behavior while considering the strategic interaction between debtors and creditors. We find that: (1) as the leverage of a bank increases, risk shifting by borrowers increases, even if their leverage is unchanged (zombie lending). (2) While the literature demonstrates that an increase in the co-movement of a loan portfolio increases the bank's cost of default directly, we find that the increase in co-movement causes an increase in risk shifting that further increases the cost of default (3) Risk shifting decreases with the diversification of a loan portfolio.
G38|A Survey of US and International Financial Regulation Architecture|Since the late 18th century and the signing of the National Bank Act, the creation of the Federal Reserve System in 1913, the collapse of the Bretton Woods system in 1971 and the Asian crises in 1997-98, financial Institutions had already become one of the most heavily regulated of all business in the modern business world. Increase in Regulation occurred after the 2000-2006 subprime crises and the 2007-2009 crises with the creation of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection passed in July 2010 emphasizing financial stability although most of the structure was based on the regulatory solutions of the 1930’s and the New Deal. The euro crises have further raised questions about financial architecture in the euro zone. Furthermore, the increase in innovation, the shadow banking system and recent political pressure towards deregulation, it has proved hard for the financial regulations to keep up and hence even though at the present moment point time the system seems to be holding up, the long-term direction of the financial regulatory system is uncertain.
G38|IFRS9 Expected Credit Loss Estimation: Advanced Models for Estimating Portfolio Loss and Weighting Scenario Losses|Estimation of portfolio expected credit loss is required for IFRS9 regulatory purposes. It starts with the estimation of scenario loss at loan level, and then aggregated and summed up by scenario probability weights to obtain portfolio expected loss. This estimated loss can vary significantly, depending on the levels of loss severity generated by the IFSR9 models, and the probability weights chosen. There is a need for a quantitative approach for determining the weights for scenario losses. In this paper, we propose a model to estimate the expected portfolio losses brought by recession risk, and a quantitative approach for determining the scenario weights. The model and approach are validated by an empirical example, where we stress portfolio expected loss by recession risk, and calculate the scenario weights accordingly.
G38|A closed-form solution to the risk-taking motivation of subordinated debtholders|Black and Cox (1976) claim that the value of junior debt is increasing in asset risk when the firm’s value is low. We show, using closed-form solution, that the junior debt’s value is hump-shaped. This has interesting implications for the market-discipline role of banks’ junior debt.
G38|Market-based Financing Reforms and Shareholder Valuations: Event Study Evidence from the Chinese Science and Technology Innovation Board|This paper studies the impact of the newly introduced science and technology innovation board (STIB) on stock valuations in China. This Nasdaq-style board features a market-based IPO system that contrasts with the current approved-based arrangement. Event study approach shows that A-share firms pertaining to STIB related industries increased significantly after the reform announcement. The effect is stronger for Non-SOEs and firms with higher R&D capacity. Public shareholders of the firms filing STIB IPO applications experienced salient growth in their abnormal returns while their industry competitors suffered price drops. Financial analysts also broadened their company coverages in STIB related industries and revised their market valuation forecasts positively in line with the market investors.
G38|How does quality of governance influence occurrence of crime? A longitudinal analysis of Asian countries|Though the theoretical relationship between governance quality and crime is clear, there is no clear understanding regarding the specific characteristics of governance quality which prevent crime. To be specific, which type of crime is affected by which aspect of the governance quality is not clear. We propose to take a set of Asian countries and analyze the effect of quality of governance on the crime rates in these countries during the period of 1984 to 2014. Quality of governance is proxied by a set of indicators which include government stability, corruption, accountability, socioeconomic conditions and law and order, internal conflict, external conflict, military in politics, investment profile, religious tensions, ethnic tensions and bureaucratic quality. The types of crime analyzed in this study include homicide, burglary, robbery and kidnapping. Some economic variables like poverty, income inequality, unemployment, GDP growth and per capita GDP are used to control for the effects of governance quality on crime. We estimate the relationship by applying fixed effect model and random effects model. We also use System Generalized Method of Moments (GMM) method to check the issues of endogeneity. The results showed that socioeconomic conditions, corruption, law and order, external conflict, investment profile and ethnic tensions are significantly related with different categories of crime such as homicides, robbery, kidnapping and burglaries. Among different economic variables, only per capita GDP and income inequality had a significant negative relationship with homicides.
G38|Measuring Macroeconomic Uncertainty in Zimbabwe|What matters to economic decision-making is whether the economy has become more or less predictable. People and businesses use information around them to form judgements about what might happen in the future. The rise in uncertainty might be associated with increased concern about extreme events, skewed towards worries about bad or disastrous events. The study seeks to measure macroeconomic uncertainty in Zimbabwe, using stock market indices - industrial index and mining index - for the period 2010M1 to 2019M3. Prevalence of macroeconomic uncertainty has been traced from the stock market index trend and stock market returns volatility. The squared residuals of the GARCH(1,1) regression model proxied macroeconomic uncertainty levels. The prevalence of significant macroeconomic uncertainty has been observed, with some periods highly uncertain. The study linked periods of uncertainty to some known political, social and economic events to derive meaning. The study found that some political, social and economic events have a contributing effect on the level of macroeconomic uncertainty. Good events and policies are accompanied by low levels of uncertainty while bad events and controversial policies match with high levels of uncertainty. The study recommends that to create a good economic climate, to attract investment and boost confidence in the economy, policymakers should dwell on reducing macroeconomic uncertainty. Reducing macroeconomic uncertainty require policy consistency, policy consultations, less frequent policy changes, avoiding numerous policies, avoiding policy reversals, among other measures. The observed macroeconomic uncertainty affects proper economic decision-making and is not conducive for high levels of investment for local and international investors; companies may struggle to hire labor, and employees and corporates may delay spending and saving pattern distorted.
G38|Impact of Financial Crisis on Determinants of Capital Structure of Indian Non-financial Firms: Estimating Dynamic Panel Data Model using Two-Step System GMM|The sub-prime crisis of 2008 in the US shook the world markets through financial market integration, global trade links, and international banking diversification. The financial crisis led to changes in various policies both at macroeconomic and firm-level around the world. In this scenario, this study is an attempt to identify and uncover the changes in firm and institutional determinants of Debt Financing Ratio in India, before and after the crisis. Micro and macro panel data of 306 non-financial Indian listed firms were used for the period of 2002-2017 to study the factors affecting leverage. Two-step system GMM was employed to study the dynamics of leverage and its determinants during 2002-2008 (pre-crisis period) and 2009-2017 (post-crisis period). Pre and post-crisis analysis are undertaken by employing firm-specific factors represented by Non-debt tax shields, Asset Composition (tangibility), Size, Profitability, Growth Opportunity (Market to Book), and Liquidity in the firms and institutional factors represented by Economic Growth Rate and Inflation. Two models, with different measures of leverage as dependent variables, have been constructed to analyse the impact of the crisis. The results favoured that the Indian firms tend to adjust their capital structure to reach an optimum level of debt (Target Leverage). The study confirms that profitability, and size of the firm are robust determinants of leverage in both pre and post-crisis periods; tangibility is found to be insignificant in the pre-crisis period and statistically significant in the post-crisis period for both measures of leverage. Market to Book (MTB) ratio is consistently a non-significant factor for book measure of leverage, and it holds significant negative relation to the market measure of leverage. Based on the model employing the book measure of leverage as a dependent variable, the factors tangibility and liquidity show different behaviour in pre and post-crisis period. They are not found to be significant during the pre-crisis period but after the crisis, they show significance in the determination of leverage of Indian non-financial firms. Economic indicators show a negative relation of inflation with leverage in the pre-crisis period.and positive relation in the post-crisis period. Economic growth measured through GDP does not show significance during the pre-crisis period but shows a positive influence in the post-crisis period.
G38|The Relationship between Economic Uncertainty and Corporate Tax Rates|This paper investigates the relationship between economic uncertainty and corporate tax rates in the panel dataset of 126 countries over the period 2003–2018. We use the new index so-called the “World Uncertainty Index” to measure the level of economic uncertainty. We utilise various estimation techniques and find that a one-way causality that runs from economic uncertainty to corporate tax rates. Specifically, a rise in economic uncertainty leads to higher corporate tax rates. We also discuss potential implications.
G38|Green Finance in Singapore: Barriers and Solutions|Some Asian countries such as the People’s Republic of China and Japan are very active in green finance. This study reviews how green finance in Singapore is working, examines existing barriers, and suggests some solutions. Singapore, a well-established financial hub in Asia, aims to be a hub for green finance in Asia. The Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS), the central bank of Singapore, has formed a network with seven other central banks in the world called the Central Banks and Supervisors Network for Greening Financial System, which intends to promote sharing of experience and best practices in green finance with other countries. Along with forming the network, the MAS has established a Green Bond Grant scheme to promote and ensure the issuance of green bonds in Singapore. In parallel, the Association of Banks in Singapore published Guidelines on Responsible Financing to promote and support environmental, social, and governance (ESG) disclosures. The Singapore Exchange asks its member firms to strictly comply with the ESG disclosures. At an individual firm level in Singapore, City Development Limited (CDL), a real estate development company, and Development Bank of Singapore Limited (DBS), a commercial bank, issued Singapore’s first and second green bonds in 2017. The proceeds of the CDL green bond are allocated to finance retrofitting and upgrading of a commercial building in Singapore, while the proceeds of the DBS green bond are to be invested in renewable energy and climate change adaptation, among other uses. How successful the two green bonds are in meeting their pronounced goals and how well and effectively they contribute to the diffusion of renewable energy remains to be seen.
G38|The Role of Credit Rating Agencies in Addressing Gaps in Micro and Small Enterprise Financing: The Case of India|We describe the common financing challenges faced by micro, small, and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs) in India and some important measures taken to address them, with a focus on the credit rating scheme implemented in 2000. We examine the usefulness as well as the limitations of the scheme, drawing on interviews with rating agencies and MSMEs. With credit rating being an expensive exercise, the availability of government subsidies under the scheme has been an important factor in encouraging MSMEs to get themselves rated, thereby reducing information asymmetry with banks and enabling access to credit. Given the large number of unbanked MSMEs in the country, leveraging the data generated by MSME lending and credit rating in the country through the creation of a credit risk database is necessary. Lenders will then be able to tap into the collective data generated to make more informed credit decisions with regard to MSMEs without relying on subsidies. Over 63 million micro, small, and medium-sized enterprises in India generate lending and credit rating data. How can lenders leverage these to make informed credit decisions?
G38|One size does not fit all. Cooperative banking and income inequality|The re-regulation wave following the global financial crisis is putting pressure on local community and cooperative banks. In this paper, we show that cooperative banking can play a pivotal role in reducing income inequalities in local communities. By analyzing Italian local (provincial) credit markets over the 2001-2011 period, we find that cooperative banks mitigate income inequality more than their commercial counterparts. This effect remains significant when we account for the pervasiveness of relationship lending in the provinces, suggesting that it is the specific nature and orientation of cooperative banks, rather than their lending technologies, that improve income distribution. The impact of cooperative banking on inequality appears to be mainly channeled by reduced migratory flows and lower business turnover.
G38|Deposit Insurance and Banks’ Deposit Rates: Evidence from the 2009 EU Policy|In early 2009 the EU increased the minimum deposit insurance limit from €20,000 to €100,000 per bank account. Italy was the only country with a limit already set to €103,291 from 1994. To evaluate the impact of the new directive we run a diff-in-diff analysis and compare the bank-size weighted average deposit interest rates of the Eurozone countries with the Italian ones. We find that the increase of deposit insurance leads to a decrease of deposit rates in European countries relative to Italy between 0.3 and 0.7 percentage points. The drop in deposit rates is confirmed by a diff-in-diff analysis run at bank level after implementing a propensity score matching of Italian banks with European ones. We finally show that this effect mainly come from riskier banks confirming that deposit insurance negatively affects deposit rates by reducing the depositors’ required risk-premium.
G38|The Role of Relationship Lending on Employment Decisions in Firms’ Bad Times|Using firm-level survey information, we study if relationship lending affects companies’ employment decisions when they face adverse conditions. Our empirical analysis reveals that firms with durable lending relationships show a significantly lower degree of sensitivity of internal workforce variation to shocks in sales. This result is robust to different measures of the shocks in sales and to an instrumental variable strategy. We also show that the result is stronger for younger, smaller and more innovative firms, confirming that relationship lending provides insurance against adverse conditions for companies whose internal labor force is arguably more valuable.
G38|Political Connections and Access to Brazilian Development Bankâ€™s Loans|Prior studies suggest that politically connected firms manage to buy the access to subsidized loans from the Brazilian Development Bank (BNDES) by financing candidates to federal deputies in election campaigns. Nonetheless, and although firms that most donated to these candidates were indeed the same that subsequently most tapped BNDESâ€™ subsidized credit, no anecdotal piece of information has been reported referring to deputies being accused of interfering in BNDES lending policy to benefit their donors. Proxying political connections by the 100 largest Brazilian business groupsâ€™ donations to candidates in the 2006 election for the House of Representatives, we also documented a positive correlation between these groupsâ€™ donations and the amount they borrowed from the bank. However, carrying out regression discontinuity analysis, we found no evidence that federal deputies elected by a small margin of votes had systematically affected BNDES credit allocation decisions. The discrepant empirical results may indicate the influence on the access to the bankâ€™s loans through political connections other than direct donations to winning federal deputies.
G38|Leverage Dynamics: Do Financial Development and Government Leverage Matter? Evidence from a Major Developing Economy|This study analyses leverage dynamics of Turkish non-financial firms over the last 20 years using a confidential and unique firm-level dataset. Results of dynamic panel estimations reveal that financial development fosters corporate leverage while government indebtedness inhibits it. Both impacts are more pronounced for private firms rather than public firms. Besides, even though improvements in financial development foster long-term debt usage for both SMEs and large firms, this impact seems stronger for SMEs. Conspicuously, results reveal that SMEs suffer much more than large firms in crowding-out periods of government leverage while both SMEs and large firms benefit in crowding-in periods. Moreover, higher business risk hinders corporate leverage of private firms and SMEs, which is not the case for either large firms or public firms. Results are robust to alternative firm size classification schemes and alternative model specifications.
G38|Mitigating the Cost of Stricter Macroprudential Policies|We examine how to implement macroprudential policies – stricter capital requirements and loan-tovalue limits – in order to mitigate the output loss of corporate debt deleveraging. The analysis is performed in a dynamic general equilibrium model calibrated to fit the U.S. economy. Stricter capital requirements are generally costlier in terms of output losses than stricter loan-to-value limits. For both instruments, the output loss is a convex function of the debt-to-GDP ratio. Finally, the output loss can be significantly reduced by implementing the requirements gradually, and by activating a countercyclical capital buffer.
G38|Artificial Intelligence, Data, Ethics. An Holistic Approach for Risks and Regulation|An extensive list of risks relative to big data frameworks and their use through models of artificial intelligence is provided along with measurements and implementable solutions. Bias, interpretability and ethics are studied in depth, with several interpretations from the point of view of developers, companies and regulators. Reflexions suggest that fragmented frameworks increase the risks of models misspecification, opacity and bias in the result. Domain experts and statisticians need to be involved in the whole process as the business objective must drive each decision from the data extraction step to the final activatable prediction. We propose an holistic and original approach to take into account the risks encountered all along the implementation of systems using artificial intelligence from the choice of the data and the selection of the algorithm, to the decision making.
G38|Einflüsse auf die KMU Finanzierung: Ein Vergleich ausgewählter Euroländer|Diese Studie untersucht die Einflüsse auf die Finanzierung von kleinen und mittleren Unternehmen (KMU) in neun ausgewählten europäischen Ländern. Dabei wurden neben der Nutzung von externen Finanzierungsinstrumenten auch Zugangsrestriktionen berücksichtigt. Die Relevanz - also die tatsächliche oder potenzielle Nutzung - von Finanzierungsinstrumenten wird vor allem von unternehmensseitigen Faktoren, wie Größe, Alter und den Innovationsaktivitäten der KMU sowie seinen Eigentums- und Führungsstrukturen beeinflusst. Während die finanzwirtschaftlichen Rahmenbedingungen des jeweiligen Landes noch einen erheblichen Einfluss auf die Nutzung haben, werden Restriktionen nahezu ausschließlich von unternehmensbezogenen Faktoren beeinflusst. Der Zugang zu Finanzierungsinstrumenten ist im europäischen Vergleich allerdings unterschiedlich ausgeprägt, wobei deutsche KMU weit unterdurchschnittlich davon betroffen sind. Länderübergreifend sind insbesondere Kleinstunternehmen und innovative KMU von Finanzierungsrestriktionen betroffen.
G38|Zur Empfehlung von Abfindungsobergrenzen für Vorstandsmitglieder|In diesem Beitrag wird untersucht, ob Vorstandsabfindungen von börsennotierten Unternehmen durch die Empfehlung 4.2.3 Abs. 4 Satz 1 des Deutschen Corporate Governance Kodex in ihrer Höhe begrenzt werden. Die Analyse umfangreicher empirischer Daten zu Entsprechenserklärungen aller CDAX-Unternehmen und tatsächlichen Abfindungshöhen vorzeitig ausgeschiedener Vorstandsmitglieder von DAX-Unternehmen in den Jahren 2010 bis 2014 zeigt, dass die empfohlenen Obergrenzen trotz anderslautender Entsprechenserklärungen mehrheitlich überschritten wurden. Mithilfe institutionenökonomischer, rechtswissenschaftlicher und soziologischer Ansätze wird theoretisch erklärt, warum das Comply-or-Explain-Prinzip des § 161 AktG, das der Konzeption der Empfehlungen des DCGK zugrunde liegt, bei der untersuchten Empfehlung versagt. Auf dieser Basis wird eine Gestaltungsempfehlung für die Praxis abgeleitet, welche der Empfehlung zu einer stärkeren Wirkung verhelfen kann.
G38|Corporate governance reporting: Compliance with upper limits for severance payments to members of executive boards in Germany|This paper examines how corporate governance reporting corresponds to actual conduct regarding severance payment caps for prematurely departing members of companies' executive boards in Germany. For this purpose, we first evaluate the declarations of conformity for all companies listed in the CDAX between 2010 and 2014, which we use to determine conformity and deviation rates, and analyse reasons for deviation. In a further full survey, we assess the compensation amounts of all severance payments made and published by DAX companies to their executive board members who were prematurely terminated, which allows us to compare the respective severance ratio with the cap recommended by the German Corporate Governance Codex (GCGC). We find that more than 20% of companies listed in the CDAX declared deviation in the declaration of conformity, and one-third of all deviations were justified by a rejection of the normative decision of the recommendation. Moreover, in 57% of actual severance cases where DAX companies had previously declared their compliance, the cap was exceeded; yet, none of the companies that had exceeded the cap in a severance case disclosed this in the following declaration of conformity. In the years under review, for the majority of severance cases in companies listed in the DAX, the GCGC's cap did not have any factual binding effect. Finally, in most cases the corporate reports deviated from reality and therefore could not serve as a suitable basis for decisions by the capital market.
G38|Can survey-based information help assess investment gaps in the eu?|This study illustrates how information from micro-level and survey-based databases can be used, along with macroeconomic indicators, to provide a better understanding of corporate investment obstacles across the EU. To show this, we use a novel dataset merging firm-level data from the European Investment Bank Investment Survey (EIBIS) and hard data from corporations’ balance sheet and P&L information. We show that the indicators of impediments to investment at the country level, which can be derived from aggregating qualitative answers, correlate relatively well with macro-based hard data, which are commonly considered as determinants of investments in macro-based models. After controlling for firm-specific characteristics, the perceived investment gap (the difference between desired and actual investment) remains correlated with the reported impediments. While access to finance is not the most reported obstacle, reporting it has the highest information content. Moreover, the signal intensifies when it is given by “weaker” firms, defined as those that are smaller, and/or more indebted, and/or less profitable and/or with lower liquidity positions. From a policy standpoint, our findings suggest that survey-based information can be a useful input to complement both macro and micro hard data and better inform the design of targeted policies to support investment.
G38|Beyond the Doomsday Economics of “Proof-of-Work” in Cryptocurrencies|This paper discusses the economics of how Bitcoin achieves data immutability, and thus payment finality, via costly computations, i.e., “proof-of-work.” Further, it explores what the future might hold for cryptocurrencies modelled on this type of consensus algorithm. The conclusions are, first, that Bitcoin counterfeiting via “double-spending” attacks is inherently profitable, making payment finality based on proof-of-work extremely expensive. Second, the transaction market cannot generate an adequate level of “mining” income via fees as users free-ride on the fees of other transactions in a block and in the subsequent blockchain. Instead, newly minted bitcoins, known as block rewards, have made up the bulk of mining income to date. Looking ahead, these two limitations imply that liquidity is set to fall dramatically as these block rewards are phased out. Simple calculations suggest that once block rewards are zero, it could take months before a Bitcoin payment is final, unless new technologies are deployed to speed up payment finality. Second-layer solutions such as the Lightning Network might help, but the only fundamental remedy would be to depart from proof-of-work, which would probably require some form of social coordination or institutionalisation.
G38|How does the interaction of macroprudential and monetary policies affect cross-border bank lending?|We combine a rarely accessed BIS database on bilateral cross-border lending flows with cross-country data on macroprudential regulations. We study the interaction between the monetary policy of major international currency issuers (USD, EUR and JPY) and macroprudential policies enacted in source (home) lending banking systems. We find significant interactions. Tighter macroprudential policy in a home country mitigates the impact on lending of monetary policy of a currency issuer. For instance, macroprudential tightening in the UK mitigates the negative impact of US monetary tightening on USD-denominated cross-border bank lending outflows from UK banks. Vice-versa, easier macroprudential policy amplifies impacts. The results are economically significant.
G38|Embedded supervision: how to build regulation into blockchain finance|The spread of distributed ledger technology (DLT) in finance could help to improve the efficiency and quality of supervision. This paper makes the case for embedded supervision, ie a regulatory framework that provides for compliance in tokenised markets to be automatically monitored by reading the market's ledger, thus reducing the need for firms to actively collect, verify and deliver data. After sketching out a design for such schemes, the paper explores the conditions under which distributed ledger data might be used to monitor compliance. To this end, a decentralised market is modelled that replaces today's intermediary-based verification of legal data with blockchain-enabled data credibility based on economic consensus. The key results set out the conditions under which the market's economic consensus would be strong enough to guarantee that transactions are economically final, so that supervisors can trust the distributed ledger's data. The paper concludes with a discussion of the legislative and operational requirements that would promote low-cost supervision and a level playing field for small and large firms.
G38|The impact of financial development on income inequality: A quantile regression approach|In a panel of 121 countries, the impact of financial development on income inequality appears to change with a country’s level of income. It promotes equality across inequality quantiles in upper-middle income countries, and it promotes inequality across inequality quantiles in low- and high-income countries.
G38|Supervisory governance, capture and non‑performing loans|Scholars have long believed the governance of banking supervision to affect financial stability. Although the literature has identified at length the pros and cons of having either a central bank or a separate agency responsible for microprudential banking supervision, the advantages of having this task shared by both institutions (shared supervision) have received considerably less attention. This paper fills this void by comparing the impact of three supervisory governance models — supervision by the central bank, by an agency or by both of them — on bank non‑performing loans. Using a new database on supervisory governance in 116 countries from 1970 to 2016, it finds that supervisory governance per se does not significantly affect non‑performing loans. However, it also finds that, where the risk of capture is high, shared supervision is associated with a significant reduction in non‑performing loans. This is in line with the supervisory capture theory, whereby it is more costly to capture two supervisors rather than one. Overall, these results provide new evidence in support of the relevance of supervisory governance in hampering supervisory capture from the banking sector.
G38|Non-performing loans, governance indicators and systemic liquidity risk: evidence from Greece|In this study we propose a new determinant of non-performing loans for the case of the Greek banking sector. We employ aggregate yearly data for the period 1996-2016 and we conduct a Principal Component Analysis for all the Worldwide Governance Indicators (WGI) for Greece, aiming to isolate the common component and thus to create the GOVERNANCE indicator. We find that the GOVERNANCE indicator is a significant determinant of Greek banks’ non-performing loans indicating that both political and governance factors impact on the level of the Greek non-performing loans. An additional variable that also has a statistically significant impact on the level of Greek non-performing loans, when combined with WGI in the dynamic specification of our model, is systemic liquidity risk. Our results could be of interest to policy makers and regulators as a macro prudential policy tool.
G38|Firm-Level Political Risk: Measurement and Effects|We adapt simple tools from computational linguistics to construct a new measure of political risk faced by individual US firms: the share of their quarterly earnings conference calls that they devote to political risks. We validate our measure by showing it correctly identifies calls containing extensive conversations on risks that are political in nature, that it varies intuitively over time and across sectors, and that it correlates with the firm’s actions and stock market volatility in a manner that is highly indicative of political risk. Firms exposed to political risk retrench hiring and investment and actively lobby and donate to politicians. These results continue to hold after controlling for news about the mean (as opposed to the variance) of political shocks. Interestingly, the vast majority of the variation in our measure is at the firm level rather than at the aggregate or sector level, in the sense that it is neither captured by the interaction of sector and time fixed effects, nor by heterogeneous exposure of individual firms to aggregate political risk. The dispersion of this firm-level political risk increases significantly at times with high aggregate political risk. Decomposing our measure of political risk by topic, we find that firms that devote more time to discussing risks associated with a given political topic tend to increase lobbying on that topic, but not on other topics, in the following quarter.
G38|The Impact of the 2012 NZX Listing Rule Change on Board Composition and Company Performance|We examine the impact of the December 2012 NZX listing rule change that introduced compulsory disclosure about gender diversity on NZ boards. Although criticised for its timidity, the rate of growth in female-held directorships increased significantly after the introduction of the new rule, resulting in, by 2016, average female board representation being approximately double what it had been in 2012. However, we find no relationship between this response and company performance. Across six measures of operating and financial performance, firms that responded most strongly to the listing rule change fared, on average, no better or worse than those that stuck closer to the status quo.
G38|Bank Risk Dynamics and Distance to Default|We adapt structural models of default risk to take into account the special nature of bank assets. The usual assumption of log-normally distributed asset values is not appropriate for banks. Typical bank assets are risky debt claims, which implies that they embed a short put option on the borrowers’ assets, leading to a concave payoff. This has important consequences for banks’ risk dynamics and distance to default estimation. Due to the payoff non-linearity, bank asset volatility rises following negative shocks to borrower asset values. As a result, standard structural models in which the asset volatility is assumed to be constant can severely understate banks’ default risk in good times when asset values are high. Bank equity payoffs resemble a mezzanine claim rather than a call option. Bank equity return volatility is therefore much more sensitive to big negative shocks to asset values than in standard structural models.
G38|Business tax policy under default risk|In this article we use a stochastic model with one representative firm to study business tax policy under default risk. We will show that, for a given tax rate, the government has an incentive to reduce (increase) financial instability and default costs if its objective function is welfare (tax revenue).
G38|Disclosure Regulation and Corporate Acquisitions|This paper examines the effect of disclosure regulation on the market for corporate control. We study the implementation of a recent European regulation imposing tighter disclosure requirements regarding the financial and ownership information provided by public firms. We find a substantial drop in the number of control acquisitions after the implementation of the regulation, a decrease that is concentrated in countries with more dynamic takeover markets. Consistent with the idea that the disclosure requirements increased acquisition costs, we also observe that, under the new disclosure regime, target (acquirer) stock returns around the acquisition announcement are higher (lower), and toeholds are substantially smaller. Overall, our evidence suggests that tighter disclosure requirements can impose significant acquisition costs on bidders and thus slow down the market for corporate control.
G38|The Politics of CEOs|CEOs of public companies have influence over the political spending of their firms, which has been attracting significant attention since the Supreme Court decision in Citizens United. Furthermore, the policy views expressed by CEOs receive substantial consideration from policymakers and the public. The political preferences of CEOs, we argue, are therefore important for a full understanding of U.S. policymaking and politics. To contribute to this understanding, we provide empirical evidence on the partisan leanings of public-company CEOs. We use Federal Election Commission (FEC) records to put together a comprehensive database of the political contributions made by over 3,500 individuals who served as CEOs of S&P 1500 companies during the period 2000-2017. We find that these political contributions display substantial partisan preferences in support of Republican candidates. We identify how this pattern is related to the company’s industry, geographical region, and CEO gender. To highlight the significance of CEO’s partisan preferences for some corporate decisions, we show that public companies led by Republican CEOs tend to be less transparent to investors with respect to their political spending. We conclude by discussing the potential policy implications of our analysis.
G38|Family Ownership and Antitrust Violations|We study how family ownership shapes the firms' likelihood of being involved in antitrust indictments. Using data from Italy, we show that family firms are significantly less likely than other firms to commit antitrust violations. To achieve identification, we exploit a law change that made it easier to transfer family control. Studying the mechanisms at play, we find that family firms are especially less likely to commit antitrust violations when they feature a more prominent size relative to the city where they are located, which magnifies reputational concerns. Next, we show that family firms involved in antitrust violations appoint more family members in top executive positions in the aftermath of the indictment. Moreover, these firms invest less and curb equity financing as compared to nonfamily firms. Collectively, our findings suggest that family control wards off reputational damages but, at the same time, it weakens the ability to expand in order to keep up with fiercer competition following the dismantlement of the anticompetitive practice.
G38|Innovation at State Owned Enterprises|We investigate the impact of state ownership on the innovativeness of firms, as measured by the number, quality, and value of the patents produced. In a sample of listed European firms, we find that minority government ownership increases investment in research and development, especially for financially constrained firms and during “normal” macroeconomic conditions. Yet, government control leads to the opposite effect, by imposing myopic goals and complicating access to private equity markets. Overall, state owned enterprises (SOEs) produce fewer patents per dollar invested and about 10% fewer patents in absolute terms. When comparing SOE patents to private-sector patents, we find no difference in patent quality as measured by the number of citations received per patent or by the market reaction at patent publication. Furthermore, we find no increase in the number of patents focused on sustainable technologies, suggesting that SOEs do not emphasize innovation that produces public goods or social spillovers.
G38|Between Cash, Deposit And Bitcoin: Would We Like A Central Bank Digital Currency? Money Demand And Experimental Economics|The aim of this paper is to analyse the demand of a central bank digital currency (CBDC). Using a financial portfolio approach and assuming that individual preferences and policy votes are consistent, we identify the drivers of the political consensus in favour or against such as new currency. Given three different properties of a currency – where the first two are the standard functions of medium of exchange and store of value and the third one is the less explored function of store of information – and three different existing moneys – paper currency, banking currency and cryptocurrency – if the individuals are rational but at the same time can be affected by behavioural biases – loss aversion - three different groups of individuals – respectively lovers, neutrals and haters – emerge respect to the CBDC option. Given the alternative opportunity costs of the different currencies, the CBDC issuing is more likely to occur the more the individuals likes to use a legal tender, and/or are indifferent respect to anonymity; at the same time, the probability of the CBDC introduction increases if a return can be paid on it, and/or its implementation can guarantee at least the counterparty anonymity.
G38|Liquidity Requirements and Bank Deposits: Evidence from Ethiopia|Liquidity requirements can stimulate deposit growth by increasing depositor repayment in bad states, which can also promote lending and branching. We study an unexpected policy change which fostered the liquid assets of Ethiopian banks by 33% in 2011, and present three findings in line with this hypothesis. First, a panel of bank depositors shows deposit growth among wealthy and highly educated individuals. Second, a survey reports higher deposits in branches opened after the policy and in university cities. Third, bank balance sheets and two sources of bank exposure to the policy highlight an increase in deposits, loans and branches.
G38|Financial regulation and government revenue : the effects of a policy change in Ethiopia|Financial regulation affects government revenue whenever it imposes both the mandatory quantity and price of government bonds. This paper studies a banking regulation adopted by the National Bank of Ethiopia in April 2011, which forces all private banks to purchase a fixed negative-yield government bond in proportion to private sector lending. Having access to monthly bank balance sheets, a survey of branch costs and public finances documentation, the effect of the policy on government revenue can be tracked. This is compared to three plausible revenue-generating alternatives: raising funds at competitive rates on international markets; distorting the private lending of the state-owned bank; and raising new deposits through additional branches of the state-owned bank. Three main results emerge: the government revenue gain is moderate (1.5-2.6 percent of the tax revenue); banks comply with the policy and amass more safe assets; banks'profit growth slows without turning negative (from 10 percent to 2 percent).
G38|Cryptocurrencies, central bank digital cash, traditional money: does privacy matter?|The aim of this paper is to analyze the demand of both traditional and new media of exchange – as cryptocurrencies and central bank digital currencies – proposing a novel specification of the demand for money. In this specification, the medium of payment (MOP) has three properties: the first two are the MOP’s standard functions as a medium of exchange and as a store of value, while the third is a novel function as a store of privacy (anonymity value). The proposed framework is tested using a laboratory experiment. Our results show that anonymity matters, but less of the other two properties; at the same time, the presence of anonymity increases the overall appeal of a MOP, particularly if the individuals are risk prone; given anonymity, the sacrifice ratio between liquidity risk and opportunity cost are relatively high.
G38|The G-20 regulatory agenda and bank risk|Using international listed banks from the United States, Europe, Japan and China from 2004 to 2014, we analyse the effect on bank risk of some of the most relevant new elements of the prudential regulatory framework proposed in the wake of the Great Financial Crisis. We measure risk by a market measure, namely the volatility of banks’ stock returns. We also examine the effect of government support during the financial crisis and of designation as a G-SIB. We find little support for an association with government support and none for a negative relationship. We find support for a positive effect of designation as a G-SIB on risk. We find a positive association with securities trading and a negative association with capital. Banks’ chosen liquidity is unimportant for this measure of risk.
G38|Policy uncertainty and investment in Spain|The aim of this paper is to investigate the effect of policy uncertainty on firms’ investment decisions. We focus on Spain for the period 1998-2014. To measure policy-related uncertainty, we use a new macroeconomic indicator constructed for this country. We find strong evidence that policy uncertainty reduces corporate investment. Furthermore, the heterogeneous results suggest that the adverse effect of policy uncertainty is particularly relevant for highly vulnerable firms. In particular, non-exporting firms, small and medium enterprises, as well as firms in poorer financial condition are shown to decrease investment significantly more than their counterparts. Overall, these results are consistent with the hypotheses that policy-related uncertainty reduces corporate investment through increases in precautionary savings or to worsening of credit conditions.
G38|The impact of the interchange fee regulation on merchants: evidence from Italy|Interchange fees (IF) are fees that a cardholder’s bank (issuer) receives from the merchant’s bank (acquirer) when a card payment is executed. Interchange fees are an important part of the fees charged to merchants by acquirers. Because of their level and fragmentation, interchange fees can restrict competition and have thus been regulated in the EU. The Interchange Fee Regulation (IFR) came into effect for all EU member states in 2015 and sets maximum limits on interchange fees. By using a panel of Italian banks we assess the impact of introducing the IF regulation on the fees that acquiring banks charge to merchants (merchant fees), and on the merchants’ acceptance of card-based payments. We find that, in line with the regulatory intent, the ceiling imposed on interchange fees has led to a sizeable drop in merchant fees and to an increase in the acceptance of card payments, measured as transactions per terminal.
G38|Equity, debt and moral hazard: the optimal structure of banks’ loss absorbing capacity|This paper develops a model to analyse the optimal ex-ante capital and total loss absorbing capacity (TLAC) requirements, and the ex-post resolution policy of banks. Banks in our model are subject to two types of moral hazard: i) ex-ante, they have the incentive to shirk on project monitoring, thus increasing the risk of failure, and ii) ex-post, poorly capitalised banks have the incentive to engage in asset substitution by ‘gambling for resurrection’. Ex-ante moral hazard can be eliminated by ensuring that banks have sufficient capital and uninsured ‘bail-inable’ debt, while ex-post moral hazard is mitigated by triggering resolution when the minimum capital requirement is breached. We argue that optimal regulation consists of a high TLAC requirement and high capital buffer. Our analysis also suggests that higher system-wide risk would call for a higher capital buffer, but TLAC could be lowered if it does not jeopardise the credibility of bail-in itself.
G38|Investigating New Types of 'Decoupling': Minority Shareholder Protection in the Law & Corporate Practice|The study of decoupling – i.e. the discrepancies between formal policies and actual practices and outcomes – has seen a remarkable revival. Importantly, a distinction between policy-practice and means-ends decoupling has become widely-used. We argue that the decoupling literature still neglects a key feature of decoupling, namely that it is inherently a multi-level concept. Distinguishing explicitly the macro- (country) and the micro- (organisation) levels, we develop a more fine-grained typology of policy–practice and means–ends decoupling. We hypothesise that differences in the macro-environment may influence the type and extent of decoupling that prevails in a given country. We test our hypotheses in the context of the adoption of legal minority shareholder protection in four European countries. We go beyond previous studies that have investigated policy–practice and means-end decoupling in the same context by using a unique dataset for firm-level corporate governance practices that allows us to investigate the multi-level nature of decoupling more directly. Our findings suggest that that decoupling is context specific and the extent to which policy-practice decoupling occurs may depend on a country's legal style.
G38|Does state aid for broadband deployment in rural areas close the digital and economic divide?|We evaluate the impact of a major European state aid programme for speed upgrades in broadband internet availability applied to rural areas in the German state of Bavaria throughout 2010 and 2011. We use a matched difference-in-differences estimation strategy that compares treated and untreated municipalities that are balanced with respect to funding criteria. We find that aided municipalities have a significantly higher broadband coverage at higher speed than non-aided municipalities. This increase in broadband coverage does not, on average, benefit the local population in terms of increase in local jobs per resident or wages. However, these effects are heterogeneous across skill groups. Furthermore, we find positive effects on the employment rate among residents. Taking these results together suggests that an increase in broadband coverage through state aid protects rural areas from depopulation (while residents work at other locations), but does not contribute to a further closing of the economic divide in the form of creating new jobs.
G38|Reconciling the original Schumpeterian Model with the observed inverted-U relationship between competition and innovation|Empirical studies have uncovered an inverted-U relationship between product-market competition and innovation. This is inconsistent with the original Schumpeterian Model, where greater competition reduces the profitability of innovation. We show that the model can predict the inverted-U if the innovators’ talent is heterogenous, and privately observable. With competition low and profitability high, talented innovators are credit constrained, since others are eager to mimic them. As competition increases, the mimickers become less eager, and talented innovators can invest more. This generates the increasing part of the relationship. With competition high, talented innovators are unconstrained, and the relationship is decreasing.
G38|Freeze! Financial sanctions and bank responses|We study the effects of financial sanctions on cross-border credit supply. Using a differences-in-differences approach to analyze eleven sanctions episodes between 2002 and 2015, we find that banks located in Germany reduce their positions in countries with sanctioned entities by 38%. The average German branch or subsidiary located outside Germany does not adjust its positions after the imposition of sanctions. For affiliated banks located in countries with low financial standards, we even observe a relative increase in credit supply. These effects are stronger if sanctions are only imposed by EU member states and not by the entire UN.
G38|Stock Price Rewards to Climate Saints and Sinners: Evidence from the Trump Election|"Donald Trump's 2016 election and the subsequent nomination of Scott Pruitt, a climate skeptic and self-proclaimed opponent of the Environmental Protection Agency's ""activist agenda,"" to lead the EPA drastically shifted expectations on US climate change policy. Firms' stock-price reactions to these events reveal whether their climate strategies affected their valuations. As widely reported, firms in industries with high carbon intensity benefited, at least briefly. It might be expected that companies with ""responsible"" strategies on climate change would have lost value. In fact, investors actually rewarded such firms. The analysis shows that this observed climate responsibility premium is due, at least in part, to the strategic behavior of long horizon investors who look into the future to assess the valuation of corporations."
G38|Entrepreneurs and Junior Markets: An Assessment|This article shows that a junior market can be an effective financing strategy for growth-oriented entrepreneurs who want to list on a senior stock exchange. We analyze 209 graduations from the Canadian junior market (TSXV) benchmarked with 191 initial public offerings (IPOs) on the senior exchange (TSX). Graduations are as frequent as IPOs, and the probability of reaching the TSX is significantly higher for TSXV firms than for venture capital-backed firms. The growth rate of revenues is significantly higher before graduations than before IPOs, allowing TSXV firms to reach the TSX earlier. Investors value both groups of firms similarly, indicating comparable perceived quality. In Canada, the junior market is a valuable financing strategy for growth-oriented entrepreneurs. It fulfills its role of fostering the development of innovative firms and feeding the senior exchange. However, the choice of the TSXV reduces entrepreneur ownership interest compared with the IPO strategy.
G38|The Effect of Minority Veto Rights on Controller Tunneling|"A central challenge in the regulation of controlled firms is curbing controller tunneling. As independent directors and fiduciary duties are widely seen as not up to the task, a number of jurisdictions have given minority shareholders veto rights over these transactions. To assess these rights' efficacy, we exploit a 2011 regulatory reform in Israel that gave the minority the ability to veto pay packages of controllers and their relatives (""controller executives""). We find that the reform curbed the pay of controller executives and led some controller executives to quit their jobs, or work for free, in circumstances suggesting their pay would not have received approval. These findings suggest that minority veto rights can help curb controller tunneling."
G38|The Capital Markets Union: Key Challenges|In September 2015, the European Commission announced the first actions of its plan to build a Capital Markets Union in Europe. We describe the key features of the Commission's plan and discuss the economic rationale behind it. The plan has many strengths but also some weaknesses, such as limited ambition in the supervision and enforcement of securities regulations. Other challenges to the development of European capital markets include the financial transactions tax, the low-interest-rate environment, cultural reasons, and potential political opposition.
G38|Myths and Numbers on Whistleblower Rewards|Whistleblower rewards have been used extensively in the US to limit procurement fraud and tax evasion, and their use has been extended to fight financial fraud after the recent financial crisis. In Europe there is currently a debate on their possible introduction, but authorities appear considerably less enthusiastic than their US counterparts. While it is important that these tools are scrutinized by a lively democratic debate, many things have been written, even by important institutional players, that have no empirical backing or that are in open contrast with the available evidence from independent research. In this paper we review some of the most debated issues regarding the potential benefits and costs of financial incentives whistleblowers trying to separate existing empirical evidence from conjectures with no empirical support, and myths in obvious contrast with available evidence.
G38|How does the state destroy incentives in innovation financing?|We investigate the effect of state subsidy on the behavior of entrepreneur and venture capitalist in a double moral hazard and fixed investment model under positive externalities. We infer that investment subsidy and success fee improve the incentives, ease credit rationing, hence boost private financing, which explains the popularity of hybrid venture capital systems. The main disadvantage of these systems is, however, that the entrepreneur is encouraged to minimize his/her own capital investment and to ask for the maximal state subsidy available. It may happen that public sources go to entrepreneurs capable to finance their projects privately, so state subsidies increase state deficit (and private profits) without any effects on public welfare leaving other important areas underfinanced. We also prove that state guarantee definitely creates perverse incentives, hence it is not recommended in our model.
G38|Evidence-based policymaking: promise, challenges and opportunities for accounting and financial markets research| The use of evidence and economic analysis in policymaking is on the rise, and accounting standard setting and financial regulation are no exception. This article discusses the promise of evidence-based policymaking in accounting and financial markets as well as the challenges and opportunities for research supporting this endeavour. In principle, using sound theory and robust empirical evidence should lead to better policies and regulations. But despite its obvious appeal and substantial promise, evidence-based policymaking is easier demanded than done. It faces many challenges related to the difficulty of providing relevant causal evidence, lack of data, the reliability of published research and the transmission of research findings. Overcoming these challenges requires substantial infrastructure investments for generating and disseminating relevant research. To illustrate this point, I draw parallels to the rise of evidence-based medicine. The article provides several concrete suggestions for the research process and the aggregation of research findings if scientific evidence is to inform policymaking. I discuss how policymakers can foster and support policy-relevant research, chiefly by providing and generating data. The article also points to potential pitfalls when research becomes increasingly policy-oriented.
G38|Government Guarantees and the Valuation of American Banks|Banks’ ratio of the market value to book value of their equity was close to 1 until the 1990s, then more than doubled during the 1996–2007 period, and fell again to values close to 1 after the 2008 financial crisis. Some economists argue that the drop in banks’ market-to-book ratio since the crisis is due to a loss in bank franchise value or profitability. In this paper we argue that banks’ market-to-book ratio is the sum of two components: franchise value and the value of government guarantees. We empirically decompose the ratio between these two components and find that a large portion of the variation in this ratio over time is due to changes in the value of government guarantees.
G38|Government Guarantees and the Valuation of American Banks|Banks' ratio of the market value to book value of their equity was close to 1 until the 1990s, then more than doubled during the 1996-2007 period, and fell again to values close to 1 after the 2008 financial crisis. Sarin and Summers (2016) and Chousakos and Gorton (2017) argue that the drop in banks' market-to-book ratio since the crisis is due to a loss in bank franchise value or profitability. In this paper we argue that banks' market-to-book ratio is the sum of two components: franchise value and the value of government guarantees. We empirically decompose the ratio between these two components and find that a large portion of the variation in this ratio over time is due to changes in the value of government guarantees.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
G38|When Investor Incentives and Consumer Interests Diverge: Private Equity in Higher Education|This paper studies how private equity buyouts create value in higher education, a sector with opaque product quality and intense government subsidy. With novel data on 88 private equity deals involving 994 schools, we show that buyouts lead to higher tuition and per-student debt. Exploiting loan limit increases, we find that private equity-owned schools better capture government aid. After buyouts, we observe lower education inputs, graduation rates, loan repayment rates, and earnings among graduates. Neither school selection nor student body changes fully explain the results. The results indicate that in a subsidized industry maximizing value may not improve consumer outcomes.
G38|In the Shadows of the Government: Relationship Building During Political Turnovers|"We document that following a turnover of the Party Secretary or mayor of a city in China, firms (especially private firms) headquartered in that city significantly increase their ""perk spending."" Both the instrumental-variable-based results and heterogeneity analysis are consistent with the interpretation that the perk spending is used to build relations with local governments. Moreover, local political turnover in a city tends to be followed by changes of Chairmen or CEOs of state-owned firms that are controlled by the local government. However, the Chairmen or CEOs who have connections with local government officials are less likely to be replaced."
G38|Investor Rewards to Climate Responsibility: Evidence from the 2016 Climate Policy Shock|Donald Trump's election and his nomination of Scott Pruitt, a climate skeptic, to lead the Environmental Protection Agency drastically downshifted expectations on US climate-change policy. We study firms' stock-price reactions and institutional investors' portfolio adjustments after these events. As expected, carbon-intensive firms benefited. Should not companies with responsible strategies on climate change have lost value, since they were paying for actions that were now less urgent? In fact, investors actually rewarded such firms. The premium the firms received resulted, at least in part, from the move into climate-responsible stocks by long-horizon investors presumably expecting a post-Trump rebound to green policy.
G38|The Creation and Evolution of Entrepreneurial Public Markets|This paper explores the creation and evolution of new stock exchanges around the world geared towards entrepreneurial companies, known as second-tier exchanges. Using hand-collected novel data, we document the proliferation of these new stock exchanges that were created in a large number of countries, attracted a significant volume of global IPOs, were introduced fairly cyclically, and had lower listing requirements when compared to first-tier stock exchanges. We find that increases in demand for entrepreneurial capital—as proxied for by patenting, IPOs, and stock market valuations—led to a higher likelihood of the introduction of second-tier exchanges. We find no evidence that new second-tier exchanges diverted the existing flow of IPOs from established stock exchanges. Shareholder protection strongly predicted exchange success, even in countries with high levels of venture capital activity, patenting, and financial market development. Second-tier exchanges in countries with better shareholder protection allowed younger, less profitable, but faster-growing companies to raise more capital. These results highlight the importance of institutions in enabling the provision of entrepreneurial capital to young companies.
G38|Discretionary Loan-Loss Provision Behavior in the US Banking Industry|Earnings management can be either opportunistic, adding noise to reported earnings, or informative about a firm’s underlying economic performance, adding valuable information to financial reports. This study examines earnings management in banks with differing levels of information asymmetry. Specifically, we compare earnings management between public and private banks by using discretionary loan-loss provisions (DLLPs) as proxies. Employing a large dataset of US public and private banks from 1986:Q1 to 2013:Q4, this study provides evidence of stronger earnings management behavior in public banks versus private banks. The evidence remains robust under a battery of sensitivity tests. Since incentives for earnings management are more relevant within a specific context, we identify the conditions that motivate different earnings management incentives, which allows us to better observe specific managerial motives. Greater DLLPs observed in public banks are utilized to send private information to investors, consistent with the signaling hypothesis. We also find evidence that capital requirements alter DLLPs, consistent with the capital management hypothesis. Banks with relatively low (high) earnings tend to decrease (increase) their earnings through manipulation of DLLPs, inconsistent with our income-smoothing hypothesis. The study extends to current debates on earnings management between public and private firms, and also provides a better understanding of the determinants of earnings management.
G38|Ownership Structure and Bank Risk: The Effects of Crisis, Market Discipline and Regulatory Pressure|Using a large panel of US BHC over the 2001:Q1-2015:Q4, we investigate the risk-taking behaviors of banks within a comparison perspective – between public and private banks - where there exists substantial differences of asymmetry information and agency problems. We document evidence of greater stability of public banks versus their private peers. However, public banks become riskier than private banks during the last crisis. These findings suggest a mixed evidence of risk-taking mitigating role of listing status. Regulatory pressure is effective in limiting risk taking by undercapitalized public banks before, but not during the crisis, casting doubt the effectiveness of regulators during the turmoil times. Public banks with high franchise value expose to risk less than others during the crisis. Debtholders discipline is ineffective in curbing the risk-taking behavior of banks. Our study is of interest for regulators, policymakers who are in search of improving bank risk-taking behavior.
G38|Activity Strategies, Information Asymmetry, and Bank Opacity|Using a large panel of US bank holding companies from 2001 to 2015, we investigate the association between functional diversification and bank earnings management. We document a positive relationship between bank earnings management and bank diversification. Our findings are consistent with the hypothesis that diversification increases the asymmetric information of banks, leading to greater discretionary power by bank managers. This effect is most prevalent in smaller banks and non-dividend paying banks. The impact of diversification on earnings management is less pronounced during the crisis. Our study is of interest to regulators and other stakeholders who examine factors which affect behavior of bank managers.
G38|Reconciling the Original Schumpeterian Model with the Observed Inverted-U Relationship between Competition and Innovation|Empirical studies have uncovered an inverted-U relationship between product-market competition and innovation. This is inconsistent with the original Schumpeterian Model, where greater competition reduces the profitability of innovation. We show that the model can predict the inverted-U if the innovators’ talent is heterogenous, and privately observable. With competition low and profitability high, talented innovators are credit constrained, since others are eager to mimic them. As competition increases, the mimickers become less eager, and talented innovators can invest more. This generates the increasing part of the relationship. With competition high, talented innovators are unconstrained, and the relationship is decreasing.
G38|Boosting investment in Greece|Aggregate investment has declined markedly over the crisis and has yet to recover. Reviving domestic and foreign investment is crucial to supporting the economic recovery, deepen Greece’s integration into global value chains and raising living standards. This will hinge primarily on improving the business environment, by lifting barriers to product market competition and enhancing the quality of regulation. Other key policies involve fully implementing the recent insolvency reforms, building an innovation system, overcoming problems in the banking sector and enhancing the quality of public investment through a long-term strategy. This Working Paper relates to the 2018 OECD Economic Survey of Greece. (http://www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/economic-survey-greece.htm).
G38|The Norwegian Gender Balance Law. A reform that failed?|The Norwegian Gender Balance Law (GBL) was proposed in June 14th 2003, made into a law on December 9th 2005, and implemented from January 1st 2006 with a two-year grace period. The law mandates at least 40% board representation for both gender in PLC companies. The government gave two main promises, one that gender equality would increase with the law, the other that companies' financial performance would improve. I review research literature and add descriptive long-term developments on these dimensions. This essay concludes that the promises were not fulfilled, and that the corporate governance consequences that did follow are mostly negative. Companies attain the 40% female director target, but besides this, the law does not bring more female managers or CEOs, and the gender segregated labour market remains segregated. Today, the law applies to about 500 women, half of the number at its maximum. An unintended consequence of the legislation is the mass exodus of companies from the PLC register. I find it difficult to compare results from research on financial performance. Researchers perform before-and-after study, a natural experiment, but the reform has a long gestation period and attrition of companies from the PLC register. I conclude that the law should be repealed. In a wider context the experiment casts doubt as to the usefulness of legislation to promote gender equality in the boardroom and in society at large.
G38|Cash holdings are increasing and financial crisis strenghts it|The goal of this paper is to study the determinants of firms’ cash holdings and how cash holdings were affected by the financial crisis of 2008. Using data from the period of 1995 to 2014 of non-financial firms, we present almost 265,000 firm-year observations. Our results suggest that cash holdings have a positive relationship with investment set and a negative relationship with liquidity and firm size. Our results also show that cash holdings are influenced by capital market development and banking sector, as well as by inflation. Agency theory determinants demonstrate that firms in common law countries and countries with higher law enforcement still hold higher amounts of cash holdings. Cash holdings post-crisis are higher than pre-crisis and there is a spike in cash holdings during 2009. Our hypothesis for these results are explained by the precautionary motive.
G38|Abnormal retained earnings around the world|Using a firm-level survey database covering 41 countries, we evaluate firms’ abnormal retained earnings. The results of our work show that the trends of cash holdings and retained earnings are independent. While cash holdings around the world have been increasing, the opposite has occurred for retained earnings. We show that cash holdings are influenced by precautionary motives and retained earnings by firms’ growth opportunities. Abnormal retained earnings rise with GDP growth and decrease following the 2008 financial crisis, confirming the impact of growth opportunities. Uniquely, US firms show positive abnormal retained earnings after the crisis, possibly explaining recent trends in the US stock market.
G38|Normes prudentielles et risques bancaires : une analyse économétrique des implications sur la structure du marché bancaire dans la CEMAC<BR>[Prudential Standards and Banking Risks: An Econometric Analysis of Implications on the structure of the banking market in CEMAC]|This article is particularly interested in highlighting the effect of banking capital variation on the management of banking risk and simultaneously on the banking market structure in CEMAC countries between 2000 and 2015. The use of Generalized Method of Moments and Three-Stage Least Squares concludes that reduction of risk defaults and losses by banking capital revaluation is more pronounced among national and international banks. However, this recapitalization affects the structure of the banking market of CEMAC so as to strengthen the banking concentration. In the same light, the respect of prudential ratios generally encourages excessive banking risk taking compelling credit supply.
G38|Successes and Drawbacks of the Federal Reserve and the Impact on Financial Markets|The purpose of this paper is to provide an outline of the successes and draw backs of the Federal Reserve and the consequent impact on financial markets A review of the relevant literature from Hubbard 2008 and Dowd and Hutchinson 2010 will provide insights into the success and failures of the Federal Reserve and the impact on financial markets Further insights will be drawn from Gorton and Metrick 2013 and their interpretation of the Federal Reserve s actions since its formation Romer and Romer 2013 on the pessimism of monetary policy and Dyugen Bump et al 2013 on their assessment of the effectiveness of emergency liquidity measures
G38|Cash holdings around the world: Financial crisis, culture and shareholder rights|The goal of this paper is to study how cash holdings were affected by the financial crisis of 2008. Our results suggest that 2008 financial crisis had a negative impact on cash holdings and in the period from 2008 to 2014, contrarily to the 2009 and 2010. We hypothesize that firms in face of the present levels cash holdings do not need to accumulate more cash to eventual shortfalls. Our results show a negative impact of the shareholder rights on cash holdings during the financial crisis of 2008 and from 2008 to 2014. Possibly precautionary motive is losing power as explanatory theory, contrarily to agency hypothesis. We also have showed that cash holdings from collectivistic countries expresses a higher decrease in 2008 and from 2008 to 2014, contrarily to 2009 and 2010. It seems that collectivistic countries are tolerating more the risk because cash holdings reached values never recorded.
G38|Financial Inclusion: Concepts, Issues and Policies for India|This paper lays out some of the basic concepts surrounding financial inclusion, including access to banking, digital payments and financial literacy, as well as markets for health insurance, crop insurance, agricultural credit, small firm finance, and microcredit/ microfinance. It goes on to discuss various empirical and institutional studies of these dimensions of financial inclusion in the context of developing countries. The paper then outlines several recent studies for India which pertain to these specific aspects of financial inclusion. Finally, the paper draws lessons for policy-making and future research directions. Important considerations that emerge from the overview are the significance of social and economic context, the need to consider behavioral biases connected to situations involving time and risk, the interaction of different dimensions of financial inclusion, the importance of details of policy design, and the limited understanding we still have of many of the factors underlying the functioning of financial markets.
G38|When Losses Turn Into Loans: The Cost of Undercapitalized Banks|We provide evidence that a weak banking sector has contributed to low productivity growth in the aftermath of the European sovereign debt crisis. An unexpected increase in capital requirements for a subset of Portuguese banks in 2011 provides a natural experiment to study the effects of reduced bank capital adequacy on productivity. Using detailed administrative data from the Bank of Portugal, we show that affected banks respond not only by cutting back on lending but also by increasing their underreporting of loan losses, which inflates reported capital, and by reallocating credit to firms in financial distress with prior underreported losses. To establish these results, we develop a method to detect the underreporting of losses using detailed loan-level data. We argue that this credit reallocation is consistent with distorted lending incentives arising either from the attempt to avoid the recognition of underreported losses, or from gambling on risky firms in response to an expected government bailout. We then show that the credit reallocation affects firm-level investment and employment. Finally, we translate the firm-level changes into aggregate productivity. This partial equilibrium exercise suggests that the credit reallocation driven by the regulatory intervention accounts for 20% of the decline in productivity in Portugal in 2012.
G38|On the Dynamics of Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises: Evidence from Japan|We examine how changes in macroeconomic conditions (the global financial crisis) relate to investment and financial decision making for each of the different size categories of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). We use a large dataset of 764,963 observations in Japan for the time period from 2006 to 2014 to understand the heterogeneity of SMEs in financing and investment decision making, such in size, industry, and region. Our findings are of particular importance for regulators because we show that SMEs are dynamic in nature where they change their financial behavior in response to any macroeconomic shock. In addition, we report differences among the different size subsample at the sales growth and state/industry GDP growth levels. Hence, this requires designing a unique set of regulations for each group accordingly to effectively enhance the growth potential for each group and for SMEs as a whole. These findings have implications for lenders, especially banks, which should treat each size group within SMEs differently while lending or assessing creditworthiness.
G38|The Governance of Risk Management: The Importance of Directors’ Independence and Financial Knowledge|This paper tests the effects of the independence and ﬁnancial knowledge of directors on risk management and ﬁrm value in the gold mining industry. Our original hand-collected database on directors’ ﬁnancial education, accounting background, and ﬁnancial experience allows us to test the effect of each dimension of ﬁnancial knowledge on risk management activities. We show that directors’ ﬁnancial knowledge increases ﬁrm value through the risk management channel. This effect is strengthened by the independence of the directors on the board and on the audit committee. Extending the dimension of education, we show that, following unexpected shocks to gold prices, educated hedgers are more effective than average hedgers in the industry. As a policy implication, our results suggest adding the experience and education dimensions to the 2002 Sarbanes–Oxley Act and New York Stock Exchange requirements for ﬁnancial literacy.
G38|Indian banks and the prevention of corruption Act: Freedom and discipline|Selfless activists like Mr. Pai teach us the importance of continuously interrogating the functioning of our democracy. The NPA issue has persisted for almost a decade. It has eroded the profitability of banks, and is a problem for depositors, although sovereign guarantee mitigates concerns. Since large infrastructure loans were made to private firms, there were fears of private enrichment at the expense of the tax-payer. The institutions to curb corruption were geared to a control regime, and in the post-reform market-based system did not make the crucial distinction between crime and risk-taking. Their actions paralyzed decision-making and delayed resolution. The Prevention of Corruption Act has recently been amended, but partly because the differing requirements of a control and market-based system are not well-understood some have criticized it as being too soft on corruption while others see it as continuing to hurt decision-making. After examining the combination of discipline and freedom a market-based system requires we assess the 2018 amendment on those criteria. We also more broadly examine changes in incentives and social norms that are likely to reduce corruption as well as resolution delays.
G38|Villains or Scapegoats? The Role of Subprime Borrowers in Driving the U.S. Housing Boom|An expansion in mortgage credit to subprime borrowers is widely believed to have been a principal driver of the 2002–06 U.S. house price boom. Contrary to this belief, we show that the house price and subprime booms occurred in different places. Counties with the largest home price appreciation between 2002 and 2006 had the largest declines in the share of purchase mortgages to subprime borrowers. We also document that the expansion in speculative mortgage products and underwriting fraud was not concentrated among subprime borrowers.
G38|Information Production, Misconduct Effort, and the Duration of Financial Misrepresentation|We examine the link between information produced by auditors and analysts and fraud duration. Using a hazard model, we analyze misstatement periods related to SEC accounting and auditing enforcement releases (AAERs) between 1982 and 2012. Results suggest that misconduct is more likely to end just after firms announce an auditor switch or issue audited financial statements, particularly when the audit report contains explanatory language. Analyst following increases the fraud termination hazard. However, increases (decreases) in analyst coverage have a negative (positive) marginal impact on the termination hazard, suggesting that analysts signal whistleblowers with their choice to add or drop coverage. Finally, our results suggest that misconduct lasts longer when it is well planned, more complex, or involves more accrual manipulation. Taken together, our findings are consistent with auditors and analysts playing a key informational role in fraud detection, while managerial effort to conceal misconduct significantly extends its duration.
G38|Liquidity Requirements, Free-Riding, and the Implications for Financial Stability Evidence from the Early 1900s|Maintaining sufficient liquidity in the financial system is vital for financial stability. However, since returns on liquid assets are typically low, individual financial institutions may seek to hold fewer such assets, especially if they believe they can rely on other institutions for liquidity support. We examine whether state banks in the early 1900s took advantage of relatively high cash balances maintained by national banks, due to reserve requirements, to hold less cash themselves. We find that state banks did hold less cash in places where both state legal requirements were lower and national banks were more prevalent.
G38|How do Capital Requirements Affect Loan Rates? Evidence from High Volatility Commercial Real Estate|We study how bank loan rates responded to a 50% increase in capital requirements for a subcategory of construction lending, High Volatility Commercial Real Estate (HVCRE). To identify this effect, we exploit variation in the loan terms determining whether a loan is classified as HVCRE and the time that a treated loan would be subject to the increased capital requirements. We estimate that the HVCRE rule increases loan rates by about 40 basis points for HVCRE loans, indicating that a one percentage point increase in required capital raises loan rates by about 9.5 basis points.
G38|The impact of world government indicators on market investment behavior|Although the behavioral finance sector has recently developed considerably, investors have irrational issues while taking the investment decisions on the capital market. We aim to empirically analyze the way in which aspects such as asymmetric information, emotional state, public policy and organizational culture affect their behavior. In the present paper we used quantitative data, building a database of 30 countries divided into two categories: socio-mature economies andrespectively emerging and border economies.Using global governance indicators and calculating the Hurst exponent, the symmetry coefficient, the Kurtosis coefficient and the fractal dimension, we applied the Bayesian estimate methodin order to establish the link between the dimensions of the global governance indicators and the dependent variables. The results of the linear regression have been disseminated, while the long-term and short-term effects were observed taking into account issues related to the quality of regulations, public policy, governance effectiveness, the rule of law, corruption control, stability policy and lack of violence/terrorism and participation and accountability.The purpose of the paper is to studythe impact of macroeconomic factors such as world government indicators, by analysing their impact over the efficiency of financial markets.
G38|Performance measurement in Australian water utilities: Current state and future directions|No abstract is available for this item.
G38|Rationality or politics? The color of black gold money|The present study investigates the determinants of Arab sovereign wealth funds (SWFs) investment decisions. Using a sample of 223 listed firms targeted by SWFs over the 2000–2014 period (among which 73 are targeted by SWFs owned by Arab countries), we find that, in comparison to non-Arab SWFs, Arab SWFs prefer larger firms operating in strategic industries based in countries with higher levels of economic and capital market development, political stability, significant degree of confidence in rules and low degree of corruption. Moreover, Arab SWFs do not seem to have a tendency to invest in firms with higher liquidity, profitability, growth or dividend payout. Taken together, results based on the sample suggest that Arab SWFs’ acquisitions may not be solely motivated by purely financial considerations.
G38|The characteristics of family firms: exploiting information on ownership, kinship, and governance using total population data|Abstract Family firms are often considered characteristically different from non-family firms. However, our understanding of family firms suffers from an inability to identify them in total population data; information is rarely available regarding owners, their kinship, and their involvement in firm governance. We present a method for identifying domiciled family firms using register data; this method offers greater accuracy than previous methods. We apply this method to Swedish data concerning firm ownership, governance, and kinship from 2004 to 2010. We find that the family firm is a significant organizational form, contributing over one third of all employment and gross domestic product (GDP). Family firms are common in most industries and range in size. Furthermore, we find that, compared to private non-family firms, family firms have fewer total assets, employment, and sales and carry higher solidity, although family firms are more profitable. These differences diminish with firm size. We conclude that the term “family firm” includes a large variety of firms, and we call for increased attention to their heterogeneity.
G38|Optimal vs satisfactory transparency: The impact of global macroeconomic fluctuations on corporate competitiveness|Being able to separate temporary global macroeconomic influences – caused by fluctuations in exchange rates, interest rates and inflation – from intrinsic performance – related to a superior product, production process or management – is crucial to assessing the development of a firm’s competiveness. Against that background, this paper analyzes institutions’ role in making firms supply outside shareholders with relevant information corresponding to satisfactory transparency from the shareholder perspective. Based on a sample of the 100 largest public European firms, it is found that no firm provided information to a level deemed satisfactory by the outside shareholder. One explanation may be that optimal transparency for the firm does not equal satisfactory transparency for the outside shareholder. However, the implementation of IFRS/IAS 1 in the EU as of 2005 and a company’s international cross-listing activities exhibit associations with a better supply of information and a narrowing of the gap. Shareholders in the Anglo-Saxon corporate governance system are provided with more relevant information than those in other corporate governance systems. The paper adds to the literature on the role of institutions in international corporate governance, with a particular focus on information asymmetries in an international business context.
G38|Estimation of effects of recent macroprudential policies in a sample of advanced open economies|We analyse a quarterly panel data set consisting of ten advanced open economies that have introduced macroprudential policy measures: caps on loan to value and income (LTV and LTI), and debt service to income (DSTI) requirements in particular, but also risk weights (RW), amortization (Amort) and, less used, countercyclical buffer (CCyB). Estimation of dynamic panel data models, that also include the central bank rate, and controls for common nominal and real trends, gives support to the view that several of the measures may have reduced credit growth when they were introduced.The estimated impact effects are most significant for LTV, LTI and RW. For Amort, the long-run effect on credit growth is significant, and the same is found for RW. The estimation results when house price growth is the dependent variable are in the main consistent with the results for credit growth. The results do not support that CCyB has reduced lending (as a consequence of higher financing costs), and we suggest that the variable is mainly a control in our data set. In that interpretation, it is interesting that the estimated coefficients of the other five instruments are robust with respect to exclusion of CCyB from the empirical models. The results are also robust to controls in the form of impulse indicator saturation (IIS).
G38|"The ""eternal character"" of austerity measures in European crisis policies: Evidences from the Fiscal Compact discourse in Austria"|"The European Fiscal Compact (FC) entered into force by 1 January, 2013 in 25 EU Member States. With the ratification the signatory countries commit significant parts of their budget to the European Commission and the European Court of Justice, which indicates a shift of power from legislative to executive authorities and the judiciary. In the aftermath of the economic crisis there can be observed a strong tendency to interpret the financial and economic crisis mainly as a sovereign debt crisis without any connection to the preceding crisis. This is reflected in several recommendations, which limit the scope of political decision-making in order to ""calm financial markets"". Applying an analysis of the public discourse about FC in three leading Austrian newspapers from December 2011 (the initial debate at an EU Summit) to July 2012 (the ratification in the Austrian parliament), the dominant rationale as well as legitimization and argumentation patterns will be examined. The methodology adopted in the article is based on a combination of critical discourse analysis and conceptual metaphor theory in order to illustrate the effectiveness of marketradical thinking of specific economic elites in public discourse. It can be shown that the public discourse about economic policies yet in a time of a potential ""crisis of economics"" is still dominated by economic ideas or ""economic imaginaries"" (implicitly) preferring austerity measures to active fiscal policies."
G38|The Value of Offshore Secrets: Evidence from the Panama Papers|We exploit one of the largest data leaks to date to study whether and how firms use secret offshore vehicles. From the leaked data, we identify 338 listed firms as users of secret offshore vehicles and document that these vehicles are used to finance corruption, avoid taxes, and expropriate shareholders. Overall, the leak erased $174 billion in market capitalization among implicated firms. Following the increased transparency brought about by the leak, implicated firms experience lower sales from perceptively corrupt countries and avoid less tax. We estimate conservatively that one in seven firms have offshore secrets. JEL Classification: G32, G38, H25, H26 Keywords: Panama Papers, tax haven, offshore, corruption, tax evasion, expropriation, corporate misbehavior, Paradise Papers.
G38|Indian Banks and the Prevention of Corruption Act: Freedom and Discipline|Selfless activists like Mr. Pai teach us the importance of continuously interrogating the functioning of our democracy. The NPA issue has persisted for almost a decade. It has eroded the profitability of banks, and is a problem for depositors, although sovereign guarantee mitigates concerns. Since large infrastructure loans were made to private firms, there were fears of private enrichment at the expense of the tax-payer. The institutions to curb corruption were geared to a control regime, and in the post-reform market-based system did not make the crucial distinction between crime and risk-taking. Their actions paralyzed decision-making and delayed resolution. The Prevention of Corruption Act has recently been amended, but partly because the differing requirements of a control and market-based system are not well-understood some have criticized it as being too soft on corruption while others see it as continuing to hurt decision-making. After examining the combination of discipline and freedom a market-based system requires we assess the 2018 amendment on those criteria. We also more broadly examine changes in incentives and social norms that are likely to reduce corruption as well as resolution delays.
G38|Cooperative banks and income inequality: Evidence from Italian provinces|The aim of this paper is to investigate whether different credit institutions, and in particular cooperative banks, have a different impact on the reduction of income inequalities. By analyzing Italian local credit markets, i.e. Italian provinces, over the period 2001-2011, we find that cooperative banks’ diffusion significantly reduces income inequality. This finding is robust to different measures of income inequality, different proxies of local banking structure (cooperative banks branches, popular banks branches, commercial banks branches), and different estimation techniques. When we study the channel of influence, we find that the diffusion of cooperative banks is particularly relevant for income distribution where loans to families and firms are larger, bank-firm relationships are tighter and the number of new firms over incumbent is larger.
G38|China's go out policy - a review on China's promotion policy for outward foreign direct investment from a historical perspective|China became the second largest outward investor for first ever in 2015. The dominant role of Chinese “go out” policy on such rising OFDI is agreed by a growing number of literatures. This paper presents historical view of that policy and discuss how the government is helping Chinese MNEs to invest abroad. Overall, the “go out” policy has been through four stages, from the initiation, to the formalization, to the expansion and to the new era. As breakthroughs have been made, the regulatory framework is still cumbersome. Although the central government is working on simplification and deregulation, the latest change of the framework might be seen as a signal of centralization. While several challenges ahead, the dominant role of Chinese SOEs in OFDI and the market asymmetry between China and other countries are two problems that worries foreign investors the most.
G38|Exporting corporate governance: Do foreign and local proxy advisors differ?|European regulators are concerned that US-based proxy advisors might export US corporate governance by not considering sufficiently the unique aspects of the local setting. In contrast, local proxy advisors are expected to have a deeper understanding of the local setting. Using the German setting, we examine the pattern and the impact of shareholder voting recommendations by foreign (ISS, Glass Lewis) and local (IVOX) proxy advisors. First, we find that the voting recommendations diverge more between foreign and local proxy advisors than among foreign proxy advisors. Second, we document that against-recommendations by the local proxy advisor have an incremental impact on voting outcomes even after controlling for the voting recommendations by foreign proxy advisors. Third, we observe that the impact of the voting recommendations on voting outcomes increases with a higher proportion of institutional investors. Dividing the proportion into foreign and local institutional investors reveals that against-recommendations by foreign proxy advisors influence the voting decisions of both groups similarly. Overall, our study provides novel evidence that the informational contents of voting recommendations by foreign and local proxy advisors differ, implying that foreign proxy advisors may not fully integrate unique aspects of the local setting in their voting recommendations.
G38|Corporate insolvency procedures in England: The uneasy case for liquidations|Our paper investigates a comprehensive sample of 574 English corporate insolvency cases, including direct liquidation cases. In contrast to other insolvency procedures, liquidations perform poorly on average and fail to produce satisfactory repayments to creditors. We run multinomial Logit regressions to explain the choice between liquidation and reorganization. We obtain three main results. First, we confirm that size matters: distressed firms owning low assets have higher chances of being liquidated immediately. Second, the presence of secured creditors decreases the risk of direct liquidation. This provides a clue that in England, the most-informed creditors adapt their strategies and turn away from the less-performing procedures. Third, we find that the likelihood of administration—which appears nowadays as the main alternative to direct liquidation—significantly depends on the proportion of fixed/current assets owned by the firms.
G38|Cooperative banks and income inequality: Evidence from Italian provinces|The aim of this paper is to investigate whether different credit institutions, and in particular cooperative banks, have a different impact on the reduction of income inequalities. By analyzing Italian local credit markets, i.e. Italian provinces, over the period 2001-2011, we find that cooperative banks’ diffusion significantly reduces income inequality. This finding is robust to different measures of income inequality, different proxies of local banking structure (cooperative banks branches, popular banks branches, commercial banks branches), and different estimation techniques. When we study the channel of influence, we find that the diffusion of cooperative banks is particularly relevant for income distribution where loans to families and firms are larger, bank-firm relationships are tighter and the number of new firms over incumbent is larger.
G38|Bank Leverage, Welfare, and Regulation|We take issue with claims that the funding mix of banks, which makes them fragile and crisis-prone, is efficient because it reflects special liquidity benefits of bank debt. Even aside from neglecting the systemic damage to the economy that banks’ distress and default cause, such claims are invalid because banks have multiple small creditors and are unable to commit effectively to their overall funding mix and investment strategy ex ante. The resulting market outcomes under laissez-faire are inefficient and involve excessive borrowing, with default risks that jeopardize the purported liquidity benefits. Contrary to claims in the literature that “equity is expensive” and that regulation requiring more equity in the funding mix entails costs to society, such regulation actually helps create useful commitment for banks to avoid the inefficiently high borrowing that comes under laissez-faire. Effective regulation is beneficial even without considering systemic risk; if such regulation also reduces systemic risk, the benefits are even larger.
G38|The Impact of Institutions on Bank Governance and Stability: Evidence from African Countries|This paper sheds new light on how African countries’ legal systems and institutions influence the governance and stability of their banks. We find that institutional factors, in particular the legal family of origin, political stability, contract enforcement and strength of investor protection promote central corporate governance reforms. Using a difference-in-difference approach, we also reveal that those reforms mediate the impact of institutions on banks. If countries have a corporate governance reform in place their banks show better internal governance and higher stability.
G38|How internal and external supervision impact the dynamics between boards and Top Management Teams and TMT reflexivity|Reflexivity can prevent Top Management Teams (TMTs) from using decision biases that harm sound strategic decision making of TMTs. To ensure reflexivity, TMTs are supervised internally by supervisory boards, and externally by independent supervisory authorities, but there is theoretical debate on their respective impact. We propose that frequent internal supervision is associated with Board-TMT relationship conflict, but this relationship will be less strong when TMTs are supervised by boards with an open board composition (including newer members). When such conflict occurs it can harm TMT reflexivity, but we expect that this relationship will be less strong when external supervision increases. These hypotheses were supported in a multisource team-level data set collected in the field among TMTs (N = 111 TMT members) and their supervisory boards (N = 152 board members) of 56 insurance companies. This study advances empirical and practical knowledge on the distinct and interdependent impact of internal and external supervision on TMT reflexivity.
G38|Debt in Political Campaigns|Debt is a significant source of funding of political campaigns, with almost half of all campaigns relying on some form of debt. We analyze the incentives created by this type of debt financing. We show that indebted politicians raise more funds in subsequent elections, especially from special interest groups. Consistent with votes-for-money arrangements, indebted politicians vote for the benefit of those interest groups that help funding their reelection campaigns. The findings support the hypothesis that debt creates distortions, as it forces indebted politicians to take policy positions that are not aligned with the local constituents' interests.
G38|Stock Price Rewards to Climate Saints and Sinners: Evidence from the Trump Election|"Donald Trump's 2016 election and the subsequent nomination of Scott Pruitt, a climate skeptic and self-proclaimed opponent of the Environmental Protection Agency's ""activist agenda"", to lead the EPA drastically shifted expectations on US climate change policy. Firms' stock-price reactions to these events reveal whether their climate strategies affected their valuations. As widely reported, firms in industries with high carbon intensity benefited, at least briefly. It might be expected that companies with ""responsible"" strategies on climate change would have lost value. In fact, investors actually rewarded such firms. The analysis shows that this observed climate responsibility premium is due, at least in part, to the strategic behavior of long-horizon investors who look into the future to assess the valuation of corporations."
G38|Long-Term Economic Consequences of Hedge Fund Activist Interventions|We examine the long-term effects of interventions by activist hedge funds. Prior papers document positive equal-weighted long-term returns and operating performance improvements following activist interventions, and typically conclude that activism is beneficial. We extend prior literature in two ways. First, we find that equal-weighted long-term returns are driven by the smallest 20% of firms with an average market value of $22 million. The larger 80% of firms experience insignificant negative long-term returns. On a value-weighted basis, which likely best gauges effects on shareholder wealth and the economy, we find that pre- to post-activism long-term returns are insignificantly different from zero. For operating performance, we find that prior results are a manifestation of abnormal trends in pre-activism performance. Using an appropriately matched sample, we find no evidence of abnormal post-activism performance improvements. Overall, our results do not strongly support the hypothesis that activist interventions drive long-term benefits for the typical shareholder, nor do we find evidence of shareholder harm.
G38|Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) as Corporate Governance Model for State Owned Enterprises (SOE)|It is widely acknowledged that Corporate Social Responsibility is a modern trend among big corporations who are taking responsibility for supporting the environment and improving social wellbeing. Majority of the Big Corporations try to follow this trend and implement Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) as a corporate governance and business model in their corporate structures and activities. CSR underlines the social role of Corporations and promotes their involvement in improving the working conditions of employees, ensuring safety regulations and improving the environmental protection measures. At the same time, this corporate governance model does not discourage corporations from profitable economic conduct but advocates them to support the community with strengthening the vulnerable groups of society, supporting small businesses, providing trainings, coordinating activities with non-commercial entities, etc. Although, if the CSR is a free choice generally for commercial entities, it becomes somehow ?mandatory? for State Shareholding enterprises. These are enterprises where state is holding all or majority of shares. As these corporations are owned by the state, and therefore, indirectly by the society, corporate social responsibility should be a mandatory corporate governance model for such companies. This will enhance their role in serving public. However, in many countries State Owned Enterprises (SOE) lack transparency and openness which affects their accountability level as well. With low level of transparency, it is difficult to define the social and environmental benefits implemented by the SOE. The aim of this speech will be to highlight the importance of Corporate Social Responsibility for State Owned Enterprises. At the same time, the speech will provide new understanding of CSR, with characterizing CSR as a governance model which includes the transparency, openness and higher accountability of the corporations before community. Emphasizing, that state corporations should serve public not only in a social and environmentally safe way but also in a responsible, open and accountable manner.This speech will be presented as part of the findings of the Scientific Project. This work was supported by Shota Rustaveli National Science Foundation (SRNSF) [Grant Number: #217878; Project Title: Legal Regulation, Challenges and Recommendations for Effective Corporate Governance System in State Shareholding Enterprises]. The speech will be presented by the Head of the Project - Davit Maisuradze.
G38|Corporate Governance, Institutional Reforms And Business Environment (A Short Comparative Analyses For Some Wb Countries)|Through providing tools and mechanisms for balanced representation of stakeholders' interests (first of all, to owners, management and employees) corporate governance according to OECD principles should ensure the increase of the value of the assets of companies, their competitiveness capacities and attractiveness to investors. As in general in transition economies building these mechanisms and implementing these principles at the companies proved to be problematic more in their implementation than in developing legal framework. Institutional environment, maturity of democratic institution, and especially business environment seems to be very relevant the quality of corporate governance in transition economies. This paper after presenting some of theoretical discussions on specific corporate governance issues in transition economies presents also short comparative overview regarding achievements in key areas of corporate governance in Kosovo, Albania, Croatia and Bulgaria. This comparative analyses demonstrate that corporate governance and its implementation very much depend on the level of institutional maturity, especially perceptions on the level of corruption and also to business environment which provides conditions for free and fair competition.
G38|Ownership structure of family business groups of Pakistan|This study analysis the family business groups ownership structure in the framework of corporate legal system, regulatory institutions and codes of corporate governance of Pakistan. The study uses unique handpicked data comprising a sample of 326 non-financial firms listed on Pakistan Stock Exchange for a period of 2009-13. The results reveal that Pakistani corporations have high degree of concentration of ownership. The controlling shareholders own about 87 % of firms with 10 % or more shareholding and 60 % of firms with 20 % or more shareholding. Most of the businesses are controlled by families. In 63 % of business group firms, families own 20 % or more top shareholdings. The novel contribution of the study is to develop the ownership structure of family businesses and measure the cash flow leverage, cash flow and voting rights of ultimate owners in family business groups. The study finds the considerable difference in voting and cash flow rights in family business group firms. This has strong implications for regulators, minority shareholders and dispersed investors.
G38|Marking to Market versus Taking to Market|Building on the idea that accounting matters for corporate governance, this paper studies the equilibrium interaction between the measurement rules that firms find privately optimal, firms' governance, and the liquidity in the secondary market for their assets. This equilibrium approach reveals an excessive use of market-value accounting: corporate performance measures rely excessively on the information generated by other firms' asset sales and insufficiently on the realization of a firm's own capital gains. This dries up market liquidity and reduces the informativeness of price signals, thereby making it more costly for firms to overcome their agency problems.
G38|Pricing and hedging GDP-linked bonds in incomplete markets|We model the super-replication of payoffs linked to a country’s GDP as a stochastic linear program on a discrete time and state-space scenario tree to price GDP-linked bonds. As a byproduct of the model we obtain a hedging portfolio. Using linear programming duality we compute also the risk premium. The model applies to coupon-indexed and principal-indexed bonds, and allows the analysis of bonds with different design parameters (coupon, target GDP growth rate, and maturity). We calibrate for UK and US instruments, and carry out sensitivity analysis of prices and risk premia to the risk factors and bond design parameters. We also compare coupon-indexed and principal-indexed bonds.
G38|Risk management for sovereign financing within a debt sustainability framework|The mix of instruments used to finance a sovereign is a key determinant of debt sustainability through its effect on funding costs and risks. We extend standard debt sustainability analysis to incorporate debt-financing decisions in the presence of macroeconomic, financial, and fiscal risks. We optimize the maturity of debt instruments to trade off borrowing costs with refinancing risk. Risk is quantified with a coherent measure of tail risk of financing needs, conditional Flow-at-Risk. A constraint on the pace of reduction of debt stocks is also imposed, and we model the effect of debt stocks on the yield curve through endogenous risk and term premia. On a simulated economy, we show that the cost-risk and flow-stock trade-offs embedded in issuance decisions are key determinants of the evolution of debt dynamics and are economically significant. Comparing three alternative optimizing strategies and some simple fixed-issuance rules, we also draw lessons on when and why optimizing matters the most. This depends on the risk tolerance level, the size, cost, and maturity of legacy debt, and the sensitivity of interest rates to debt. Our model quantifies thresholds for the minimum level of refinancing risks and the maximum pace of debt reduction that a sovereign could reach given its economic fundamentals. Going beyond those thresholds is only feasible through adjustments of gross financing needs, and an extension of the baseline model identifies the hot spots for these adjustments, computing their minimum size and optimal timing. Our findings inform policy decisions concerning both official sector borrowing and public finance, with a focus not only on minimizing interest payments but also on managing refinancing risks and increasing debt dynamics.
G38|Bank Corporate Governance and Future Earnings Predictability|This study examines the impact of corporate governance on earnings predictability of future cash flow, a forward-looking earnings quality indicator, in large banks from 35 countries over the period 2004–2010. We find that board structure and CEO power have a significant positive influence on future cash flows although these findings vary for emerging markets and between common and civil law countries. Board structure and CEO power are more effective in predicting future cash flows in civil law countries whereas in common law countries risk governance is a more accurate predictor of future earnings. Similarly, we find differences between developed and emerging countries. While in both domains there is no qualitative difference in CEO power to predict future cash flows, board structure and risk governance appear less effective in emerging economies. The study has important implications for policy makers and regulators for different legal regimes (civil vs. common law) and for countries at different stages of economic development (developed vs. emerging) due to the varying impact of governance on bank earnings quality in these countries.
G38|Do banks adjust their liquidity to cope with environmental variation? A study of bank deregulation|The effect of bank deregulation on adjustment speed of bank liquidity is the focus of this paper. We find that banks tend to increase their adjustment speed of liquidity in response to bank deregulation. Banks tend to escape their current state and move to a state with less deregulation. Those banks that move to the less deregulated state reduce their adjustment speed. A strategic movement of headquarters helps banks to fend off competitive pressure. The environmental factors of population and personal income reduce the market-based focus flexibility of banks; however, higher interest expenses incentivise banks to increase their speed. Surviving banks and acquiring banks react as market-makers whereas target banks respond as market-takers. Failed banks lose their distinct competencies to react properly when environmental variation occurs. Banks affiliated with multi-bank holding companies holding a larger network and larger environment are able to increase their liquidity adjustment speed. The observable trends of how banks adjust liquidity in response to bank deregulation have important regulatory implications in reducing the environmental challenges faced by banks.
G38|On the Option Effects of Short-Time Work Arrangements|We analyse the short term work (STW) regulations that several OECD countries introduced after the 2007 financial crisis. We view these measures as a collection of real options and study the dynamic effect of STW on the endogenous liquidation decision of the firm. While STW delays a firm’s liquidation, it is not necessarily welfare enhancing. Moreover, it turns out that firms use STW too long. We show (numerically) that providers of capital benefit more than employees from STW. Benefits for employees can even be negative. A typical Nordic policy performs better than a typical Anglo-Saxon policy for all stakeholders.
G38| Contagion spillovers between sovereign and financial European sector from a Delta CoVaR approach|I examine the evolution of contagion indexes between the European financial sector and the sovereign sector (Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Netherlands and Spain) during the European sovereign credit crisis. Contagion indexes, Delta CoVaR and Delta CoES, reflect events associated with extreme left tail returns and interdependencies between defaults different than those observed in tranquil times. These measures reveal very useful information concerning risk management. I use a copula approach with time-varying parameters to capture changes in the tail dependence between returns in the financial and the sovereign sectors. I employ a Switching Markov model to identify the most stressful moments of the contagion indicators. The results point out the emergence of Greek debt crisis on March 2010 and the vulnerable situation of Spain and Italy in summer 2011 as the main periods where the contagion from the sovereign to the financial sector was stronger. The decrease in contagion was gradual since the speech made by the ECB on July 26th,2012. The statistical significance of the change in the contagion indicators is checked using boostrap tests.
G38|Inequality, good governance, and endemic corruption|Abstract Can a society suffering contests between rich and poor achieve good governance in the face of endemic corruption? We examine a stylized poor state with weak institutions in which a “culture of evasion” damages state authority. Many evade tax payments, limiting the state’s economic development capability. In the face of extensive corruption, it is challenging for the state to establish and implement policies reflecting good governance: for example, a government that is accountable and transparent, efficient and effective, and follows the rule of law. The rich and poor possess different views on what is the appropriate level of enforcing proper payments of taxes due. The government needs to design an effective tax administration policy that minimizes corruption and is sensitive to the present and future needs of society. To do this, it must understand what drives such widespread corruption.
G38|Freeze! Financial Sanctions and Bank Responses|We study the effects of financial sanctions on cross-border credit supply. Using a differences-in-differences approach to analyze eleven sanctions episodes between 2002 and 2015, we find that banks located in Germany reduce their positions in countries with sanctioned entities by 38%. The average German branch or subsidiary located outside Germany does not adjust its positions after the imposition of sanctions. For affiliated banks located in countries with low financial standards, we even observe a relative increase in credit supply. These effects are stronger if sanctions are only imposed by EU member states and not by the entire UN.
G38|Bank capital buffers in a dynamic model|We estimate a dynamic structural banking model to examine the interaction between risk-weighted capital adequacy and unweighted leverage requirements, their differential impact on bank lending, and equity buffer accumulation in excess of regulatory minima. Tighter risk-weighted capital requirements reduce loan supply and lead to an endogenous fall in bank profitability, reducing bank incentives to accumulate equity buffers and, therefore, increasing the incidence of bank failure. Tighter leverage requirements, on the other hand, increase lending, preserve bank charter value and incentives to accumulate equity buffers, therefore leading to lower bank failure rates.
G38|On the choice of CEO duality: Evidence from a mandatory disclosure rule|We adopt a novel approach to explain why firms opt for or against CEO duality and the value implications of this choice. Exploiting the 2009 amendments to Regulation S-K, we provide unique evidence on the first-time disclosure of the reasons firms state for combining (separating) the roles of CEO and chairman. The stated reasons support both agency theory and organization theory. They are more numerous and comprise more words, including more positive words, for firms with duality. Examining the announcement returns to firms' disclosures, we find that investors evaluate the main reasons for CEO duality by considering the firm's characteristics.
G38|The Death of a Regulator: Strict Supervision, Bank Lending and Business Activity|An important question in banking is how strict supervision affects bank lending and in turn local business activity. Forcing banks to recognize losses could choke off lending and amplify local economic woes. But stricter supervision could also change how banks assess and manage loans. Estimating such effects is challenging. We exploit the extinction of the thrift regulator (OTS) — a large change in prudential supervision — to analyze economic links between strict supervision, bank lending and business activity. We first show that the OTS replacement indeed resulted in stricter supervision of former OTS banks. Next, we analyze the ensuing lending effects. We show that former OTS banks increase small business lending by roughly 10 percent. This increase is not entirely accounted by a reallocation of mortgage lending and stems primarily from well-capitalized banks and those more affected by the new regime. These findings suggest that stricter supervision operates not only through capital but can also overcome frictions in bank management, leading to more lending and a reallocation of loans. Consistent with the latter, we find increases in business entry and exit in counties with greater expose to OTS banks.
G38|The banking systems of Germany, the UK and Spain form a spatial perspective: Lessons learned and what is to be done?|"This paper re-visits the state of decentralised banking in Germany, Spain and the UK. The cross-country comparison we conducted has identified Germany as having the most decentralised banking system, followed by Spain and the UK, as expected. The development of regional and double-purpose banks, i.e. savings and cooperative banks, mainly account for the differences in the degree of centralisation. Whereas no such bank exists in the UK any longer and real savings banks in Spain have almost disappeared, two decentralised banking groups with more than 1,400 savings and cooperative banks dominate business finance in Germany. Our comparison has identified three factors of success contributing to the persistence of decentralised banking: I. Short operational and (especially) functional distance and embeddedness in supportive regional bank associations. Short distances allow banks to capitalise on soft information advantages in lending, whilst banking associations also secure access to advanced banking knowledge for banks headquartered in peripheral regions. II. The development of ""real"" decentralised universal banking. Here, the time when regional savings and cooperative banks received the right to lend is crucial. Because it took them so long to get permission to offer loans, savings banks in Spain and the UK were latecomers to (business) lending, whereas lending had always been the business of German savings banks. Therefore, savings banks in the UK and Spain were not able to capitalise on soft and local information advantages in short distance lending. III. The interplay of the regional principle (regional market segregation), regional embeddedness and a national system that balances regional disparities. Together, these three factors help to make regional banks sufficiently successful, even in weak regions, and hinder competition between banks, thereby supporting meaningful cooperation in banking associations and relationship lending. Savings banks have never been as important in business lending in the UK and Spain as they are in Germany. Though large commercial banks dominate business lending in both countries, some (partly newly established) banks tend to specialise in lending to small enterprises at shorter distances there. To support short-distance lending, this paper suggests a compensation scheme for screening and monitoring costs. Such a scheme may stimulate banks to shift, or preserve, their lending decision processes to the regional level and reduce the need for standardisation, centralisation and bank mergers in times when interest rates are low."
G38|Ein Vergleich der Bankensysteme in Deutschland, dem Vereinigten Königreich und Spanien aus räumlicher Perspektive: Befunde und Handlungsbedarf|"Dieser Beitrag untersucht dezentrale Bankensysteme in Deutschland, Spanien und dem Vereinigten Königreich. Der durchgeführte Ländervergleich verdeutlicht, dass das deutsche Bankensystem wie erwartet am stärksten dezentralisiert ist. Dies liegt vor allem an den regionalen und gemeinwohlorientierten Sparkassen und Genossenschaftsbanken. Während es im Vereinigten Königreich keine dezentrale Bankengruppe mehr gibt und echte Sparkassen in Spanien fast verschwunden sind, dominieren die mehr als 1.400 dezentralen Sparkassen und Genossenschaftsbanken die Unternehmensfinanzierung in Deutschland. Der Ländervergleich hat drei Erfolgsfaktoren identifiziert, die zur Persistenz des dezentralen Bankings beitragen: I. Geringe operationale und funktionale Distanz sowie Einbettung in einen unterstützenden Regionalbankenverband: Geringe Distanzen bzw. räumliche Nähe zwischen regionaler Bank und kleinen und mittleren Unternehmen (KMU) erleichtern den Zugang zu weichen Informationen bei der Kreditvergabe, und die Einbettung in einen Verband ermöglicht es regionalen Banken, auch in peripheren Regionen auf fortschrittliches Bankwissen zurückzugreifen. II. Die Entwicklung zu ""echten"" dezentralen Universalbanken: Hier ist entscheidend, ab wann regionale Sparkassen und Genossenschaftsbanken das Recht der Kreditvergabe erhielten. Die späte Erlaubnis, Kredite zu gewähren, machte die Sparkassen in Spanien und dem Vereinigten König-reich zu Nachzüglern im KMU-Kreditgeschäft. In Deutschland hingegen waren kleine Unternehmen von Anfang an Kreditkunden der Sparkassen. Das Kreditvergabeverbot im Vereinigten Königreich und Spanien führte dazu, dass die regionalen Banken dort die aus der Nähe resultierenden weichen Informationsvorteile nicht nutzen konnten. III. Das Zusammenspiel aus Regionalprinzip (regionale Marktsegregation), regionaler Einbettung und einem nationalen Umverteilungssystem, welches regionale Disparitäten reduziert: Dieser Dreiklang hilft regionalen Banken, auch in schwachen Regionen ausreichend erfolgreich zu sein, verringert den Wettbewerb zwischen den Banken und unterstützt damit eine enge Zusammenarbeit in den Bankenverbänden. Ferner fördert ein geringerer Wettbewerb das Entstehen von stabilen Hausbankbeziehungen, wovon Banken sowie Unternehmen profitieren können. Sparkassen waren im Vereinigten Königreich und Spanien zu keinem Zeitpunkt so relevant wie in Deutschland. In beiden Ländern gibt es jedoch einige Banken, die sich im Unterschied zu den Großbanken auf Kreditvergabe an KMU spezialisiert haben. Um die Kreditvergabe an KMU und die dazu notwendige Berücksichtigung weicher Informationen zu unterstützen, schlagen wir ein Förderprogramm vor, welches den Screening- und Monitoringaufwand von Banken subventioniert. Solch eine Förderung könnte Banken dazu anregen, ihre Kreditentscheidungsprozesse auf die regionale Ebene zu verlagern (bzw. sie dort zu belassen) und in Zeiten niedriger Zinsen die Notwendigkeit zur Standardisierung, Zentralisierung von Kreditvergabeentscheidungen sowie Bankenfusionen etwas abmildert."
G38|The banking systems of Germany, the UK and Spain form a spatial perspective: The Spanish case|When looking at the Spanish banking market through a German lens, the differences between the banking markets in these countries and between decentralised and centralised systems with regard to the SME-credit decision-making process become obvious. Despite our hypotheses that Spanish savings banks were similar to German savings banks until the crisis, or at least until liberalisation and before the break-up of the regional principle, we came to the conclusion that they were never as significant as savings banks in Germany, at least not for SME finance. Notwithstanding recent initiatives to create a common European market and to integrate diverse national banking systems, the European financial system remains spatially complex and uneven, particularly with respect to the degree of geographical concentration. Whereas decentralisation increased in Germany, especially during the financial crisis, the rather decentralised Spanish banking system has become more and more centralised. This development has tended to fuel the financial crisis even further in Spain. In Spain, however, whereas most savings banks, which already operated nationally, were finally privatised due to their heavy losses in the crisis, regional savings banks in Germany further increased their market share in firm financing.
G38|The banking systems of Germany, the UK and Spain form a spatial perspective: The UK case|As expected, this comparison of the German and the UK banking systems shows substantial differences between the countries. In the UK, savings banks disappeared long ago and other regional banks have never become important in lending to business. Instead, the five large commercial banks dominate business lending. Hardly any short-distance lenders still currently exist in the UK according to our qualitative distance classification of banks and other financial providers for small firms. The closure of the very last local savings bank in 2017 marks the preliminary end of traditional regional banking in the UK and indicates that the financial crisis indirectly challenges small and regional banks disproportionally. This is because the low interest rate environment and more complex banking regulations affect small and regional banks more, making it almost impossible for small standalone banks to survive. Problems in small firm finance have been discussed in the UK at least since the 1990s and government support has been given to community development financial institutions and credit unions in order to close the financial gap for small firms. Due to the financial crisis, access to finance has become increasingly difficult for small businesses, especially in remote regions, so the debate on how to reinvent local banking (and hence how to improve access to finance) has gathered momentum. Three options are under discussion. The first is to create in one stroke a regional and public banking group with a substantial market share by restructuring the Royal Bank of Scotland into a network of local and public banks. The second is to recreate regional banks on an entirely new basis with the help of a new association that would provide economies of scale and knowledge in order to enable local people to create their local banks. The third is to establish local banking by upscaling other financial providers, such as credit unions and responsible finance providers. Whether any of these options are realistic is difficult to say right now. One additional option that could improve SME finance are the so-called challenger banks, a type of bank unknown in Germany. These banks differ in terms of ownership, business model and regional market orientation, yet our findings suggest that they tend to operate on a more decentralised (short-distance) business model than large commercial banks.
G38|The banking systems of Germany, the UK and Spain form a spatial perspective: The German case|A comparison of the German banking system with that of the United Kingdom (UK) and Spain shows Germany to be decentralised not only regarding the distribution of banks, but also its financial and political system more generally. Decentralised banks, which are predominantly regional savings banks and cooperative banks in Germany, nearly account for most lending to business and have extended lending at the expense of centralised banks (such as the four big banks, for example). Federalism and strong redistribution mechanisms between the regions support decentralised banking in Germany. Furthermore, close cooperation in their banking groups is shown to allow decentralised banks to realise economies of scale and develop superior techniques for retail banking, like bank-ICT and rating systems. The detailed comparison of a savings bank with a big bank suggests that shorter (functional) distances allow regional banks to consider soft information easily and reliably when lending to SMEs. Short-distance lending not only reduces the financial constraints of (financially distressed) SMEs, but can also be profitable for banks as they are able to realise higher interest earnings in business with informationally opaque enterprises. However, decentralised banking is also under threat in Germany due to tightening (more complex) banking regulations and the continuing low interest rate environment. Therefore, decentralised banks need to cut costs, which is why they have merged to larger units and closed branches in recent years. Furthermore, they have tried to increase fee earnings at the risk of disintermediation. This paper identifies two dilemmas of these cost-cutting strategies. First, disintermediation challenges regional savings-investment cycles and thus regional independency. Second, mergers, branch closures and the standardisation of processes endanger local decision-making authority and hence short-distance lending. As the detailed comparison make clear, the ability of regional banks to decide on credit at a short distance enables profitable lending to informationally opaque SMEs, meaning SMEs that appear to be very risky on the basis of hard information, by utilising soft information. Accordingly, short distance tends to be a key competitive advantage of regional banks, especially in a low interest rate environment. Cost-cutting measures must be conducted with full awareness of this advantage. With respect to lending to SMEs, branch closures may be less critical than mergers and standardisation because most branches are not involved in lending to SMEs anyway.
G38|Die Nutzung insolvenzrechtlicher Sanierungswege durch kleine und mittlere Unternehmen: Das Beispiel der Eigenverwaltung|Mit der Einführung des ESUG wurde das Insolvenzrecht Deutschlands im Jahr 2012 reformiert. Das ESUG eröffnet neue Sanierungswege, z. B. das eigenverwaltete Schutzschirmverfahren vor der Insolvenz und die Eigenverwaltung während des Eröffnungsverfahrens. Insgesamt beantragen weiterhin nur einige hundert Unternehmen diese Verfahren: Das entspricht 1 bis 2 % aller insolventen Unternehmen. Die Nutzung steigt ab einer Unternehmensgröße von 10 Mitarbeitern und mit dem Unternehmensalter deutlich an. Nur noch jeder zehnte Eigenverwaltungsantrag wird vom Gericht abgelehnt, das bietet den Unternehmen mehr Planungssicherheit für Sanierungen.
G38|Are R&D subsidies effective? The effect of industry competition|This study explores the effect of industry competition on public R&D subsidies' effectiveness. The author finds the non-linear threshold effect of industry competition on R&D subsidies' effectiveness. Specifically, R&D subsidies' effectiveness reaches its peak when industry competition lies between the two estimated thresholds.
G38|Local peer effects and corporate investment|We examine how a firms' investment behavior affects the investment of a neighboring firm. Economic theory yields ambiguous predictions regarding the direction of firm peer effects and consistent with earlier work, we find that firms display similar investment behavior within an area using OLS analysis. Exploiting time-variation in the rise of U.S. states' corporate income taxes and utilizing heterogeneity in firms' exposure to increases in corporate income tax rates, we identify the causal impact of local firms' investments. Using this as an instrumental variable in a 2SLS estimation, we find that an increases in local firms' investment reduces the investment of a local peer firm. This effect is more pronounced if local competition among firms is stronger and supports theories that firm investments are strategic substitutes due to competition.
G38|The impact of stock options on risk-taking: Founder-CEOs and innovation|This paper investigates whether and how founder-CEOs' risk incentives (VEGA) are related to firm innovation. We exploit a change in the accounting treatment of stock-based compensation under FAS 123R in 2005 to show a relationship between founders' risk-taking incentive and innovation. Using a sample of 226 firm-year observations between 2002 and 2008, we first show that stock options are incentives that encourage founder-CEOs to engage in risk-taking behaviour and that these were significantly reduced as a result of FAS 123R. Secondly, we find that innovation activities of the observed firms are significantly declining due to the reduction of the option compensation and the associated reduction in VEGA of founder-CEOs. Finally, our difference-in-differences approach provides strong evidence that there is a relationship between CEOs risk-taking and innovation output. Our results imply that even in founder-led firms it is important to incentivise founders' risk-taking behaviour in order that firms continue to innovate and remain competitive.
G38|Corporate Leverage and Employees' Rights in Bankruptcy|Corporate leverage responds differently to employees' legal protection in bankruptcy depending on whether leverage is chosen to curtail workers' bargaining power or is driven by credit constraints. Using newly collected cross-country data on employees' rights in corporate bankruptcy, we estimate the impact of such rights on firms' capital structure, applying triple-diff strategies that exploit time-series, cross-country and firm-level variation. The estimates show that leverage increases more substantially in response to rises in corporate property values or in profitability at firms where employees have strong seniority in liquidation and weak rights in restructuring, consistently with the strategic use of leverage.
G38|Whistleblower Rewards, False Reports, and Corporate Fraud|It is often claimed that rewards for whistleblowers lead to fraudulent reports, but for several US programs this was not a major problem. We model the interaction between rewards for whistleblowers, sanctions against fraudulent reporting, judicial errors and standards of proof in the court case on the whistleblower's allegations and the possible follow-up for fraudulent allegations. Balancing whistleblower rewards, sanctions against fraudulent reports, and courts' standards of proof is essential for these policies to succeed. When the risk of retaliation is severe, larger rewards are needed and so are tougher sanctions against fraudulent reports. The precision of the legal system must be sufficiently high, hence these programs are not viable in weak institution environments, where protection is imperfect and court precision low, or where sanctions against false reporting are mild. Internal reporting channels may interfere with the external ones in unexpected ways.
G38|Evolving corporate governance and firms performance: evidence from Japanese firms|Abstract This study is an attempt to investigate the implications of the ownership structure and control transfers in the Japanese corporate market, which are attributed mainly to the government’s liberalization policies during 1990s. It appears that institutional shareholdings—either financial or non-financial corporations—are associated with poor performance, whereas the foreign and domestic private ownerships lead to an improvement in the performance of the firms. We observe that unwinding the cross-shareholding between banks and corporations and mutual transfers among non-financial institutions allows for efficiency gain. Furthermore, the ownership transfer to private and foreign individuals is consistently associated with high market value, which implies that individuals’ transfers lead to an increase in efficiency.
G38|Democracy, rule of law, and corporate governance—a liquidity perspective|Abstract This study examines whether and how democracy and rule of law—two overarching country-level governance variables—influence corporate governance. Given that corporate liquidity (cash holdings) is a good channel for examining the quality of corporate governance, the effects of democracy and rule of law on corporate governance can be identified using the liquidity approach. A review of 67 countries from 1996 to 2010 demonstrates that democracy and rule of law indeed have bearings on corporate governance. More specifically, results indicate that firms are more inclined to hoard cash to take advantage of growth opportunities when the level of democracy is higher or rule of law is stronger, suggesting that agency costs are lower and interests of managers and shareholders are more aligned under such circumstances. In addition, the negative effect of debt issuance and dividend payment on cash is more pronounced when the level of democracy is higher or rule of law is stronger, suggesting that these two approaches become more effective in reducing agency costs and transitively cash holdings under such circumstances. Moreover, the positive effect of democracy and rule of law on corporate governance appears to be reinforced when rule of law is stronger and the level of democracy is higher, respectively. Furthermore, higher level of economic development helps reap the benefit of democracy and rule of law in terms of improving corporate governance and reducing agency costs.
G38|A drop in an empty pond: Canadian public policy towards venture capital|Abstract This paper presents evidence about the shortfall of venture capital in Canada relative to comparable regions in the United States, despite massive government spending on governmental venture capital programs in Canada. The Government of Canada committed $500 million towards venture capital in 2013 through the Venture Capital Action Plan. The Government of Ontario committed $29 million to the Investment Accelerator Fund in 2007, $105 million to the Ontario Venture Capital Fund in 2008, and up to $50 million per year through the Ontario Emerging Technologies Fund in 2009. We present data that shows Ontario’s expenditures would have to be higher by $4.4 billion per year to achieve levels of VC/GDP that are comparable to Massachusetts. Similarly, federal expenditures would have to be higher by $1.6 billion per year higher to achieve levels of VC/GDP that are comparable to the US. We attribute the shortfall in Canadian venture capital to two major policy failures. First, there is a persistent government venture capital support program that crowds out private investment. Second, other government programs favor established businesses. In Ontario in 2012, $4.1 billion in expenditures were allocated towards businesses, and the vast majority of these expenses are targeted towards the largest and oldest companies and the companies with the greatest revenues. We discuss the impact of such policies on the venture capital ecosystem in Canada.
G38|Entrepreneurs, legal institutions and firm dynamics|Abstract This paper assesses the impact of legal institutions on firm dynamics in a model where entrepreneurs have heterogeneous risk aversion, credit constraints and may default. Entrepreneurs choose firm size, capital structure, consumption, default and whether to incorporate. We find that less risk-averse entrepreneurs tend to incorporate while more risk-averse entrepreneurs do not; this occurs because leaving some personal assets exposed by not incorporating allows more risk-averse borrowers to credibly commit to lower default rates. We show that incorporation is determined by two effects: the standard effect that bankruptcy insures low firm returns and a new “scale effect”—more risk-averse entrepreneurs run smaller firms and default more often. The more risk-averse choose to leave some personal assets unshielded in bankruptcy due to a commitment problem that dominates the value of insurance. The less risk-averse run larger firms, default less and incorporate.
G38|Mitigating political uncertainty|Abstract This study examines whether firms that establish political connections gain differential access to relevant information over legislative developments, thereby mitigating the negative consequences of uncertainty. I find that political connections (partially) offset the negative relation between investment and political uncertainty documented in prior research. My results do not appear to be driven by connected firms pursuing investments that are insensitive to uncertainty. I perform additional tests to address concerns over correlated omitted variables. First, I identify a setting around a tax policy development designed to provide new investment incentives to firms. In this setting, I predict and find that reduced information asymmetry for connected firms results in delaying investment in anticipation of future lucrative tax incentives. Second, I perform a falsification test and document that political connections do not mitigate the effects of general economic uncertainty. Finally, I continue to find support for my hypothesis within a propensity matched sample.
G38|Determinants of Corporate Voting – Evidence from a Large Survey of German Retail Investors|Abstract Although corporate voting is a vital instrument of corporate governance, research on the determinants of voting turnout at an individual level is still scarce. This paper sheds first light on corporate voting from the individual investors’ perspective by analyzing a large and unique data set collected from a survey among almost 425,000 German retail investors of a German blue-chip company. The results of this case study provide unprecedented insights into potential factors influencing private shareholders’ decision to cast their votes in corporate elections. Drawing on the traditional rational choice model and the resource model of political voting, my findings indicate that particularly investors with better resources, i. e., particularly well-educated or rather sophisticated and more experienced retail investors, are more likely to use their corporate voting right. Overall, the results may offer new implications for explaining the voting turnout in German publicly listed companies.
G38|Renegotiating Public-Private Partnerships|The renegotiations of public–private partnership (PPP) contracts are commonly considered to be one of the pitfalls of PPPs, as they tend to undermine their (ex ante) efficiency. A renegotiation occurs when specific events change the conditions of a concession, frequently leading to a financial claim from the private sector on the public sector. This paper examines the Portuguese experience with PPP renegotiations by means of a unique panel data of 254 renegotiation events from 1995 to 2012. We find evidence of opportunistic bidding for PPP contracts, which is ex post – after the contract is won and the competition eliminated - leading to renegotiations to increase revenues. Renegotiations last on average 1.8 years. Majority governments are more prone to renegotiate and have more political clout to limit the renegotiation duration. There is no evidence of more renegotiations in election years or when there is a change in government. A better institutional framework, defined as a low country risk, a strong rule of law, and lower corruption, tends to reduce the probability of renegotiations. There is also evidence that at times of higher corruption, more renegotiations occur. The project’s leverage decreases the renegotiation duration. Strong initial bidder competition for a PPP contract leads to long subsequent renegotiations between the winning private party and the government.
G38|The Inner Workings of the Board: Evidence from Emerging Markets|We survey non-executive directors in emerging markets to obtain detailed information about the inner workings of corporate boards across a variety of institutional settings. We document substantial variation in the structure and conduct of boards as well as in directors' perceptions about the local legal environment. Further analysis indicates that directors who feel adequately empowered by local legislation are less likely to actively vote against board proposals. They also form boards that play a stronger role in the company's strategic decision-making. This suggests that a supportive legal environment allows directors to focus more on their advisory, as opposed to their monitoring, role.
G38|Leveraged Buyouts : A Survey of the Literature|This paper provides an exhaustive literature review of the motives for public-to-private LBO transactions. First, the paper develops the theoretical framework for the potential sources of value creation from going private: a distinction is made between the reduction in agency costs, stakeholder wealth transfers, tax benefits, transaction costs savings, takeover defense strategies, and corporate undervaluation. The paper then reviews and summarizes whether and how these theories have been empirically verified in the four different strands of literature in LBO research. These strands of literature are categorized by phase in the LBO transaction: Intent (of a buyout), Impact (of the LBO on the various stakeholders), Process (of restructuring after the leveraged buyout) and Duration (of retaining the private status). Then, the paper shows that in the first half of the 2000s, a public-to-private LBO wave re-emerged in the US, UK and Continental Europe, whose value vastly exceeded that of the 1980s US LBO wave. Finally, the paper provides suggestions for further research.
G38|CEO Incentives in Chinese State-Controlled Firms|This article investigates CEO incentives in Chinese state-controlled firms. We find that firm performance is positively related to CEO compensation. We also find that firm performance is positively associated with CEO promotion and negatively associated with CEO turnover. CEOs for state-controlled firms thus face significant incentives, not only in monetary form but also in terms of career prospects. These results suggest that the CEO labor market in China’s state sector exhibits characteristics like those found in managerial labor markets in developed countries. Moreover, we show that local institutions are associated with the relationship between CEO incentives and firm performance, with the relationship being stronger in regions characterized by stronger institutions. Overall, our results demonstrate that firm performance is associated with CEO incentives for state-controlled firms in China, suggesting that there is a functioning labor market for top managers in China’s state sector.
G38|Property as sequential exchange: the forgotten limits of private contract|The contractual, single-exchange framework in Coase (1960) contains the implicit assumption that exchange in property rights does not affect future transaction (i.e., trading) costs. This is pertinent for analyzing use externalities but limits our understanding of property institutions: a central problem of property markets lies in the interaction among multiple transactions, which causes exchange-related and non-contractible externalities. By retaining a single-exchange simplification, the economic analysis of property has encouraged views that: (1) overemphasize the initial allocation of property rights, while some form of recurrent allocation is often needed; (2) pay scant attention to legal rights, although these determine enforceability and, therefore, economic value; and (3) overestimate the power of unregulated private ordering, despite its inability to protect third parties. These three biases have been misleading policy in many areas, including land titling and business firm formalization.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
G38|Blockchain's struggle to deliver impersonal exchange|The paper identifies what value blockchain adds to the contractual and property processes, exploring its potential and analyzing the main difficulties it is facing. It argues that, contrary to naive conceptions that proclaim the end of intermediaries and state involvement, blockchain applications will rely on a variety of interface, completion and enforcement specialists, including standard public interventions, especially for property transactions. Without these interventions, blockchain applications will at most enable trade in in personam claims—instead of in rem rights—, therefore facilitating personal instead of truly impersonal—that is, asset-based—transactions.
G38|How should we model property? Thinking with my critics|Inspired by comments made by Allen (2017), Lueck (2017), Ménard (2017) and Smith (2017), this response clarifies and deepens the analysis in Arruñada (2017a). Its main argument is that to deal with the complexity of property we must abstract secondary elements, such as the physical dimensions of some types of assets, and focus on the interaction between transactions. This sequential-exchange framework captures the main problem of property in the current environment of impersonal markets. It also provides criteria to compare private and public ordering, as well as to organize public solutions that enable new forms of private ordering. The analysis applies the lessons in Coase (1960) to property by not only comparing realities but also maintaining his separate treatment of the definition of property rights and transaction costs. However, it replaces his contractual, single-exchange, framework for one in which contracts interact, causing exchange externalities.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
G38|How to Make Land Titling more Rational|Substantial variety exists among systems of land and business formalization both over time and across countries. For instance, England relied on private titling and delayed land registration for centuries. In contrast, early on, its American colonies imported land recordation and its Australian colonies land registration. Similarly, in most of the world, governments used to allow voluntary land titling, in which owners decide whether they register their land. Recently, however, governments and international agencies have more often opted for universal titling, aiming to register all the land in a certain region. This paper critically examines these strategies, analyzing the costs and benefits of the two main decisions: whether to create a public titling system or to rely exclusively on private titling, and the choice between voluntary and universal titling. It concludes that universal titling is seldom optimal. In particular, it argues that lack of titling is more a consequence than a cause of poverty.
G38|SMEs access to formal finance in post-communist economies: Do institutional structure and political connectedness matter?|In post-communist economies, a disproportionately greater share of formal finance is channelled to larger enterprises and SMEs lack appropriately-priced formal finance. This article examines whether institutional structure and interpersonal connectedness with bureaucrats exacerbate this formal finance misallocation. We show that access to and use of interpersonal bureaucratic networks improve chances of receiving formal bank credit by between 4–10%. The benefits of interpersonal links are stronger for larger SMEs, and being connected to bureaucratic networks is not associated with enterprise growth. These findings imply that traditional policies that increase bank finance to SMEs should also aim to improve impartiality of bureaucratic institutions and enforceability of private contracts.
G38|Bank CEO inside debt and loan contracting|Contrary to the theoretical prediction that CEOs with large debt-based compensation take lower levels of risk, we find that banks with higher CEO inside debt compensation extend syndicated loans with smaller number of lenders, lower spread, less covenant, and higher maturity. Using two-stage selection models, we reconciled these seemingly counter intuitive results of inside debt leads to less conservative loan contracting terms by incorporating banks selection effect. We find that the mechanism of inside debt limit bank risk-taking in loan contracting is through making loans to safer borrowers in the first place, but not through tighter loan terms. These results are consistent and robust to instrumental variables and structure models that control for the endogeneity of relationships.
G38|Neoliberalism and Right-wing Populism: Conceptual Analogies| The paper compares neoliberal market-fundamentalism and right-wing populism on the basis of its core patterns of thinking and reasoning. Hence we offer an analysis of the work of important founders of market-fundamental economic thinking (particularly von Mises) and an established definition of populism (demonstrated by the example of arguments brought forward by leading populists, like Trump). In doing so, we highlight conceptual resemblances of these two approaches: Both assume a dually divided world that is split into only two countervailing parts. Right-wing populism shows a society split into two groups, fighting against each other. In a similar vein, neoliberal market-fundamentalists argue that there are only two possible countervailing economic and societal orders. We argue that the categorical analogies between neoliberal market-fundamentalism and right-wing populism could provide the basis for a new form of authoritarian neoliberalism.
G38|On the determinants of speculation - a case for extended disclosures in corporate risk management|We examine the determinants of corporate speculation and challenge the extant, conflicting evidence. Separating risk management (reducing currency-specific FX exposure) from speculation (increasing or holding currency-specific FX exposure constant), we provide unprecedented evidence that speculators are smaller, have more growth opportunities and possess lower internal resources than risk-managing firms. The refined granularity of our dataset stems from a unique regulatory environment, where a regulating authority recommends additional disclosures for FX risk management in excess of governing accounting standards. Our findings enable investors, henceforth, to identify speculation from public available sources, where our results substantiate the significance of such an extended reporting. Thus, this case of optional disclosures might serve as blueprint for further regulatory refinements in other settings.
G38|Scenario-based capital requirements for the interest rate risk of insurance companies|The Solvency II standard formula measures interest rate risk based on two stress scenarios which are supposed to reflect the 1-in-200 year event over a 12-month time horizon. The calibration of these scenarios appears much too optimistic when comparing them against historical yield curve movements. This article demonstrates that interest rate risk is measured more accurately when using a (vector) autoregressive process together with a GARCH process for the residuals. In line with the concept of a pragmatic standard formula, the calculation of the Value-at-Risk can be boiled down to 4 scenarios, which are elicited with a Principal Component Analysis (PCA), at the cost of a relatively small measurement error.
G38|Financialisation and tendencies towards stagnation: The role of macroeconomic regime changes in the course of and after the financial and economic crisis 2007-9|This paper argues that the re-emergence of stagnation tendencies in modern capitalism can be related to financialisation and its macroeconomic failures leading to the recent crises, and in particular to the macroeconomic responses towards the crisis and the respective regime shifts in mature capitalist economies. The focus of the paper is on the latter, and it examines the regime changes for six mature capitalist economies, the two liberal Anglo-Saxon economies of the US and the UK, a representative country from the Nordic welfare states, Sweden, the three important Eurozone countries France, Germany and Spain, as well as the core Eurozone (EA-12) as a whole. The concept of macroeconomic regimes under the conditions of financialisation is recapitulated, applied to the period before the crisis, and finally the regime changes during and after the crisis are examined. It is shown that a dominant tendency towards export-led mercantilism, in particular in the Eurozone and its main member countries, imposes an aggregation problem on the global economy and thus contributes to stagnation and rising global macroeconomic risks. Finally, short- and long-run alternative policies to deal with these problems are suggested.
G38|The economic and fiscal value of German guarantee banks|Guarantee banks backed by the state aim to close the gap in the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises or start-ups caused by lacking collateral or equity and high information asymmetry. The present study quantifies the economic and fiscal net benefits of guarantee banks in the new federal states of Germany, where economic development is still lacking behind those in the old federal states. Using data of five guarantee banks and results from enterprise and bank surveys, we measure finance and project additionality of loan and equity guarantees provided over the period 1991-2015. Cost-benefit analyses show that the economic benefits of the guarantee banks are considerable because of increased production and employment, while the economic costs are negligible. The real GDP increases by about 1.2 euro per euro guarantee each year. In the years 2008 to 2014, there were net fiscal gains of several hundred million euros in the respective federal states.
G38|Remarks on the German Regulation of Crowdfunding|Crowdfunding is a buzzword that signifies a sub-set in the new forms of finance facilitated by advances in information technology usually categorized as fintech. Concerns for financial stability, investor and consumer protection, or the prevention of money laundering or funding of terrorism hinge incrementally on including the new techniques to initiate financing relationships adequately in the regulatory framework. This paper analyzes the German regulation of crowdinvesting and finds that it does not fully live up to the regulatory challenges posed by this novel form of digitized matching of supply and demand on capital markets. It should better reflect the key importance of crowdinvesting platforms, which may become critical providers of market infrastructure in the not too distant future. Moreover, platforms can play an important role in investor protection that cannot be performed by traditional disclosure regimes geared towards more seasoned issuers. Against this background, the creation of an exemption from the traditional prospectus regime seems to be a plausible policy choice. However, it needs to be complemented by an adequate regulatory stimulation of platforms' role as gatekeepers.
G38|Regulation of crowdfunding in Germany|This paper is the national report for Germany prepared for the to the 20th General Congress of the International Academy of Comparative Law 2018 and gives an overview of the regulation of crowdfunding in Germany and the typical design of crowdfunding campaigns under this legal framework. After a brief survey of market data, it delineates the classification of crowdfunding transactions in German contract law and their treatment under the applicable conflict of laws regime. It then turns to the relevant rules in prudential banking regulation and capital market law. It highlights disclosure requirements that flow from both contractual obligations of the initiators of campaigns vis-à-vis contributors and securities regulation (prospectus regime). After sketching the most important duties of the parties involved in crowdfunding, the report also looks at the key features of the respective transactions' tax treatment.
G38|Theoretische Erklärungsansätze für die Entsprechenserklärungen zu Abfindungen für Vorstandsmitglieder<BR>[Theoretical explanation approaches for the declarations of conformity regarding severance payments for members of the management board]|In diesem Beitrag werden theoretische Erklärungen gesucht für die dauerhaft hohe Abweichungsquote der Entsprechenserklärungen hinsichtlich Vorstandsabfindungen von über 20 % von Empfehlung Ziffer 4.2.3 Abs. 4 Deutscher Corporate Governance Kodex und für die Unabhängigkeit der Abweichungsquote von der Zugehörigkeit des Unternehmens zum Prime Standard und von der Zugehörigkeit des Unternehmens zu einem der Auswahlindices DAX, MDAX, TecDAX oder SDAX. Auch die mehrheitliche Überschreitung der Obergrenze trotz Entsprechenserklärungen und das Unterlassen der Erwähnung der Überschreitung im vergangenheitsorientierten Teil der folgenden Erklärung sollen erklärt werden. Aus verschiedenen theoretischen Modellen werden jeweils Veränderungsempfehlungen für die Regelung der Abfindungsobergrenzen für Vorstandsmitglieder abgeleitet.
G38|The Impact of Institutions on Innovation|This paper studies the impact of radical institutional reform on innovation. We use the timing and geography of French invasions of different regions of Germany after the French revolution of 1789 as an exogenous shock to the institutions of those regions. German regions that were invaded by the French subsequently changed their institutions in important ways, including the introduction of the civil code, the dissolution of guilds, the abolition of serfdom and the implementation of agrarian reforms. These institutional changes in turn affect innovation. Using patents per capita as our measure of innovation, we show that counties whose institutions are more inclusive as a result of the French occupation also become more innovative. Moving from a county with no occupation to a county with the longest occupation, the implied changes in institutional reforms result in an increase of patents per capita of 123%. Our findings point to institutions as a first order determinant of innovation and highlight the role of innovation as a key mechanism through which institutions may foster economic growth.
G38|Corporate Leverage and Employees’ Rights in Bankruptcy|Corporate leverage responds differently to employees’ rights in bankruptcy depending on whether it is driven by strategic concerns in wage bargaining or by credit constraints. Using novel data on employees’ rights in bankruptcy, we estimate their impact on leverage, exploiting time-series, cross-country and firm-level variation in the data. For financially unconstrained firms, results accord with the strategic debt model: leverage increases more in response to rises in corporate property values or profitability if employees have strong seniority in liquidation and weak rights in restructuring. Instead, in financially constrained firms leverage responds less to these shocks if employees have stronger seniority.
G38|Instruments of Marketing and Credit Support of the Large Industrial Enterprises Development: International Experience|Instruments of marketing management and techniques of credit support should be aimed at providing sustainable development of large industrial enterprises as well as at creation of effective systems of corporate governance on the basis of integration of service and knowledge-based technologies. Development of industrial technologies and modernization of financial services assumes formation and improvement of adaptable marketing model of technological development of the industrial policy. It is also considered to be aimed at technological development of large industrial companies which demand of credit and finance and organizational support in current economic, institutional and geopolitical context in Russia.
G38|The Influence of Financial and Industrial Policy on Harmonization of European and Asian Integration Processes|The article is devoted to a research of the influence of financial and industrial policy on harmonization of European and Asian integration processes. Considering geopolitical and macroeconomic risks, real opportunities for the growth recovery of the national economics and sustainable financial policy are limited. They also require integrated development of effective measures of state support for the recovery of national economic growth by supporting the number of main industries. The development of anti-crisis policy should be accelerated in order to create a favorable investment climate in Russia, increase the business activity of economic agents, decrease capital outflow, and reduce the amount of unsecured budgetary commitments.
G38|Disentangling the Effect of Private and Public Cash Flows on Firm Value| This paper presents a simple model for dual-class stock shares, in which common shareholders receive both public and private cash flows (i.e. dividends and any private benefit of holding voting rights) and preferred shareholders only receive public cash flows (i.e. dividends). The dual-class premium is driven not only by the firm's ability to generate cash flows, but also by voting rights. We isolate these two effects in order to identify the role of voting rights on equity-holders' wealth. In particular, we employ a cointegrated VAR model to retrieve the impact of the voting rights value on cash flow rights. We find a negative relation between the value of the voting right and the preferred shareholders' wealth for Brazilian cross-listed firms. In addition, we examine the connection between the voting right value and market and firm specific risks.
G38|Can Macroprudential Measures Make Cross-Border Lending More Resilient? Lessons from the Taper Tantrum|We study the extent to which macroprudential regulatory measures were successful in alleviating the negative shock that the taper tantrum of 2013 imposed on bilateral cross-border lending flows. We use a novel data set combining the BIS stage 1 enhanced banking statistics on bilateral cross-border lending flows with the IBRN's macroprudential database. Our results suggest that macroprudential measures implemented in borrowers' host countries prior to the taper tantrum significantly reduced the negative effect of the tantrum on crossborder lending growth. The shock-mitigating effects of hostcountry macroprudential rules are present both in lending to banks and in lending to non-banks, and are stronger for lending flows to borrowers in advanced economies and to the non-bank sector in general. Source (lending) banking system measures do not affect bilateral lending flows, nor do they enhance the effect of host-country macroprudential measures. Our results imply that policymakers may consider applying macroprudential tools to mitigate international shock transmission through cross-border bank lending.
G38|Corporate control market: stages, specific features, regulation|Russia’s market for mergers and acquisitions came into being in the early 1990s when mass privatization of state-owned property gained momentum. More specifically, it was not until after the Russian financial crisis of 1998 that mergers and friendly takeovers took place in Russia. Up until then there were ‘acquisitions through privatization’ that can be regarded as a primary manifestation of the initial stage of building a market for corporate control (from 1992 till the onset of the financial crisis of 1998). Reorganization proceeded privatization in 1/3 of cases, was coupled with privatization in 1/3 of cases and followed privatization in 1/3 of cases. Also, the practice of consolidating Russian assets through both M&A and outsider shareholding was adopted in the mid-1990s. In 1998, the equity of about 40% of surveyed enterprises was partially held by outside corporate shareholders, and more than 13% of those enterprises were integrated with suppliers or consumers.
G38|Should I go by bus? The liberalization of the long-distance bus industry in France|The opening up of the French long-distance bus industry is one of the outcomes of the Loi Macron. In this study, we build a unique data set of several representative bus routes and show that the effects of the liberalization have been encouraging in terms of fares, new entry, higher frequency, and higher quality. First, with regard to international routes that used to be under cabotage, we find that relaxing quantitative restrictions has led to the expected results on the Lyon–Torino and Paris–London routes. Second, with regard to domestic routes newly created from the Loi Macron, mostly all procompetitive expected variations in the variables have been observed, except for fares. Indeed, we show that bus operators used an initial aggressive pricing strategy to induce demand for the new services and then increased fares once customers became accustomed with the service.
G38|Islamic Model of Corporate Governance at The Islamic Boarding School|Objective - The aim of paper is to investigate whether traditional management, is the Islamic boarding school has implemented the Islamic Corporate Governance. Methodology/Technique - This research is a qualitative study using case study. Key Informant in this research is the General Secretary of Bahrul Ulum Foundation. The analysis technique used is the technique belong to Yin (2009) that divides three techniques for the analysis of case studies: the pairing pattern analysis techniques, the technique of making the explanation, the time series analysis technique. Findings - The findings indicate that in its implementation, corporate governance at Islamic boarding school based on the value of Tawhid. Furthermore, principle of transparency, accountability, responsibility, independence and fairness being the corporate governance principles at an Islamic boarding school. Research Implications: This study uses only one boarding school. Future studies are expected to examine more than one boarding school to obtain mixed results. Novelty - Based on the finding, the study suggests the ICG formulation will be found appropriate for every boarding school in Indonesia
G38|Sovereign wealth funds’ cross-border investments: Assessing the role of country-level drivers and spatial competition|The aim of this paper is to identify the driving forces of cross-border investments emanating from Sovereign wealth funds and to test the existence of spatial competition among recipient countries. For this, we develop an original econometric framework that quantifies the role of spatial dependence in the location of investments, and that uses a modified version of the standard estimation procedure of spatial panel model, which accommodates the Inverse Hyperbolic Sine transformation of the dependent variable. This transformation copes with two critical features of net capital flows, namely an highly skewed distribution and the presence of zero and negative values. Using a large-scale database, we provide evidence of negative spatial dependence, investments in one country being on average at the expense of its neighbors.
G38|The value of government ownership during the global financial crisis|This paper examines the value of government ownership in Europe during the global financial crisis. This crisis was an exogenous shock for European firms, which allows us to observe an out-of-equilibrium effect on the costs and benefits of government ownership. Using a comprehensive sample of 4737 listed firms in 28 European countries over the period 2005–2009, we find that firms with government ownership experienced a smaller reduction in firm value than firms without government ownership. This effect was driven by firms located in countries where the risk of expropriation by the government is lower, that is, countries with less corruption and better investor protection.
G38|The impact of state aid on the survival and financial viability of aided firms|We estimate the causal impact of restructuring aid granted by the European Commission between 2000 and 2012 on the survival and financial viability of aided firms. Using a comprehensive dataset we find that restructuring aid decreases the hazard rate of a market exit by 58–68% and increases firms’ average survival time by 8–15 years, depending on the definition of firm survival. We also find that aid receiving firms have a significantly higher probability to improve their financial viability than the counterfactual group in the longer run.
G38|Domestic bond markets in emerging economies: Crowding in or crowding out?|Identifying the costs and benefits of domestic debt is necessary to understand the trade-offs between external and domestic debt. However, this is not an easy task, due to the lack of highquality data. In this paper, I introduce a new detailed dataset on domestic bond markets in 19 emerging economies for the period 1995–2012. The dataset contains public and publicly guaranteed bonds as well as private sector bonds. This enables me to empirically analyze the crowding-out effect of public bonds on private sector bonds. The results are more supportive of crowding in, as well-developed bonds markets and investment-grade firms enjoy more positive spillover effects. Bonds issued by high-risk firms will be crowded out when public issuances increase, while it appears that the effects cancel each other out in small bonds markets.
G38|Political Uncertainty and Innovation in China|We hypothesize that political uncertainty has an adverse effect on investments in activities related to innovation. Combining two hand-collected data sets on changes in local government officials and research and development (R&D) activity at the firm level in China, we examine how political turnover influences investments in R&D. We find that a change in local political leaders is associated with a significant decrease in R&D activity. This result is robust to various robustness tests. The decrease is larger when the new political leader is promoted from outside the city in question. Moreover, the decrease is significantly larger for privately controlled firms, firms operating in regions characterized by weak economic institutions, and firms within R&D-intensive industries. Our findings suggest that political uncertainty constitutes an important channel through which the local political process influences activities related to innovation.
