G39|Equity Finance: Matching Liability to Power|There is widespread concern that the bonus culture for senior managers in limited liability companies is having adverse effects, e.g. on risk-taking, leverage and lower longer-term investment. The moral hazard of limited liability was appreciated in the 19th century, when unlimited or multiple liability, especially for bankers, was widely adopted. Whereas outside, notably retail, investors still need the protection of limited liability, we advocate moving towards a two-tier equity system, primarily for banks, with insiders, senior managers and others with influence over corporate decisions, becoming subject to multiple liability. But the transition costs of doing so suddenly would be great, so our proposal is to start by applying this initially just to Systemically Important Financial Intermediaries.
G39|Equity finance: matching liability to power|There is widespread concern that the bonus culture for senior managers in limited liability companies is having adverse effects, e.g. on risk-taking, leverage and lower longer-term investment. The moral hazard of limited liability was appreciated in the 19th century, when unlimited or multiple liability, especially for bankers, was widely adopted. Whereas outside, notably retail, investors still need the protection of limited liability, we advocate moving towards a two-tier equity system, primarily for banks, with insiders, senior managers and others with influence over corporate decisions, becoming subject to multiple liability. But the transition costs of doing so suddenly would be great, so our proposal is to start by applying this initially just to Systemically Important Financial Intermediaries.
G39|Age of Firms and the Value of Analyst Recommendation|Objective - This paper assesses the value of information disclosure in Malaysian analyst reports by examining three categories of firms, according to their age (young, medium and old). Methodology/Technique - The study uses a market-adjusted method to calculate the cumulative abnormal return and panel regression to test the research objective. The results from the unbalanced panel data reveals that not all information contained in the analyst reports is able to detect the movement in stock returns. Finding - Younger firms recorded two significant results (ROE and SPR) whereas among medium aged firms, TP, CFP, SPR, and MC all had an impact on CAR. The older firms showed that TP, EF, ROE and SPKLCI had an impact on CAR. Novelty – This qualitative inquiry reveals that Malaysian analyst reports tend to disclose information based on simple statistical analyses to formulate recommendations whilst ignoring other significant qualitative information.
G39|Bankruptcy Prediction Model of Banks in Indonesia Based on Capital Adequacy Ratio|Objective – The purpose of this study is to examine the influence of capital on bankruptcy banks. The hypothesis of this research is that capital has an effect on the bankruptcy of a bank. Methodology/Technique – This research examines financial reports between 2005-2014. An econometric model with a logistical regression analysis technique is used. In this study, capital is measured by CAR, taking into account credit risk; CAR by taking into account market risk; Ratio of Obligation to Provide Minimum Capital for Credit Risk and Operational Risk; Ratio of Minimum Capital Adequacy Ratio for Credit Risk, Operational Risk and Market Risk; Capital Adequacy Requirements (CAR). Findings – The results show that the capital adequacy ratio for market ratio and capital adequacy ratio for credit ratio and operational ratio support the research hypothesis and can form a logit model. The test results of CAR by taking into account credit risk, Minimum Capital Requirement Ratio for Credit Risk, Operational Risk and Market Risk and Minimum Capital Provision Obligations do not support the research hypothesis. Novelty – This paper contribute to bank bankruptcy prediction models based on time dimension and bank groups using financial ratios which are expected can influence bank in bankrupt condition. Type of Paper: Empirical.
G39|Building Persistent Financial Performance|Objective – The purpose of this study is to analyze profit persistence and the factors that influence it using secondary data from 39 banks listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange in the form of pooled data, from 2008 to 2014. Methodology/Technique – This study uses a purposive sampling technique, resulting in a sample of 31 banks. Variable profit persistence of each bank reflects sustainable earnings towards the industry in the future. The model determinant factors of persistence profit were analyzed by normalization models as reference models, average models and growth models as exploration models. Findings – As a result, the persistence profit of banks listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange tends to vary. Some banks have positive profit persistence (lambda) that reflects a competitive advantage in the long run. Other banks have a negative profit persistence, which reflects long-term competitive weakness. Novelty – The ability to access capital and funding has a significant effect on profit persistence, although the direction of its influence is negative. Other variables, namely the capability to access public funds, the ability to innovate and industrial factors, namely credit market share, have a significant effect on persistent profits, while the ability to maintain asset quality and efficiency has no significant effect on profit persistence in banks listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange. Type of Paper: Empirical
G39|How Impactful is Telecom Efficiency to Company Stock Value?|Objective - The telecom industry is one of the optimistic industries that is still growing. In South East Asia, between 2008-2017, the number of subscribers increased 10.07% annually, and revenue for the industry grew 6.08% annually. However, Net Profit Margin, EBITDA, and EBIT value during the same period declined at the time revenue amount was increasing. One of the visible health factors and part of the valuation factor is stock value. Hence the research question of this study is: What is the impact and significance of telecom operators' efficiency to stock value? Methodology/Technique - In this study, efficiency will be measured and analyzed using Stochastic Frontier Approach (SFA) method. By using same method, the impact of efficiency to stock value will be measured, as well as the significance level. Finding - The results of this research show that from 14 telecom operators observed, TLKM (Indonesia) obtained the highest efficiency score (0.984) whereas StarHub (Malaysia) had the lowest efficiency score (0.405). TLKM (Indonesia) and AIS (Thailand) had a similar efficiency score given the fact that the behaviour of the subscribers is similar and they have the same country characteristic. Novelty - All of the input and output variables have a positive impact on the efficiency parameter except Total Asset which has negative impact on the efficiency score. By using further analysis of the t-Ratio between the variables and efficiency, it can be seen that stock value is impacted by the efficiency parameters but this impact is not significant (t-Ratio 1.35). Type of Paper - Empirical.
G39|The Effect of Related Party Transactions through Opportunistic Behaviour Management to Increase Firm Value|Objective - This research aims to determine and analyze related party transactions to increase firm value through opportunistic behaviour management by conducting earnings management on manufacturing companies listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange between 2015 and 2018. Methodology/Technique – There are 34 companies that fulfill the requirements to become the sample of this study. The method applied in analyzing the data is verification using path analysis. Findings – The results of the research show that related party transactions do not have any significant effect on firm value however it indicates a positive impact. Moreover, related party transactions do not have any significant impact on earning management yet it gives a negative impact on earning management. Novelty – The influence of earnings management shows a positive impact on firm value while it shows no signs of positive impact on firm value. The analysis shows that the value of the indirect impact of related party transactions through earnings management towards firm value is negative being 0.022 smaller than the direct impact of related party transaction toward firm value which is 0.053. This indicates that related party transactions through earnings management have no significant impact on firm value.
G39|Updating Variational Bayes: Fast Sequential Posterior Inference|Variational Bayesian (VB) methods usually produce posterior inference in a time frame considerably smaller than traditional Markov Chain Monte Carlo approaches. Although the VB posterior is an approximation, it has been shown to produce good parameter estimates and predicted values when a rich class of approximating distributions are considered. In this paper we propose Updating VB (UVB), a recursive algorithm used to update a sequence of VB posterior approximations in an online setting, with the computation of each posterior update requiring only the data observed since the previous update. An extension to the proposed algorithm, named UVB-IS, allows the user to trade accuracy for a substantial increase in computational speed through the use of importance sampling. The two methods and their properties are detailed in two separate simulation studies. Two empirical illustrations of the proposed UVB methods are provided, including one where a Dirichlet Process Mixture model is repeatedly updated in the context of predicting the future behaviour of vehicles on a stretch of the US Highway 101.
G39|Employee Disputes and Innovation Performance: Evidence from Pharmaceutical Industry|In this study, we use a hand-collected dataset of employee lawsuits to understand the effect of employee allegations on firms’ innovation in a human capital-intensive industry. We gather more than 2,293 employee disputes between 2000 and 2015 and test the relationship between employee lawsuits and Food and Drug Administration (FDA) product approvals in the pharmaceutical industry. We find that employee disputes lower the total number of FDA-approved products. We document that firms with frequent employee allegations maintain low innovation outcomes. Additional results show that case characteristics are an important determinant of FDA approvals; labor unions and case duration delay time-to-approval of submitted products, which may explain the deteriorated innovation outcomes. Overall, our findings highlight the importance of employee treatment in the workplace environment, which is ultimately related to firms’ innovation performance.
G39|Institutional Monitoring and Litigation Risk: Evidence from Employee Disputes|In this study, we investigate how institutional investors help mitigate business-related risks in a corporate environment. Using a large sample of employment disputes, litigations, and court cases, we find that institutional investors play a significant role in reducing employment litigation. We observe that firms with larger shares of institutional ownership have a lower incidence of employment lawsuits and that long-term institutional investors are more effective at decreasing employee mistreatment. Our results suggest that institutional investors can improve the employee work environment and help mitigate future employee litigation. The improvement of employee work conditions has been shown to increase a firm’s value through increased employee output, reduced litigation, and direct and indirect costs. Our results shed light on the effectiveness of institutional monitoring on a firm’s litigation risk.
G39|Do Multiple Credit Ratings Reduce Money Left on the Table? Evidence from US. IPOs| We examine initial public offerings (IPOs) with single, multiple, and no credit ratings. We document a beneficial effect of credit ratings on IPO underpricing, which is amplified by the existence of multiple credit ratings. Multiple ratings also reduce the extent of filing price revisions. Credit rating levels matter for IPOs with more than one rating but not for those with a single rating. Firms with multiple credit ratings also have higher probabilities of survival than those with a single or no rating. Finally, IPOs awarded a first credit rating between BB and BBB are more likely to seek an additional rating.
G39|The Employee Clientele of Corporate Leverage: Evidence from Personal Labor Income Diversification|Using employee job-level data, we empirically test the equilibrium matching between a firm’s debt usage and its employee job risk aversion (“clientele effect”), as predicted by the existing theories. We measure job risk aversion for a firm’s employees using their labor income concentration in the firm, calculated as the fraction of the employees’ total personal labor income or total household labor income that is accounted for by their income from this particular firm. Using a sample of about 1,400 U.S. public firms from 1990-2008, we find a robust negative relation between leverage and employee job risk aversion, which is consistent with the clientele effect. Specifically, when a firm’s existing employees have higher labor income concentration in it, the firm tends to have lower contemporaneous and future leverage. Moreover, in terms of new hires, firms with lower leverage are more likely to recruit employees with less alternative labor income. Our results continue to hold after we control for firm fixed effects, other employee characteristics such as wages, gender, age, race, and education, and managerial risk attitudes. Further, the matching between a firm’s leverage and its workers’ labor income concentration in it is more pronounced for firms with higher labor intensity and those in financial distress.
G39|How Do Large Banking Groups Manage the Efficiency of Their Subsidiaries? Evidence from CEE|We analyse the cost efficiency over the period 2002-2015 of subsidiaries of selected international banking groups (IBGs) that built up significant banking businesses in Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) in the 1990s and 2000s. Using Bayesian stochastic efficiency analysis, we find evidence of superior efficiency management by IBGs of their subsidiaries, particularly in the period following the crisis of 2008-2009. We find that the subsidiaries of IBGs were in general more cost-efficient than their peers in CEE and that the difference further increased in the post-crisis period. While the overall heterogeneity of banks in CEE in terms of efficiency increased and remained at a higher level in the post-crisis period, the IBGs were able to get it close to the pre-crisis level or to reduce it even further. Although we find bank efficiency to be relatively persistent, we also find evidence of beta-convergence for all the analysed IBGs towards the estimated long-term mean, which is expected to be significantly higher than that of the control group for the majority of the IBGs.
G39|The Impact of Institutional Ownership and a Firm's Size on Firm Value: Tax Avoidance as a Moderating Variable|"""Objective –The objective of this study is to investigate how institutional ownership and firm size affect firm value. The study also investigates the moderating effect of tax avoidance on the relationship between institutional ownership and the size of a firm on its value. Methodology/Technique –A model was developed and tested using a sample of 66 manufacturing companies listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange between 2012 and 2014. Findings –The data was collected and analysed using a least square regression and moderated regression analysis. The analysis shows that institutional ownership and firm size affect firm value. The results also indicate that tax avoidance moderates the effect of institutional ownership and that of a firm's size on its value"""
G39|Determinants of the Success of Corporate Recovery in Financial Distressed Company|Objective - This study aims to examine and analyze the influence of severity, free assets, company size, asset retrenchment and CEO expertise on the success of recovery companies experiencing financial distress that are listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange (IDX). Methodology/Technique - The population used in this study are all companies listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange between 2011 and 2016. This study uses a simple logistic regression analysis to test the hypotheses. Findings - The results indicate that free assets and CEO expertise have a significant and positive effect on the success of a company's recovery. Meanwhile, variable severity, asset retrenchment and firm size do not affect the success of the company's recovery.
G39|Refinancing Risk and Debt Maturity Choice during a Financial Crisis|This paper explores whether refinancing risk is an important determinant of maturity decisions by investigating how firms with refinancing risk choose the maturity of new loans they obtain during the 2007-2009 financial crisis. The firms' refinancing risk is measured by the maturing portion of outstanding long-term debt. The result shows that firms with a high refinancing risk choose longer maturities. This effect is stronger for speculative-grade and low-cash-flow firms. There is also evidence that firms with refinancing risk obtain longer maturities from their relationship lenders.
G39|Does Collateral Reduce Loan-Size Credit Rationing? Survey Evidence|In theory, the use of collateral in credit contracting should mitigate the information problems that are widely held to be the primary cause of credit rationing. However, direct empirical evidence of the link between collateral use and credit rationing is scant. This paper examines the relationship between collateral and credit rationing using survey data that provides clean measures of quantity and loan size rationing. We find that selection problems arising from the loan application process and co-determination of loan terms significantly influence the link between collateral and rationing. Accounting for these problems, our results suggest that collateral reduces the likelihood of experiencing loan-size credit rationing by between 15 and 40 percentage points, and that collateral also decreases the relative loan amount rationed.
G39|Measuring the impact of businesses on people’s well-being and sustainability: Taking stock of existing frameworks and initiatives|Businesses have a significant impact on people’s economic and social conditions, as well as on environmental outcomes. This paper presents an overview of the various kinds of initiatives aimed at measuring or reporting on business’ impact, or certain aspects of it. It shows that despite the proliferation of information and frameworks to measure these impacts, there is currently no common understanding and practice on how to assess the performance of businesses in different social and environmental areas. Building on the OECD’s work on measuring well-being at the national level, the paper aims at better understanding how businesses can impact people’s well-being and sustainability. It contributes to, and complements, other initiatives undertaken by the OECD on responsible business conduct and inclusive growth. This analysis is a first attempt at extending to businesses the approach used by the Organisation to assess and benchmark the well-being performance of countries and sub-national regions, in view of creating a common language and improving the quality, comparability, and coherence of information on the impact of businesses on societal progress and people’s life.
G39|Cuantificarea competitivitatii IMM-urilor UE-28 vs. SUA<BR>[The quantification of competitiveness of EU-28 SMEs vs. USA SMEs]|Schimbările permanate ale mediului de afaceri determină adaptarea modelelor tradiționale de competitivitate la noile condiții ale pieței. Într-o economie deschisă, competitivitatea IMM-urilor trebuie să țină seama și de rolul noilor tehnologii informaționale și de comunicare, de standardele internaționale de calitate, de rețelele de grupuri, de gestionarea proprietății intelectuale, de internaționalizare etc. Înțelegerea modului în care IMM-urile răspund noilor provocări ale mediului de afaceri este importantă în definirea competitivității. Așadar, promovarea competitivității prin cunoaștere și inovare s-a dovedit a fi o modalitate bună de a combate efectele crizei economice, IMM-urile care au recurs la acest tip de competitivitate au înregistrat chiar și pe perioada crizei creșteri ale ratei de ocupare a forței de muncă, a productivității și exportului.
G39|Trademarks, Firm Longevity and IPO Underpricing|We examine the role of trademarks in firm longevity and IPO underpricing. We borrow arguments from asymmetric information theory and juxtapose alternative explanations to uncover which approach best describes the underpricing phenomenon with the aid of trademarks relationship to firm longevity. We further argue that TMs that are associated with physical products are more likely to reduce information asymmetries than TMs associated with services. Therefore, we posit that TM activity by firms in the service industries is more likely to increase underpricing while in the case of the manufacturing firm’s TM activity is less (or not) likely to result to increased underpricing. We collect 2,275 US IPOs from 1997-2016 and we find that on average the presence of trademarks in a firm’s portfolio increases underpricing. We link our results with the extant literature and provide evidence which supports that higher trademark activity is associated with firm longevity and signaling quality through IPO underpricing.
G39|Behaviour of asset pricing models in pre and post-recession period: an evidence from India|The study endeavours to assess empirically the performance of various models of asset pricing employing risk factors such as market premium, book to market equity, size, investment, momentum and profitability and attempts to unearth the effects of value, size, investment, momentum and profitability. It also compares the behaviour of five different asset pricing models: standard capital asset pricing model, three and five-factor model of Fama French, four-factor model of Carhart and six-factor model during the periods of pre-recession, recession and post-recession in the Indian equity market. The study uses constituents of S&P BSE 500 as a sample, traded over the period 1st July 2005 to 31st September 2017. The results exhibit that three-factor model is an effective model which brings a lot of improvements over CAPM and suggests that market premium and size factors are the most effective and strong factors explaining the variation in returns, throughout the study period. Four-factor model performs a little better for few portfolios created based on size-momentum during 2009-17 and 2005-17. Five and six-factor model do not make any further improvement if compare with the three-factor asset pricing model. Size effect is present in all the above models and across all the time periods, however, factors such as the premium for profitability, investment and momentum are found redundant during the study period in the Indian equity market.
G39|Determinants of merger and acquisition activity in Poland|Despite the increasing importance of the emerging mergers and acquisitions (M&A) markets, the theoretical backgrounds of factors determining the level of activity of enterprises in taking up consolidation processes have not been adequately recognized. Not much attention has yet been paid in global researches to those markets for corporate control which are at earlier stage of development than highly mature markets with long history, such as the US, UK, Germany, or Japan. The primary purpose of the research is to identify the factors determining the level of activity on the M&A market in Poland, the leading M&A market among CEE countries. Analysis covers the impact of factors identified in prior researches conducted on mature corporate control markets on the degree of activity on the M&A market, as well as unique factors selected for the Polish market. According to the prevailing theoretical paradigm, particular markets - due to their institutional environment and degree of development - have a specific set of factors that determine their tendency for exogenous growth and acquisitions by other market players, such as investment funds or individual investors. Research commences with structuring, classification and analysis of the current state of knowledge. With the use of descriptive methods, the objective of identifying and characterizing the collection of universal factors determining M&A market activity has been achieved. Reasoning on specific research problems has been proceeded using deduction, followed by statistical analysis to test the formulated hypothesis. With the use of relevant statistical and econometric methods, including multiple regression analysis, a relationship has been sought between the number of M&A transactions in Poland and the previously identified and selected explanatory variables and groups thereof. The results of regression analysis have been supplied with results of relative value analysis in order to determine, whether importance of national specific factors in explaining the dynamics of M&A deals is greater than universal factors.Both the applied methodology and the extent of contemplated research in terms of space and time is innovative for an emerging M&A market. Unlike such areas as transaction efficiency, choice of payment method in acquisition, or business valuation in M&A processes, no comprehensive research has yet been carried out on factors determining the activity on the Polish corporate control market involving state-of-the-art econometric analysis.
G39|Determinants of Dividend Payout Ratio in Thailand|Dividend payout ratio has been a controversial topic among scholars for some decades. Researchers have different conclusion and attempt to construct theoretical models to defy factors that impact dividend payout ratio such as transaction theory or agency theory for examples. The purpose of this study is to investigate some financial indicators that affect the dividend payout ratio in Thailand?s capital market. From existing literature reviews, we select seven factors including dividend payout ratio a previous year, corporate size, current ratio, debt to equity ratio, sale growth, free cash flow and return on equity or return on assets. This study uses secondary data collected from annual financial statements of listed companies in Thailand Stock Exchange exclude financial sector during 2014 -2016 periods. After we evaluate the data based on specific criteria, only 106 companies remained qualified. Therefore 318 firm-year financial information has applied for this study. A panel multiple regression model is implemented for statistic testing at the significant level 0.05. The results show the positive and statistically significant effect of current ratio, debt ratio and return on equity to dividend payout ratio. While the results show negative and statistically significance of sales growth to dividend payout ratio. The results are consistent with prior survey except for debt ratio which shows the opposite direction. However, the results show no significant effect of dividend payout ratio a previous year, firm size and free cash flow to dividend payout ratio. Nevertheless, return on assets is better explanation than return on equity since the result demonstrates higher r square. This research limits determinants from previous literatures. Other explanatory variables such as investment opportunities, business risk or firm life cycle are subject to future research.
G39|Insider trading and networked directors|We analyze the relation between insider trading and the networks of executive and non-executive directors in UK listed companies. While most existing studies focus on firm-specific private information, we find that non-firm-specific information – such as information on other companies and information on industry and market trends – plays an important role in insider trading behavior and performance. Well-connected directors trade shares less frequently and for smaller values. However, their transactions are more profitable, especially when they make consecutive opportunistic purchases in the multiple companies on whose boards they sit. Taken together, well-connected directors are likely to outperform their peers with inferior connections.
G39|Non‐additivity in Accounting Valuation: Theory and Applications|This paper has three objectives. First, to introduce a theoretical solution to the issue of non‐additivity between assets in place, relying on an accounting‐based valuation approach. Second, to explain how such an approach can be implemented empirically by measuring synergies between assets. Third, to present the properties of this non‐additive valuation technique. We use Choquet capacities, that is, non‐additive aggregation operators, to measure the interactions between assets and apply our methodology to a sample of US firms from the capital goods industry. To operationalize our approach we examine the relationships between synergies—captured by Choquet capacities—and the market‐to‐book ratio (proxying for growth options), and show how interactions between assets are consistently linked to a firm’s market‐to‐book ratio. We also measure firm‐specific productive efficiency relative to the industry and firm size. For large firms, efficiency, as defined by our approach, is positively associated with higher future operating cash flows. For small firms, efficiency is positively associated with higher future sales growth. We document that the non‐additive approach appears to be better able to identify expected relationships between efficiency and future performance than a simpler approach based on the market‐to‐book ratio.
G39|Political money contributions of U.S. IPOs|We produce the first study to explore the effect of political money contributions on IPOs. Exploiting a hand-collected database, we show that both lobbying and PAC expenditure pay off on issue day as donors incur less underpricing, an effect that can be amplified by contribution size and strategic targeting of recipients. Investigating the causes in multiple channels, we also associate donor IPOs with negative offer price revisions and lower aftermarket volatility. Collectively, our results offer new empirical grounding to the information asymmetry theory.
G39|The effect of corporate governance on firm value and profitability: Time-series evidence from Turkey|We study the corporate governance practices of Turkish public firms from 2006 to 2012, relying on hand-collected data covering the vast majority of listed firms. We build a Turkey Corporate Governance Index, TCGI, composed of subindices for board structure, board procedure, disclosure, ownership, and shareholder rights. TCGI predicts higher market value (with firm fixed effects) and higher firm-level profitability with firm random effects. The principal subindex which predicts higher market value and profitability, and drives the results for TCGI as a whole, is disclosure subindex. We also study the determinants of firms' governance and find that most firm-specific factors have little effect on firms' governance choices.
G39|Limited attention by lenders and small business debt financing: Advertising as attention grabber|Developing predictions by drawing upon the limited attention perspective, we investigate if small firms may use advertising as an attention grabber to increase their opportunities to access debt financing. Using a sample of over a million observations, we find that small firms with higher advertising expenditure are more likely to gain access to debt financing, thus increasing their financial leverage. Our tests show that lenders constrained by a limited attentional capacity are more likely to be attracted by small firms with higher advertising expenditure, and that small firms with financial constraints are not found to use advertisement intentionally to acquire resource.
G39|Effects of business diversification on asset risk-taking: Evidence from the U.S. property-liability insurance industry|We investigate the effect of line-of-business diversification on asset risk-taking in the U.S. property-liability industry. The coordinated risk management hypothesis (Schrand and Unal, 1998) implies a negative relation between underwriting risk and investment risk. Consistent with this hypothesis we find that diversified insurers take more asset risk than non-diversified insurers, and that the degree of asset risk-taking is positively related to diversification extent. Our results are robust to corrections for potential endogeneity bias, selectivity bias, and alternative diversification and asset risk measures. We also provide event study evidence that further supports the coordinated risk management hypothesis. Specifically, we find that when a focused firm diversifies, it increases its asset risk relative to firms that remain focused, and when a diversified firm refocuses, it reduces its asset risk relative to firms that remain diversified.
G39|Why do firms engage in selective hedging? Evidence from the gold mining industry|The widespread practice of managers speculating by incorporating their market views into firms’ hedging programs (“selective hedging”) remains a puzzle. Using a 10-year sample of North American gold mining firms, we find no evidence that selective hedging is more prevalent among firms that are believed to possess an information advantage. In contrast, we find strong evidence that selective hedging is more prevalent among financially constrained firms, suggesting that this practice is driven by asset substitution motives. We detect weak relationships between selective hedging and some corporate governance measures but find no evidence of a link between selective hedging and managerial compensation.
G39|The impact of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act on corporate innovation|We study the effect of the passage of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) on corporate innovation. SOX dramatically changed corporate governance landscape of public firms in the U.S, especially in increasing monitoring from outside independent directors, which may have an impact on corporate innovation. The passage of SOX introduced an exogenous shock to the corporate governance structure, which enables us to establish causality between SOX and corporate innovation. Using patent and citation data from the NBER patent citation database, board of directors data from Institutional Shareholder Services (ISS) and a difference-in-difference regression technique, we find that SOX increases corporate innovation, as measured by the number of patents and the number of citations per patent. Moreover, we find that the effects are stronger for firms facing more severe agency problems, i.e., firms with more entrenched CEOs as proxied by a longer tenure, and firms with low institutional ownerships. The effect is also found to be stronger for firms operating in innovative industries.
G39|The impact of firm prestige on executive compensation|We show that chief executive officers (CEOs) of prestigious firms earn less. Total compensation is on average 8% lower for firms listed in Fortune’s ranking of America’s most admired companies. We suggest that CEOs are willing to trade off status and career benefits from working for a publicly admired company against additional monetary compensation. Our identification strategy is based on matched sample analyses, difference-in-differences regressions, and a regression discontinuity design. We perform several robustness checks and exclude many alternative explanations, including that firm prestige just proxies for better corporate governance or for increased exposure of the pay-setting process to media attention.
G39|Earnings management to exceed thresholds in continental and Anglo-Saxon accounting models: The British and French cases|The purpose of this paper is to compare the extent to which French and British firms manage their earnings in order to avoid losses, decreases in earnings and earnings below the forecasts of analysts. Further, this study aims to investigate the factors that potentially influence earnings management to exceed thresholds with reference to the Anglo-Saxon and continental accounting models. Britain and France, correspondingly, belong to those different socio-economic environments. Based on a panel data of 1771 French and 2057 British firm-year observations during the period 2002–2012, we show that all firms considered manage earnings to beat zero and last year’s earnings. However, earnings management in order to meet analysts’ forecasts appears to be more prevalent in British firms. Considering earnings management incentives, we find that firm size has a positive effect for all thresholds considered. Similarly, the signaling hypothesis is more evident for British firms for all thresholds examined. The corporate governance structure is also found to impact the extent of earnings management.
G39|Airline fuel hedging and management ownership|Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to study the value effects of hedging in the airline industry during a period of high volatility and high fuel costs. The authors also study the determinants of hedging in the airline industry, most importantly whether managerial ownership affects airlines’ tendency to hedge their fuel price risk. Design/methodology/approach - This study’s research design follows closely previous studies in the area. This allows comparison of the results of this study to those reported earlier, and thus the authors can draw conclusions about the effects of the different market conditions during the sample period. Findings - The authors find a positive relationship between hedging and firm value, but the relationship is weaker than what is reported in prior studies. The result appears driven by the early part of the sample, whereas in the latter half of the sample, when uncertainty and fuel price are higher, the hedging premium is smaller. The authors also find that hedging premium is larger for firms that follow passive hedging strategies and that managerial ownership increases the firms’ degree of hedging. Originality/value - This study provides new results on the old question of whether hedging generates value in the airline industry. The recent period of high volatility and high fuel prices makes this an interesting question to re-visit.
G39|The Impact of Ownership on Corporate Performance: The Case of the UAE|This study attempts to identify whether government ownership has an effect on corporate performance, such as Return on Assets (ROA), Price to Book value, and Profits for a sample of 102 listed companies on the UAE stock exchanges and a subsample of 17 banks listed on the same bourses over a period of 31 quarters. In the case of the sample of 102 companies, government ownership has a positive impact on some of the corporate performance indicators, as well in the banking subsample. In addition, the analysis evaluates the impact of state ownership on debt accumulated across the two samples. The results indicate that state ownership reduced the need to accumulate debt in general across the larger sample. However, focusing on banks, state ownership facilitates borrowing and accumulating debt. The results point to the positive effect of state ownership on corporate performance. Further, state ownership eases constraints on banks’ borrowing as it boosts confidence in the outlook, facilitating higher ratings and cheaper sources of funding. In the case of the UAE, similar to some other countries, where there is a strong trend toward government ownership in listed companies and banks, it has a positive effect on their performance for the period 2008–2016, i. e., there is a positive relationship between the block-holder ownership and firms’ performance, subject to efficiency control measures.
G39|Earnings Management, Corporate Governance and Tax Avoidance: The Case in Indonesia|Objective – This study aims to determine the effect of earning management and corporate governance mechanisms on corporate tax avoidance. Methodology/Technique – Corporate governance mechanisms use institutional ownership, the size of the board of commissioners, the percentage of independent commissioners, auditing committees, and audit quality as proxies. Meanwhile, earnings management uses the modified Jones model. The sample of this study includes non-financial companies that are listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange (IDX) between 2014 and 2016. Findings – Corporate tax avoidance can be detected by using the effective tax rate (ETR), which is the ratio of income to tax expenses. This sample was chosen using a purposive sampling method, resulting in 871 firms. The results suggest that earnings management has a significant impact on ETR. Novelty – This study identifies that only independent commissioners and audit quality have a significant influence on ETR.
G39|The Impact of Good Corporate Governance on Financial Distress in the Consumer Goods Sector|Objective – Financial distress is referred to as a condition in which a company's operations result in insufficient funds to meet its obligations (insolvency). The success or failure of a company greatly depends on the corporate governance of the company. This study aims to identify the relationship between the existence of good corporate governance and the probability of financial distress. Methodology/Technique – This study used secondary data obtained from annual reports from 2009 to 2014. The data is gathered from consumer goods manufacturing companies, that are listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange (BEI). The sample includes 10 companies. The method of analysis used is multiple linear regressions. Findings – The results of the study show that institutional ownership and managerial ownership adversely affect the possibility of financial distress. On the other hand, the proportion of commissioners and the number of board of directors have a positive effect on the probability of financial distress. Novelty – This study found that institutional ownership (IO) has an inverse effect on the financial distress of a company.
G39|Mexico's industrial sector companies: A measurement of intellectual capital and its impact on financial performance|Currently knowledge is considered an essential resource to contribute to the creation and generation of competitive advantage in organizations. The human factor as an intangible resource of a company has become a main value generator, and even though both knowledge management and intellectual capital are intangibles that can be measured in the financial reports of companies, their position as main value generators is not reflected in financial information. In Mexico, industrial sector companies need to promote the creation of intellectual added value based on its own abilities, which reside on their intellectual capital. The value added intellectual coefficient (VAIC™), with its components, is a tool that contributes to achieving this goal, and helps to identify the positive impact on key factors such as financial profitability, market capitalization and level of share value.
G39|Catering Through Nominal Share Prices Revisited|Finance research suggests that firms cater to investorsâ€™ time-varying preference for low-priced stocks by managing nominal share prices. We show that the existing empirical tests of such catering use highly persistent data that may lead to finding significant relations between variables that are actually independent (spurious regression bias). We revisit the catering hypothesis applying five estimation techniques that reduce the effects of data persistence. Adjusted for persistence, the data offer little evidence that stock splits respond to catering incentives. There is some, although mixed, evidence that catering incentives affect the firmsâ€™ choice of the post-split prices and the IPO prices.
G39|How the corporate governance mechanisms affect bank risk taking|The effectiveness of the management team, ownership structure and other corporate governance systems in determining appropriate risk taking is a critical issue in a modern commercial bank. Appropriate risk management techniques and structures within financial institutions play an important role to ensure the stability of economy. After analyzing 43 Asian banks over the period from 2006 to 2014, I find that banks with strong corporate governance are associated with higher risk taking. More specifically, banks with intermediate size of board, separation of CEO and chairman of board, and audited by Big Four audit firm, are likely higher risk taking. Overall, my findings provide some new perspectives into the governance mechanisms that affect risk taking on commercial banks.
G39|Account receivable management across Industrial sectors in Ghana; analyzing the economic effectiveness and efficiency|Since account receivable constitute a significant portion of current assets in manufacturing and wholesale firms, the study aimed at investigating trade credit and principles adopted by firms in the management of account receivables across the industrial sectors in Ghana. This enabled the study to examined strengths and weaknesses in account receivable strategies by firms in Ghana and recommend economically effective and efficient practice
G39|Earnings Management to Avoid Losses and Earnings Declines in Croatia|This paper provides empirical evidence that Croatian companies manage reported earnings to avoid losses and earnings declines. Specifically, we find that the cross-sectional distribution of scaled earnings and changes in earnings show high frequencies of small positive earnings and small increases in earnings while the frequencies of small losses and small decreases in earnings are less frequent. Furthermore, we demonstrate that these discontinuities are likely due to discretionary accruals. We examine the frequency distribution of reported earnings after removing discretionary accruals and find that the cross sectional distributions of non-discretionary scaled earnings shows lower frequencies of small positive earnings and higher frequencies of small negative earnings. Additionally, the cross sectional distribution of non-discretionary change in earnings demonstrates mixed frequencies of non-discretionary changes in earnings. Overall, this paper adds new empirical evidence to the benchmark-beating literature by demonstrating international evidence of earnings management around zero earnings and zero earnings changes benchmarks.
G39|Positive and negative effects analysis in abuse of dominance|Abuse of a dominant position is a threat to the functioning of the free market. This is the reason why we have proposed to highlight the impact of this particular anti-competitive practice in the European Union area. The aim of this paper is to present, from a theoretical and practical approach, the implications and the effects of this type of behavior and also to highlight the main actors in this process. In order to achieve these goals, we will use the content analysis to compress the effects of the abuse of dominant position in two categories: positive and negative effects. The historical method to emphasize the historical origins of the concepts and institutions involved. The comparative method will be used to nominate specific features, concepts or institutions that we will analyze and also it will help us to analyze the evolution that have occurred over time in terms of their development and to highlight certain advantages or disadvantages in terms of choice of competition policy on the abuse of a dominant position. In this paper we will notice that both the companies and the market itself are facing with companies that use anti-competitive since 1900. These kind of practices are harmful both for competition and for consumers, so that should not be allowed to expand. In this context, the European Commission imposed a set of rules that all operators must comply in order to protect, maintain and stimulate competition in the Single Market and to promote fair competition.
G39|Investigation of methods of counteracting corporate fraudulence: accounting-legal approaches to the identification of abusonment|As the study shows, an urgent issue for businesses today is the problems of corporate fraud and the counteracting measures. Despite the continuous development of internal control and audit systems, business losses from fraud in enterprises are growing every year. The risks of fraud are growing in an inefficiently controlled environment and it is not enough to use standard audit methods to detect fraud. Therefore, it is vital to study the issues related to the organization of an effective system of countering fraud. Taking into account the existing experience and world experience in counteracting this negative phenomenon, a study is conducted to establish an internal security and anti-fraud system at the enterprise and it is proposed to create the Financial Investigation Agency at the enterprise itself, which includes services: information and analytical control, internal audit, financial investigations and psychological prevention of violations. This will streamline the work of the internal security service, create and implement control procedures, redistribute the powers between the units of the enterprise at different levels. The tables of abuse indicators and the structure of the library of typical schemes of abuse in the article allow to adapt to the work of new employees of the internal audit service, regardless of their experience, reduce the risks of key business processes and improve their effectiveness; they can be used to identify, rank and assess potential risks of fraud. Research results shows that one of the departments of fraudulent activities is the department of finance and accounting and one of the types of financial fraud is the falsification of financial statements, which is extremely difficult to identify and prevent, in addition to deliberate distortions, there are distortions that are the result of conflicts of professional judgment on the application of regulations and accounting regulations. The article examines the risks that can arise from fraudulent financial reporting, and the knowledge of which will counteract this type of fraud.
G39|The Fiscal Effectiveness of the Provision of Investment Incentives|Foreign direct investments undoubtedly have a significant impact on the national economy. They contribute to economic growth, to reducing the unemployment rate and they also positively affect other macroeconomic indicators. Foreign companies bring with them not only foreign capital that they invest in the host country, but also new technology, modern and more effective production and management methods, classic standards of business conduct, new jobs as well as opportunities for domestic suppliers.Host countries then attempt to attract foreign investors via active policies through investment incentives and various preferential conditions for investing. Investment incentives for foreign investors are thus among the important public spending programs. Basic investment incentives in countries with transitive economies within the European Union include income tax credits, respectively tax holidays, the transfer of land for a subsidized price, one-time financial support for the creation of new jobs and financial support for retraining employees. The provision of investment incentives means not only an increase on the expenditure side of the public budget or a decrease of the income side of the public budget (due to tax credits), but it usually leads ? as our research demonstrated ? to a start of the influx of revenue sources for public budgets, already in the short or medium term horizon. The aim of the research was to develop a methodology for measuring the fiscal effectiveness of provided investment incentives in the process of their implementation, to determine what the effects are on the income side of the national budget, and for this purpose construct an indicator of fiscal effectiveness whose functional and explanatory power would need to be tested in practice among the recipients of investment incentives.The fiscal effectiveness of investment incentives was constructed as the share of outputs (in the form of revenues from taxes, social and health insurance, fees, savings on the expenditure side of the budget) on a unit of inputs (income tax credit, financial support for a created job, subsidy to cover the costs of employee retraining, administrative costs of collecting taxes, subsidies on the technical equipment of an area on which production is to be located, subsidy on the price of land). With regard for business plans, fiscal effectiveness was assessed for a period of 5 years from the approval and receipt of the investment incentive in a set of industrial enterprises in the Czech Republic. The research also covered results that were attained in Slovakia.
G39|Corporate monitoring mechanism and corporate governance influence CEO compensation level: Evidence from non-financial firms of Pakistan|Managerial compensation is strategically pivotal and practically interesting to manage as it has long-lasting ties with firm?s performance. It is regarded as most crucial tool to attract and retain the top-notched professionals to achieve the firm?s strategic and long term objectives. The executives tends to support their comparatively higher level of compensation sometimes, may be at the cost of priority to firm?s value and interest of principles. In corporate finance literature, this phenomenon of opportunistic behavior has been controlled by various monitoring mechanisms. The new spectacle is apposite in Pakistani financial institutions that have no more strict application of compensation regulation. The current study empirically evaluates the impact of different corporate governance attributes such as institutional shareholders? activism, independence of audit committee and board structure and block holding on the level of compensation paid to CEO of Pakistani listed firms for a period of 2007-2013. All these personas worked as monitoring mechanism for CEOs is scrutiny through stepwise regression. The results found that independent audit committee and board of director along with dual CEO structure and greater family ownership are helpful in mitigating the higher level of CEO compensation with is in align with the agency cost hypothesis. Moreover, higher financial institutional ownership found positively related to CEO compensation which is in accordance with the strategic alliance hypothesis. However, the role of institutions in deciding CEO compensation becomes negative in case of family firms as compared to non-family firms.
G39|Family businesses and non-family equity: literature review and avenues for future research|Abstract Family firms commonly prefer internal funding and retention of control. Under certain circumstances, however, equity investments from outside the family can be a relevant alternative source of capital. To facilitate further knowledge about the interaction of family-owned businesses and external equity investors, the present work reviews 42 studies and suggests possible directions for future research. Results reveal that extant studies focus mainly on five key areas—corporate finance, contract design and collaboration, succession and exit route, strategy and performance, and corporate governance. Moreover, the paper discusses various gaps in the extant work and presents three opportunities for future research in a detailed manner. These include a comparison of different types of investors in the context of family-owned businesses, an investigation of minority investor exits from family firms, and an analysis of the impact of investors on family firm boards. All in all, the findings can guide the future development of this emerging field of research and have implications for theory and practice.
G39|Shareholder Engagement on Environmental, Social, and Governance Performance|We study investor activism promoting environmental, social and governance (ESG) improvements using a proprietary dataset covering 660 companies globally over 2005-2014. Targets have a higher market share, analyst coverage, stock returns, and liquidity. The engagements lead to significant ESG rating adjustments. Activism is more likely to succeed for companies with a good ex ante ESG track record, and with lower ownership concentration and growth. Successful engagements positively affect sales growth, without changing profitability. Targets outperform matched firms by 2.7% over 6 months postengagement, while the (ex ante) lowest ESG quartile earns an extra 7.5% over 1 year.
G39|On the determinants of speculation - a case for extended disclosures in corporate risk management|We examine the determinants of corporate speculation and challenge the extant, conflicting evidence. Separating risk management (reducing currency-specific FX exposure) from speculation (increasing or holding currency-specific FX exposure constant), we provide unprecedented evidence that speculators are smaller, have more growth opportunities and possess lower internal resources than risk-managing firms. The refined granularity of our dataset stems from a unique regulatory environment, where a regulating authority recommends additional disclosures for FX risk management in excess of governing accounting standards. Our findings enable investors, henceforth, to identify speculation from public available sources, where our results substantiate the significance of such an extended reporting. Thus, this case of optional disclosures might serve as blueprint for further regulatory refinements in other settings.
G39|Teorijsko - Empirijska Razmatranja Determinanti Salda Gotovine U Multinacionalnoj Kompaniji|U ovom radu predmet razmatranja su determinante ulaganja u obliku gotovine, odnosno salda gotovine u multinacionalnoj kompaniji. Autoru radu prezentuje relevantna teorijska saznanja i rezultate empirijskih istraživanja determinanti salda gotovine u multinacionalnoj kompaniji. Teorijski stavovi o uticaju pojedinih karakteristika kompanije na iznos gotovine i gotovinskih ekvivalenata koji će ona držati su još uvek neusaglašeni. Teorijska razmatranja uticaja karakteristika zemalja u kojima kompanija posluje su disperzirana, tj. fokusirana na uticaj različitih karakteristika. Broj sprovedenih empirijskih istraživanja uticaja pomenutih karakteristika na iznos gotovine i gotovinskih ekvivalenata koji će kompanija držati nije dovoljan za izvođenje široko prihvaćenog stava o determinantama salda gotovine u multinacionalnoj kompaniji.
G39|Public Pressure and Corporate Tax Behavior|We use a shock to the public scrutiny of firm subsidiary locations to investigate whether that scrutiny leads to changes in firms’ disclosure and corporate tax avoidance behavior. ActionAid International, a nonprofit activist group, levied public pressure on noncompliant U.K. firms in the FTSE 100 to comply with a rule requiring U.K. firms to disclose the location of all of their subsidiaries. We use this setting to examine whether the public pressure led scrutinized firms to increase their subsidiary disclosure, decrease tax avoidance, and reduce the use of subsidiaries in tax haven countries compared to other firms in the FTSE 100 not affected by the public pressure. The evidence suggests that the public scrutiny sufficiently changed the costs and benefits of tax avoidance such that tax expense increased for scrutinized firms. The results suggest that public pressure from outside activist groups can exert a significant influence on the behavior of large, publicly traded firms. Our findings extend prior research that has had little success documenting an empirical relation between public scrutiny of tax avoidance and firm behavior.
G39|Study On The Performance Of Romanian Companies Listed On Bucharest Stock Exchange Using A General Diagnosis Model|The necessity of completing broad appraisals on the performances of companies listed on the Romanian stock market led to the execution of the present study, within its framework being undertaken the development and implementation of a general diagnosis model of their overall performance. Such a model was built with the help of statistical processing, starting from eight performance indicators considered to be the most representative ones. The level of these indicators was determined for 36 companies listed on Bucharest Stock Exchange belonging to various activity sectors of the national economy, for the timeframe 2009-2013.
G39|Export behavior and board independence in Colombian family firms: The reverse causality relationship|In the context of greater market liberalization in Latin America, one issue that merits greater attention for empirical investigation is the international expansion of family-owned business. Specifically, the relationship between export behavior, family control and board composition in the Latin American context is absent in the literature. Using a large and unique database from Colombian firms (33,249 firms in the period of 2008 to 2013), one may find insightful information on the determinants of export behavior of family firms in emerging markets. Our empirical test confirms an endogenous relation between boards' composition (specifically the presence of independent members) and export behavior in family firms. Firms with a higher participation of independent board members are more likely to exhibit higher levels of exports. A “virtuous cycle” was also detected whereby the introduction of independent members on the board can be expected to boost export behavior, which in turn will encourage the increase of independent members on the board of private firms.
G39|Relación entre la gestión del capital de trabajo y la rentabilidad en la industria de distribución de químicos en Colombia|Este artículo pretende ofrecer evidencias empíricas sobre la relación que existe entre el capital de trabajo y la rentabilidad empresarial para el sector de distribución de químicos en Colombia. En este estudio se investigan 48 empresas durante el periodo 2008-2014. Los resultados evidencian de forma empírica que existe una relación significativa entre los factores del capital de trabajo y la rentabilidad empresarial en el sector. Se observa una relación negativa y significativa entre los días de cuentas por cobrar, los días de cuentas por pagar, el ciclo de conversión de efectivo y la rentabilidad empresarial.******This article offers empirical evidence on the relationship between the working capital and corporate profitability for the chemicals distribution sector in Colombia. The study looks at 48 companies during the 2008-2014 period. The results provide empirical evidence that there is a significant relationship between the factors pertaining to working capital and corporate profitability in the sector.
G39|Exposure to interbank market and risk-taking by Mexican banks|Banks can avoid bank runs and panic using the interbank market as a type of coinsurance. Moreover, because of the possibility of losing financial assets, they theoretically have incentives to monitor their peers, borrowing in this market. This paper examines whether bank risks are explained by their exposure to the interbank market. The market discipline hypothesis suggests that bankers are well equipped to monitor their peers, and the interbank borrowing is par excellence an uninsured deposit. Consequently, banks with a larger exposure to the interbank market should present strong bank fundamentals. Using a sample of 37 Mexican banks, from December 2008 to September 2012, and dynamic panel models based on the SYS GMM estimator, I did not find evidence in favor of the market discipline hypothesis. These results are robust to different indicators of bank risk and exposure to interbank markets. This is a wake-up call for policymakers, who should restore market discipline in interbank operations, following the disclosure policy in Basel III.
G39|L’impact sur les marchés financiers européens de la diffusion d’alertes sociétales et de leurs évènements déclencheurs|(VF)Cet article étudie l’apport informationnel des alertes sociétales, compte tenu de l’effet de l’annonce des évènements qui les ont déclenchées. Notre analyse des 480 alertes émises par Vigeo de 2004 à 2011 montre que les marchés sur-réagissent à la baisse lors des évènements déclencheurs avant d’opérer une correction à la hausse quand la première alerte pour une entreprise donnée est diffusée. Nous mettons en évidence que plus l’évènement déclencheur est grave plus l’effet positif des alertes sur les rentabilités est important. Enfin, nous observons que les alertes environnementales constituent un cas particulier, leur impact sur les cours étant négatif.(VA)This paper examines the informational contribution of corporate social responsibility alerts, taking into account the announcement effects of their triggering events. Based on a sample of 480 alerts released by Vigeo over the period 2004-2011, we find a negative stock market over-reaction to triggering events and a positive reaction to the first alert for an involved company. Our results show that more the triggering event is serious more the positive effect of alerts on stock returns is strong. Moreover, we observe that environmental alerts are a specific case, as they affect negatively the stock prices.
G39|The Performance Analysis of Saud Bahwan Group, Oman: An Empirical Study|The present study examines the financial performance Saud Bahawan group viz. its competitor and its role in the economic development of Oman. From the empirical work carried out it was established that the return on equity (ROE) has increased over the years from 1350 in 2010 to 14,245 in 2014. However on the contrary the net assets to book value, earning per share (EPS) have declined considerably over the years. The debt ratio has too increased from 0.18 to 0.28 which is a marginal increase and that’s may have attributed to the decline in the EPS. The results showed that, there is no significance different between ROE of Saud Bahawan and five other companies chosen for the study. If we just consider the difference of mean in ROE of all companies establishes the fact the firm profitability is comparatively better than that of its competitor. Thus the study reveals that the companies chosen for the study were no better than that of the Saud Bahawan group in all the parameters taken for the study.
G39|Media-expressed negative tone and firm-level stock returns|We build a corpus of over 5½ million news articles on 20 large US firms over the 10-year period from January 2001 to December 2010, and use it to study the time-varying nature of the relation between media-expressed firm-specific tone and firm-level returns. By estimating a series of separate rolling window vector autoregressive (VAR) models for each firm, we show how media-expressed negative tone impacts firm-level returns episodically in ways that vary across firms and over time. We find that firms experience prolonged periods during which media-expressed tone has no effect on returns, and occasional episodes when it has a significant impact. During the significant episodes, its impacts are sometimes quickly reversed and at other times they endure — implying that media comment and analysis can sometimes be sentiment (or noise), but it can also contain value-relevant information or news. Our findings are in general consistent with efficiently functioning markets in which the media assists with the processing of complex information.
G39|Executives' horizon, internal governance and stock market liquidity|In this article, we examine whether internal governance, the process through which subordinate managers effectively monitor the chief executive officer (CEO), can improve a firm's liquidity. Using the difference in horizons between a CEO and his immediate subordinates to measure internal governance, we show that firms with better internal governance have lower information asymmetry and higher liquidity. Further, we show that internal governance is effective in enhancing liquidity for firms with CEOs close to retirement, firms that require higher firm-specific skills, and firms with experienced subordinate managers. Our results are robust to inclusion of conventional governance measures, alternative model specifications, and different measures of internal governance and liquidity.
G39|How do independent directors view powerful CEOs? Evidence from a quasi-natural experiment|Prior research shows that powerful CEOs can exacerbate the agency conflict, resulting in adverse corporate outcomes. Exploiting an exogenous shock introduced by the passage of the Sarbanes–Oxley Act, we explore whether board independence mitigates CEO power. Based on difference-in-difference estimation, our evidence shows that independent directors view powerful CEOs unfavorably. Board independence diminishes CEO power by more than a quarter. Based on a quasi-natural experiment, our research design is less vulnerable to the omitted-variable bias and reverse causality and therefore suggests that the effect of board independence on CEO power is likely causal.
G39|Directors’ duties of care and the value of auditing|This paper uses court's decision in ASIC v Healy (The Centro Case) as a natural experiment through which to empirically examine, and demonstrate, the importance of strengthening directors’ duties of care. The Centro decision strengthened directors’ duties of care by requiring them to make an independent assessment of auditors’ reports, rather than merely relying on auditors’ statements. It also required them to have a base level of financial literacy and to look for, and notice, obvious issues, especially ones that are important in the context. The paper assesses the impact of the Centro case by analyzing whether Centro increased the market value of auditing expenditure. The results are positive: the strengthened directors duties are associated with higher CARs for firms that spend more on auditing. Further, after Centro, auditing expenditure had a more positive relationship with market values. Overall, the results demonstrate the importance of strengthening directors’ duties of care.
G39|The bright side of managerial over-optimism|Human estimation and inference are subject to systematic biases such as overconfidence and over-optimism. In contrast to prior research that has identified multiple negative consequences of these biases, we focus on positive effects. We empirically examine a setting in which over-optimism a) is a related but different bias from overconfidence, b) emerges dynamically in a rational economic framework, and c) generates higher managerial effort. Importantly, this additional effort improves firm profitability and market value.
G39|The causal effect of option pay on corporate risk management|This study provides strong evidence of a causal effect of risk-taking incentives provided by option compensation on corporate risk management. We utilize the passage of Financial Accounting Standard (FAS) 123R, which required firms to expense options, to investigate how chief executive officer option compensation affects the hedging behavior of oil and gas firms. Firms that did not expense options before FAS 123R significantly reduced option pay, which resulted in a large increase in their hedging intensity compared with firms that did not use options or expensed their options voluntarily prior to FAS 123R.
G39|Underwriter networks, investor attention, and initial public offerings|Using various centrality measures from social network analysis, we analyze how the location of a lead initial public offering (IPO) underwriter in its network of investment banks affects various IPO characteristics. We hypothesize that investment banking networks allow lead IPO underwriters to induce institutions to pay attention to the firms they take public and to perform two information-related roles during the IPO process: an information dissemination role, in which the lead underwriter uses its investment banking network to disseminate noisy information about various aspects of the IPO firm to institutional investors; and an information extraction role, in which the lead underwriter uses its investment banking network to extract information useful in pricing the IPO firm equity from institutional investors. Based on these two roles, we develop testable hypotheses relating lead IPO underwriter centrality to the IPO characteristics of firms they take public. We find that more central lead IPO underwriters are associated with larger absolute values of offer price revisions, greater IPO and after-market valuations, larger IPO initial returns, greater institutional investor equity holdings and analyst coverage immediately post-IPO, greater stock liquidity post-IPO, and better long-run stock returns. Using a hand-collected data set of pre-IPO media coverage as a proxy for investor attention, we show that an important channel through which more central lead IPO underwriters achieve favorable IPO characteristics is by attracting greater investor attention to the IPOs underwritten by them.
G39|Does geography matter in a geographically small and culturally homogeneous country? Firm location and corporate credit risk|This study explores whether or not the geography characteristics of a firm's headquarters location affect the firm's credit risk in a geographically small and culturally homogeneous country by employing firm location data in Taiwan from the year 2005 to 2011. Empirical results of this study show that rural firms have higher credit risk than urban firms. In addition, the firm location effect is mainly through the channels of incomplete information and financial leverage. Moreover, the study also finds that a firm's market-debt financing distance is positively associated with its credit risk while the firm's banking-debt financing distance has insignificant effect.
G39|Financial market determinants of the real cost of funds to public corporations in the US: 2SLS and GMM findings|Purpose - The purpose of this study is to provide new empirical evidence on the impact of a variety of financial market forces on the ex post real cost of funds to corporations, namely, the ex post real interest rate yield on AAA-rated long-term corporate bonds in the USA. The study is couched within an open-economy loanable funds model, and it adopts annual data for the period 1973-2013, so that the results are current while being applicable only for the post-Bretton Woods era. The auto-regressive two-stage least squares (2SLS) and generalized method of moments (GMM) estimations reveal that the ex post real interest rate yield on AAA-rated long-term corporate bonds in the USA was an increasing function of the ex post real interest rate yields on six-month Treasury bills, seven-year Treasury notes, high-grade municipal bonds and the Moody’s BAA-rated corporate bonds, while being a decreasing function of the monetary base as a per cent of gross domestic product (GDP) and net financial capital inflows as a per cent of GDP. Finally, additional estimates reveal that the higher the budget deficit as a per cent of GDP, the higher the ex post real interest rate on AAA-rated long-term corporate bonds. Design/methodology/approach - After developing an initial open-economy loanable funds model, the empirical dimension of the study involves auto-regressive, two-stage least squares and GMM estimates. The model is then expanded to include the federal budget deficit, and new AR/2SLS and GMM estimates are provided. Findings - The AR/2SLS and GMM (generalized method of moments) estimations reveal that the ex post real interest rate yield on AAA-rated long-term corporate bonds in the USA was an increasing function of the ex post real interest rate yields on six-month Treasury bills, seven-year Treasury notes, high-grade municipal bonds and the Moody’s BAA-rated corporate bonds, while being a decreasing function of the monetary base as a per cent of GDP and net financial capital inflows as a per cent of GDP. Finally, additional estimates reveal that the higher the budget deficit as a per cent of GDP, the higher the ex post real interest rate on AAA-rated long -term corporate bonds. Originality/value - The author is unaware of a study that adopts this particular set of real interest rates along with net capital inflows and the monetary base as a per cent of GDP and net capital inflows. Also, the data run through 2013. There have been only studies of deficits and real interest rates in the past few years.
G39|Banking Consolidation and Small Firm Financing for Research and Development|This paper examines the effect of increased market concentration of the banking industry caused by the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act (IBBEA) on the availability of finance for small firms engaged in research and development (R&D). I measure the financing decisions of these small firms using a balanced panel of Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) applications. Using difference-in-differences, I find IBBEA decreased the supply of finance for small R&D firms. This effect is larger for late adopters of IBBEA, which tended to be states with stronger small banking sectors pre-IBBEA.
G39|Blockchains, Real-Time Accounting and the Future of Credit Risk Modeling|In this paper (letter) I discuss how blockchains potentially could affect the way credit risk is modeled, and how the improved trust and timing associated with blockchain-enabled real-time accounting could improve default prediction. To demonstrate the (quite substantial) effect the change would have on well-known credit risk measures, a simple case-study compares Z-scores and Merton distances to default computed using typical accounting data of today to the same risk measures computed under a hypothetical future blockchain regime.
G39|System of Financial Security as a Tool of Financial Market Participant|The aim of work is to improve the knowledge of the tool of financial security of financial market participant. The author's argument is based on theoretical generalization and comparison of the results of recent research and publications on issues of financial security, data of terminological research, aggregation and integration in presenting of financial security system at the conceptual level, decomposition and systematic approaches in the improvement of formation system mechanism of financial security of financial market participant. Tasks, functions and principles of the financial security system's work of financial market participant are stated and their features are determined. The mechanism of work and the adaptive reactions of financial security system of financial market participant are supplemented and improved. Unlike the existing approaches, the determination of financial security system as the tool of financial market participant allows to specificity its functioning and principles of works, to determine peculiarities, to justify tasks and to improve the mechanism of its functioning. The implementation of the proposed mechanism of work and the adaptive reactions of financial security system will simplify and reduce the time of its creation and adaptation to the current tasks of economic activities of the financial market participant.
G39|Credit Risk Factors During The Asian And Global Financial Crises|This study measures the effects of specific credit risk factors of companies that defaulted during the Asian currency and global credit crises. Using Taiwanese listed companiesâ€™ data, the predictability of specific credit risk factors were discrepancies during these 2 crises. First, I captured variables from Altmanâ€™s (1968) Z-score model, a pioneer and notable model based on Accounting Data, from the Merton distance to default (DD) model, and from the naÃ¯ve probability model-an alternative of the Merton DD model. The significance of the Z-score model variables are examined by applying the logit model. Furthermore, the forecasting ability of the logit model, Merton DD model, naÃ¯ve probability, and the Taiwan corporate credit rating index are compared. The findings of this study indicate that the financial ratio of sales to total assets was the most crucial factor during the Asian financial crisis. Moreover, the ratio of retained earnings to total assets and the Merton DD were critical factors during the Global financial crisis. The predictability of the traditional logit model using the Z-score model variables performed well
G39|Assessment of corporate governance disclosure in the GCC countries using the UNCTAD ISAR benchmark|This paper aims to present and analyze corporate governance disclosure (CGD) practices among listed non-financial companies in the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries’ stock exchanges. GCC include Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and United Arab Emirates (UAE). The study utilizes the benchmark developed by the Intergovernmental Working Group of Experts on International Standards of Accounting and Reporting (ISAR) of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD). This benchmark comprises 52 disclosure items that are divided into five broad categories: (a) financial transparency and information disclosure; (b) ownership structure and exercise of control rights; (c) board and management structure and process; (d) corporate responsibility and compliance; and (e) auditing. This benchmark is based on the UNCTAD publication Guidance on Good Practices in Corporate Governance Disclosure. Results indicate a low level of CGD since corporate governance is still considered novel in the GCC countries. The average disclosure level was 26% while the maximum was 65%. The category with the highest disclosure level was the ‘Financial transparency and information disclosure’ which is the case with other emerging markets. Providing an assessment of CGD using ISAR benchmark provides a tool for its future re-assessment in the GCC countries. Results show how important it is to enhance the awareness of CGD in the GCC countries stressing its importance on the micro and macro levels. Results also provide regulators and policymakers with recommendations on enhancing CGD in the GCC counties. The evaluation of CGD in the GCC countries can also help various stakeholders in their investment decision making.
G39|Performance effects of appointing other firms’ executive directors to corporate boards: an analysis of UK firms|This paper studies the effect on company performance of appointing non-executive directors that are also executive directors in other firms. The analysis is based on a new panel dataset of UK companies over 2002–2008. Our findings suggest a positive relation between the presence of these non-executive directors and the accounting performance of the appointing companies. The effect is stronger if these directors are executive directors in firms that are performing well. We also find a positive effect when these non-executive directors are members of the audit committee. Overall, our results are broadly consistent with the view that non-executive directors that are executives in other firms contribute to both the monitoring and advisory functions of corporate boards. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2016
G39|Terrorism Financing. The Socio-Economic and Political Implications of Boko Haram Insurgency in Lake Chad Basin|Various Scholars account for the actual date of the evolution of Boko Haram terrorist group. However, the sect came to prominence in 2009 following the death of its leader, Mohammed Yusuf in police custody. Aside from the police act and Mohammed Yusuf’s death, poverty, unemployment, lack of development, high level of illiterates, unkept electoral promises are identified as other reasons for the rise of Boko Haram insurgency. This study involves determination of socio-political and economic impact of Boko Haram insurgency on Lake Chad basin. To achieve this, mixed research method was employed in the study because both primary and secondary data are used. Many factors can be adduced as driving force that motivates Boko Haram activities in the region such as poverty, unemployment, illiteracy, under-development/education defiance region and neglects by government. Finding in the study shows that lack of government support for armed forces and low moral; lack of government political will to fight the insurgency; political interest all contribute in recent time to the rise of terrorist activities in Lake Chad.Finding revealed that the increase in Boko Haram activities in recent time in the region have negatively impact on the socio political/economic activities and these is due partly to increase in terrorist financing. The study suggests therefore that government ability in Lake Chad basin to cut the sources of terrorist finance will significantly affect Boko Haram activities and attacks.
G39|Board expertise, networked boards and environmental performance|We analyze the role of board expertise in environmental issues (measured by the presence of non-executive directors with previous experience in environmental issues, EEDs) and director networks on GHG emissions. Using emission data of FTSE 350 firms, we show that the presence of EEDs on the board reduces GHG emissions. Also boards with better networked directors have better environmental performance. These associations are robust to alternative explanations - endogenous matching of firms and directors, general technical expertise of the board, and pro-active stacking in board composition. The results are consistent with the view that director skills and information spillovers through director networks add value.
G39|The Determinants of Cash Holdings among Colombian Firms|This paper researches the evolution of cash holdings and cash holding determinants for Colombian firms. Using information from financial statements from 2005 to 2012, and by implementing a dynamic panel analysis using a two-step generalized method of moments (GMM2) approach, the partial adjustment behavior of cash holdings and the links between cash holdings and firm size, risk, dividend payment, net working capital and the tax rate are studied, which are all explained by the trade-off model. Analogously, the relations of cash holdings with both cash flow and investment are explained using the financing hierarchy theory. In addition, evidence on precautionary motives are found that explains how firms reduce both refinancing risk and underinvestment risk through increasing their level of cash holdings
G39|Still on board configuration: SEC recommendations and the efficiency of adhering firms in Nigeria|This paper scrutinizes the effects of adherence to an encoded board configuration on firm efficiency in terms operational and financial performances using an integrated research framework that combines four distinct theories including agency, stewardship, stakeholders and resource dependency models. The research explores three main aspects of compliance outcomes; benefits accrued to conforming firms in terms of enhanced efficiency and market value, board level drivers as well as the external moderators of these benefits using a sample of 127 listed companies on the Nigerian Stock Exchange covering for the period of 1999-2010. Result show that board independence, directorsâ€™ cognitive competencies as measured in terms of their educational qualifications and professional experiences are positively associated with efficient management of assets (ROA) and firm stock marketability (Tobinâ€™s q). I find no substantive empirical evidence to suggest that either the adoption of specific leadership structure or directorsâ€™ ethnic representation affects firm performance. Moreover, country-level macroeconomic variables, especially the degree of economic openness play a significant role in determining the strength of association between board structure variables and firm performance measures.
G39|Determinants of Return on Equity for a Sustainable Growth of the Manufacturing Industry in the Czech Republic|The aim of this study was to examine the factors that determine return on equity (ROE) in the Manufacturing industry in the Czech Republic over a 10-year period of 2005 to 2014. The study combined firm level variables (DuPont model) and macroeconomic variables (Multifactor Arbitrate Pricing Theory – APT) to regress data obtained from Amadeus (Bureau van Dijk) and the World Bank respectively. The results show that profit margin and net asset turnover have a positive and significant effect on ROE. However, financial leverage had a negative and significant impact on ROE. With regard to macroeconomic variables, none of them affected ROE positively. GDP growth and Interest rate impacted negatively on ROE whilst unemployment, inflation and exchange rate do not have any impact on ROE. These results suggest that the firms can improve their ROE by developing cost leadership strategies and increasing sales revenue.
G39|Pharmaceutical patents valuation through real options: Certainty equivalents and utility function|The purpose of this research is to propose and promote the use of real options through certainty equivalents and utility functions as alternative method to value a patent. Uncertainty and flexibility in the decisions making process during the different stages of the research, as well as the investor's particularities, are essential elements of the proposed methodology in order to find the certainty equivalent that provides a range of results to the investor, depending of the investor's attitude before risk. This method was adapted to a case of study regarding pharmaceutical patents of Serono International S. A. to evaluate the option of abandon. Finally, it was found that the proposed model allows to represent the non-diversified investor's preferences in incomplete markets and his/her different attitude before risk. We propose to apply other kind of utility functions in further researches with the intention to compare results.
G39|Concerns Related to the Internationalisation of State-Owned Enterprises: Perspectives from regulators, government owners and the broader business community|The rise in state-owned enterprises (SOEs) as growing actors in international trade and investment has received renewed attention in recent years, not least due to controversy that has arisen over SOE foreign investments. This has raised the profile of these issues with policy makers and tilted much of the public debate in one direction. Some concerns revolve around the intentions of these companies, or any potential competitive distortions that could be caused by them which would differentiate them from privately-owned enterprises operating under like circumstances. With a view to keeping the trade and investment environment open, this paper draws attention to particular perceptions of concerns or challenges that arise when SOEs internationalise. Although perceptions are not verifiable facts, they reveal important trends that may inform the debate and shape future government policies towards foreign trade and investment by SOEs. The information in the report is primarily drawn from findings emerging from a three-part perception-based OECD survey addressed to public officials responsible for enterprise ownership, competition enforcement, investment regulation and trade policy in addition to departments of government with broader responsibility for the enterprise and competition landscape, and/or cross-border trade and investment regulation.
G39|The Usefulness of Financial Statements in Making Financial Diagnosis|Our research aims to develop an analysis of the usefulness of financial statements and financial investment in making the diagnosis. Financial analysis is by definition an activity that performance condition is diagnosed entity of the financial year. Financial analysis shall be determined by strengths and weaknesses of financial management based on which will underpin future strategy of the entity to maintain and develop it into a competitive environment. Results of financial analysis depends on the quality, accuracy, relevance and effectiveness of economic information collected and processed. The primary sources of information for financial analysis are the financial statements, which are considered as raw material in the analysis.
G39|Financing Research and Development Activities in the Construction Materials Industry. Comparative Study|Financing the research and development activities is an essential issue nowadays. Even if it seems costly, this activity became very important on a market where competitors appear constantly, providing products adjusted both technically and economically. In order to maintain a high level, investments are of utmost importance, including for research and development. Our scientific undertaking presents on a lower scale the evolution of three construction materials manufacturers in the world, as well as their evolution both in the field of financing research and development activities, as well as their position in the world classification established based on the process of financing this activity.
G39|"Who can better monitor a bank than another bank? Mechanisms of discipline in the Mexican interbank market ||¿Quién mejor que un banco para monitorear otro banco? Mecanismos de disciplina en el mercado interbancario mexicano"|"Basel III proposes market discipline (banking disclosure requirements) as a key instrument to achieve soundness in the banking system. Consequently, it is necessary to test the presence of responses to bank risk on the part of the economic agents. This article empirically studies the mechanisms of market discipline (price, quantity, and maturity) in the interbank market: whether higher risk banks have to pay higher interest rate, and have less access to credit in the interbank market, especially for long maturity borrowing. Theoretically, bankers are well equipped to monitor other banks, but the interbank market also is a channel for contagion. Using a sample of 37 Mexican banks, from December 2008 to September 2012, and a dynamic panel model (SYS GMM estimator), I did not find evidence for discipline induced by peers.|| Basilea III propone disciplina de mercado (requisitos de revelación de información bancaria) como herramienta clave para alcanzar un sistema bancario sólido. Consecuentemente, es necesario vericar la presencia de reacciones al riesgo bancario por parte de los agentes económicos. Este artículo empíricamente estudia los mecanismos de disciplina de mercado (precio,cantidad y vencimiento) en el mercado interbancario: si los bancos más riesgosos tienen que pagar tasas de interés más altas y tienen menor acceso al crédito interbancario, especialmente de préstamos con vencimiento de largo plazo. Teóricamente, los banqueros están bien equipados para monitorear otros bancos, pero el mercado interbancario también es un canal para contagio. Usando una muestra de 37 bancos mexicanos, de diciembre de 2008 a septiembre de 2012, y un modelo dinámico con datos de panel (el estimador SYS GMM), no se encontró evidencia a favor de la disciplina inducida por pares bancarios."
G39|The Impact of CSR on Chinese Economic Development|As economy is growing, many problems occur, such as environmental problems. Scholars and government officials begin to focus on the corporate social responsibility (CSR). This paper is to study the relationship between corporate social responsibility (CSR) and Chinese economic development (ED), and this paper wants to provide a reference for the government officials in China and the investors in the capital market. This paper takes two separate research steps to achieve the research objective. Firstly, in order to test the relationship between the level of CSR and the economic development, this paper uses independent-samples T test. Secondly, this paper builds multiple variables linear regression models, and uses the SPSS 22 software to analyze the correlation between CSR and Chinese economic development. As a result, this paper finds that a relatively high level of CSR results in a more objective economic development, on the contrary, the economic development of the time when companies are not willing to take on the corporate social responsibility may be very general.
G39|Political connections and IPO underpricing: An efficiency problem|We frame IPO pricing as an efficiency problem for prospective issuers and explore the effect of connections formed via lobbying and PAC (Political Action Committee) contributions. We develop an approach of general application in finance, where relationships of influence are suspected. Rather than imposing a regression-based framework, we allow relationships to manifest themselves in a data-driven manner. Our analysis reveals nonlinearities between IPO pricing efficiency and the two contribution avenues (justifying the fully nonparametric treatment). We are able to uncover relationships separately according to business sector, which we interpret in terms of varied competitive environments.
G39|Empirical study on the effect of the return on investment on budgetary slacks in investment expenditures|The purpose of this thesis is to undermine the possible effect of the return on investment on budgetary slacks. Prior literature on slacks, on the one hand, and return on investment on the other is rather extensive. Hence, we have been appraising the effect of the ROI on budgetary slacks in investment expenditures. For this purpose, we have been setting a cross-sectional study in a worldwide known company by using inferential statistics. We did not find any effect or possible association between this profitability ratio and budgetary slacks, however, we found that slacks could be highly influenced by the size of the project. Firstly, this might suggest that the ROI is not a good tool to manage budgetary slacks in investment expenditures and secondly, the fact that slacks could be influenced by size might undermine the “weaknesses” of some papers on this very subject.
G39|Corwin-Schultz bid-ask spread estimator in the Brazilian stock market|This paper tests the validity of the Corwin-Schultz bid-ask spread estimator in the Brazilian stock market. The Corwin-Schultz estimator arises as an easy way to compute asymmetric information throughout daily high and low stock prices for estimating overnight and non-negative adjusted spreads. The sample consisted of Ibovespa firms from 1986 to 2014 and was analysed with time series econometrics. The findings show that the measures of spread have stationarity properties, allowing for forecasting in a period of lagged variables, besides having the property of time-varying cointegration with market-to-book ratio, debt on equity, size and return and also presenting sensibility to different periods, industries and listing segments. Thus, the Corwin-Schultz bid-ask spread estimator seems to be a valid and reliable measure for forecasting aggregate-data variables through the weighted average of firm-level variables.
G39|Monitoring Venture Capital Investments through Internal Control Prediction Markets|This paper offers a new perspective on a fundamental issue of venture capital investments, i.e., the so-called black box of involvement that concerns the paucity of relevant information necessary for venture capital managers to evaluate investments properly. Our paper discusses the application of an internal control prediction market as a monitoring instrument for venture capital investments. We therefore gather research literature and law and financial expertise to discuss uncertain business developments, missing data, and principal–agent conflicts. The results of our paper are expected to make significant contributions to the academic discussion, providing a foundation to open the black box of involvement that current venture capital managers face daily.
G39|Cost of Capital, Returns and Leverage: Empirical Analysis of S&P 500|PurposeThe theoretical construct of the weighted average cost of capital (WACC), which uses an expected equity return, suggests that lower WACC, often facilitated by use of debt, should result in commensurate returns to shareholders, and higher shareholder value, that is if management is adept at investing in projects yielding returns at or above the WACC. In other words, finding good projects ought to be made easier by a lower hurdle rate on investment, thus translating into returns comparable to or above the WACC, and higher valuations. Is this actually the case? Does the relation between WACC, actual returns, and financial leverage also hold, as predicted, where higher leverage should result in lower WACC, and higher actual returns?MethodologyThis brief study looks at performance and valuation (total equity market returns to shareholders, and market values, on an annual basis) of S&P 500 companies over a recent ten year period (2006-2015), versus valuations implied by price to book ratios and WACC based on firm leverage. We compare theoretical valuations with the actual, and note variations year on year, but greater similarity over a longer time frame. Regression analysis is performed on these shareholder returns and valuations versus equity cost of these companies as computed using the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) and Bloomberg data. Another regression is run on WACC versus financial leverage (net debt to market capitalisation) for the same sample.FindingsThe study finds mixed evidence that expected return on equity, regarded as a benchmark for shareholder returns, was commensurate with actual returns and valuations on average over the time frame. R squared is low, but the analysis has significance. While the S&P 500 earned an annual total shareholder return of 11.8% over the period. and average cost of equity was 10.8%, there is a negative relation between values predicted by WACC and the actual ones. ImplicationsThis result leads us to look for other explanations as to why this should be. These include management capabilities, target capital structure and time horizon. We make suggestions for further research, encompassing different and wider samples.
G39|Stock Returns and Leverage: Analysis of the Dow Jones Industrial Average, 2000-2015|PurposeThe theoretical framework of the weighted average cost of capital (WACC) posists that lower WACC, often achieved by use of debt, should facilitate good returns to shareholders, and higher shareholder value, that is if management is adept at investing in projects yielding returns above the WACC. In other words, finding good projects should be made easier by a lower hurdle rate on investment, thus translating into returns comparable to or above the WACC. Does the relationship between WACC, actual returns, and financial leverage hold as predicted, wherein higher leverage should result in higher actual returns and higher valuations, in line with expectations?MethodologyThis brief study looks at performance (total equity market returns to shareholders, on an annual basis) of Dow Jones Industrial Average companies over a recent sixteen year period (2000-2015), versus financial leverage, on the hypothesis that higher leverage (within limits) should enhance shareholder returns. Regression analysis is performed on these shareholder returns versus net debt to market capitalisation of these companies using Bloomberg data. FindingsThis investigation finds evidence that shareholder returns were not positively related to financial leverage on average over the time period. In fact, a negative relationship is observed, in that higher debt was accompanied by lower returns. The analysis shows significance, and does not support arguments for benefits of financial leverage to returns. Meaningful variations are noted year on year, with greater adherence to expectations over a longer time frame.On the other hand, a negative relationship between WACC and leverage is supported by our analysis, as predicted by the theory, although the results of this small sample lack significance. The benefit of more low cost debt funding translates in our observation into lower WACC, if not better actual realised returns.ImplicationsThis result implies that the market over this period is not rewarding firms that use more leverage, or that greater use of debt is not translating into benefits associated with lower WACC. These observations lead us to look for explanations, including management capabilities, target capital structure and time horizon. We make suggestions for further research, encompassing different and wider samples. These explanations have wider ramifications for interpretation and implementation of cost of capital theories.
G39|Overconfidence of Students and Managers - Comparative Analysis|Overconfidence is one of the biases and fallacies that affect cognitive process. But overconfidence is one that is most pervasive. The concept of overconfidence comes from cognitive psychology and is widely applied in behavioral finances. But so far the adoption of overconfidence effect is present when explaining the investors? decisions. There are still few attempts that aim to explain managers? behavior with cognitive biases and fallacies. Existing research show that there is relation between manager?s overconfidence and financial decisions. The main problem of all these research is that each one of them applies different overconfidence measures. This paper is to identify the overconfidence phenomena and compare it between the group of managers and the group of managers-to-be (students of finance and accounting). To conduct it, the original tool and measure is proposed and later on verified in order to make it possible for common use of it (not only in psychology or only in finance). The main research hypothesis assumes that the frequency and the level of managers? overconfidence is the same as frequency and the level of students? (managers-to-be) overconfidence. The main method applied was to construct the tool to identify and measure the overconfidence. After having identified overconfidence, the U Mann Whitney significance test was applied to compare the overconfidence between the two groups. The result shows that there is statistically significant difference between overconfidence of the managers and students. But the main reason of this difference is the structure of the groups that were the subject of the analysis. Among the students the majority are women, while among the managers the majority are men. This supports the results of previous research showing that the men?s overconfidence is higher than women?s. At the same time it proves that the applied tool and measure of overconfidence is proper and might be used for different groups. After verifying the tool of overconfidence and identifying the overconfidence it might be reasonable to try to find relation between overconfidence and results of human activity (learning results or financial results of running business). Understanding the relation between managers? overconfidence and financial results allows to apply proper methods of recruitments and supervising.Originality of the paper lies in the applied tool of identifying and measuring overconfidence. The subject and the findings of this paper are important for theory and practice: it helps to shed light on financial management by understanding the managers? behavior.
G39|Financial impact of certifications to management system standards: Evidence from Tunisian listed companies|Certifications to management system standards (ISO 9000, ISO 9001, ISO 14001, etc.) are a widespread benchmark for thousands of organizations around the world. A number of studies have been carried out in order to analyze the impact of these certifications over companies? performance. However, conclusions reached so far have been of a contradictory nature. The real benefits of these certifications continue to raise the debates and the different results show that the effect of certifications to management system standards on firms? performance remains to be explored specially in terms of financial improvement. The purpose of this research is to investigate the association between certifications to management system standards and Tunisian companies? financial performance covering the period 2010-2014. Such a study is likely to provide a useful insight to managers since the process of achieving and maintaining these certifications involves costs and time. The results find that there is no evidence that improvements in performance follow certifications and certified firms do not present higher performance than those that are not certified.
G39|A review of the IFRS adoption literature|Abstract This paper reviews the literature on the effects of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) adoption. It aims to provide a cohesive picture of empirical archival literature on how IFRS adoption affects: financial reporting quality, capital markets, corporate decision making, stewardship and governance, debt contracting, and auditing. In addition, we also present discussion of studies that focus on specific attributes of IFRS, and also provide detailed discussion of research design choices and empirical issues researchers face when evaluating IFRS adoption effects. We broadly summarize the development of the IFRS literature as follows: The majority of early studies paint IFRS as bringing significant benefits to adopting firms and countries in terms of (i) improved transparency, (ii) lower costs of capital, (iii) improved cross-country investments, (iv) better comparability of financial reports, and (v) increased following by foreign analysts. However, these documented benefits tended to vary significantly across firms and countries. More recent studies now attribute at least some of the earlier documented benefits to factors other than adoption of new accounting standards per se, such as enforcement changes. Other recent studies examining the effects of IFRS on the inclusion of accounting numbers in formal contracts point out that IFRS has lowered the contractibility of accounting numbers. Finally, we observe substantial variation in empirical designs across papers which makes it difficult to reconcile differences in their conclusions.
G39|El deber de lealtad y sus concreciones en la legislación cooperativa<BR>[The duty of loyalty in the cooperative law. A comparative study]|Entre los deberes de los miembros de los órganos de gobierno de las diferentes entidades, vinculados al buen gobierno de éstas, destaca el deber de lealtad, derivado del deber de buena fe, y consistente en la obligación de actuar en interés de la entidad en caso de conflicto de intereses con ésta, subordinando los propios a favor de aquélla, salvo que se autorice tal situación. Se trata de un deber predicable tanto respecto de los miembros del órgano de administración, que deben gestionar el interés de la sociedad, como de los socios, tomando en consideración el fin común que deriva del contrato de sociedad. Este deber, al mismo tiempo se concreta en una serie de normas más precisas, relativas a la transparencia, la remuneración, la prohibición de competencia, la autocontratación, etc. Partiendo de lo anterior, este estudio recoge una comparativa de la regulación del deber de lealtad y sus distintas concreciones en las Leyes de cooperativas en España, tanto en relación con los administradores sociales, como de los socios en general, comparando ésta al mismo tiempo con la regulación de estos aspectos en el Derecho de sociedades en general, y en la Ley de Sociedades en General en particular, con el objetivo de obtener una visión general de la cuestión, base necesaria para poder profundizar en ella, planteando una serie de conclusiones o valoraciones preliminares.
G39|La utilidad del excedente para el análisis de la información financiera en las sociedades cooperativas<BR>[Net-surplus as a useful tool to analyse financial information in co-op societies]|Este trabajo analiza una muestra de sociedades cooperativas gallegas para verificar si es posible inferir diferencias en las conductas financieras de los socios a partir de la cuantía del excedente contable. Con esta finalidad se añade al valor del excedente, el resultado de las variaciones registradas en determinadas partidas contables que incluyen otras rentas residuales. El reparto de dichas rentas revela que los socios no optan generalizadamente por la anticipación completa de las rentas residuales. Se deduce, por tanto, la existencia de empresas que escogen una estrategia de excedente positivo, diferente de la estrategia de excedente nulo planteada por la teoría financiera clásica. En la muestra seleccionada, las diferencias entre ambas estrategias son estadísticamente significativas, lo que abre la puerta, en futuros trabajos, a investigar qué factores pueden explicar la renuncia voluntaria de los socios a la percepción anticipada de todas estas rentas residuales. Tal conducta sólo se evidencia cuando se declara un resultado positivo, de ahí la utilidad del excedente contable en el análisis de la información financiera de la sociedad cooperativa.
G39|Show me your competitors and I will tell you if you are exposed : Market Structure and Foreign Exchange Exposure|We examine the impact of exchange rates on profits and prices in differentiated consumable goods markets under imperfect competition. We model the exchange rate exposure of exporting firms operating within price and quantity settings where between and within competition co-exist. We show that these two forms of competition may act as opposing forces in terms of the impact of the exchange rate on the optimal prices (quantities) and profits in both Bertrand and Cournot models. Real and bilateral exchange rate exposure is empirically tested using stock price and profit data from twenty-two multinational firms from nine markets during 1984-2015.
G39|The Financial Performance of the Companies Approached from the Perspective of Commercial Banks|Assessment of financial performance of a company aims at highlighting the economic potential and its financial capacity to generate future cash flow. To support the granting of a loan any commercial banking institution goes through several steps of the formal and informal analysis of the applicant. Within the analysis takes into account a system of indicators charactering the last and future performance of the company. The paper presents the steps taken by a commercial bank in the lending process with customizing the system of indicators used by Raiffeisen Bank in characterizing the financial performance of businesses ranging from small and medium enterprises (SMEs).
G39|Trade credit and risk of insolvency|The article analyzes the relation between the use of trade credit and risk ofinsolvency of nonfinancial enterprises in Bulgaria. Data from empiricalsociological examination among 201 nonfinancial enterprises are used. Theresults confirm the financial distress theory of trade credit. It was found out thatfirms that are financially constraint use more credits from suppliers andfinancially stable firms are prone to wait longer before taking measures in caseof payments delay from clients. It is also found that postponed accountreceivables create serious liquidity problems for enterprises and difficulties inpaying basic expenses for their activity. One of the conclusions from theinvestigation is that for a number firms, trade credit is a source of financingfrom last resort, because difficulties in paying to suppliers and problems withdelayed account receivables are indicators of insolvency risk of firms.
G39|Study Regarding The Analysis Of The Financial Situation Of The Societies From The Pharmaceutical Industry In Terms Of The Correlation Between The Liquidity And The Profitability|The relationship between different rates of liquidity and profitability, is one of the most popular topics of research in the financial management field. In order to demonstrate the correlation between these variables, we used the statistical program SPSS. The analyzed societies are: Zentiva, Biofarm and Antibiotice Iasi, listed at the Bucharest Stock Exchange. The research leads to the conclusion that all the societies have sufficient liquidity to cover the payment obligations. Also, using the Pearson correlation coefficient, we demonstrated the fact that the liquidity is one of the indicators that determine the profitability of the analyzed societies.
G39|La Finance Islamique, Des Fondements Au Système|Force est de constater aujourd’hui, que la finance basée sur les préceptes de l’Islam, à savoir la finance islamique, remet violemment en cause notre conception de la finance et de l’économie. Cette nouvelle finance, pour certains, de « toutes les vertus « éthiques » et anti-crise » , ou simple attirail marketing pour d’autres, a au moins le mérite de faire parler d’elle ! Associé finance et Islam, c’est faire le postulat qu’il existe une relation entre économie et religion. Pour comprendre la finance islamique, il faut la considérer, comme un tout, non pas homogène, mais un tout dont les valeurs forment un système qui se veut intrinsèquement éthique.
G39|Effet des changements de dirigeant sur la performance RSE des entreprises cotées.Le cas français (1999-2011). Does CEOs' turnover influence CSP of listed French firms in the stock exchange?|(VF)Alors que les études portant sur le lien entre mécanismes de gouvernance et performance RSE ont été menées dans le contexte d'économies émergentes, avec une législation environnementale assez récente. Cette étude est menée en France, pays développé où la legislation en matière de reporting sur le développement durable est prégnante. La France est en avance car elle est le premier pays d’Europe à avoir créé une législation en termes de reporting sur le développement durable. La loi de 2001 sur les nouvelles régulations économiques (renforcée en 2010 par la loi dite « Grenelle II ») impose aux entreprises cotées de publier leurs données sociales et environnementales en même temps que leurs données financières. Nous étudions de manière empirique l'effet du changement de dirigeant sur la performance RSE, en distinguant l'origine du successeur, interne ou externe. De plus nous introduisons l'impact de l'adhésion de l'entreprise au GRI. Les cadres théoriques mobilisés sont la théorie de l'agence et la théorie des echelons supérieurs. En utilisant une analyse en données de panel pour 88 entreprises françaises cotées sur une période de 13 ans, soit au final, 684 observations (firme-année), les résultats montrent que le changement de dirigeant a un effet positif et significatif sur la performance RSE, 5 ans après le changement. Cet effet positif est plus fort lorsque le nouveau dirigeant est recruté en dehors de l'entreprise. Enfin l'adhésion de l'entreprise au GRI exerce un effet positif sur la performance RSE des entreprises françaises, mais elle en réduit l'impact positif du changement de dirigeant. Ces résultats sont obtenus après avoir contrôlé des déterminants de la CSP déjà validés dans la littérature (ROA, size, FCF…).L'implications pratique de notre recherche est double: d’un point de vue managérial, les actionnaires devraient nommer des dirigeants externes s’ils souhaitent réorienter la politique RSE de leur entreprise et obtenir, à terme, une meilleure performance RSE; d’un point de vue théorique, il semble particulièrement pertinent de rapprocher les mécanismes de gouvernance de la performance RSE des entreprises.(VA)We have empirically examined the relationship between top executives' turnover and corporate sustainability performance (CSP) by identifying the influence of two important types of chairman's succession (internal or external promotion). Moreover, our model integrates the impact of company's accession to GRI. The agency theory and the upper echelon theory frameworks are adopted to understand the extent to which corporate governance characteristics influence CSP. Using an analysis of panel data for a sample of 88 French firms during the sample periods 1999 to 2011, results indicate that CEO turnover and GRI influence CSP 5 years after, including control variables (ROA, FCF…).
G39|Why Do Firms Engage in Selective Hedging? Evidence from the Gold Mining Industry|"The widespread practice of managers speculating by incorporating their market views into firms' hedging programs (""selective hedging"") remains a puzzle. Using a 10-year sample of North American gold mining firms, we find no evidence that selective hedging is more prevalent among firms that are believed to possess an information advantage. In contrast, we find strong evidence that selective hedging is more prevalent among financially constrained firms, suggesting that this practice is driven by asset substitution motives. We detect weak relationships between selective hedging and some corporate governance measures but find no evidence of a link between selective hedging and managerial compensation."
G39|The Causal Effect of Option Pay on Corporate Risk Management|This study provides strong evidence of a causal effect of risk-taking incentives provided by option compensation on corporate risk management. We utilize the passage of FAS 123R, which required firms to expense options, to investigate how CEO option compensation affects the hedging behavior of oil and gas firms. Firms that did not expense options before FAS 123R significantly reduced option pay, which resulted in a large increase in their hedging intensity compared to firms that did not use options or expensed their options voluntarily prior to FAS 123R.
G39|Valuing diversity: CEOs' career experiences and corporate investment|This paper investigates the impact of CEOs' career experiences on corporate investment decisions. We hypothesize that CEOs with more diverse career experiences are less likely to be constrained by insufficient internal capital. The potential mechanism is that rich external experiences help CEOs accumulate social connections and these connections mitigate information asymmetry and lead to better access to external funds. Consistent with this argument, we find that firms with CEOs who have more diverse career experiences exhibit lower investment-cash flow sensitivity and exploit more outside funds, including both bank loans and trade credit. These effects are more pronounced among financially constrained firms. Even controlling for connections gained through financial institutions or government offices, the effect of diversity still remains very strong. Finally, we conduct several tests to mitigate the concern that our results are driven by the endogeneity of CEOs' appointments.
G39|Institutional trading during a wave of corporate scandals: “Perfect Payday”?|This paper examines the role of institutional trading during the option backdating scandal of 2006–2007. Unlike their inability to anticipate other corporate events, institutional investors as a group display negative abnormal trading imbalances (i.e., buy minus sell volumes) in anticipation of firm-specific backdating exposures. Consistent with informed trading, the underlying trades earn positive abnormal short- and long-term profits. Moreover, the negative abnormal imbalances are larger in magnitude when backdating is likely a more severe issue. Local institutions, in particular, display negative trading imbalances earlier in event-time and earn consistently higher trading profits than non-local institutions. Although we find some evidence of over-reaction following the arrival of information about the backdating scandal, these patterns are short-lived and exclusively due to the activity of non-local institutions. Overall, institutional investors behave as informed investors, particularly in local stocks, during this prolonged period of heightened uncertainty about corporate reporting and governance practices.
G39|The public corporation as an intermediary between “Main Street” and “Wall Street”|In the perfect markets corporate finance theory (Modigliani–Miller), public corporations (firms) have no economic function. Their existence therefore cannot be justified. An unsettling implication is that the extant corporate finance theory applies to an economy in which firms are irrelevant. This research precludes this implication by identifying an economic function for firms in perfect markets. Specifically, I show that firms exist to intermediate between “Main Street” (the real sector that supplies non-financial inputs) and “Wall Street” (the financial sector that supplies cash), and that this intermediation maximizes an investment's operating cash flows by minimizing the cost of the non-financial inputs. Key implications of this rationale for the firm include: i) an investment's NPV depends on the firm's cash holdings; working capital policy is an integral part of investment policy, ii) operating characteristics determine the firm's minimum size (equity capitalization) and “boundaries,” and iii) cash on corporate balance sheets is a “fundamental” for stock-pricing.
G39|Mind the gap: The age dissimilarity between the chair and the CEO|We study the relation between the chair of the board of directors and the CEO. We argue that substantial age dissimilarity between the two—giving rise to cognitive conflict—increases board monitoring and firm value for firms with greater monitoring needs. We find evidence for our hypothesis using data on German two-tier boards. German law mitigates endogeneity concerns as it prevents CEO duality and also restricts CEO power in other ways. Additional identification attempts include CEO-firm and chair-firm fixed effects, random effects, dynamic panel data estimations, and the use of the 2007 financial crisis as an exogenous shock to monitoring needs. We find that during the crisis, when fast decision making and managerial discretion were needed, the link between age dissimilarity and firm value changed.
G39|The effects of stock liquidity on firm value and corporate governance: Endogeneity and the REIT experiment|This study examines the effects of stock liquidity on firm value and corporate governance using the Real Estate Investment Trust (REIT) setting. The unique features of the REIT industry, including homogeneity of the investment structures, the high payout requirement, and the importance of institutional investors, highlight the positive effect of stock liquidity on firm value through corporate governance. To address the endogeneity problem, we perform a difference-in-differences test based on the propensity score matching estimator. The result shows that REIT stock liquidity has a causal and positive effect on firm value, as measured by Tobin's Q. Importantly, REIT stock liquidity is conducive to better corporate governance through the channel of institutional ownership. REIT stock liquidity leads to higher institutional ownership, particularly for institutional investor types that are active monitors and institutional investors with multi-firm ownership in their REIT portfolios.
G39|Value and risk dynamics over the innovation cycle|This paper studies investment in intellectual capital and corresponding value and risk dynamics over the innovation cycle. We assume that the innovation cycle consists of three phases, R&D, trial, and market introduction phases. We use a real option investment model to characterize firm value and risk dynamics over the innovation cycle and find that firm value is the sum of the value of assets in place and non-linear option values related to breakthrough, exit, and market introduction options. Firm risk over the innovation cycle is highly non-linear and quite distinct in different phases. During the R&D phase risk is high as the firm faces high operating leverage originating from R&D fixed costs together with technological uncertainty. During the trial phase risk is significantly lower and dominated by option risk to launch the product in the market while after the introduction of the product in the market risk is equivalent to the asset risk of the company. Our model is consistent with the view that positive excess returns of R&D intensive firms are a compensation for risk. Based on this insight we derive several testable predictions.
G39|Does corporate governance influence corporate risk-taking? Evidence from the Institutional Shareholders Services (ISS)|We provide evidence on the effect of corporate governance on the extent of corporate risk-taking. Provided by the Institutional Shareholder Services (ISS), our governance metrics are among the most comprehensive in the literature. Our results show that firms with more effective governance exhibit corporate strategies that are significantly less risky. Left to their own devices, managers tend to take excessive risk. Effective governance, however, reduces the degree of risk-taking significantly. Exploiting the passage of the Sarbanes–Oxley Act of 2002 as an exogenous shock that improves governance quality, we show that the effect of corporate governance on risk-taking is likely causal.
G39|CEO entrenchment and corporate liquidity management|CEO entrenchment distorts firms’ liquidity policy because entrenched CEOs and shareholders have conflicting preferences for liquidity. We investigate the association between firms’ liquidity level/mix and entrenchment within a system model accounting for endogeneity. Several results are obtained. Entrenched CEOs (i) hold more liquidity because it helps reduce their firm’s risks, provides them with job and wealth security, and gives them discretion in pursuing personal objectives; (ii) prefer cash over lines of credit (LCs) because the latter are accompanied by bank monitoring; and (iii) use more LCs, despite their associated monitoring, because they provide extra liquidity. Sample disaggregation shows that increased liquidity due to CEO entrenchment can be attributed to smaller and more opaque firms – large and transparent firms maintain their liquidity levels but increase their shares of cash. These findings imply that firms should align the interests of entrenched CEOs with those of shareholders to reduce the undesirable effects of entrenchment on liquidity management.
G39|Managerial overconfidence and corporate risk management|We examine whether managerial overconfidence can help explain the observed discrepancies between the theory and practice of corporate risk management. We use a unique dataset of corporate derivatives positions that enables us to directly observe managerial reactions to their (speculative) gains and losses from market timing when they use derivatives. We find that managers increase their speculative activities using derivatives following speculative cash flow gains, while they do not reduce their speculative activities following speculative losses. This asymmetric response is consistent with the selective self-attribution associated with overconfidence. Our time series approach to measuring overconfidence complements cross-sectional approaches currently used in the literature. Our results show that managerial overconfidence, which has been found to influence a number of corporate decisions, also affects corporate risk management decisions.
G39|Bank holding company performance, risk, and “busy” board of directors|We examine the association between “busyness” of the board of directors (serving on multiple boards) and bank holding company (BHC) performance and risk. We estimate several simultaneous-equations models employing the 3SLS technique and instrumental variables to account for endogeneity. We obtain four main results. First, BHC performance measures (return on equity, Tobin’s Q and EBIT over total assets) are positively associated with busyness of directors. Second, BHC risk measures (total, market, idiosyncratic, credit and default risks) are inversely related to busyness of directors. Third, performance (risk) benefits of having busy directors strengthened (weakened) during the financial crisis of 2007–2009. Fourth, busy directors are not more likely to become problem directors (fail the 75% attendance standard), and if sitting on boards of both BHC and non-financial firms, they attend more of the BHC board meetings, than those of the non-financials. Our findings partially alleviate concerns that over-boarded directors shirk their responsibilities.
G39|Corporate social responsibility and social capital|When corporations make an effort to be socially responsible beyond what is required by the law, this effort is often described as strategic—made mainly for the shareholders’ or managers’ benefit. A large body of literature corroborates this belief. But, could the incentives for corporate social responsibility (CSR) come from an altruistic inclination fostered by the social capital of the region in which the firm is headquartered? We investigate whether this phenomenon exists by examining the association between the social capital in the region and the firm’s CSR. We find that a firm from a high social capital region exhibits higher CSR. This result suggests that the self-interest of shareholders or mangers does not explain all of the firm’s CSR, but the altruistic inclination from the region might also play a role.
G39|Housing price growth and the cost of equity capital|Building on recent research linking changes in housing prices to investors’ degree of risk aversion, we posit that there is a negative relation between growth in housing prices and a firm’s cost of equity capital. Consistent with our hypothesis, we find that firms located in states with positive growth rates in housing prices exhibit lower costs of equity capital. We also observe that the effect of changes in housing prices is mainly driven by smaller firms. This housing effect is not only statistically significant but also economically important. Our results hold across various measures of growth rates in housing prices and are robust to controlling for potential biases due to measurement errors in estimating the implied cost of equity capital. This study is the first to establish an association between growth rates in housing prices and firms’ cost of equity capital. It also contributes to the emerging literature on the economic importance of a firm’s geographic location.
G39|When firms talk, do investors listen? The role of trust in stock market reactions to corporate earnings announcements|We examine whether the level of trust in a country affects investors' perception and utilization of information transmitted by firms through financial disclosure. Specifically, we investigate the effect of societal trust on investor reactions to corporate earnings announcements. We test two competing hypotheses. On the one hand, corporate earnings announcements are perceived as more credible by investors in more trusting societies and, therefore, elicit stronger investor reactions. On the other hand, societal trust mitigates outside investors' concern of moral hazard and reduces the value of corporate earnings announcements to them, thereby weakening their reactions to these events. We analyze the abnormal trading volume and abnormal stock return variance during the earnings announcement period in a large sample of firm-year observations across 25 countries, and we find that both measures of investor reactions to earnings announcements are significantly higher in more trusting countries. We also find that the positive effect of societal trust on investor reactions to earnings news is more pronounced when a country's investor protection and disclosure requirements are weaker, suggesting that trust acts as a substitute for formal institutions; when a country's average education level is lower, consistent with less educated people relying more on trust in making economic decisions; and when firm-level information asymmetry is higher, supporting the notion that trust plays a more important role in poorer information environments.
G39|Costs and benefits of friendly boards during mergers and acquisitions|Finance theory predicts that board independence is not always in the shareholders׳ interest. in situations in which board advice is more important than monitoring, independence can decrease firm value. I test this prediction by examining the connection between takeover returns and board friendliness, using social ties between the CEO and board members as a proxy for less independent boards. I find that social ties are associated with higher bidder announcement returns when the potential value of board advice is high, but with lower returns when monitoring needs are high. The evidence suggests that friendly boards can have both costs and benefits, depending on the company׳s specific needs.
G39|Social learning and corporate peer effects|We find that firms are more likely to split their stock if their peer firms have recently done so. The effect is comparable to an increase of 40–50% in the share price. Splitting probability is also increasing in the announcement returns of peer splits. These results are consistent with social learning from peers’ actions and outcomes. The unique features of the setting and various further tests render alternative explanations unlikely. We find no clear benefit in following successful peer splitters. Firms are sometimes suspected to succumb to imitation, and the effect we show could be a case in point.
G39|Dynamics of CEO compensation: Old is gold|There is an ongoing debate regarding the hiring and compensation of younger versus older employees. In this paper, we examine this question for Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) in the context of the Sarbanes–Oxley Act (SOX) of 2002. We argue that the increased complexities in the post-SOX era (regulatory, technological, and the ever-changing business environment) have forced corporate boards to incentivize top executives for the increased burden. We contend that older CEOs are perceived as more reliable, efficient, and trustworthy (to fulfill the regulatory requirements demanded by SOX) than their younger counterparts. Consistent with our contention, we find that the total compensation of CEOs of U.S. firms has increased significantly for older CEOs as compared to their younger counterparts after the introduction of SOX. Our results are robust to sophisticated econometric techniques and also consistent with the logic that in order to motivate older CEOs (who would have raised substantial personal wealth over time) to keep working rather than retiring or moving to a competitor, their compensation package must be highly competitive.
G39|Mode of Islamic Bank Financing: Does Effectiveness of Shariah Supervisory Board Matter?|This paper examines the relationships between the effectiveness of Shariah supervisory board (SSB), their remuneration and mode of financing Islamic bank. The SSB effectiveness is evaluated by an index based on 9 attributes score. This study comprises 18 Islamic banks in which operating in Malaysia from the year 2012 to 2013 as a sample. Our regression analysis shows that the effectiveness of SSB does not concern with the mode of Islamic bank financing. However, we found that SSB remuneration and bank’s financial growth shown a positive and significant relationship with mode of financing. The implications of these findings are discussed.
G39|The Value of Corporate Citizenship: Protection|We explore the notion that corporate citizenship, as obtained through Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), is used by managers to protect firm value, helping their firm better withstand negative business shocks. We formally explore two parallel mechanisms for such protection .one of building moral capital (CSR Contributions) and another of improving investor posteriors (CSR Investments). We find some theoretical and empirical support for both of these, but in different settings. In particular, we find that firms with higher CSR Investments enjoy an average of $1 billion of saved firm value upon an adverse event. In contrast, CSR Contribution firms lose value (on average) upon an event, possibly due to disingenuous contributions. Meanwhile, due to managerial moral hazard, firms with high levels of CSR Contributions face adverse events more often, whereas those with high levels of CSR Investments face them less often.
G39|The Value of Political Ties versus Market Credibility: Evidence from Corporate Scandals in China|This paper compares the value of political ties and market credibility in China by examining the consequence of corporate scandals. We categorize Chinese corporate scandals by whether the scandal is primarily associated with the destruction of i) the firm’s political networks (political scandals), ii) the firm’s market credibility (market scandals), or iii) both (mixed scandals). Consistent with our hypothesis that scandals signaling the destruction of political ties are associated with greater losses in firm value than scandals signaling the destruction of market credibility, we find that the stock market reacts more negatively to political and mixed scandals than to market scandals. In addition, the greater negative market reactions associated with political and mixed scandals are primarily driven by firms that rely more on political networks. We also find that, compared to market scandals, political and mixed scandals lead to larger decreases in operating performance, greater reduction in loans from state-owned banks, and higher departure of political directors.
G39|Earnings Management in Auto Sector Enterprises in India: The Corporate Governance Review|The evolution of corporate governance in India and globally is attributed to the manipulative practices by the corporate. The present paper analyzes the earnings management practices in diversified auto corporate enterprises in India. Indian auto sector has rapidly diversified in terms of its product range and the markets and therefore attracts issue of corporate governance on account of earnings management. Earnings management is evaluated and correlated on quality parameters of earnings and revenue. The results indicate accrual management in the sample companies and it is hoped the study improves investors' belief of a company's performance.
G39|Governance Changes For Firms Added To The S&P 500|What happens to corporate governance after a firm is added to the S&P 500 index? Using firms added from 1994 to 2007, this paper examines how governance mechanisms change for these firms. Specifically, we look at both the overall governance and details on how each mechanism changes. We find that governance improves after being added to the index. Controlling for firm size, leverage, prior firm performance, and growth opportunities, the market reacts positively to governance improvements as a whole. In addition, changes in governance are positively associated with changes in operating performance
G39|Using Options Pricing Theory To Value Safety & Ergonomics Projects: A Case Study|This paper applies option pricing theory to value an investment in safety & ergonomics. Utilizing both traditional and perpetual call option frameworks, we quantify project value overlooked by traditional discounted cash flow techniques. In a case study format, it is shown that delaying investment allows the firm to reduce uncertainty associated with safety & ergonomic interventions; with increased costs of delaying encouraging speedier implementation.
G39|It Pays to Be an Executive in Malaysia|Malaysian corporate sector is characterized by an insider system of corporate governance and induced the alignment problems between majority shareholders and the minority group. This paper investigates if there is an evidence of moral hazard behaviour being practiced in the executive remuneration decision. A match pair methodology is employed to isolate the effect of ESOS adoption from the usual motivations when deciding executive remunerations. Results suggest that while the amount of remuneration is directly linked to size of firms suggesting efficient and rational decision rather than on performance (profitability). The moral hazard behaviour is more evident when firms reward their executives even more in times of lower profitability or more losses over a longer period. The practice is more apparent among family owned firms not adopting ESOS. Though there is evidence of weak monitoring by government, it is not enough to ward off the insider pressures for personal gains.
G39|Board Diversity and Corporate Social Responsibility|This study examines the impact of board diversity on firms’ corporate social responsibility (CSR) performance. Using seven different measures of board diversity across 1,489 U.S. firms from 1999 to 2011, the study finds that board diversity is positively associated with CSR performance. Board diversity is associated with a greater number of areas in which CSR is strong and a fewer number of areas in which CSR is a concern. These findings support the stakeholder theory and are consistent with the view that board diversity enhances firms’ ability to satisfy the needs of their broader groups of stakeholders. We find that gender, tenure, and expertise diversities seem to be the driving factors of firms’ CSR activities. Furthermore, we find that board diversity significantly increases CSR performance by increasing CSR strengths and reducing CSR concerns for firms producing consumer-oriented products and firms operating in more competitive industries. Our results remain robust using different measures of CSR performance, different estimation methods, and different samples. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media Dordrecht 2015
G39|Outside Director Stock Options and Dividend Policy|Agency theory suggests that dividends can be used to mitigate agency problems between shareholders and managers. If director stock options are granted to align the interests of directors with shareholders, we anticipate that there will be less need for external governance mechanisms such as dividends. Examining the association between outside director stock options and dividend policy, we show that outside director option compensation indeed varies inversely with dividend distribution. This result suggests that incentivizing outside directors reduces the need for external market monitoring through dividends. Controlling for the sensitivity of options to changes in dividends, we illustrate that the lack of dividend protection for stock options is not a sufficient explanation for the reduction of dividends. We also show that while investment policy might dominate the decision to offer a dividend, director stock options play an important role in determining the level of dividend paid in firms that pay dividends. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
G39|The Modernization Of The Budget Process Of Romania: Gaps And The Need Of The Efficient Management Of The Budget|Romania's budgetary policy has as one of its objectives to maintain a particular level of aggregate demand in the economy through public expenditures and tax rates. The increase of the Romanian government debt in the latest period was driven mainly by engaging the debt to finance the budget deficit, refinancing of the public debt, enhancing the financial reserve in currency etc. For an economy that seeks to be in a permanent rise, it becomes appropriate a well-founded budget policy that will take into account the concrete circumstances of the economic and social life, needs of the present and the imperatives of the future. It may prove beneficial to progress, but if they are not mattered or disregarded it can brake the growth, can lead to social tensions and involution.
G39|Stocktaking of Anti-Corruption and Business Integrity Measures for Southern African SOEs|This report aims to provide an overview of business integrity and anti-bribery legislation, policies and practices applicable to state-owned enterprises (SOEs) operating across the Southern African Development Community (SADC) region. Part 1 provides a rationale for considering the impact that corruption-prevention and business integrity measures have had in some jurisdictions, based on available academic literature on this subject. Part 2 summarises the framework in seven SADC countries for combating corruption and for encouraging responsible business practices. It also focuses on the application of this framework to SOEs by governments, as well as measures taken by SOEs to limit their exposure to the risks of corruption. The report was undertaken on behalf of the OECD Network on Corporate Governance of State-Owned Enterprises in Southern Africa and is based on voluntary responses to a questionnaire and supplemented with desk research.
G39|Working Capital Management as a routine: An action based access to the topic|In times of unstable capital markets on the one side and historically low interests on the other, working capital management must be discussed from different perspectives. Limited sources of liquidity, and the high refinancing risk of lending companies, make the reduction of current assets and liabilities an even more important management task than before. On the other hand, low interest rates raise the need for defining the optimum level for working capital. Little research and empirical evidence exists when it comes to lifting working capital targets to create value. The objective of the present paper is to give evidence on whether German companies adapt their behavior in terms of handling working capital in the actual economic environment and to describe which practices have been established to perform this adaptation. The given analysis is based on a qualitative study. The data used have been gathered in 2014 and 2015 during semi structured interviews with CFOs or financial executives of 15 German and Austrian industrial firms. Our study suggests that adaptation is realized rather by moderating management attention and focus to the topic of capital cost but not by adjusting the financial targets themselves. This is because working capital reduction as become a management routine.
G39|Mode of Islamic Bank Financing: Does Effectiveness of Shariah Supervisory Board Matter?|This paper examines the relationships between the effectiveness of Shariah supervisory board (SSB), their remuneration and mode of financing Islamic bank. The SSB effectiveness is evaluated by an index based on 9 attributes score. This study comprises 18 Islamic banks in which operating in Malaysia from the year 2012 to 2013 as a sample. Our regression analysis shows that the effectiveness of SSB does not concern with the mode of Islamic bank financing. However, we found that SSB remuneration and bank's financial growth shown a positive and significant relationship with mode of financing. The implications of these findings are discussed.
G39|State And Perspectives Of Enterprise Risk Management System Development- The Case Of Croatian Companies|Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) encompasses activities and strategies which enable the company to identify, measure, reduce, or exploit, as well as to control and monitor the exposure to various types of corporate risks ? strategic, financial, operational, and reporting, as well as compliance risks for the purpose of increasing the organization?s short and long-term value to its stakeholders. The primary goal of ERM is to increase the likelihood that an organization will achieve its objectives, meaning that ERM should be created and implemented with the aim to protect and create shareholder value. For ERM to bring benefits, as it is well-explained in the existing ERM literature (e.g. see Beasley et al., 2005; Cumming and Hirtle, 2001; Lam, 2001, 2003; Liebenberg et and Hoyt, 2003; Meulbroek, 2002; Nocco and Stulz 2006), it should be integrated in the most important business processes, such as strategic management, strategic planning, as well as in the finance and investment decisions in order to ensure the consistent evaluation and management of risks that arise from business initiatives and plans. This paper is both conceptual and empirical. It is aiming to (1) develop ERM Index that measures quality of ERM process within the company, (2) to explore level of ERM development in listed Croatian companies by employing ERM Index (3) to explore determinants of risk management system development in listed Croatian companies (4) to explore whether risk management decisions have different rationales in Croatian companies than among their western counterparts. Different theories of risk management derived from capital market imperfections are used to argue for the relevance of corporate risk management function. Empirical research was conducted on the listed Croatian non-financial companies. Data were collected from two sources; annual reports and notes to the financial statements and survey. Research results have revealed low levels of ERM development in listed Croatian companies. Managers are focused on financial and operative risk management, while strategic and other risks have been neglected. Regression analysis has indicated somewhat unexpected but important conclusion - the explored risk management rationales have weak predictive power in explaining corporate risk management decisions in Croatian companies. The level or risk management system development is dependent only on the size of the company and value of the growth options.
G39|Wpływ nadzoru korporacyjnego na transparentność polityki wynagradzania kadry kierowniczej w bankach w Polsce|Celem artykułu jest ocena transparentności polityki wynagradzania członków kadry zarządzającej banków w Polsce. Badanie zostało przeprowadzone dla lat 2005-2013 na próbie 16 banków notowanych na Giełdzie Papierów Wartościowych w Warszawie. W badaniu została podjęta próba identyfikacji czynników determinujących poziom transparentności polityki. W tym celu został skonstruowany indeks transparentności na podstawie informacji odnoszących się do: wysokości i struktury uposażenia członka zarządu banku, polityki zmiennych składników wynagrodzenia, funkcjonowania komitetu radu nadzorczej ds. wynagradzania oraz długoterminowych programów motywacyjnych opartych na własności. Otrzymane wyniki wskazują na występowanie kilku prawidłowości. Banki stopniowo zwiększają zakres ujawnień polityki wynagrodzeń. Największe zmiany miały miejsce od roku 2012, co wynika z nowych regulacji prawnych. Zgodnie z przewidywaniami pozytywny wpływ na zakres ujawnień wynagrodzeń mają takie standardy nadzoru korporacyjnego jak: wielkość rady, aktywność komitetu ds. wynagrodzeń oraz udział w akcjonariacie banku otwartych funduszy emerytalnych. Stopień koncentracji własności może wpływać na transparentność w sposób pośredni, poprzez narzucanie bankom w Polsce standardów, które obowiązują na rynkach ich inwestorów strategicznych. Najbardziej przejrzysta polityka wynagradzania występuje w bankach kontrolowanych przez inwestorów z krajów anglosaskich, które charakteryzują się największą dywersyfikacją własności. Większy od przeciętnego poziom ujawnień polityki wynagradzania został zaobserwowany w dużych bankach oraz w tych bankach, w których prezesi zarządu otrzymują relatywnie wyższe wynagrodzenia.
G39|CEO age, education, and introduction of hedging in the oil and gas industry|This study examines if a CEO’s age and education explain introduction of hedging in the oil and gas industry. We compare CEO age, college degree, and educational institutions between the hedgers that initiated use of derivatives and the nonhedgers that never used hedging. Our findings show that a hedge CEO is younger than a nonhedge CEO in the year hedging is initiated. We also find evidence that a higher percentage of the hedge CEOs have petroleum-related degrees and a smaller percentage have business degrees when compared to the nonhedge CEOs. The results of our logistic regressions indicate that CEO age explains the use of financial derivatives in the oil and gas industry. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
G39|Do shareholder rights influence managerial propensity to engage in earnings management?|We examine the relationship between shareholder rights and managerial propensity to engage in earnings smoothing. Using a measure of shareholder rights, and after controlling for factors that influence management’s decision to manage earnings, we conclude that increases in shareholder rights significantly increase management’s willingness to engage in earnings management. We find that firms with more democratic governance systems tend to have higher levels of current discretionary accruals and firms with less democratic governance structures tend to have lower levels of current discretionary accruals. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
G39|Risikoorientierte Kundenbewertung: Eine Fallstudie|Eine wichtige Aufgabe der risikoorientierten Kundenbewertung (oder synonym des wertorientierten Credit Managements) ist, Risiko- und Ertragsinformationen zum Kunden in einer aussagekräftigen Kennzahl zu bündeln. Mit der Zeitdauer des Risikos (ZDdR) diskutiert der Beitrag eine Lösung, die das Risiko-Ertrags- Verhältnis eines Kunden auf einfache, interpretierbare und nachvollziehbare Weise quantifiziert. Im Rahmen einer realen Fallstudie wird die praktische Eignung des Konzeptes illustriert. Der Beitrag diskutiert ausgewählte Anwendungen für Analyse, Controlling und Steuerung (z.B. Kreditlimitierung).
G39|Impact Of Cyclical Evolution On Budget Balance- Romania’S Case|History has provided sufficient evidence that economic activity does not grow linearly and economic cycles can be easily distinguished, in which periods of growth are followed by periods of recession, stagnation, rising unemployment and widening budget deficits. Cyclical evolution impact on macroeconomic equilibrium requires us to move to a multiannual approach to budget balance and think about adjustments for the fiscal policy mix over the economic cycle, i.e. to pursue higher deficits in periods of recession as a result of tax incentives and some public investment expenditures absolutely necessary to resume growth and the deficits and public debt accumulated will be reduced in further periods.
G39|The Analysis Of The Correlation Between Financialautonomy And Financial Equilibrium Of Thepharmaceutical Companies Listed On The Buchareststock Exchange|In the last years, the phenomena of instability and economic uncertainty haveoccurred more and more frequently in a society undergoing major changes. This aspect has beenparticularly prominent since 2008. With the advent of the economic and financial crisis,unexpected phenomena occurring within organizations have strengthened the idea of a moredetailed analysis of the financial position so as to be able to determine the actual financialstrategies needed by the companies within the analyzed industry. The aim of this article is tohighlight the importance of balance and financial autonomy in the economic entities belonging tothe pharmaceutical industry and listed on the Bucharest Stock Exchange. Our research is basedon an analysis in time of the indicators of balance and financial stability over a period of six years,from 2008 until 2013, in order to draw a correlation between these two types of indicators withthe help of Pearson‘s correlation coefficient.
G39|Valoración de opciones reales a través de equivalentes de certeza|Resumen El objetivo de la investigación es identificar alternativas para la tasa adecuada de descuento de los flujos de las opciones reales en aquellos casos en los cuales no procede la aplicación de la tasa libre de riesgo, en particular, en mercados incompletos. Se propone una metodología de valoración de opciones reales basada en equivalentes de certeza, la cual requiere como condición principal considerar las preferencias particulares representadas mediante funciones de utilidad. Los resultados indican que esta metodología refleja adecuadamente cómo el valor de la opción real cambia de acuerdo con las preferencias del inversionista. Para representar dichas preferencias, se recurre a la función de utilidad tipo CRRA (Constant Relative Risk Aversion). Abstract This purpose of this research is to identify appropriate rates to discount the flows from real options in situations in which the risk-free rate does not apply, in particular, in incomplete markets. A methodology is proposed for valuing real options based on certainty equivalence, which requires as a principal condition the consideration of preferences represented with utility functions. A constant relative risk aversion (CRRA) utility function is used to represent these preferences. The results indicate that this methodology adequately reflects how the value of a real option changes in accordance with an investor´s preferences.
G39|De la nécessité d’une vision partenariale en gouvernance de l’entreprise:une note|(VF)Comment les systèmes de gouvernance, en encadrant les décisions des dirigeants, influencent-ils la création durable de valeur par la firme ? Les réponses à cette question centrale de la gouvernance d’entreprise sont contingentes aux représentations de la firme mobilisées et sont plus ou moins satisfaisantes si on retient une perspective gestionnaire. La gouvernance actionnariale ne pouvant apporter une réponse pertinente, il faut se tourner vers la vision partenariale. Il est cependant nécessaire d’enrichir cette vision, initialement disciplinaire, par une dimension cognitive pour disposer d’un cadre pleinement adapté.(VA)How corporate governance systems, by conditionning management decisions, influence the sustainable creation of value by the firm ? The answers to this central question of corporate governance are contingent to the used representations of the firm and are more or less satisfactory if one adopts a managerial perspective. The shareholder view being unable to provide a relevant answer, we must turn to the stakeholder view of corporate governance. However, it is necessary to enrich this view, initially exclusively disciplinary , with a cognitive dimension to obtain a fully adapted framework.
G39|Do Managers Overreact to Salient Risks? Evidence from Hurricane Strikes|Consistent with salience theories of choice, we find that managers overreact to salient risks. We study how managers respond to the occurrence of a hurricane event when their firms are located in the neighborhood of the disaster area. We find that the sudden shock to the perceived liquidity risk leads managers to increase the amount of corporate cash holdings, even though the real liquidity risk remains unchanged. Such an increase in cash holdings is only temporary. Over time, the perceived risk decreases, and the bias disappears. This bias is costly for shareholders because it leads to higher retained earnings and negatively impacts firm value by reducing the value of cash. We examine alternative explanations for our findings. In particular, we find only weak evidence that the possibility of risk learning or regional spillover effects may influence our results.
G39|Renewable Energy Support Mechanism in Turkey: Financial Analysis and Recommendations to Policymakers|The Turkish Grand National Parliament passed a renewable energy promotion law that provides feed-in tariffs for electricity generation from renewable energy sources in 2005. This law was not attractive to investors due to the low level of feed-in tariffs. Then, in 2011, the promotion law was amended and a new support scheme integrated in the day-ahead market was introduced. Therefore, the main purpose of this article is to explain the new support mechanism, analyze it from the financial perspective, and discuss the related key issues and challenges. In addition, to further improve the support mechanism, some recommendations have been made to policymakers.
G39|The value of firms' voluntary commitment to improve transparency: The case of special segments on Euronext|This paper examines whether a firm's commitment to increase transparency affects firm value and liquidity by studying firms' voluntary decision to be listed in “special segments” created by Euronext. The empirical analysis finds positive valuation effects for firms that opted into the special segments and documents positive effects on the liquidity of these firms. In contrast, when similar market regulations are imposed on all listed firms, and the segments become unavailable, I find marketwide negative valuation effects. The findings suggest that stock exchanges can provide an effective channel that improves firms' liquidity and value; however, when a regulation with similar requirements is imposed on all firms in the market, the effect is less likely to be recognized, at least in the short term.
G39|Methods for multicountry studies of corporate governance: Evidence from the BRIKT countries|We discuss empirical challenges in multicountry studies of the effects of firm-level corporate governance on firm value, focusing on emerging markets. We assess the severe data, “construct validity”, and endogeneity issues in these studies, propose methods to respond to those issues, and apply those methods to a study of five major emerging markets—Brazil, India, Korea, Russia, and Turkey. We develop unique time-series datasets on governance in each country. We address construct validity by building country-specific indices which reflect local norms and institutions. These similar-but-not-identical indices predict firm market value in each country, and when pooled across countries, in firm fixed-effects (FE) and random-effects (RE) regressions. In contrast, a “common index”, which uses the same elements in each country, has no predictive power in FE regressions. For the country-specific and pooled indices, FE and RE coefficients on governance are generally lower than in pooled OLS regressions, and coefficients with extensive covariates are generally lower than with limited covariates. These results confirm the value of using FE or RE with extensive covariates to reduce omitted variable bias. We develop lower bounds on our estimates which reflect potential remaining omitted variable bias.
G39|The evolution of corporate governance in Brazil|We use extensive hand collected surveys reporting governance practices of Brazilian firms in 2004, 2006, and 2009 to build a broad corporate governance index and analyze the evolution of corporate governance in Brazil and the association between governance and firm value. We find that corporate governance practices improved significantly over this period. This evolution is due to two main factors: 1) growth in Novo Mercado and Level II (NM&L2) listings, mainly through IPOs by new firms, and 2) improved practices at non-NM&L2 firms, principally through adopting governance elements required for NM&L2 listing. Governance practices for firms already listed on NM&L2 were stable. Adoption of the elements of our governance index that are required for NM&L2 listing predicts higher firm value. In contrast, adoption of the remaining elements of our index does not predict firm value. Thus, governance changes appear to respond to investor preferences.
G39|Investment performance of “environmentally-friendly” firms and their initial public offers and seasoned equity offers|We employ a sample of 748 environmentally-friendly (or “green”) firms listed on U.S. stock exchanges to extend studies of the effects of socially responsible investment (SRI) on stock investment returns and the performance of initial public offerings (IPOs) and seasoned equity offerings (SEOs). Our empirical tests document positive and statistically significant excess returns for our environmentally-friendly firms and their IPOs and SEOs, in contrast to our control IPO and SEO samples which underperform. In summary, a “green” equity premium is evident in returns calculated from a variety of benchmarks.
G39|Mutual funds’ holdings and listed firms’ earnings management: Evidence from China|This study examines the impact of long-term and short-term mutual funds’ ownership on various types of earnings management in China. We find that both long-term and short-term funds’ holdings can lead to reduced non-core income. However, long-term mutual funds’ holdings have an insignificant impact on accrual items, while short-term funds’ holdings encourage an increase in accruals. The positive influence of short-term funds’ holdings on accruals is much stronger than their negative impact on non-core income. Finally, we find the impact of mutual funds’ holdings on earnings management is much stronger in non-state-controlled listed firms than that in state-controlled ones.
G39|The Volatility of Market Risk In Viet Nam Listed Public Utilities Company Groups during and after the Financial Crisis 2007-2009|This study estimates market risk of total 45 listed companies in Viet Nam public utilities, natural gas and oil industry during the financial crisis period 2007-2009. Firstly, we found out in the research sample that there are 82% of firms, of total listed firms, with beta values lower than ( ) 1, meaning having stock returns fluctuating more than the market benchmark. Thirdly, among three (3) groups, the systemic risk in the electric power industry is the smallest, shown by estimated values of equity and asset beta mean, and asset beta variance in this industry is also the smallest. Finally, this paper generates some analytical outcomes that enable companies and government to have more evidence in establishing their policies in investments and in governance
G39|Theoretical Aspects of Development of Socially Responsible Investing in Ukraine|The article addresses the theoretical aspects of raising the level of socially responsible investing in Ukrainian companies for the purpose of implementation of the system of corporate social responsibility. Founded are the advantages of implementing the corporate social responsibility in the practice of Ukrainian companies. Determined are the areas of the strategy of development of corporate social responsibility and the role of socially responsible investment in improving the efficiency of socially responsible companies. Suggested is the mechanism of management of social programs in a company, the use of which will serve to ensure the due level of implementation of corporate social responsibility in Ukraine. Determined are the main criteria for the qualitative evaluation of social investment. According to the authors, the increased integration of Ukrainian companies to the social responsibility of global corporations can be achieved by adapting international practices to the domestic institutional environment to ensure implementation of international standards, principles and ideas that are based on the harmonization of social relations.
G39|The Significance of 18 Weeks in Internet Business Reporting Research (IBR): A New Dimension in Data Collection Procedures|The present study intends to explore and ascertain the appropriate time interval in which the information on corporate website changes significantly. A sample of top 50 listed companies was drawn from five countries, namely the US, the UK, Singapore, Thailand, and Malaysia. The quality of the internet business reporting (IBR) practices is measured using the IBR quality (IBRQ) index as it permits relevant quantification. This study involves careful examination of the time interval data within 9 and 18-week intervals. Initial analysis revealed that there was no significant difference on the quality of IBR practices within 9 internet-weeks but significant changes for website financial content, website non-financial content, and total score of the IBRQ within 18 internet-weeks. Nonetheless, further analysis involving developed and developing countries as well as individual country revealed diverse results. The present study offers new insight that complements the existing body of knowledge. The present findings are unable to provide conclusive evidence that the information on corporate websites changed significantly after 18 weeks. Nonetheless, this study demonstrates longitudinal analysis of increasing important website data trends with relevance to IBR practices.
G39|Una gestión activa de los intangibles empresariales y su incidencia en los resultados financieros de un modo sostenible /Management of Firms' Intangibles and Their Impact on Sustainable Financial Performance|En la actualidad, es comúnmente aceptado que la dotación de recursos y capacidades de carácter intangible se ha convertido en el elemento diferenciador entre empresas. Sin embargo, sólo un grupo reducido permiten la obtención de una ventaja competitiva siendo son la fuente principal de creación de valor, las denominadas competencias básicas. La mayor parte de los estudios que relacionan los intangibles con los resultados de las empresas consideran únicamente el stock que posee la empresa, y no analiza la gestión llevada a cabo. Nuestro objetivo es verificar si una gestión más eficiente de estos recursos tiene una incidencia en los resultados financieros, medidos a través del ROA, de un modo sostenible. Para alcanzar este objetivo, se llevó a cabo un estudio de campo, realizando llamadas telefónicas a los directivos financieros de las empresas del País Vasco, obteniéndose evidencia positiva a favor de la hipótesis planteada. It is widely accepted that the allocation of intangible resources and capabilities has become the difference between firms. However, only a few of them allow to gain a competitive advantage, so-called core competencies. Most of the studies about to the intangibles and firms performance consider only the stock held by the company, and they do not considered intangibles management. Therefore, our objective is to test whether the core competencies management translates into improved sustainably performance, measured through ROA. To this end, a field study was performed, by making telephone calls to Basque Country companies? financial managers, and favorable evidence was obtained.
G39|Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén megyei KKV-k aktuális hitellehetőségei és preferenciái - egy kérdőíves kutatás eredményei|A magyarországi bankok vállalkozás hitelezési aktivitásának a fokozása aktuális kérdés,olyannyira, hogy a Magyar Nemzeti Bank is fókuszban tartja elsősorban a Növekedési Hitelprogram biztosítása révén. Jelen tanulmány keretei között Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén megyei székhelyű, működő, KKV körbe tartozó gazdasági társaságok kétlépcsős, kvótás és kiválasztásos mintavételi módszerek kombinációjával előállított mintáján végzett primer kvantitatív kutatás segítségével teszünk megállapításokat a KKV-k aktuális forráspreferenciáit és hitelkeresletüket illetően, külön kitérve a támogatott hitelekre és a hitelezést akadályozó tényezőkre a KKV-k mint hitelkeresleti oldal megítélése alapján.
G39|Financial Solvency of Russian Regions in 2005-2011: Experience of Classification Analysis|The article is devoted to the development of classification of the territorial entities of the Russian Federation based on the data of the State statistical reporting for 2005-2011 and aimed at assessment of financial solvency of regions concerning budget support, attracting of investments, promoting export-import relationships with foreign countries and inter-government relations with the Federal center. The main achievement is a new approach to formation of integrated characteristics (indexes) which work equally well in different periods of economic development (in the period 2005-2011 we could observe uprising, crisis and an initial stage of the recovery). As a result 4 indexes reflecting different aspects of affluence on the regions' were designed, and common criteria of classification created, all the regions were divided into 6 well interpreted classes.
G39|The Conceptual Foundations, Principles And Criteria For Stability Of Banks In The Context Of Their Financial Security|Financial systems in our contemporary stage undergo significant changes, but in fact as economy in general, due to a number of factors among which we can mention: technological and financial innovations, intense liberalization of both the real and financial flows, intensification of the process of globalization. Thus the financial sphere is not exempt from tensions and destabilizing movements, generating risks for both the properly so called actors of the financial system and the economy as a whole. In this context, achieving financial stability is one of the new challenges that modern economies face.
G39|State-owned Enterprises in Southern Africa: A Stocktaking of Reforms and Challenges|This report is the first known stocktaking of its kind to provide a regional overview of state-owned enterprise (SOE) governance reforms and challenges across the Southern African Development Community (SADC) region. Part One summarises the challenges and governance practices related to state-ownership across SADC economies; it draws conclusions on how to address common regional priorities. Part Two of the report is organised around country profiles providing a fact-based assessment of SOE reform policies and practices in 14 economies. The report was prepared at the request of the Southern Africa Network on Governance of State-Owned Enterprises – a regional cooperation initiative aimed at improving the corporate governance of SOEs, and mainly covering the member economies of the SADC region. The stocktaking was prepared based on information self-reported by authorities in participating economies and supplemented by desk research.
G39|Exploring Potential Data Sources for Estimating Private Climate Finance|The paper reviews a number of commercial and public data sources to examine their potential for increasing coverage and understanding of the volume and characteristics of private climate finance beyond renewable energy projects. Such information is needed to assess progress towards the global transition to low-carbon, climate-resilient economies, as well towards the fulfilment of international commitments by developed countries under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. The data sources investigated in this analysis are evaluated across four areas relating to their: (i) use of sectoral classification systems; (ii) coverage of private finance transactions and instruments; (iii) definitions and methods for categorising finance as private and identifying its geographic origin; and (iv) data access restrictions and methodological transparency. To provide a frame of reference, the paper distils corresponding definitions and methodologies used by key known data sources for tracking climatespecific finance as well as investments and finance more broadly...
G39|Green Banking In Romania|The paper investigates the green banking in Romania, a new approach of conducting the banking business through considering the corporate social responsibility and environmental aspects. Nowadays, it is difficult to face the globalization and competition in order to asssure the implementation of the green banking practices. The aim of the present study is to identify corporations that have sustainability concerns. To achieve this objective, we set some hypothesis and after this we showed that the corporations are more likely to be included in the list of top banks in the world. Our study is relevant for future research in this area, because of the importance of such aspects in corporations nowadays.The conclusions of our study is that green banking practices in Romania is in an incipient stage
G39|U.S. SPACs with a focus on China|This paper examines the value implications of remedial actions taken by the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC) during 2011 that culminated in delisting a number of Chinese companies from United States public exchanges. To achieve that we examine the institutional characteristics and performance of Specified Purpose Acquisition Companies (SPACs) used as a financing tool and gateway to the U.S. capital markets by Chinese companies in period 2004–2011. Evidence shows that SPACs merging with companies from China are not inferior in corporate structure when compared with other SPACs. While their institutional characteristics are similar, the performance tests indicate that Chinese SPACs lose value around SEC decision dates, but in overall they outperform other SPACs listed in the U.S.
G39|An Analysis of Omitted Shareholder Proposals|We intend to reveal the causes and the determinants of the omitted shareholder proposals. We find that individual investors are mostly likely to submit a proposal being excluded from the proxy ballot. Since individual investors are not so skillful as institutional investors, we summarize that shareholder proposals are excluded mainly due to sponsors’ lack of experience and knowledge, rather than as a self-serving vehicle for shareholder activists to gain bargaining power or to simply annoy management. We also find that most shareholder proposals are omitted because they deal with a matter relating to the company’s ordinary business operations.
G39|On the fundamentals of winning virtuous strategies creation toward leveraged buyout transactions implementation during private equity investment in conditions of resonant absorption of discrete information in diffusion - type financial system with induced nonlinearities|The authors perform an original research on the fundamentals of winning virtuous strategies creation toward the leveraged buyout transactions implementation during the private equity investment in the conditions of the resonant absorption of discrete information in the diffusion - type financial system with the induced nonlinearities at the influences by the Schumpeterian creative disruption processes in the free market economy. We propose that the money is a financial computing process, which is executed by the operating system, representing an exchange medium, at a computing device. We make a comprehensive academic literature review on the various aspects of modern financial engineering approaches to make the private equity investments and design the leveraged buyout and venture capital firms, funds and transactions in the finances. We highlight a private equity’s important role in the Schumpeterian creative destruction processes in the free market economy, discussing the leverage buyout transactions process and properties. We develop the MicroLBO software: 1) to create the winning virtuous strategies toward the LBO transactions implementation, and 2) to compute the direct/reverse LBO transaction probability number for the selected public/private companies. We formulate the Ledenyov theory on the winning virtuous strategies creation toward the LBO transactions implementation at the resonant absorption of discrete information in the diffusion - type financial economic system with the induced nonlinearities.
G39|Book Review: Islamic Finance: Issues in Ṣukūk and Proposals for Reform|Islamic Finance: Issues in Ṣukūk and Proposals for Reform is a jointly edited volume by Mohammad Hashim Kamali and Abdul Karim Abdullah. This publication is on an important current topic of Islamic economics and finance. With the increasing currency of ṣukūk products, there has been increasing volume of literature on the subject. But still there is dearth of works in English by writers simultaneously having expertise in Sharīʿah and practical experience in the industry. In this sense, the present work is a significant addition.
G39|On the fundamentals of winning virtuous strategies creation toward leveraged buyout transactions implementation during private equity investment in conditions of resonant absorption of discrete information in diffusion - type financial system with induced nonlinearities|The authors perform an original research on the fundamentals of winning virtuous strategies creation toward the leveraged buyout transactions implementation during the private equity investment in the conditions of the resonant absorption of discrete information in the diffusion - type financial system with the induced nonlinearities in particular, and at the influences by the Schumpeterian creative disruption processes in the free market economy in general. Going from the academic literature, we make a comprehensive review on the various aspects of modern financial engineering approaches to make the private equity investments and design the leveraged buyout and venture capital firms, funds and transactions in the finances. We highlight a private equity’s important role in the Schumpeterian creative destruction processes in the free market economy, discussing the leverage buyout transactions process and the accurate characterization of the leverage buyout transactions properties at the resonant absorption of discrete information in the diffusion - type financial system with the induced nonlinearities. We formulate the Ledenyov theory on the winning virtuous strategies creation toward the leveraged buyout transactions implementation during the private equity investment in the conditions of the resonant absorption of discrete information in the diffusion - type financial system with the induced nonlinearities.
G39|The Impact of Working Capital Management on Firm Profitability and Fixed Investment in Pakistan|The research is done with a purpose of increasing knowledge about the importance of working capital management. The research investigates impact of working capital management on the profitability of the firms along with the impact of the same on the fixed capital investment of the firm. The research also finds out the interrelationship of fixed capital investment and the profitability because the ultimate goal of the firms is to achieve maximum profitability at the lowest level of risk. The research has thoroughly examined impact of variables involved through ratio analysis and tools like regression and correlation. The data was gathered from Karachi Stock Exchange. The data gathering was archival and panel data was used as a method to extract the needed information. The 20 companies are selected from KSE-30 index because they were considered the best performing stocks in the market. The remaining 10 companies fall in the Banking sector which has a totally different perspective of debt and equity situation, thus, commercial banks are eliminated from the KSE-30 companies in this research. The results of the study shows that the working capital management does not affect the profitability of the firms in isolation, but there is a slight impact of managing the current assets and current liabilities. These should be accompanied by other variables as well to ensure profitability. The fixed capital investment has an extremely low, in fact negligible impact on profitability. The effect of working capital management varies among industries.
G39|Financial Management of Sports Clubs in the Czech Republic|The economic situation and general characteristics of sports clubs have not been much explored in the Czech Republic. At the same time, sport is an area into which we channel considerable attention and government funds. What is the economic situation of Czech sports clubs, and what do we know about them? The objective of the research was to map the environment in which Czech sports clubs operate and to identify their main economic characteristics based on a selected sample. The paper presents partial results from a 2011 survey conducted via questionnaire among sports clubs in the Czech Republic. The survey results are based on 430 responses from the total 1567 addressed sports clubs. We establish that the economic situation of clubs is quite bad; however, it cannot be unequivocally proved that insufficient support from municipalities or public sources is to blame. The size of a municipality proved to be a significant variable in subsidies-related issues and in the quality of relations between clubs and municipalities. An analysis of the effects caused by the reduction of subsidies in comparison to requested sums would be significant. What seems good from a short-term perspective (more applicants are satisfied) will probably lead to an artificial inflation of requested sums in the long term, because entities will factor any expected subsidy reduction into their application.
G39|Asset Valuation Standards: A Functional-Institutional Approach|The article focuses on the elaboration and research of the real nature of standards of value. The methodology chosen for this paper is mainly based on the late institutional economics and European theories of the economic and legal order, such as the German ordoliberalism. It is argued that standards (International Valuation Standards, European Valuation Standards, IDW S 1 etc.) are not determined by the stage of development of economic theory, but rather by valuation “best practices”. The standards of value, which are normatively defi ned, first enable us to connect the valuation and the valuation purpose. The value standard or the contained value basis establishes the connection between the value and the valuation purpose, and make the estimated value relevant, or subject to the valuation purpose. Further, the purpose of the standards as a set of rules is examined, and the entities involved in the formulation of the standards and its influence are closely connected. There were identifi ed three driving forces shaping the current scope and status of both international and national valuation standards: fi rstly, the state and legislation (hard and soft law), secondly, science providing a methodological background, and lastly, joint interest groups, such as appraisers and appraisers’ associations who are generally responsible for the final versions of the standards. Since Czech commercial law does not precisely address all possible market transactions and applicable standards of value, it is argued that the International Valuation Standards can and should also be applied in the Czech Republic, since their purpose would show its effect in the Czech Republic, too. Other inspiration for business valuation can be found in the German IDW S 1 standard.
G39|Debt Collection Prevention Management Of Receivables/Debts In A Company|The maintenance of financial liquidity, stability, profitability and the value and investment capabilities of a company as well as the avoidance of financial bottlenecks are the most vital objectives of people in charge of ac ompany, especially in times of crisis. This paper presents the receivables/debts management system known as Debt Collection Prevention, which is understood as a method of achieving the above mentioned goals. With the help of analysis and differentiation, the author argues that all individual management activities are short of effectiveness and efficiency unless a systemic approach is applied. To highlight this point, the author has indicated substantial differences in the management of financial risk and in shaping managerial decisions with- and without the application of the Debt Collection Prevention system, which can be characterized as a systemic approach with regard to praxeology.
G39|The Role Of Debt Capital In Corporate Financing – Overview Of Selected Surveys|The ability to create a company’s own capital structure with a simultaneous lack of universal solutions makes this issue a favorable subject of considerations. The aim of this article is to summarize selected surveys on the role of debt and financial leverage in corporate financing observed in the case of Polish companies. Based on the conclusions of the presented surveys, certain regularities were noticed. In most of the companies, equity was the main source of financing, whereas debt was used only in the case where internal sources of financing appeared to be insufficient. As a consequence of such an approach, the level of debt was relatively low and it may be concluded that companies benefited carefully from financial leverage. The external financing was limited to its most basic sources (i.e. bank loans and leasing). The conditions necessary to achieve the positive effect of financial leverage were most frequently met in large companies, which used external financing to a greater extent and had easier access to debt. The surveys confirmed that in principle a debt increase was not a consequence of detailed analysis of capital structure, but rather a result of current production needs or weak financial performance. It seems that tax shields (in a form of interest cost), increase of return on equity as a result of positive effects of financial leverage, target debt ratio as well as costs of financial distress generally did not significantly affect the decisions on sources of financing. On the contrary, risk of insolvency associated with financial leverage, credit rating, the availability of debt and its cost had a significant impact on the capital structure (with a major share of equity).
G39|The Role Of Culture In Accounting In The Light Of Hofstede’S, Gray’S And Schwartz’S Cultural Dimensions Theories – A Literature Review|For a long time many authors have been studying the factors that allow for a better explanation of different accounting practices among various countries. Cultural conditions are more often regarded as one of the reasons for these differences. Cross cultural psychology may prove helpful in becoming aware of one’s own cultural identity. Researchers of this field try to systematise the traits characterising particular cultural circles. The objective of this article is to present three basic typologies of cultural value models: the conception of S.H. Schwartz, G. Hofstede and S.J. Gray. Next more recent studies that have examined the impact of national culture on accounting using these theoretical frameworks are presented.
G39|Dividends And Earnings Quality In Poland|The purpose of this article is to show on the example of Warsaw Stock Exchange, Poland (WSE) how in emerging capital markets dividends provide information about earnings quality as measured by their persistence. In the paper the regressions models of future earnings (in years t + 1 and t + 2) were applied on current earnings (in year t), current dividends decision (in year t) and the interaction of current dividend decision and earnings proposed by D. J. Skinner and E. Soltes (2011), using pooled cross – sectional time – series data. A set of 2263 observations coming from the companies listed on the WSE in 1995-2009 was used for the calculation. For estimating the parameters, recursive modeling was used. Specific models were estimated using the heteroskedasticity-corrected general least squares method. It was shown that on the WSE the quality of earnings depends more distinctly on a firm’s dividend policy than on the developed markets.
G39|Estimación alternativa de una prima de seguro de gastos médicos mayores bajo el contexto de las opciones financieras / Alternative estimation of major medical expensive prime in the financial options context|El presente trabajo tiene el propósito de estimar de una forma complementaria a la metodología tradicional o actuarial una prima de gastos médicos mayores utilizando la teoría Black-Scholes de opciones financieras. Se proponen cuatro variables independientes de salud como variables subyacentes donde la combinación ponderada de sus primas como opciones financieras tipo call europeas determinará la prima total que adicionalmente tendría que sumarse sobre todos los días del año. El equivalente del precio de ejercicio es el límite máximo para no caer en una emergencia de salud recomendados en cada una de las variables. El trabajo presenta limitaciones en su análisis debido a la escasa cantidad de información histórica de las variables de salud y a las simplificaciones para encontrar su solución / The present paper intends to estimate the medical care services insurance premium, using the Black-Scholes financial option theory as a complement to the traditional or actuarial methodology. Four independent variables for Health are used as underlying variables. The weighted average of the premium of each variable, estimated as European Call Options, will add to the total premium, and this will have to be added daily to estimate the year premium. The equivalent of exercise price is the maximum limit before reaching a Health emergency for each variable. This work has limitations due to the shortage of the Health Sector historical data and to the model simplification carried on in order to find a possible solution
G39|An Adjusted Dupont Model For Enterprise Performance Evaluation|Enterprise performance evaluation, not only appears in book values, but also is included in the company management. The comprehensive evaluation of the enterprise operation state and the efficiency of management is an important measure for the enterprise management and for investors to get information. In the developed countries with mature market economy, there are excellent evaluation methods. However, in China, due to the new-born market economy, the developments of performance evaluation are far behind that of the western world. In this paper, a comprehensively adjusted DuPont schema, combined with cash flow ratios, will be designed according to previous researches. Meanwhile, China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC) will be used as an example to employ the new DuPont Model.
G39|The impact of private benefits on institutional ownership change: evidence from markets with different sentiments|This study investigates the relationship between private benefits and institutional ownership change in markets characterized by different investors’ sentiments. High-sentiment markets tend to overvalue a firm and thereby offer institutional investors a chance to sell shares and profit from overvaluation by forgoing the private benefits otherwise obtainable. Empirical analysis of ownership data from 1990 to 2008 reveals that, in high-sentiment markets, institutional investors sell more shares low in private benefits (dual-class firm share) than shares high in private benefits (non-dual-class firm share). In contrast, firm insiders, who consume significant private benefits in both dual-class and non-dual class firms, sell more dual-class firm shares in both high- and low-sentiment markets. Their ownership disposition is more likely driven by the need for diversification. Subsample analyses show that public pension funds drive the market-sentiment-related change of institutional ownership. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2014
G39|Market discipline: a review of the Mexican deposit market|This paper studies the mechanisms of market discipline in the Mexican deposit market. It tests the hypothesis that low-quality banks pay higher interest rates on deposits, receive fewer deposits, and shift their deposit agreements from long to short term. This hypothesis was assessed with positive evidence in Mexico during the period 1991–1996, but was not checked again. This research uses a dynamic panel model and a sample of 37 banks from December 2008 to September 2012 to re-evaluate the market discipline hypothesis. The findings suggest a weak presence of discipline induced by depositors. Principally, market discipline is absent within market sectors. Copyright The Author(s) 2014
G39|Do entrepreneurs matter?|In the large literature on firm performance, economists have given little attention to entrepreneurs. We use deaths of more than 500 entrepreneurs as a source of exogenous variation, and ask whether this variation can explain shifts in firm performance. Using longitudinal data, we find large and sustained effects of entrepreneurs at all levels of the performance distribution. Entrepreneurs strongly affect firm growth patterns of both very young firms and for firms that have begun to mature. We do not find significant differences between small and larger firms, family and non-family firms, nor between firms located in urban and rural areas, but we do find stronger effects for founders with high human capital. Overall, theresults suggest that an often overlooked factor –individual entrepreneurs –plays a large role in affecting firm performance.
G39|Financing with Receivables: Factoring, Securitization and Collateral|Short term financing is vital for the financial survival of any company, because very often they are facing deficits of cash during their activity. Therefore a company has to identify the optimal solutions in order to cover those (temporary) deficits. A good solution to this problem is the financing with receivables using factoring, securitization and collateral. In this paper we try to analyze how this types of financing works and which are their advantages and costs. Also, we developed a reasoning pattern in order to evaluate the best receivables financing alternative for the Romanian companies.
G39|Film Production Financing In Romania (The National Cinema Centre)| There is a major difference regarding the audience numbers and the recorded revenues between the American film and the Romanian film. The Romanian film still benefits from limited audience even though it has obtained remarkable prizes in international festivals. Therefore, the necessity of financing the production of Romanian films, inclusively by the state granting financial support through the National Cinema Centre. The state financial support can take the form of interest-free reimbursable financial loans granted for the film production and the development of film projects (direct credit), non-reimbursable financial grants offered for the audience success of the film, its distinct artistic quality, its promoting and distribution (automatic non-reimbursable financial support) or fiscal facilities for the film production and distribution (indirect financial support). The purpose of this article was to create an information tool for all the film production companies interested in accessing funds from the National Cinema Centre in Romania.
G39|Worker Information and Firm Disclosure Analysis on French Linked Employer–Employee Data|Information disclosure requirements significantly increased in French listed companies in the early 2000s, converging toward the U.S./U.K. stock market standards. Following the burgeoning literature on relations between corporate governance and labor, we investigate the consequences of this process regarding worker information: does more information for shareholders mean more information for workers? We take advantage of a French (representative) establishment survey that generates linked 'employer–employee' data at two points in time, 1998 and 2004. Our results strongly suggest that worker information has improved in listed companies but not in private ones, as an externality of the financialization process. We find however that this extra information is only partially correlated with greater employee satisfaction, as measured through the perception of fair recognition by supervisors.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
G39|Do entrepreneurs matter?|In the large literature on firm performance, economists have given little attention to entrepreneurs. We use deaths of more than 500 entrepreneurs as a source of exogenous variation, and ask whether this variation can explain shifts in firm performance. Using longitudinal data, we find large and sustained effects of entrepreneurs at all levels of the performance distribution. Entrepreneurs strongly affect firm growth patterns of both very young firms and for firms that have begun to mature. We do not find significant differences between small and larger firms, family and non-family firms, nor between firms located in urban and rural areas, but we do find stronger effects for founders with high human capital. Overall, the results suggest that an often overlooked factor -- individual entrepreneurs -- plays a large role in affecting firm performance.
G39|A Critique of Shareholder Value Maximization|The majority of academic economists share the view that a corporation should serve the exclusive interests of its shareholders (shareholder value maximization). This view is fi rmly grounded on the extension, by Arrow (1953) and Debreu (1959) of the two welfare theorems to production economies with uncertainty and complete markets. This paper considers a variant of the Arrow-Debreu model where uncertainty is endogenous: probabilities of productive outcomes depend on decisions made by fi rms. In that case, a competitive equilibrium with shareholder value maximizing fi rms (capitalist equilibrium) is never Pareto optimal. This is because endogenous uncertainty implies that firms exert externalities on their consumers and their employees. When rms are stakeholder oriented, in that their managers are instructed to maximize a weighted sum of their shareholder value and of their contributions to consumer and employee welfares, the new competitive equilibrium (stakeholder equilibrium) improves upon the capitalist equilibrium.
G39|Methods of optimizing corporate governance performance|In the context of corporate governance in almost all countries is increasing concern for the protection of shareholders, ensuring the balance of power in the governing bodies companies, the establishment and, where appropriate, extending the powers of the statutory audit, the establishment audit committees, transparency and quality of information, etc Good governance in a company mitigate risk, improve performance, open path to efficient financial markets, enhances leadership style sets a climate attractive investment, showing transparency and social responsibility. Both macroeconomic and microeconomic level is absolutely necessary renewal and improvement of tools for measuring and analyzing economic and financial performance in order to better reflect the results of an economic and consistent with the requirements of various stakeholders. This article presents methods for optimizing the performance of corporate governance at the micro level.
G39|CENTRAL BANKS AND FINANCIAL STABILITY - Literature review|Financial stability is a feature of the financial system, reflecting its ability to determine an efficient allocation of the resources and to manage financial risk by its own self-regulating mechanisms. Since the condition of financial systems changes over time, due to various shocks that components suffers, financial stability is a dynamic feature, but the system itself is constantly attempting to recover under the action of specific auto regulatory mechanisms. It is generally accepted that central banks play an important role in ensuring financial stability, there are a number of specific features that can help them achieve financial stability. Recent phenomena such as deregulation, globalization, the intensification of innovation, and so on, have supplemented the functions of central banks and at the same time, led to an intensification of links between banking and other large sectors of the financial system: insurance and financial markets.The objective of this article is to present the different views in the literature on the role of the central bank in ensuring financial stability and the new challenges that she must confront in assuming this new mandate. The role of central banks in ensuring financial stability is in the forefront and should be expanded beyond the traditional functions of stability, which determined that monetary and stability policies to converge. Moreover, due to vulnerabilities manifested by the financial markets in recent decades and that capital flows have become more intense, these vulnerabilities may spread rapidly, increasing the fragility of all markets and, for this reason, ensuring financial stability has become a key objective of public policies. Especially, since the stability of financial systems stimulates economic development and improved living standards, the competent authorities pays a particular attention to these issues
G39|The future of corporate governance in knowledge-dispersed companies|"aBSTraCTCorporate governance focuses its attention on the structure of the firm andthe allocation of decision rights between owners and managers basically,plus other stakeholders. The field has developed extensively during the lastdecades inspiring reforms and practices as well as learning from them.Most of the analysis though takes into consideration the XXth Century firm,rightfully so since CG is a very practical field in the overlapping map oflaw, economics and finance. The firm has probably been one of the mostsuccessful institutional innovations of the last centuries. Five hundred yearsago only a few of them existed, today they are pervasive. Nevertheless, wecannot expect the firm to be the same a hundred years from now as it is today.And if companies are going to be different, how will their corporategovernance be affected? The present article does not expect to give ananswer to such question. It only attempts to provoke debate and speculationabout a possible evolution of the firm based on one single aspect ofchange: the increased use of dispersed knowledge. After suggesting somedevelopment and analyzing present innovations in that direction, we willopen up to consideration how those potential changes may affect corporategovernance. Of course, there are no specific conclusions, just a call to openour minds to future possible scenarios.reSumeNEl gobierno corporativo pone su atención en la estructura de la firma yen la asignación de derechos decisorios básicamente entre propietarios yadministradores, más otros stakeholders"". Este campo ha crecido muchoen las últimas décadas inspirando reformas y prácticas, como tambiénaprendiendo de ellas.La mayor parte de los análisis toman en cuenta la firma del siglo XX, lo cualse justifica puesto que el gobierno corporativo es una disciplina empírica enel área en donde se yuxtaponen el derecho, la economía y las finanzas. Lafirma ha sido probablemente una de las innovaciones institucionales másexitosas de los últimos siglos. Hace quinientos años había solo unas pocas,hoy se encuentran por doquier. No obstante, no podemos esperar que dentrode cien años la firma sea igual que la de hoy.Y si las empresas serán distintas, ¿cómo se verá afectado su gobiernocorporativo? El presente artículo no espera dar una respuesta a esta cuestión.Solamente intenta provocar un debate y una especulación sobre la posibleevolución de la firma basado en un solo aspecto de ese cambio: el crecienteuso del conocimiento disperso. Luego de sugerir algún desarrollo y analizarlas presentes tendencias en esa dirección abriremos la consideración decómo esos cambios pueden afectar al gobierno corporativo. Por supuesto,no hay conclusiones específicas, solo una llamada a abrir nuestras mentes aposibles escenarios futuros.reSumoO governo corporativo põe sua atenção na estrutura da firma e na assignaçãode direitos decisórios básicamente entre propietários e administradores, maisoutros ""stakeholders"". Este campo tem crescido muito nas últimas décadasinspirando reformas e práticas, como também aprendendo delas.A maior parte das análises levam em conta a firma do século XX, o quejustifica-se posto que o governo corporativo é uma disciplina empírica naárea onde se justapõe o direito, a economia e as finanças. A firma tem sidoprovavelmente uma das inovações institucionais mais exitosas dos últimosséculos. Há quinhentos anos havia somente umas poucas, hoje encontramsepor onde queira. Não obstante, não podemos esperar que dentro de cemanos a firma seja igual que a de hoje.E se as empresas serão distintas, como verão-se afetado seu governocorporativo? O presente artigo não espera dar uma resposta a esta questão.Somente tenta provocar um debate e uma especulação sobre a possívelevolução da firma baseado em um só aspecto dessa mudança: o crescenteuso do conhecimento disperso. Logo de sugerir algum desenvolvimento eanalizar as presentes tendências nessa direção abriremos a consideraçãode como essas mudanças podem afetar ao governo corporativo. Por certo,não há conclusões específicas, só uma chamada a abrir nossas mentes apossíveis cenários futuros.rÉSumÉLe gouvernement corporatif attire l´attention sur la structure de l´entreprise etla répartition des droits de décision entre les propriétaires, les gestionnaireset plusieurs d´autres partenaires. Ce champ a considérablement augmentédans les dernières décennies, des réformes d´inspiration et des pratiques.La plupart des analyses tiennent compte les entreprises du XXe siècle, qui sejustifie parce que le gouvernement d´entreprise est une discipline empiriquedans les domaines du droit, l´économie et les finances. Les entreprises sontprobablement une des innovations institutionnelles les plus réussies desderniers siècles. Cinq cents ans plus tôt, il y avait seulement quelques-unset sont désormais partout. Cependant, les entreprises ne sont pas les mêmequ´hier.Et si les entreprises sont différentes, comment le gouvernement corporatifsera-t-il affecté ? Cet article ne prétend pas vous donnez une réponse àcette question, juste essayer de susciter un débat sur l´évolution possiblede l´entreprise sur un aspect de ce changement: l´utilisation croissante desconnaissances dispersées.Après avoir suggéré un certain développement et d´analyser ces tendancesdans cette direction, nous allons ouvrir la prise en compte de la façon dontces changements peuvent influer sur la gouvernance d´entreprise. Biensûr, aucune conclusion particulière, juste un appel à ouvrir nos esprits àd´éventuels scénarios futurs."""
G39|Mejora de la Medición del Desempeño con el VEA (EVA) Operativo Y Total (Sharpening Performance Measurement with the Operating and Total EVA)|Taking a slightly closer look at the EVA basics prompts that the metric by design is a synthetic mixture of returns from the operating and financing activities, and therefore, yields a biased assessment of both the operating and overall performance. Fundamentally, the scale of the measurement bias depends on the interest tax shield actually obtained in a measurement period and on the book to value ratio, however, there are also other potentially significant sources of distortions induced by the metric design.An effective way to calibrate measurements is to evaluate the operating and total performance concurrently with the two metrics, the Operating EVA and the Total EVA. Operating EVA is calculated by applying the risk of assets rather than WACC to calculate the capital charge and unaffected by the financing side effects of the firm´s activities. It is unbiased and provides an informative estimate of the efficiency in ongoing operations and a basis for the overall performance assessment with the Total EVA. Both metrics are straightforward for interpretation and computationally simple relative to EVA. From the corporate finance perspective, the proposed dual-metric financial model is consistent with the fundamental approach of valuing a firm by cash flow discounting.
G39|EVA Performance Measurement is Faulty: So You May Be Persuaded to Switch to a Robust OEVA-TEVA Alternative|We argue that the Economic Value Added (EVA) is biased by design and will generally yield distorted assessment of both the operating and overall performance. Fundamentally, the scale of measurement bias depends on the interest tax shield actually obtained in a measurement period and on a book to value ratio, however, there are also other potentially significant sources of distortions induced by the metric design. A robust alternative we propose is a concurrent evaluation of operating and total performance with the two nested metrics, Operating EVA (OEVA) and Total EVA (TEVA). OEVA applies the risk of assets (rather than WACC) to calculates the full capital charge and is unaffected by financing activities. TEVA incorporates financing side effects by explicitly adding interest tax shields to OEVA, but can be calculated as simply as a sum of interest expenses and net income less the full capital charge. The OEVA-TEVA approach is computationally simpler than EVA, the corresponding valuation model is consistent with the cash flow discounting and can be utilized as a self-sufficient instrument for investment project appraisal and business valuation.
G39|"Bank Holding Company Performance, Risk and ""Busy"" Board of Directors"|"We examine the association between ""busyness"" of the board of directors (serving on multiple boards) and bank holding company (BHC) performance and risk, an overlooked dimension of corporate governance in the banking literature. We estimate several simultaneous-equations models over the 2001-2010 period employing the 3SLS technique and instrumental variables to account for endogeneity. We find that BHC performance measures (return on assets, Tobin's Q and earnings before interest and taxes over total assets) are positively associated with busyness of directors while BHC risks (total, market, idiosyncratic, credit and default risks) are inversely related to it. Performance (risk) benefits of having busy directors strengthened (weakened) during the recent financial crisis. Busy directors are not more likely to become problem directors (fail the 75% attendance standard) and if sitting on boards of both BHC and non-financial firms, they attend more of the BHC board meetings than those of the non-financials. Our findings partially alleviate concerns that over-boarded directors shirk their responsibilities. Implications for investors, regulators, and firm managers are drawn."
G39|The Disciplining Effect of the Internal Control Provisions of the Sarbanes–Oxley Act on the Governance Structures of Firms|This study examines whether the internal control provisions under the Sarbanes–Oxley Act (SOX) have a disciplining effect on the governance structures of firms. We find that audit committee members and outside directors of firms that disclose material weaknesses (MWs) under Section 302 of SOX are more likely to leave the firms compared to their counterparts in a matched sample of control firms without such weaknesses, and they lose more outside directorships than their counterparts in the control firms. These results are consistent with the notion that the labor market imposes reputational penalties for internal control failures. Although the MW firms have weaker governance structures than the control firms prior to the MW detection, they show significantly greater improvement in governance structures than the control firms following the detection of these weaknesses. We also find that the market reacts positively to the improvement in audit committee size and board independence, suggesting that the improvement restores investor confidence in financial reporting. Overall, the results in this study show that the internal control provisions of SOX have a disciplining effect on the governance structures of firms.
G39|The value of “boutique” financial advisors in mergers and acquisitions|Between 1995 and 2006 about a quarter of merging firms hired boutique banks as their advisors on mergers and acquisitions (M&A). Boutique advisors, often specialized by industry, are generally smaller and more independent than full-service banks. This paper investigates firms' choice between boutique and full-service advisors and the impact of advisor choice on deal outcomes. We find that both acquirers and targets are more likely to choose boutique advisors in complex deals, suggesting that boutique advisors are chosen for their skill and expertise. After controlling for the endogenous choice of advisors, we find lower deal premiums when acquirers hire boutique advisors. In addition, boutique advisors spend more time, probably on due diligence and negotiation, to complete deals. Overall, our findings suggest that boutique advisors are chosen in more complex deals and they achieve more favorable deal outcomes.
G39|The issuance of callable bonds under information asymmetry|We reconsider the role of asymmetric information in motivating the issuance of callable bonds. The previous literature has emphasized a possibility that a call feature serves as a signal of issuer quality. We demonstrate that asymmetric information can motivate use of a call even when this action does not signal quality in equilibrium. We construct a matched sample of callable and non-callable bonds that permits us to control for non-informational effects on the call issuance decision. Empirical evidence from speculative grade bond markets is consistent with the hypotheses that asymmetric information motivates use of the call feature, but there is no evidence that inclusion of the call functions as a signal to the market.
G39|The effect of corporate governance on CEO luck: Evidence from the Institutional Shareholder Services (ISS)|CEOs are “lucky” when they receive stock option grants on days when the stock price is the lowest in the month of the grant, implying opportunistic timing. Extending the work of Bebchuk et al. (2010), we explore the effect of overall corporate governance quality on CEO luck. Provided by the Institutional Shareholder Services (ISS), our comprehensive governance metrics are much broader than those used in prior studies, encompassing more diverse aspects of corporate governance, such as audit, state laws, boards, ownership, and director education. We show that an improvement in governance quality by one standard deviation diminishes CEO luck by 14.77–21.06%. The governance standards recommended by ISS appear to be effective in deterring the opportunistic timing of option grants.
G39|Sustainable finance: A new paradigm|We argue that our current approach to shareholder wealth maximization is no longer a valid guide to creation of sustainable wealth: An emphasis on short-term results has had the unintended consequence of forcing many firms to externalize their social and environmental costs. An unwavering faith in markets' ability to efficiently uncover long-term value implications of short-term results has created many unacceptable outcomes. Given the social and environmental challenges ahead, such practices and their unacceptable outcomes cannot be sustained. Therefore, a shift in paradigm is called for. We propose a sustainable value creation framework, within which all social and environmental costs and benefits are to be explicitly accounted for.
G39|Overseas listing as a policy tool: Evidence from China’s H-shares|We investigate why the Chinese government chooses to perform share issue privatization (SIP) of its state-owned enterprises (SOEs) in Hong Kong, despite the benefit of facilitating the domestic stock market development if performing SIP in China (Subrahmanyam and Titman, 1999) and the higher cost to list in Hong Kong. We address this issue by arguing that the positive effect of SIPs on the development of the domestic market may have limitations, especially when the domestic market is not well developed and cannot absorb rapid and large-scale SIP activities. To maintain domestic market order, it may be optimal to carry out SIP in overseas markets. Furthermore, by listing shares in developed overseas markets, SOEs from the less developed countries could leverage on the overseas markets’ better accounting, governance, and legal standards. By examining a sample of 92 Chinese firms listed in Hong Kong and the relevant control samples of purely domestically listed Chinese firms during the period of 1993–2006, we find supporting evidence for both arguments.
G39|Ownership change, institutional development and performance|This paper conducts a cross-country empirical study of the impact of institutions and agency conflicts on ownership reforms and their implications for changes in performance and efficiency. We examine two main questions. First, we evaluate the effects of certain property rights and institutional quality measures on performance and efficiency. We find that property rights and contracting rights protections contribute to stronger post-privatization performance. Second, we ask whether sectors undergoing changes from state to private ownership exhibit better or worse performance than sectors remaining public. We find an insignificant effect of privatization in ordinary least squares estimates and a negative short-term effect after correcting for endogeneity of privatization decisions that disappears in the long run, consistent with recently privatized enterprises facing short-run costs of restructuring and the challenges of mitigating agency and expropriation concerns.
G39|Combined use of foreign debt and currency derivatives under the threat of currency crises: The case of Latin American firms|We investigate the determinants of firms' use of foreign currency derivatives in emerging markets exposed to currency crises. We develop a model where a firm with international orientation chooses its optimal foreign debt and hedging ratio. In the context of highly volatile exchange rate periods in five Latin American countries, we calibrate the model on ADRs. We find theoretical and empirical evidence that country specific factors (i.e. aggregate exposure of a country to a crisis) explain significantly part of our firms' foreign debt and hedging policy, as opposed to literature on firms in developed markets. We claim that derivative markets have been effective tools for firms in these countries, at least in the post-crisis era.
G39|State Finance Statistics and its Harmonization with International Standards|Government finance statistics is widely used to control the social and economic status of the society and carrying out analysis of economic processes occurring in the country. Globalisation processes and market economy condition require transition of the state finance statistics in Ukraine on international statistical standards that do determine the up-to-date trends of its reform. The article presents the analysis for compliance of the state finance statistics in Ukraine with the international standards, namely: the classification of budget revenues, budget expenditures, budget deficit, budget financing, national debt and budget funds account system. The requirement has been reasoned as to the comparability principle so that financial information in Ukraine to be in comparability with the countries whose statistical systems are harmonized with the Manual on Government Finance Statistics, 2001. This makes it impossible to ensure the comparability of statistical information on financial status of Ukraine, provides misrepresentation of solvency and investment attractiveness of the country.
G39|Time Evolution Analysis And Forecast Of Key Performance Indicators In A Balanced Scorecard|This paper offers a generic and rational construction of Balanced Scorecard. The construction involves implementing a time-managed approach to identify the evolution of the main contributors to the current companyâ€™s strategy as well as their behavior in the future organizational performance. After the optimal structure of the model is generated employing financial and non-financial strategic indicators collected from the organization, the study puts forward a realistic analysis of the evolution in time of the performance metrics. This analysis is based on the Partial Least Square equations behind the Balanced Scorecard proposed methodology, statistically comparable to the Structural Equation Modeling. Using historical data in the final model, an accurate prediction of the performance indicators can be achieved in the Balanced Scorecard tool as the approach establishes a stable cause-and-effect sequence. Under certain statistical assumptions, this allows forecasting the effects of future strategic decisions. Although the paper proposes a generic methodology, applicable to any organization, both public or private, commercial or non-profit, this technique is applied, reinforced and validated with a practical example from a public-owned Swiss electricity company.
G39|Mitigating the Impact of Managerial Anchoring: The Case for Management by Committee for Major Corporate Financial Decisions|Today, firms are facing a globally competitive environment. Against this backdrop, firms can ill afford to make mistakes in their capital budgeting and acquisition decisions. When making major decisions, firms may be faced with additional costs associated with managerial anchoring. Using simulation results, it is shown that firms making off-shoring decisions can be better off using two or more managers when managerial anchoring can lead to significant cost increases. This paper shows the conditions under which management by committee can involve higher incremental costs, but are offset by decreased anchoring costs if managers anchor in different directions. It is also shown that firms cannot completely eliminate the impact of anchoring even if they hire an infinite number of managers. Firms should consider hiring additional managers in instances where major decisions are involved, if the incremental cost of hiring the additional manager is offset by decreased anchoring costs.
G39|Innovation and the Financial Guillotine|Our paper demonstrates that while failure tolerance by investors may encourage potential entrepreneurs to innovate, financiers with investment strategies that tolerate early failure endogenously choose to fund less radical innovations. Failure tolerance as an equilibrium price that increases in the level of experimentation. More experimental projects that don't generate enough to pay the price cannot be started. In equilibrium all competing financiers may choose to offer failure tolerant contracts to attract entrepreneurs, leaving no capital to fund the most radical, experimental projects. The tradeoff between failure tolerance and a sharp guillotine helps explain when and where radical innovation occurs.
G39|Do Managers Do Good with Other People's Money?|We find support for two key predictions of an agency theory of unproductive corporate social responsibility. First, increasing managerial ownership decreases measures of firm goodness. We use the 2003 Dividend Tax Cut to increase after-tax insider ownership. Firms with moderate levels of insider ownership cut goodness by more than firms with low levels (where the tax cut has no effect) and high levels (where agency is less of an issue). Second, increasing monitoring reduces corporate goodness. A regression discontinuity design of close votes around the 50% cut-off finds that passage of shareholder governance proposals leads to slower growth in goodness.
G39|Corporate Governance Codes Of Best Practice Of Top Romanian Banks|Very much research has been developed into debating what caused the global financial crisis and the possible solutions for avoiding a future one. Therefore, concern with governance issues and their focus has increased dramatically in recent years. An effective corporate governance requires supervision and stability of the authority and rights and also obligations of shareholders, stakeholders, and civil society altogether. Corporate governance cannot be considered a fixed number of regulations and procedures, but an innovative process by which the most crucial decisions in companies are managed, values and cultures are redefined, and the leaders are assessed. The governance of banks can be assessed in the same way as the corporate governance of any type of organization because the supervision of banks depends and is coordinated by the internal control bearing factors, which sometimes can lead to a bank default. The purpose of the case study is to examine the existence and regulations compliance for top ten Romanian Banks (for the year 2011), due to the fact that the banking sector considers the implementation of principles of corporate governance as having a significant importance.
