G41|Loss aversion and the zero-earnings discontinuity|Prior literature suggests that the zero-earnings discontinuity is caused by earnings management. This makes sense if investors are naïve. We test for the possibility of investor naïveté and find that they are aware of firms performing earnings management around zero reported earnings and that there is no ob-vious gain of reaching zero reported earnings. We extend a signaling model to include loss-averse investors and we find that earnings management is not only rational, but in equilibrium, it is not possible for investors to deduce the correct value of firms’ earnings around the discontinuity. Assuming our model gen-erates the observed data, a loss-aversion coefficient of 1.2595 matches the discontinuity below zero reported earnings observed in the data simulated from the model and in the actual data. This loss-aversion coefficient is consistent with Tversky and Kahneman (1992), who find that losses are weighted roughly twice as heavily as gains.
G41|Stress Testing the Equity Home Bias: A Turnover Analysis of Eurozone Markets|Shifts in equity turnover happen on and around holidays because rationally bounded investors become distracted. Their pattern reveals a persistent equity home bias even in the Eurozone, a stress test case for the survival of this bias given the high level of economic and financial development and integration in this area. The bias is greater for small caps because investors are reluctant to hold this class of foreign asset. Our study corroborates calendar anomalies in trading volumes, but refutes the hypothesis regarding turnover sensitivity to stock returns common in the empirical and theoretical literature based on investor heterogeneity and short sale constraints. Our results reveal vanishing cost asymmetries in taking long rather than short positions.
G41|Non-salient fees in the mortgage market|This paper studies supply-side product pricing when consumers underreact to non-salient fees. Using comprehensive data on issued and offered mortgages in the UK, I document that lenders differ substantially in the fees they charge, and that borrowers appear less overall cost-sensitive to products with fees. In order to distinguish from demand factors such as unobservable preferences or product characteristics, I show that lenders pass on firm-specific funding cost shocks via fees, but not interest rates, consistent with strategic pricing of fees, and maintaining competitive prices in the salient price dimension, interest rates. I further find heterogeneity in pricing across lenders: those who rely on high fees tend to have higher funding cost, lower return on equity and larger branch networks, in line with a specialization equilibrium in which high-cost lenders are able to match with less cost-sensitive consumers.
G41|Biased beliefs, costly external finance, and firm behavior : A Unified theory|Overconfidence and overextrapolation are two behavioral biases that are pervasive in human thinking. A long line of research documents that such biases influence business decisions by distorting managers' expected productivity. We propose a new mechanism in which the biases change firms' precautionary motives when external financing is costly, finding that the influences of biases on investment, payouts, and refinancing are stronger for financially weaker firms. Moreover, biased and rational firms display di erential responses to economic booms and busts holding financial positions constant. Our work illustrates that managerial traits, when interacting with imperfect capital markets, drive firm dynamics in business cycles.
G41|The Effect of the Employer Match and Defaults on Federal Workersâ€™ Savings Behavior in the Thrift Savings Plan: Working Paper 2019-06|Policymakers are weighing options that would change the retirement system for federal workers by shifting more of their deferred compensation from the defined benefit plan toward the defined contribution plan, called the Thrift Savings Plan (TSP). We use administrative longitudinal data on federal workersâ€™ demographics, compensation, and TSP behavior to estimate the effects of an employer match and plan default options on workersâ€™ TSP savings behavior and the cost of employer contributions. We rely primarily on two sources of exogenous variation stemming from policy changes
G41|What Causes Chinese Listed Firms To Switch Bank Loan Provider? Evidence From A Survival Analysis|This paper analyses the duration of firm-bank relationships and examines what drives firms in China to change from one bank loan provider to another. Matched data of firm-loan-duration to bank provides a unique panel data set of relationship between China's listed firms and their lending banks consisting of 2,102 firms listed on both the Shanghai Stock Exchange and Shenzhen Stock Exchange in the period of 1996-2016. The Cox proportional hazard model is used to allow for a semiparametric hazard function after parametrically controlling for firm specific financial factors, industry factors, ownership characteristics, internal management changes, and external macroeconomic changes. In addition, we explore the impact of the 2008 financial crisis, bank-financial and ownership characteristics. The main finding of this study is that in an environment of growing ommercialisation of relationships the firm-bank relationship between state-owned enterprises (SOEs) and state-owned banks (SOBs) in China remains super-stable. However, a change in the CEO of a firm even of a SOE increases the probability of the loan-provider being changed.
G41|Punish One, Teach A Hundred: The Sobering Effect of Punishment on the Unpunished|Direct experience of a peer’s punishment might make non-punished peers reassess the probability and consequences of facing punishment and hence induce a change in their behavior. We test this mechanism in a setting, China, in which we observe the reactions to the same peer’s punishment by listed firms with different incentives to react - state-owned enterprises (SOEs) and non-SOEs. After observing peers punished for wrongdoing in loan guarantees to related parties, SOEs - which are less disciplined by traditional governance mechanisms than non-SOEs - cut their loan guarantees. SOEs whose CEOs have stronger career concerns react more than other SOEs to the same punishment events, a result that systematic differences between SOEs and non-SOEs cannot drive. SOEs react more to events with higher press coverage even if information about all events is publicly available. After peers' punishments, SOEs also increase their board independence, reduce inefficient investment, increase total factor productivity, and experience positive cumulative abnormal returns. The bank debt and investment of related parties that benefited from tunneling drop after listed peers’ punishments. Strategic punishments could be a cost-effective governance mechanism when other forms of governance are ineffective.
G41|Crowdsourcing financial information to change spending behavior|We document five effects of providing individuals with crowdsourced spending information about their peers (individuals with similar characteristics) through a FinTech app. First, users who spend more than their peers reduce their spending significantly, whereas users who spend less keep constant or increase their spending. Second, users’ distance from their peers’ spend-ing affects the reaction monotonically in both directions. Third, users’ reaction is asymmetric - spending cuts are three times as large as increases. Fourth, lower-income users react more than others. Fifth, discretionary spending drives the reaction in both directions and especially cash withdrawals, which are commonly used for incidental expenses and anonymous transactions. We argue Bayesian updating, peer pressure, or the fact that bad news looms more than (equally-sized) good news cannot alone explain all these facts.
G41|The Intangibles Song in Takeover Announcements: Good Tempo, Hollow Tune|Mergers and acquisitions are often motivated by the intention of creating value from intangible assets. We develop a novel word list of intangibles and apply it to takeover announcements. Deals presented with more “intangibles talk” complete more quickly. However, the value of these deals to the acquirer is questionable: One standard deviation more in intangibles talk results in 0.45 percentage points lower abnormal announcement returns of bidders. Agency problems explain little of these results. Instead, payment mode choices and insider trades suggest that intangibles talk reflects managerial overoptimism. Overall, takeover announcements can provide important information regarding the quality of deals.
G41|Análisis de sentimientos de noticias e inversionistas en el mercado bursátil|Este trabajo estudia en la relación estadística entre el sentimiento de inversionistas y de noticias con la dirección del movimiento del S&P 500 en ventanas de 30 minutos. Específicamente, se utilizan algoritmos de Machine Learning para estimar una medida representativa del sentimiento de los inversionistas y de noticias a partir de mensajes de usuarios de StockTwits, que luego se utilizaron de manera conjunta e individual para pronosticar la dirección del SP 500. Se encontró que con la inclusión del sentimiento de los inversionistas se alcanzó una exactitud del 58%, por encima del 50% obtenido por un modelo autorregresivo. No obstante, se determinó que la integración del análisis de sentimiento de noticias no aumentó la predictibilidad del índice en cuestión.
G41|Measurement Errors in Index Trader Positions Data: Is the Price Pressure Hypothesis Still Invalid?|In this paper, we examine whether the repeated rejection of Masters' price pressure hypothesis is robust with respect to measurement errors in index trader position data. We allow for autocorrelated errors and a potential impact of index trader positions on the level and volatility of commodity returns. The resulting state-space model is estimated via particle MCMC. The empirical investigation relies on weekly data for eleven commodities contained in the SCoT reports. Our empirical findings show that the rejection of the price pressure hypothesis is robust concerning the inclusion of measurement errors in index trader positions data.
G41|Social Exclusion, Ambiguity and (IR)rationality|This working paper extends the methodology of non-smooth aï¬€ective portfolio theory (APT) for eliciting (IR)rational preferences of investors endowed with continuous quasilinear utility functions, where assets are portfolios of risky and ambiguous state-contingent claims. The elicitation is a solution of the aï¬€ective Afriat inequalities;see technical appendix 1. Solving the smooth aï¬€ective Afriat inequalities is Np-hard; see technical appendices 2, 3, and 4. The proposed extension is a methodology for the elicitation of (IR)rational preferences of individuals endowed with random continuous quasilinear utility functions deï¬ ned over ï¬ nite subsets of discrete social goods as a refutable model of social exclusion in the incomplete markets for social goods; see technical appendices 5 and 6. The methods of elicitation are generalized estimating equations (GEE) and alternating logistic regression (ALR); see technical appendices; 7 and 8.
G41|What Do Mutual Fund Investors Really Care About?|"Rational investors should account for risk factor exposure when allocating capital to mutual funds. Two recent influential studies use mutual fund flows to test whether investors distinguish between performance driven by managers' skill and systematic risk factors. Both studies found that investors use the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM), and one concluded that the CAPM is the ""closest to the true asset pricing model."" We re-examine these results and show that, in fact, fund flow data are most consistent with investors relying blindly on fund rankings (specifically, Morningstar ratings) and chasing recent returns. We find no evidence that investors account for any of the common systematic risk factors when allocating capital among mutual funds."
G41|Governance, Reforms and Crowding out Risk in Italian CCBs|The Italian reform of Cooperative Banks (legislative decree 18/2016 converted into law 49/2016) was created to address the main structural and economic difficulties that the Italian cooperative credit sector is facing. This work intends to evaluate the impact of the reform and to warn against the risk that it could intervene negatively on the fundamental values of cooperative credit (mutuality, localism and solidarity within the community to which it belongs), without taking into account the non-profit multi-stakeholder nature and of the cooperative banks (BCC: Banche di Credito Cooperativo). In the proposed model, the study of the non-material motivational component of the subjects, which in this work is identified in conformity preferences, assumes a central importance. The emergence of â€œvirtuousâ€ behavior in this context can be explained as the equilibrium outcome of a game in which players do not act solely pursuing self-interest, but also and above all as individuals belonging to the same community that shares ideal principles on the equitable sharing of wealth. However, because the intrinsic motivations are fundamental but also fragile, our study of the effects of the reform mainly focused on the risk that such intervention might alter or even oust the intrinsic motivations of the subjects (crowding-out effect), threatening the stability of the motivational system that guarantees the existence of the BCCs. The purpose of this work is to investigate whether a large-scale legislative intervention, such as the recent reform of the BCC, could end up altering the essential characteristics of the cooperative credit system, putting its integrity and uniqueness at risk. Starting from a descriptive model of the BCCs in a context of interaction among different stakeholders, characterized by motivations of conformity to an ideal (conformity preferences - Grimalda and Sacconi, 2005), various ways of external intervention are hypothesized and the risk of crowding out of the intrinsic motivations of individuals (Frey, 1997) is analyzed.
G41|Doing Bad to Look Good: Negative Consequences of Image Concerns on Pro-social Behavior|"Several studies show that social image concerns stimulate pro-social behavior. We study a setting in which there is uncertainty about which action is pro-social. Then, the quest for a better social image can potentially con flict with genuinely pro-social behavior. This confl ict can induce \bad"" behavior, where people lower both their own and others' material payoffs to preserve a good image. This setting is relevant for various types of credence goods. For example, recommending an inexpensive treatment reduces the expert's profits and may not satisfy the true needs of the client, but is generally good for the expert's image (as it signals the lack of greed). We test experimentally if people start to act bad in order to look good. We find that people care about their social image, but social image concerns alone do not induce them to act bad. That is, without future interactions, social image concerns do not lead to bad behavior. However, with future interactions, where building up a good image has instrumental value (reputational concerns), we do find evidence of bad behavior in the short run to secure higher earnings in the long run."
G41|Ownership Structure and Earnings Management|Objective - The purpose of this research is to analyze the effect of ownership structure toward earnings management. Methodology/Technique - The population of this research consist of manufacturing companies listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange (IDX) from 2014 to 2016. This research uses 3 recent years and adds variables that have not been used in prior research. The sample of this research is chosen using a purposive sampling method. Finding - The hypothesis is tested by multiple regressions using an Eviews program to investigate the influence between each independent variable to earnings management. Novelty - The hypothesis is tested by multiple regressions using an Eviews program to investigate the influence between each independent variable to earnings management. Type of Paper - Empirical
G41|Crowdfunding as Gambling: Evidence from Repeated Natural Experiments|We explore whether sensation-seeking, a personality trait that involves risk-taking for novelty and thrill, is one of the underlying motivations for participating in peer-to-peer lending crowdfunding markets. To empirically substantiate this argument, we test whether individuals participating in Prosper, one of the largest lending markets in the U.S., reduce their lending activity when gambling in the form of playing the multistate lotteries Powerball and Mega Millions becomes more attractive. Lottery is a repeated natural experiment: lottery jackpots are randomly won and a series of draws with no winners form large jackpots. We find that the thrill of winning a large jackpot lottery, perhaps intensified by advertising and media coverage around this event, fulfills some lenders' desire of sensation-seeking and substitutes participating in Prosper, decreasing their lending activity. We discuss implications for lenders and borrowers, as well as platform organizers and policy makers.
G41|What Drives Risk Perception? A Global Survey withFinancial Professionals and Lay People|Risk is an integral part of many economic decisions, and is vitally important in finance. Despite extensive research on decision-making under risk, little is known about how risks are actually perceived by financial professionals, the key players in global financial markets. In a large-scale survey experiment with 2,213 finance professionals and 4,559 lay people in nine countries representing ~50% of the world's population and more than 60% of the world's gross domestic product, we expose participants to return distributions with equal expected return and we systematically vary the distributions' next three higher moments. Of these, skewness is the only moment that systematically affects financial professionals'€™ perception of financial risk. Strikingly, variance does not influence risk perception, even though return volatility is the most common risk measure in finance in both academia and the industry. When testing other, compound risk measures, the probability to experience losses is the strongest predictor of what is perceived as being risky. Analyzing professionals' propensity to invest, skewness and loss probability have strong predictive power too. However, volatility and kurtosis also have some additional effect on participants' willingness to invest. Our results are very similar for lay people, and they are robust across and within countries with different cultural backgrounds as well as for different job fields of professionals.
G41|Domain-Specific Risk-Taking Among Finance Professionals|Risk-assessment and risk-taking in various forms are among the most important tasks financial professionals face in their daily work. A large body of experimental studies has shown a substantial effect of the decision domain (gain vs loss domain) on risk-taking, predominantly among students. In a series of experiments set in different contextual frameworks, we investigate whether this domain effect is also present among experienced finance professionals and compare their decisions with people from the general population. Our results show that employees in the finance industry are equally prone to the domain effect in risk-taking than the general population. Interestingly, for domain-specific risk-taking in a finance context, we find that professionals are more reluctant to sell loser stocks than non-professionals.
G41|Cognitive Skills and Economic Preferences in the Fund Industry|By running a battery of incentivized and non-incentivized experiments with fund managers from four countries in the European Union, we investigate the impact of fund managers' cognitive skills and economic preferences on the dynamics of the mutual funds they manage. First, we find that fund managers' risk tolerance positively correlates with fund risk when accounting for fund benchmark, fund category, and other controls. Second, we show that fund managers' ambiguity tolerance positively correlates with the funds' tracking error from the benchmark. Finally, we report that cognitive skills do not explain fund performance in terms of excess returns. However, we do find that fund managers with high cognitive reflection abilities generate these returns at lower risk.
G41|Information Avoidance, Selective Exposure, and Fake(?) News-A Green Market Experiment|We investigate if people exploit moral wiggle room in green markets when revelation is stochastic and the revealed information is potentially erroneous. In our laboratory experiment, subjects purchase products associated with co-benefits represented as a contribution to carbon o?sets purchased by the experimenters. Information on the size of this contribution is unobservable at first, but can be actively revealed by the consumer. In seven treatments, we alter the information structure as well as the perceived revelation costs. We find strong evidence of self-serving information avoidance in treatments with simple stochastic revelation and reduced reliability of the information, representing potentially 'fake' news. The propensity to avoid information increases with the introduction of nominal information costs, which are in fact not payo?-relevant. We conclude that, generally, self-serving information avoidance can arise in green market situations if specific situational excuses are present, which could explain the demand for products associated with 'greenwashing'.
G41|Does It Pay to Bet on Your Favourite to Win? Evidence on Experienced Utility from the 2018 FIFA World Cup Experiment|This paper examined whether people gained significant emotional benefits from not engaging in emotional hedging – betting against the occurrence of desired outcomes. Using the 2018 FIFA World Cup as the setting for a lab-in-the-field experiment, we found substantial reluctance among England supporters to bet against the success of the England football team in the tournament. This decision not to offset a potential loss through hedging did not pay off in people's happiness following an England win. It was, however, associated with a sharp decrease in people's happiness following an England loss. Post-match happiness is relatively more stable among those who chose to hedge or were randomly allocated to hedge. We conclude that people do not hedge enough partly because they tend to overestimate the expected diagnostic cost of betting against their social identity, while underestimate the negative emotional impact from betting on their favourite to win when they did not win.
G41|The Knightian Uncertainty Hypothesis: Unforeseeable Change and Muthï¿½s Consistency Constraint in Modeling Aggregate Outcomes|This paper proposes the Knightian Uncertainty Hypothesis (KUH), a new approach to macroeconomics and finance theory. KUH rests on a novel mathematical framework that characterizes both measurable and Knightian uncertainty about economic outcomes. Relying on this framework and Muthï¿½s pathbreaking hypothesis, KUH represents participantsï¿½ forecasts to be consistent with both uncertainties. KUH thus enables models of aggregate outcomes that 1) are premised on market participantsï¿½ rationality, and 2) accord a role to both fundamental and psychological (and other non-fundamental) factors in driving outcomes. The paper also suggests how a KUH modelï¿½s quantitative predictions can be confronted with time-series data.
G41|Are Loans Cheaper when Tomorrow seems Further ?|This paper studies how future tense marking affects the terms of bank loans. We predict that languages that grammatically mark the future affect speakers’ intertemporal preferences and thereby reduce the perception of the risks associated with loan issuance. We test this hypothesis on a sample of 2,601 bank loans from 20 European countries. We observe that the use of a language with future tense marking is associated with lower loan spreads and lower collateral use in loan contracts. The results corroborate Chen (American Economic Review, 2013)’s hypothesis that future tense marking makes the future more distant than the present. They suggest that linguistic structure affects terms of loan contracts.
G41|Noisy Memory and Over-Reaction to News|We propose a model of optimal decision-making subject to a memory constraint. The constraint is a limit on the complexity of memory measured using Shannon's mutual information, as in models of rational inattention. We show that the model implies that both forecasts and actions will exhibit idiosyncratic random variation; that beliefs will fluctuate forever around the rational-expectations (perfect-memory) beliefs with a variance that does not fall to zero; and that more recent news will be given disproportionate weight. The model provides a simple explanation for a number of features of expectations in laboratory and field settings.
G41|Fully Closed: Individual Responses to Realized Gains and Losses|We use transaction-level data of portfolio trades and holdings linked to checking, savings, and settlement account transactions and balances to explore how individuals respond to realized capital gains and losses. We exploit plausibly exogenous sales due to mutual fund liquidations for identification. Specifically, we estimate the marginal propensity to reinvest out of one dollar received from a forced liquidation, when the investor either achieved a gain or a loss relative to his or her initial investment. Theoretically, if individuals held optimized portfolios, the marginal propensity to reinvest out of forced sales should be 100%. Individuals should just reinvest all of their liquidity immediately into a fund with similar characteristics. Empirically, individuals reinvest 83% on average if the forced sale resulted in a gain, but only 40% in the event of a loss. If individuals do not reinvest, they keep a share of their newly found liquidity in cash, save it, or consume it. Such differential treatment of gains and losses is inconsistent with active rebalancing or tax considerations, but consistent with mental accounting and the idea that individuals treat realized losses differently than paper losses. We thus provide evidence for realization utility and effects (Barberis and Xiong, 2012; Imas, 2016) and that individuals do not appear to learn rationally from experiences in the stock market (Malmendier and Nagel, 2011; Koudijs and Voth, 2016).
G41|Visibility Bias in the Transmission of Consumption Beliefs and Undersaving|We model visibility bias in the social transmission of consumption behavior. When consumption is more salient than non-consumption, people perceive that others are consuming heavily, and infer that future prospects are favorable. This increases aggregate consumption in a positive feedback loop. A distinctive implication is that disclosure policy interventions can ameliorate undersaving. In contrast with wealth-signaling models, information asymmetry about wealth reduces overconsumption. The model predicts that saving is influenced by social connectedness, observation biases, and demographic structure; and provides a novel explanation for the dramatic drop in savings rates in the US and several other countries in recent decades.
G41|Monthly Payment Targeting and the Demand for Maturity|In this paper, we provide evidence of the importance of monthly payments in the market for consumer installment debt. Auto debt in particular has grown rapidly since the Great Recession and has eclipsed credit cards in total debt outstanding. Auto-loan maturities have also increased such that most auto-loan originations now have a term of over 72 months. We document three phenomena we jointly refer to as monthly payment targeting. First, using data from 500,000 used auto loans and discontinuities in contract terms offered by hundreds of lenders, we show that demand is more sensitive to maturity than interest rate, consistent with consumers managing payment size when making debt decisions. Second, many consumers appear to employ segregated mental accounts, spending exogenous payment savings on larger loans. Third, consumers bunch at round-number monthly payment amounts, consistent with the use of budgeting heuristics. These patterns hold in subsamples of constrained and unconstrained borrowers, challenging liquidity constraints as a complete explanation. Our estimates suggest that borrower focus on payment size, combined with credit-supply shocks to maturity, could significantly affect aggregate outstanding debt.
G41|How Cognitive Ability and Financial Literacy Shape the Demand for Financial Advice at Older Ages|We investigate how cognitive ability and financial literacy shape older Americans’ demand for financial advice using an experimental module in the 2016 Health and Retirement Study. We show that cognitive ability and financial literacy strongly improve the quality, but not the quantity, of financial advice sought. Most importantly, the financially literate and more cognitively able tend to seek financial help from professionals rather than family members, and they are less likely to accept so-called ‘free’ financial advice that may entail conflicts of interest. Nevertheless, those with higher cognitive function also tend to distrust financial advisors, leading them to eschew their services.
G41|Can the Market Multiply and Divide? Non-Proportional Thinking in Financial Markets|Nominal stock prices are arbitrary. Therefore, when evaluating how a piece of news should affect the price of a stock, rational investors should think in percentage rather than dollar terms. However, dollar price changes are ubiquitously reported and discussed. This may both cause and reflect a tendency of investors to think about the impact of news in dollar terms, leading to more extreme return responses to news for lower-priced stocks. We find a number of results consistent with such non-proportional thinking. First, lower-priced stocks have higher total volatility, idiosyncratic volatility, and market betas, after controlling flexibly for size. To identify a causal effect of price, we show that volatility increases sharply following pre-announced stock splits and drops following reverse stock splits. The returns of lower-priced stocks also respond more strongly to firm-specific news events, all else equal. The economic magnitudes are large: a doubling in a stock's nominal price is associated with a 20-30% decline in its volatility, beta, and return response to firm-specific news. These patterns are not exclusive to small, illiquid stocks; they hold even among the largest stocks. Non-proportional thinking can explain a variety of asset pricing anomalies such as long-run and short-run reversals, as well as the negative relation between past returns and volatility (i.e., the leverage effect). Our analysis also shows that the well-documented negative relation between risk (volatility or beta) and size is actually driven by nominal prices rather than fundamentals.
G41|A Retrieved-Context Theory Of Financial Decisions|Studies of human memory indicate that features of an event evoke memories of prior associated contextual states, which in turn become associated with the current event's features. This mechanism allows the remote past to influence the present, even as agents gradually update their beliefs about their environment. We apply a version of retrieved context theory, drawn from the literature on human memory, to four problems in asset pricing and portfolio choice: over-persistence of beliefs, providence of financial crises, price momentum, and the impact of fear on asset allocation. These examples suggest a recasting of neoclassical rational expectations in terms of beliefs as governed by principles of human memory.
G41|Level Leverage decisions and manager characteristics|This study assess how manager’s characteristics may influence leverage decisions. Using data from European banks, the results show that younger managers are risk-prone and less conservative in leverage decisions. Moreover, it is observed that for higher levels of leverage more experienced managers tend to increase leverage. This is also true for managers with a longer tenure as they may bring their personal preferences towards risk and in this sense they will be more able to increase leverage. However, this effect differs according to the level of leverage at the manager’s appointment date. The inclusion of the decision horizon seems to validate the idea that a short-term managerial horizon enhances the self-interested behaviour of the manager and this may be reflected on capital structure decisions.
G41|Culture and collateral requirements: Evidence from developing countries|We study the relationship between culture and the use of collateral in corporate borrow- ing. Using a dataset of over 14,000 firms from 70 transition and developing countries, we find evidence that the likelihood to pledge collateral is lower in countries with higher un- certainty avoidance and corporate ethical behavior. In contrast, long-term orientation and individualism enhance the likelihood to use collateral. These results hold when using sub- samples and further controls for various firm and country-specific attributes. Additional analysis reveals that culture influences not only the likelihood to pledge collateral but also its type (movable versus non-movable) and its value relative to the value of the loan.
G41|Price Dynamics and Trader Overconfidence|"Overconfidence is one of the most important biases in financial markets and commonly associated with excessive trading and asset market bubbles. So far, most of the finance literature takes overconfidence as a given, \""static\"" personality trait. In this paper we introduce a novel experimental design which allows us to track different measures of overconfidence during an asset market bubble. The results show that overconfidence co-moves with asset prices and points towards a feedback loop in which overconfidence adds fuel to the flame of existing bubbles."
G41|Heads We Both Win, Tails Only You Lose: the Effect of Limited Liability On Risk-Taking in Financial Decision Making|"One of the reasons for the recent crisis is that financial institutions took \""too much risk\"" (Brunnermeier, 2009; Taylor et al., 2010). Why were these institutions taking so much risk is an open question. A recent strand in the literature points towards the \""cognitive dissonance\"" of investors who, because of the limited liability of their investments, had a distorted view of riskiness (e.g., Barberis (2013); Benabou (2015)). In a series of laboratory experiments we show how limited liability does not affect the beliefs of investors, but does increase their willing exposure to risk. This results points to a simple explanation for the over-investment of banks and hedge-funds: When incentives are not aligned, investors take advantage of the moral hazard opportunities."
G41|Impacts of Financial Literacy on the Loan Decisions of Financially Excluded Households in the People's Republic of China|Financial literacy is a key tool being used to bring economically vulnerable populations into the financial mainstream. Data from the 2013 China Household Finance Survey (CHFS) were used to investigate the impacts of various dimensions of financial literacy on the use of bank and non-bank loans among rural, illiterate, and migrant populations in the People’s Republic of China. The findings show that the most vulnerable groups may be less likely to benefit from financial literacy, especially when it comes to usage of formal bank loans. Other factors such as those related to social networks and infrastructure may matter more than financial literacy. Results were found to vary across measures of financial literacy and financial inclusion. The findings suggest that barriers to access likely need to be overcome so that financial literacy can be more effective. The current study provides important insights for policy makers and international organizations designing national strategies to improve financial inclusion via financial literacy, especially for populations that have been traditionally excluded. Researchers are encouraged to reexamine previous definitions and measures of financial literacy and inclusion to develop a better understanding of the relationship between the two dimensions.
G41|Financial attention and the disposition effect|Using a novel brokerage dataset covering individual investors’ login and stock trading behavior, we investigate the severity of the disposition effect as a function of attention. Our results show that more attentive investors trade less in line with the disposition effect, suggesting a comparative advantage in incorporating information into financial decision making. Furthermore, we find that high attention is related to a stronger tendency to sell moderate losses, as compared to large ones, while low attention increases an investor’s likelihood to sell extreme, rather than moderate, profits. These results are in line with the theory of cognitive dissonance and saliency effects.
G41|Cognitive Biases and Consumer Sentiment|We investigate whether two heuristics, the peak-end rule and herding, lead to cognitive biases in the index of consumer sentiment published by the University of Michigan. Both affect respondents' assessment of changes in their financial position over the past year. Consistent with the peak-end rule, respondents rely more on extreme detrimental monthly changes during the year than to changes over the whole year. We rule out that these extremes proxy for risk. The evidence for irrational herding consists in a too strong relationship from expectations about the future of respondents interviewed in a first round to assessments of the past by respondents interviewed in a second round. Both results show that cognitive biases can be found in a key macro variable and outside more controlled environments. They also indicate that the behavioral component of the sentiment index may offer another explanation for its relevance, next to news or animal spirits.
G41|More competition in delegated portfolio management: A win-win situation? An experimental analysis|With a novel design, we investigate how competition between fund managers and disclosure of other managers' fees and performance influence fees, risk taken, earnings and investor concentration in a fund management experiment. We find that more competition and disclosure leads to a significant reduction of fees â€“ the relative decrease being larger for Management Fees than for Performance Fees. While the decrease in fees does not affect manager's investment strategies, it significantly increases investors' readiness to entrust their funds to a manager. This leads to higher overall earnings, with the benefits going to investors and those fund managers who are able to attract investors. While there is an extensive literature arguing that a competitive environment may lead to unwanted outcomes, our results suggest that more competition is mostly beneficial to investors and those fund managers that succeed in attracting investors.
G41|Insurance premium calculation under continuous cumulative prospect theory|We define a premium principle under the continuous cumulative prospect theory which extends the equivalent utility principle. In prospect theory risk attitude and loss aversion are shaped via a value function, whereas a transformation of objective probabilities, which is commonly referred as probability weighting, models probabilistic risk perception. In cumulative prospect theory, probabilities of individual outcomes are replaced by decision weights, which are differences in transformed, through the weighting function, counter-cumulative probabilities of gains and cumulative probabilities of losses, with outcomes ordered from worst to best. Empirical evidence suggests a typical inverse-S shaped function: decision makers tend to overweight small probabilities, and underweight medium and high probabilities; moreover, the probability weighting function is initially concave and then convex. We study some properties of the behavioral premium principle. We also assume an alternative framing of the outcomes; then we discuss several applications to the pricing of insurance contracts.
G41|The Impact of Credit Market Sentiment Shocks - A TVAR Approach|This paper investigates the role of credit market sentiments and investor beliefs on credit cycle dynamics and their propagation to business cycle fluctuations. Using US data from 1968 to 2019, we show that credit market sentiments are indeed able to detect asymmetries in a small-scale macroeconomic model. By exploiting recent developments in behavioral finance on expectation formation in financial markets, we are able to identify an unexpected credit market news shock exhibiting different impacts in an optimistic and pessimistic credit market environment. While an unexpected movement in the optimistic regime leads to a rather low to muted impact on output and credit, we find a significant and persistent negative impact on those variables in the pessimistic regime. Therefore, this article departs from the current literature on the role of financial frictions for explaining business cycle behavior in macroeconomics and argues in line with recent theoretical contributions on the relevance of expectation formation and beliefs as source of cyclicity and instability in financial markets.
G41|The Impact of Credit Market Sentiment Shocks - A TVAR Approach| This paper investigates the role of credit market sentiments and investor beliefs on credit cycle dynamics and their propagation to business cycle fluctuations. Using US data from 1968 to 2019, we show that credit market sentiments are indeed able to detect asymmetries in a small-scale macroeconomic model. By exploiting recent developments in behavioral finance on expectation formation in financial markets, we are able to identify an unexpected credit market news shock exhibiting different impacts in an optimistic and pessimistic credit market environment. While an unexpected movement in the optimistic regime leads to a rather low to muted impact on output and credit, we find a significant and persistent negative impact on those variables in the pessimistic regime. Therefore, this article departs from the current literature on the role of financial frictions for explaining business cycle behavior in macroeconomics and argues in line with recent theoretical contributions on the relevance of expectation formation and beliefs as source of cyclicity and instability in financial markets.
G41|Till death (or divorce) do us part: Early-life family disruption and fund manager behavior|We show that early-life family disruption (death or divorce of a parent) causes fund managers to be more risk averse when they manage their own funds. Treated managers take lower systematic, idiosyncratic, and downside risk than non-treated managers. This effect is most pronounced for managers who experienced family disruption during their formative years or who had little social support. Treated managers invest less in lottery-like stocks, make smaller tracking errors, and bet less on factors during recessions, but do not perform worse than their untreated cohorts. Our evidence indicates that familial background affects economic decisions later in life even for finance professionals.
G41|"Commentary on Edmund Rolls: ""Emotion and reason in human decision-making"""|In his paper Emotion and reasoning in human decision-making (Economics Discussion Papers, No 2019-8) Edmund Rolls points out that multiple and independent types of reinforcement exist in the human brain, and that they cannot be reduced to a common currency. The present commentary introduces non-specialist readers to this wide variety of reinforcers, each of which carries equal biological value. The evolutionary forces underwriting them reveal much about the causes of our apparently irrational choices - which is why it is important for economists to acquaint themselves with such things.
G41|Emotion and reasoning in human decision-making|"Two systems in the brain that are involved in emotional and economic decision-making are described. The first is an evolutionarily old emotion-based system that operates on rewards defined by the genes such as food, warmth, social reputation, and having children. Such decisions are often based on heuristics, such as being highly sensitive to losses, because a single loss might influence one's reproductive success. This is a multidimensional system with many rewards and punishers, all of which cannot be simultaneously optimized. The second route to decision-making involves reasoning, in which it is assumed that utility can be accurately assessed and logical reason can be applied, though the human brain is not naturally computationally good at logical assessment. When decisions are taken, all those factors apply, and in addition there is noise introduced into the system by the random firing times of neurons for a given mean firing rate. The implications for economic decision-making are described. In macroeconomics, it is assumed that the economy behaves like one ""representative"" agent who can take rational and logical decisions, and who can maximize utility over a constraint. Given the neuroscience of decision-making, the situation is more complex. The utility function may be multidimensional, the reward value along each dimension may fluctuate, the reasoning may be imperfect, and the decision-making process is subject to noise in the brain, making it somewhat random from occasion to occasion. Moreover, each individual has a different set of value functions along each dimension, with different sensitivities to different rewards and punishers, which are expressed in the different personalities of different individuals. These factors underlying the neuroscience of human decision-making need to be taken into account in building and utilizing macroeconomic theories."
G41|Smoking hot portfolios? Overtrading from self-control failure|Psychology considers self-control failure, i.e., the inability to resist certain behaviors and impulses when seeking to achieve future goals as a major human pathology. The finance literature models and applies self-control failure to explain time-inconsistent behavior such as under-saving and nonparticipation decisions as a result of present bias due to hyperbolic discounting. However, literature does not investigate whether and to what extent self-control failure affects investment behavior among those who have positive savings and stockholdings. We fill this gap by identifying smoking as the most socially accepted example of present-biased preferences and link it to trading records. We compare trading behavior in the investment portfolio between 3,553 smokers and 10,091 nonsmokers over six years and show that the proportion and demographic characteristics of smokers are consistent with German survey data and federal statistics. Smoking as a proxy for self-control failure is associated with a higher number of trades per month, higher trading volume, and higher portfolio turnover and not explained by other biases such as overconfidence, social contagion, sensation seeking, or attention grabbing. But we find that self-control failure exacerbates these other biases. We show that self-control failure is costly because it increases the gap between the gross and net returns of smokers relative to nonsmokers.
G41|Copy Trading|Copy trading allows traders in social networks to receive information on the success of other agents in financial markets and to directly copy their trades. Internet platforms like eToro, ZuluTrade, and Tradeo have attracted millions of users in recent years. The present paper studies the implications of copy trading for the risk taking of investors. Implementing an experimental financial asset market, we show that providing information on the success of others leads to a significant increase in risk taking of subjects. This increase in risk taking is even larger when subjects are provided with the option to directly copy others. We conclude that copy trading reduces ex-ante welfare, and leads to excessive risk taking.
G41|Between Cash, Deposit And Bitcoin: Would We Like A Central Bank Digital Currency? Money Demand And Experimental Economics|The aim of this paper is to analyse the demand of a central bank digital currency (CBDC). Using a financial portfolio approach and assuming that individual preferences and policy votes are consistent, we identify the drivers of the political consensus in favour or against such as new currency. Given three different properties of a currency – where the first two are the standard functions of medium of exchange and store of value and the third one is the less explored function of store of information – and three different existing moneys – paper currency, banking currency and cryptocurrency – if the individuals are rational but at the same time can be affected by behavioural biases – loss aversion - three different groups of individuals – respectively lovers, neutrals and haters – emerge respect to the CBDC option. Given the alternative opportunity costs of the different currencies, the CBDC issuing is more likely to occur the more the individuals likes to use a legal tender, and/or are indifferent respect to anonymity; at the same time, the probability of the CBDC introduction increases if a return can be paid on it, and/or its implementation can guarantee at least the counterparty anonymity.
G41|Cryptocurrencies, central bank digital cash, traditional money: does privacy matter?|The aim of this paper is to analyze the demand of both traditional and new media of exchange – as cryptocurrencies and central bank digital currencies – proposing a novel specification of the demand for money. In this specification, the medium of payment (MOP) has three properties: the first two are the MOP’s standard functions as a medium of exchange and as a store of value, while the third is a novel function as a store of privacy (anonymity value). The proposed framework is tested using a laboratory experiment. Our results show that anonymity matters, but less of the other two properties; at the same time, the presence of anonymity increases the overall appeal of a MOP, particularly if the individuals are risk prone; given anonymity, the sacrifice ratio between liquidity risk and opportunity cost are relatively high.
G41|Fixed rate versus adjustable rate mortgages: evidence from euro area banks|Why do some residential mortgages carry a fixed interest rate and others an adjustable rate? To answer this question we studied unique data from 103 banks belonging to 73 different banking groups across twelve countries in the euro area. To explain the large cross-country and time variations observed, we distinguished between the conditions that determine the local demand for credit and the characteristics of banks that supply credit. As bank funding mostly occurs at the group level, we disentangled these two sets of factors by comparing the outcomes observed for the same banking group across the different countries. Local demand conditions dominate. In particular we find that the share of new loans with a fixed rate is larger when: (1) the historical volatility of inflation is lower, (2) the correlation between unemployment and the short-term interest rate is higher, (3) households' financial literacy is lower, and (4) the use of local mortgages to back covered bonds and of mortgage-backed securities is more widespread.
G41|Copy Trading|Copy trading allows traders in social networks to receive information on the success of other agents in financial markets and to directly copy their trades. Internet platforms like eToro, ZuluTrade, and Tradeo have attracted millions of users in recent years. The present paper studies the implications of copy trading for the risk taking of investors. Implementing an experimental financial asset market, we show that providing information on the success of others leads to a significant increase in risk taking of subjects. This increase in risk taking is even larger when subjects are provided with the option to directly copy others. We conclude that copy trading reduces ex-ante welfare, and leads to excessive risk taking.
G41|Enhancing central bank communications with behavioural insights|In this joint Bank of England and Behavioural Insights Team study, we test the effectiveness of different approaches to central bank communications. Using an online experiment with a representative sample of the UK population, we measure how changes to the Bank of England’s summaries of the Inflation Report impact comprehension and trust in its policy messages. We find that the recently introduced Visual Summary of the Inflation Report improves comprehension of its main messages in a statistically significant way compared to the traditional executive summary. We also find that public comprehension and trust can be further improved by making the Visual Summary more relatable to people’s lives. Our findings thus shed light on how central banks can improve communication with the public at a time when trust in public institutions has fallen, while the responsibilities delegated to central banks have increased.
G41|When the Market Drives You Crazy: Stock Market Returns and Fatal Car Accidents|The stock market influences some of the most fundamental economic decisions of investors, such as consumption, saving, and labor supply, through the financial wealth channel. This paper provides evidence that daily fluctuations in the stock market have important - and hitherto neglected - spillover effects in another, unrelated domain, namely driving. Using the universe of fatal road car accidents in the United States from 1990 to 2015, we find that a one standard deviation reduction in daily stock market returns is associated with a 0.5% increase in the number of fatal accidents. A battery of falsification tests support a causal interpretation of this finding. Our results are consistent with immediate emotions stirred by a negative stock market performance influencing the number of fatal accidents, in particular among inexperienced investors, thus highlighting the broader economic and social consequences of stock market fluctuations.
G41|When the market drives you crazy: Stock market returns and fatal car accidents|The stock market influences some of the most fundamental economic decisions of investors, such as consumption, saving, and labor supply, through the financial wealth channel. This paper provides evidence that daily fluctuations in the stock market have important (and hitherto neglected) spillover effects in another, unrelated domain, namely driving. Using the universe of fatal road car accidents in the United States from 1990 to 2015, we find that a one standard deviation reduction in daily stock market returns is associated with a 0.5% increase in the number of fatal accidents. A battery of falsification tests support a causal interpretation of this finding. Our results are consistent with immediate emotions stirred by a negative stock market performance influencing the number of fatal accidents, in particular among inexperienced investors, thus highlighting the broader economic and social consequences of stock market fluctuations.
G41|Stock Price Rewards to Climate Saints and Sinners: Evidence from the Trump Election|"Donald Trump's 2016 election and the subsequent nomination of Scott Pruitt, a climate skeptic and self-proclaimed opponent of the Environmental Protection Agency's ""activist agenda,"" to lead the EPA drastically shifted expectations on US climate change policy. Firms' stock-price reactions to these events reveal whether their climate strategies affected their valuations. As widely reported, firms in industries with high carbon intensity benefited, at least briefly. It might be expected that companies with ""responsible"" strategies on climate change would have lost value. In fact, investors actually rewarded such firms. The analysis shows that this observed climate responsibility premium is due, at least in part, to the strategic behavior of long horizon investors who look into the future to assess the valuation of corporations."
G41|On Booms That Never Bust: Ambiguity in Experimental Asset Markets with Bubbles|We study the effect of ambiguity on the formation of bubbles and on the occurrence of crashes in experimental asset markets à la Smith, Suchanek, and Williams (1988). We extend their framework to an environment where the fundamental value of the asset is ambiguous. We show that, when the fundamental value is ambiguous, asset prices tend to be lower than when it is risky although bubbles form in both the ambiguous and the risky environments. Additionally, bubbles do not crash in the ambiguous case whereas they do so in the risky one. These findings regarding depressed prices and the absence of crashes in the presence of ambiguity are in line with recent theoretical work stressing the crucial role of ambiguity to account for surprisingly low equity prices (high returns) as well as herding in asset markets.
G41|Behavioral Finance. Una introducción a los conceptos y aplicaciones|En los últimos 30 años Behavioral Finance se ha convertido de un área marginal a un tema recurrente en estudios académicos y de creciente importancia en la práctica de las Finanzas. En este documento pretendo ofrecer una introducción al tema de Behavioral Finance, orientada para estudiantes y profesionales en Finanzas, enfocada en los sesgos cognitivos que con más frecuencia afectan las decisiones financieras. Se parte de una discusión breve de los orígenes sicológicos de los sesgos, y se explican los principales sesgos, incluyendo aquellos basados en heurísticas, los de origen social y los que proceden de limitaciones de procesamiento mental, ilustrándolos con ejemplos de su presencia en Mercados Financieros e Inversiones, y en algunos casos, en Finanzas Corporativas o Personales. Se expone al final porqué los sesgos de Behavioral Finance tienen un efecto importante en los Mercados Financieros, con base en la teoría de los límites al arbitraje.
G41|Behavioral Finance. Una introducción a los conceptos y aplicaciones|En los últimos 30 años Behavioral Finance se ha convertido de un área marginal a un tema recurrente en estudios académicos y de creciente importancia en la práctica de las Finanzas. En este documento pretendo ofrecer una introducción al tema de Behavioral Finance, orientada para estudiantes y profesionales en Finanzas, enfocada en los sesgos cognitivos que con más frecuencia afectan las decisiones financieras. Se parte de una discusión breve de los orígenes sicológicos de los sesgos, y se explican los principales sesgos, incluyendo aquellos basados en heurísticas, los de origen social y los que proceden de limitaciones de procesamiento mental, ilustrándolos con ejemplos de su presencia en Mercados Financieros e Inversiones, y en algunos casos, en Finanzas Corporativas o Personales. Se expone al final porqué los sesgos de Behavioral Finance tienen un efecto importante en los Mercados Financieros, con base en la teoría de los límites al arbitraje.
G41|Entrepreneurial Discovery Capital|This paper identifies how capital losses are unavoidably incurred in the discovery of viable entrepreneurial ventures. Losses are proportional to the novelty and perceived profit potential of a prospective venture, exemplified by the high risk/high return nature of high technology start-ups. Venture capitalists internalize the costs and benefits of this discovery process, and set up portfolios where the majority of funded ventures unavoidably fail or earn subpar returns. They incur these losses in order to discover the one Winner venture whose outsize returns will compensate for the capital losses in the failed ventures. The investment in failing ventures is unavoidable and necessary to discover the Winner because the winning business model cannot be determined ex ante. I call this investment “Entrepreneurial Discovery Capital.” This paper hypothesizes that many industry and economy-wide cycles may be the result of such a process that occurs at a much larger scale than a single fund. Venture capital in microcosm provides a model of an economy-wide process where the decisions of myriad market participants are coordinated “as if by an invisible hand” by signals from the capital markets.
G41|How internal and external supervision impact the dynamics between boards and Top Management Teams and TMT reflexivity|Reflexivity can prevent Top Management Teams (TMTs) from using decision biases that harm sound strategic decision making of TMTs. To ensure reflexivity, TMTs are supervised internally by supervisory boards, and externally by independent supervisory authorities, but there is theoretical debate on their respective impact. We propose that frequent internal supervision is associated with Board-TMT relationship conflict, but this relationship will be less strong when TMTs are supervised by boards with an open board composition (including newer members). When such conflict occurs it can harm TMT reflexivity, but we expect that this relationship will be less strong when external supervision increases. These hypotheses were supported in a multisource team-level data set collected in the field among TMTs (N = 111 TMT members) and their supervisory boards (N = 152 board members) of 56 insurance companies. This study advances empirical and practical knowledge on the distinct and interdependent impact of internal and external supervision on TMT reflexivity.
G41|When the market drives you crazy: Stock market returns and fatal car accidents|The stock market in uences some of the most fundamental economic decisions of investors, such as consumption, saving, and labor supply, through the financial wealth channel. This paper provides evidence that daily uctuations in the stock market have important-and hitherto neglected-spillover effects in another, unrelated domain, namely driving. Using the universe of fatal road car accidents in the United States from 1990 to 2015, we find that a one standard deviation reduction in daily stock market returns is associated with a 0.5% increase in the number of fatal accidents. A battery of falsification tests support a causal interpretation of this finding. Our results are consistent with immediate emotions stirred by a negative stock market performance in uencing the number of fatal accidents, in particular among inexperienced investors, thus highlighting the broader economic and social consequences of stock market uctuations.
G41|Stock Price Rewards to Climate Saints and Sinners: Evidence from the Trump Election|"Donald Trump's 2016 election and the subsequent nomination of Scott Pruitt, a climate skeptic and self-proclaimed opponent of the Environmental Protection Agency's ""activist agenda"", to lead the EPA drastically shifted expectations on US climate change policy. Firms' stock-price reactions to these events reveal whether their climate strategies affected their valuations. As widely reported, firms in industries with high carbon intensity benefited, at least briefly. It might be expected that companies with ""responsible"" strategies on climate change would have lost value. In fact, investors actually rewarded such firms. The analysis shows that this observed climate responsibility premium is due, at least in part, to the strategic behavior of long-horizon investors who look into the future to assess the valuation of corporations."
G41|Learning by Trading|How can we help individuals handle financial decisions in an increasingly complex environment? We explore an easily scalable avenue for improving financial understanding: learning by online trading in stocks. We randomly assign 1345 adults incentives and opportunities to trade stocks for 4-7 weeks, with no additional educational content. The treatment significantly improves financial literacy and attenuates the gender gap in self-assessed financial knowledge. Treated individuals are more likely to subsequently invest in stocks and less likely to seek external advice. The effects strengthen for those exposed to index funds, foreign assets, and rising or more volatile asset prices.
G41|Editorial Statement of Intent for Advances in Decision Sciences (ADS): 22nd Anniversary Special Issue in 2018|This note is concerned with an editorial statement of intent for Advances in Decision Sciences (ADS), which was founded in 1997, so that 2918 marks the 22nd Anniversary of the journal. The note discusses the aims and scope of ADS in Section 1, innovative topics in all fields of optimal decision making in Section 2, invitation to submit papers to ADS in Section 3, editors and members of the editorial board in Section 4, and acknowledgements in Section 5
G41|Research Ideas For Advances In Decision Sciences (Ads): 22nd Anniversary Special Issue In 2018|This note is concerned with an editorial statement of intent for Advances in Decision Sciences (ADS), which was founded in 1997, so that 2918 marks the 22nd Anniversary of the journal. The note discusses the aims and scope of ADS in Section 1, innovative topics in all fields of optimal decision making in Section 2, research areas of interest to ADS in Section 3, invitation to submit papers to ADS in Section 4, editors and members of the editorial board in Section 5, and acknowledgements in Section 6.
G41|The impact of world government indicators on market investment behavior|Although the behavioral finance sector has recently developed considerably, investors have irrational issues while taking the investment decisions on the capital market. We aim to empirically analyze the way in which aspects such as asymmetric information, emotional state, public policy and organizational culture affect their behavior. In the present paper we used quantitative data, building a database of 30 countries divided into two categories: socio-mature economies andrespectively emerging and border economies.Using global governance indicators and calculating the Hurst exponent, the symmetry coefficient, the Kurtosis coefficient and the fractal dimension, we applied the Bayesian estimate methodin order to establish the link between the dimensions of the global governance indicators and the dependent variables. The results of the linear regression have been disseminated, while the long-term and short-term effects were observed taking into account issues related to the quality of regulations, public policy, governance effectiveness, the rule of law, corruption control, stability policy and lack of violence/terrorism and participation and accountability.The purpose of the paper is to studythe impact of macroeconomic factors such as world government indicators, by analysing their impact over the efficiency of financial markets.
G41|On Booms That Never Bust: Ambiguity in Experimental Asset Markets with Bubbles|We study the effect of ambiguity on the formation of bubbles and on the occurrence of crashes in experimental asset markets à la Smith, Suchanek, and Williams (1988). We extend their framework to an environment where the fundamental value of the asset is ambiguous. We show that, when the fundamental value is ambiguous, asset prices tend to be lower than when it is risky although bubbles form in both the ambiguous and the risky environments. Additionally, bubbles do not crash in the ambiguous case whereas they do so in the risky one. These findings regarding depressed prices and the absence of crashes in the presence of ambiguity are in line with recent theoretical work stressing the crucial role of ambiguity to account for surprisingly low equity prices (high returns) as well as herding in asset markets.
G41|Predatory cells and puzzling financial crises: Are toxic products good for the financial markets?|We advance the idea that the predator-prey dynamics that take place among key market agents play an important role in explaining financial crises. As such, we posit that financial markets evolve through fault lines involving toxic behaviors (such as deceit), toxic products (such as predatory mortgages) and inefficient regulations. We provide data to show that the puzzle of the lack of congruence between the market behaviors and what some economic models predict at times of financial crises may be the result of predator-prey interplays, and of so-called “predatory cells”, which are under the influence of financial accelerators.
G41|CAPM-Based Company (Mis)valuations|There is a discrepancy between CAPM-implied and realized returns. As a result, using the CAPM in capital budgeting decisions - as is recommended in finance textbooks should have valuation effects. For instance, low beta projects are expected to be valued more by CAPM-using managers than by the market. This paper empirically tests this hypothesis using publicly announced M&A decisions. We show that takeovers of lower beta targets are accompanied by lower CARs for the bidder. Consistent with our hypothesis, the effect is more pronounced for larger acquisitions, higher growth targets, and private targets. Furthermore, low beta bidders are more likely to use their own stock to finance the deal. More generally, low beta firms are less likely to issue equity, and more likely to repurchase shares. These effects are not reversed in the long-run, suggesting that CAPM-using managers may be irrational, though this last test lacks power.
G41|The Anchoring Effect in Mergers and Acquisitions: Evidence from an Emerging Market|This article examines the presence of the reference price effect in mergers and acquisitions in Russia, which can act as a distortion in investor perception of the influence a deal has on a company. In this study we use the Russian market as a laboratory for the investigation of behavioral effects in a relatively inefficient market. We find a relationship between the acquirer’s announcement period return and the proximity of its pre-announcement share price to the 52-week high. The 52-week high serves as a salient anchor even though it is economically irrelevant for valuation purposes. This effect appears to be stronger for deals associated with higher levels of uncertainty. The findings confirm the presence of the anchoring bias in evaluating the effect of a merger or acquisition announcement by Russian investors. We demonstrate a significant anchoring effect even for deals with a blocking (>10%) or a controlling stake (>25%) in an emerging market with a highly concentrated ownership.
G41|A Bank Run in a Classroom: Do Smart Depositors Withdraw on Time?|This paper discusses whether being smart makes depositors less prone to get involved in a panic bank run. We conduct a series of experiments with undergraduate and graduate students from Moscow and Saint-Petersburg, modelling the a-la Diamond-Dybvig deposit market with liquidity shocks, changing macroeconomic conditions and risk-based investment technologies. Our results suggest that withdrawing on time is profitable, as the average returns of depositor investments are higher, especially if the other depositors in the bank also withdraw on time. Smarter depositors – those having better academic achievements – choose the strategy of avoiding early withdrawals more frequently: each additional grade point (out of ten) adds 9 p.p. to the share of rounds where a depositor withdraws on time. This result adds to the evidence that financial literacy – even measured in a very simple way – may prevent a coordination failure in the deposit market. Our results also suggest that panic withdrawals are more probable in markets with poorer economic conditions (liquidity shocks, less profitable or less liquid investments, costly financial information), but depositors show weak sensitivity to the risks of bank investments. Depositors of medium-sized banks withdraw on time more frequently compared to those in small or large banks
G41|Do Boards Of Directors Affect CEO Behavior? Evidence From Payout Decisions|We test the ability of boards of directors to eliminate the negative impact of CEO behavior on payout policy. We contribute to the literature by testing the ability of boards to influence CEO payout propensity. First, we show that if the compensation scheme of a CEO does not stimulate him or her to take more risk, the level of payout will be higher. Second, by introducing an index of corporate governance quality we show that corporate governance tools may reduce the negative effects of CEO risk preferences: in companies with good corporate governance, the risk preferences of the CEO do not affect payout decisions. Third, based on a set of specifications for risk preferences, we show how the impact of CEO attitudes to risk influences the types of payouts
G41|Scale matters: risk perception, return expectations, and investment propensity under different scalings|Abstract With a novel experimental design we investigate whether risk perception, return expectations, and investment propensity are influenced by the scale of the vertical axis in charts. We explore this for two presentation formats, namely return charts and price charts, where we depict low- and high-volatility assets with distinct trends. We find that varying the scale strongly affects people’s risk perception, as a narrower scale of the vertical axis leads to significantly higher perceived riskiness of an asset even if the underlying volatility is the same. Furthermore, past returns predict future return expectations almost perfectly. In our setting perceived profitability was considered more important than perceived riskiness when making investment choices. Overall we show that adapting the scale of a chart makes it easier to recognize yearly return variations within a single security, but at the same time makes it harder to identify differences between dissimilar securities. This is something regulators should be aware of and take into account in the rules they set.
G41|Do Individual Investors Trade Differently in Different Markets?|We investigate the hypothesis that the same investors trade differently in different finan-cial markets. We use a proprietary data base with the transaction records of 129,461 in-vestors for a 10-year period, and select the investors holding both stocks and warrants in the portfolio. We compare the trading behavior of investors in the stock market and in the warrant market, controlling for investors’ socio-demographic characteristics (age, occupa-tion, education, etc.) and for investors’ behavioral biases (overconfidence, the disposition effect and pursuit of the pleasure of gambling). Even though investors are the same in both markets, our results clearly show that the so-ciodemographic determinants of the trading activity in stocks and in warrants are not all the same, implying that the same investors trade stocks differently than warrants. More precisely, overconfident investors have a higher warrant trading activity and a lower do-mestic stock trading activity, and investors pursuing gambling pleasure or prone to the disposition effect trade warrants more (but do not trade stocks more).
G41|Do Individual Investors Trade Differently in Different Markets?|We investigate the hypothesis that the same investors trade differently in different financial markets. We use a proprietary data base with the transaction records of 129,461 investors for a 10-year period, and select the investors holding both stocks and warrants in the portfolio. We compare the trading behavior of investors in the stock market and in the warrant market, controlling for investors’ socio-demographic characteristics (age, occupation, education, etc.) and for investors’ behavioral biases (overconfidence, the disposition effect and pursuit of the pleasure of gambling). Even though investors are the same in both markets, our results clearly show that the sociodemographic determinants of the trading activity in stocks and in warrants are not all the same, implying that the same investors trade stocks differently than warrants. More precisely, overconfident investors have a higher warrant trading activity and a lower domestic stock trading activity, and investors pursuing gambling pleasure or prone to the disposition effect trade warrants more (but do not trade stocks more).
G41|Financial education for the disadvantaged? A review|In contrast to the popularity of financial education interventions worldwide, studies on the economic effects of those interventions report mixed results. With a focus on the effect on disadvantaged groups, we review both the theoretical and empirical findings in order to understand why this discrepancy exists. The survey first highlights that it is necessary to distinguish between the concepts of, and the relationships between, financial education, financial literacy and financial behavior to identify the true effects of financial education. The review addresses possible biases caused by third factors such as numeracy. Next, we review theories on financial literacy which make clear that the effect of financial education interventions is heterogeneous across the population. Last, we look closely at main empirical studies on financial education targeted at the migrants/immigrants, the low-income earners and the young, and compare their methodologies. There seems to be a positive effect on short-term financial knowledge and awareness of the young, but there is no proven evidence on long-term behavior after being grown up. Studies on financial behavior of migrants and immigrants show almost no effect of financial education.
G41|Less Is Not More: Information Presentation Complexity and 401(k) Planning Choices|This paper presents the results of an experiment that is designed to examine how information presentation and complexity impact retirement-savings behavior. The experiment is performed twice, using both a Qualtrics panel of new employees and a sample of business school students. In this experiment, participants first were provided with either a long or short description of a hypothetical employer-sponsored 401(k) plan. Then they were asked whether they would enroll in the hypothetical plan and, if so, what percentage of their salary they would contribute. If they chose to contribute, they were asked how they would like to allocate their contribution between stocks and bonds. Participants were offered the option to stick with pre-assigned default options such as a 4% contribution and a 50-50 stocks and bonds split. The hypothesis is that providing concise information with helpful recommendations would improve choices over providing lengthy and detailed information. However, controlling for demographic and other factors, this hypothesis was not supported by the data, for either the new employees or the business school students. Thus, the data suggest that simplifying the presentation of retirement-plan information to employees is unlikely to result in vastly improved retirement-planning choices.
G41|Mind, Body, Bubble! Psychological and Biophysical Dimensions of Behavior in Experimental Asset Markets|Asset market bubbles and crashes are a major source of economic instability and inefficiency. Sometimes ascribed to animal spirits or irrational exuberance, their source remains imperfectly understood. Experimental methods can isolate systematic deviations from an asset's fundamental value in a manner not possible on the trading floor. In this chapter, we review evidence from dozens of laboratory experiments that investigate the measurement and manipulation of an array of psychological and biophysical attributes. Measures of emotion self‐regulation and interoceptive ability are informative, as is cognitive ability and the level and fluctuation of hormones. Rules that promote deliberative decision making can improve market efficiency, while incidental emotions can impair it. Signals in specific brain areas can be a trigger precipitating a bubble's collapse. We conclude that trading decisions are profoundly biophysical in a manner not captured by efficient markets models, and close with speculations on implications for algorithmic trading.
G41|Smog, Cognition and Real-World Decision Making|Cognitive functioning is critical as in our daily life a host of real-world complex decisions in high-stakes markets have to be made. The decision-making process can be vulnerable to environmental stressors. Summarizing the growing economic and epidemiologic evidence linking air pollution, cognition performance and real-world decision making, we first illustrate key physiological and psychological pathways between air pollution and cognition. We then document the main patterns of air pollution affecting cognitive test performance by type of cognitive tests, gender, window of exposure, age profile, and educational attainment. We further extend to a review of real-world decision making that has been found to be affected by air pollution and the resulting cognitive impairments. Finally, rich implications on environmental health policies are drawn based on existing evaluations of social costs of air pollution.
G41|Should I default on my mortgage even if I can pay? Experimental evidence|We study strategic default in the laboratory, i.e. in a controlled experiment. Subjects are initially endowed with a house and a mortgage (we use neutral wording in the experiment), and must decide at each period in which their mortgage is alive among three options: making the mortgage payment, selling the house, or walking away from their house and defaulting on their mortgage. At each point in time, we can observe whether defaulters can afford to make the mortgage payment, and thus, directly compute the number of strategic defaulters. Subjects default in the right periods and quite fast learn what they should consume. We find experimental support for the “double trigger” hypothesis: individuals faced with low income and low house prices are more likely to default. We observe that subjects default less than optimal, and this decision is significantly affected by social norm concerns in the context of the experiment. Individuals under-consume in the first periods of life: they are “cautious” when indebted. Both introducing a 50% probability of recourse and a Responsible Homeowner Reward are very effective in preventing default in the lab, especially by individuals receiving a bad shock to income.
G41|Crowdinvesting in entrepreneurial projects: Disentangling patterns of investor behavior|Crowdinvesting emerged recently as an alternative way of funding for start-up projects. Our dataset consists of all pledges made at Companisto, one of the largest crowdinvesting platforms in Europe. Using cluster analysis based on individual investment histories, we find that crowdinvestors differ in their investment strategies and motivations. We can distinguish three types of crowdinvestors that vary in their response to project quality signals of entrepreneurs, project-related information reducing the degree of uncertainty and social influence by fellow investors: Casual Investors, Crowd Enthusiasts, and Sophisticated Investors. We conclude that crowdinvestors are anything but a homogeneous group. Instead, they are motivated by different factors and respond to different signals when making investment decisions.
G41|The Effect of Anchoring on Dishonest Behavior|This study conducts experiments on dishonest behavior after anchoring the participants' expected reward to investigate the effect of anchoring on dishonest behavior. The experimental results show that those who are anchored to high reward behave less honestly than those anchored to low reward. This is because the anchoring changes participants' expected reward. Such a change in expected reward serve as participants' reference point to affect the likelihood of facing a loss frame where dishonest behaviors are more likely to occur.
G41|Social Transmission Bias and Investor Behavior|We offer a new social approach to investment decision making and asset prices. Investors discuss their strategies and convert others to their strategies with a probability that increases in investment returns. The conversion rate is shown to be convex in realized returns. Unconditionally, active strategies (e.g., high variance and skewness) dominate, although investors have no inherent preference over these characteristics. The model has strong predictions for how adoption of active strategies depends on investors' social networks. In contrast with nonsocial approaches, sociability, self-enhancing transmission and other features of the communication process determine the popularity and pricing of active investment strategies.
G41|Decision fatigue and heuristic analyst forecasts|Psychological evidence indicates that decision quality declines after an extensive session of decision-making, a phenomenon known as decision fatigue. We study whether decision fatigue affects analysts’ judgments. Analysts cover multiple firms and often issue several forecasts in a single day. We find that forecast accuracy declines over the course of a day as the number of forecasts the analyst has already issued increases. Also consistent with decision fatigue, we find that the more forecasts an analyst issues, the higher the likelihood the analyst resorts to more heuristic decisions by herding more closely with the consensus forecast, self-herding (i.e., reissuing their own previous outstanding forecasts), and issuing a rounded forecast. Finally, we find that the stock market understands these effects and discounts for analyst decision fatigue.
G41|Mood Betas and Seasonalities in Stock Returns|Existing research has documented cross-sectional seasonality of stock returns—the periodic outperformance of certain stocks during the same calendar months or weekdays. A model in which assets differ in their sensitivities to investor mood explains these effects and implies other seasonal patterns. We find that relative performance across individual stocks or stock portfolios during past high or low mood months and weekdays tends to recur/reverse in periods with congruent/noncongruent mood. Furthermore, assets with higher sensitivities to aggregate mood—higher mood betas — subsequently earn higher/lower returns during high/low mood periods, including those induced by Daylight Saving Time changes, weather conditions and anticipation of major holidays.
G41|When Less is More: Experimental Evidence on Information Delivery During India's Demonetization|How should policymakers disseminate information: by broadcasting it widely (e.g., via mass media), or letting word spread from a small number of initially informed “seed” individuals? While conventional wisdom suggests delivering information more widely is better, we show theoretically and experimentally that this may not hold when people need to ask questions to fully comprehend the information they were given. In a field experiment during the chaotic 2016 Indian demonetization, we varied how information about demonetization’s official rules was delivered to villages on two dimensions: how many were initially informed (broadcasting versus seeding) and whether the identity of the initially informed was publicly disclosed (common knowledge). The quality of information aggregation is measured in three ways: the volume of conversations about demonetization, the level of knowledge about demonetization rules, and choice quality in a strongly incentivized decision dependent on understanding the rules. Our results are consistent with four predictions of a model in which people need others’ help to make the best use of announced information, but worry about signaling inability or unwillingness to correctly process the information they have access to. First, if who is informed is not publicized, broadcasting improves all three outcomes relative to seeding. Second, under seeding, publicizing who is informed improves all three outcomes. Third, when broadcasting, publicizing who is informed hurts along all three dimensions. Finally, when who is informed is made public, telling more individuals (broadcasting relative to seeding) is worse along all three dimensions.
G41|Choosing between Growth and Glory|Prior work has established that the financing environment can impact firm strategy. We argue that this influence can shape the earliest strategic choices of a new venture by creating a potential tradeoff between two objectives: rapid growth and reaping the benefits of a positive reputation (glory). We leverage a simple reputation-building strategic choice, naming the firm after the founder (eponymy), that is associated with superior profitability. Next, we argue via a formal model that the availability of/dependence on external financing can explain why high-growth firms are rarely eponymous. We find empirical support for the model's predictions using a large dataset of 1 million European firms. Eponymous firms grow considerably more slowly than similarly profitable firms. Moreover, eponymy varies in accordance with the firm's financing environment in a pattern consistent with our model. We discuss implications for the literature on new venture strategy.
G41|Measuring Bias in Consumer Lending|This paper tests for bias in consumer lending decisions using administrative data from a high-cost lender in the United Kingdom. We motivate our analysis using a simple model of bias in lending, which predicts that profits should be identical for loan applicants from different groups at the margin if loan examiners are unbiased. We identify the profitability of marginal loan applicants by exploiting variation from the quasi-random assignment of loan examiners. We find significant bias against both immigrant and older loan applicants when using the firmâ€™s preferred measure of long-run profits. In contrast, there is no evidence of bias when using a short-run measure used to evaluate examiner performance, suggesting that the bias in our setting is due to the misalignment of firm and examiner incentives. We conclude by showing that a decision rule based on machine learning predictions of long-run profitability can simultaneously increase profits and eliminate bias.
G41|Do Neighborhoods Affect Credit Market Decisions of Low-Income Borrowers? Evidence from the Moving to Opportunity Experiment|This paper provides new evidence on the long-term impacts of neighborhood environment on low-income credit decisions by analyzing financial outcomes and borrowing decisions of participants of the Moving to Opportunity (MTO) experiment. The MTO experiment was a unique, large-scale experiment that offered families vouchers to move to better neighborhoods via randomized lottery. Families received one of two types of housing vouchers: the first (Experimental) required families to move to very low poverty neighborhoods, and the second (Section 8) allowed families unrestricted choice of neighborhood. We find that participants who moved to lower poverty neighborhoods as young children experienced better access to and greater use of credit into adulthood, with the largest effects experienced by those who moved to the lowest poverty neighborhoods. While we do not find adult and older children experience the same benefits to credit outcomes, we do find they experience improvements in delinquency and debt behaviors, particularly among those who received unrestricted Section 8 vouchers. We also find evidence that children whose families received unrestricted Section 8 vouchers have significantly lower payday loan usage.
G41|Ratings and Asset Allocation: An Experimental Analysis|Investment ratings (e.g., by Morningstar) provide a simple ordinal scale (e.g., 1 to 5) for comparing investments. Typically, ratings are assigned within categories — groups of assets sharing common characteristics — but using the same ordinal scale for all groups. Comparing such categorized ratings across categories is potentially misleading. We study the effect of categorized ratings in an asset allocation experiment in which subjects make repeated allocation decisions under complete information. Subjects initially see no ratings, and they then see either categorized or uncategorized ratings. Although ratings convey no information, categorized ratings affect subject investment choices and harm performance in the experiment. Subjects do not simply invest more in highly rated assets. Rather, rating effects seem to occur when ratings conflict with subjects’ own evaluation of assets: subjects reduce their investment in a high quality asset which receives an intermediate rating, but they do not increase their investment in a high-quality asset that receives a high rating. Knowledge and experience help with the base allocation task but do not mitigate the harmful effect of categorized ratings.
G41|Who Feels the Nudge? Knowledge, Self-Awareness and Retirement Savings Decisions|Using a financial literacy survey of Swedish pension investors matched to actual retirement savings decisions, we argue that respondents can be broken into three groups: those who are financially literate, those who mistakenly believe they are financially literate, and those who know that they are not. We examine how these groups respond differently to informational nudges encouraging them to take charge of their own investments. Investors with mistaken beliefs responded to the nudge, and were more likely to work with mass-market advisors who steer them into high-fee funds. They underperform as a result. By comparison, those who either possess financial literacy or else understand that they do not possess financial literacy were less likely to respond to the nudge. They avoided advisors, stayed with the low-cost default fund, and therefore accumulated retirement savings more quickly.
G41|Arbitrage Or Narrow Bracketing? On Using Money to Measure Intertemporal Preferences|If experimental subjects arbitrage against market interest rates when making intertemporal allocations of cash, the data will reveal nothing about subjects' discount rates, only uncovering subjects' market interest rates. If they frame choices narrowly, market rates will not be salient and the experiment will uncover subjects' utility discount rates. We test arbitrage directly by forcing all transactions with subjects to be instant electronic bank transfers, thus making arbitrage easy and salient. We also employ four decision frames to test alternative hypotheses. Our evidence contradicts arbitrage, supports money as a valid reward, and suggests framing as a correlate with present bias.
G41|Partisan Professionals: Evidence from Credit Rating Analysts|Partisan perception affects the actions of professionals in the financial sector. Using a novel dataset linking credit rating analysts to party affiliations from voter records, we show that analysts who are not affiliated with the U.S. president's party downward-adjust corporate credit ratings more frequently. By comparing analysts with different party affiliations covering the same firm in the same quarter, we ensure that differences in firm fundamentals cannot explain the results. We also find a sharp divergence in the rating actions of Democratic and Republican analysts around the 2016 presidential election. Our results suggest partisan perception has implications for firms' cost of capital.
G41|Investor Rewards to Climate Responsibility: Evidence from the 2016 Climate Policy Shock|Donald Trump's election and his nomination of Scott Pruitt, a climate skeptic, to lead the Environmental Protection Agency drastically downshifted expectations on US climate-change policy. We study firms' stock-price reactions and institutional investors' portfolio adjustments after these events. As expected, carbon-intensive firms benefited. Should not companies with responsible strategies on climate change have lost value, since they were paying for actions that were now less urgent? In fact, investors actually rewarded such firms. The premium the firms received resulted, at least in part, from the move into climate-responsible stocks by long-horizon investors presumably expecting a post-Trump rebound to green policy.
G41|Expectations Uncertainty and Household Economic Behavior|We show that there exists significant heterogeneity across US households in how uncertain they are in their expectations regarding personal and macroeconomic outcomes, and that uncertainty in expectations predicts households' choices. Individuals with lower income or education, more precarious finances, and living in counties with higher unemployment are more uncertain in their expectations regarding own-income growth, inflation, and national home price changes. People with more uncertain expectations, even accounting for their socioeconomic characteristics, exhibit more precaution in their consumption, credit, and investment behaviors.
G41|Measuring Bias in Consumer Lending|This paper tests for bias in consumer lending decisions using administrative data from a high-cost lender in the United Kingdom. We motivate our analysis using a simple model of bias in lending, which predicts that profits should be identical for loan applicants from different groups at the margin if loan examiners are unbiased. We identify the profitability of marginal loan applicants by exploiting variation from the quasi-random assignment of loan examiners. We find significant bias against both immigrant and older loan applicants when using the firm's preferred measure of long-run profits. In contrast, there is no evidence of bias when using a short-run measure used to evaluate examiner performance, suggesting that the bias in our setting is due to the misalignment of firm and examiner incentives. We conclude by showing that a decision rule based on machine learning predictions of long-run profitability can simultaneously increase profits and eliminate bias.
G41|Extrapolative Beliefs and Exchange Rate Markets|Following Engel (2016) and Valchev (2015), this paper documents the relationship between interest rate differentials and differential returns on domestic and foreign bonds over time horizon using a broader data sample. I find that countries with higher contemporaneous interest rates earn excess positive bond returns initially in accordance with previous UIP literature. However, the sign of excess returns reverses in the medium run. Higher contemporaneous interest rates predict negative excess returns. Eventually, interest differentials have no excess return predictability. I argue that behavioral bubbles are natural and successful candidates in generating exchange rate dynamics observed in the data. In particular, I propose that investors rely not only on fundamentals (interest differentials) but also extrapolate past exchange rates when forming expectations. The proposed extrapolative model is consistent with both excess return patterns and survey evidence in the data.
G41|Overconfidence and Bailouts|Empirical evidence suggests that managerial overconfidence and government guarantees contribute substantially to excessive risk-taking in the banking industry. This paper incorporates managerial overconfidence and limited bank liability into a principal-agent model, where the bank manager unobservably chooses effort and risk. An overconfident manager overestimates the returns to effort and risk. We find that managerial overconfidence necessitates an intervention into banker pay. This is due to the bank\'s exploitation of the manager\'s overvaluation of bonuses, which causes excessive risk-taking in equilibrium. Moreover, we show that the optimal bonus tax rises in overconfidence, if risk-shifting incentives are sufficiently large. Finally, the model indicates that overconfident managers are more likely to be found in banks with large government guarantees, low bonus taxes, and lax capital requirements.
G41|Do Personal Data Related Innovation Boost Firm Value?|Abstract Personal data is increasingly used in business value creation. Data from the years 2007–2014 suggest that firms’ personal data related innovations and knowledge stocks in technology domains of location-based services and artificial intelligence contributed substantially to firm value. The premiums gained from personal data related innovation were particularly significant for data giants holding knowledge stocks in the location-based service domain. Empirical findings indicate that a strong positive relationship between personal data related knowledge stocks of the location-based services domain and firm value relates primarily to investor attention intensified during periods of media hype. The data provide new insights into the market valuation of intangible assets: investors seem to overweight more salient right tails of firms’ knowledge stocks of emerging technologies while neglecting salient left tails.
G41|Investor Attention and Technology Salience: Does Personal Data Related Innovation Boost Firm Value?|Abstract This paper empirically analyzes how markets value personal data related innovation in four prominent domains, in which firms’ potential to exploit value from data is identified to be considerable: finance, health, location-based services and artificial intelligence. We link the innovation economics literature to psychology-grounded financial economics theories of investor attention and salience theory. Our data from 117 large technology companies active in the ICT sector from the years 2007–2014 suggest that firms’ personal data related innovations and knowledge stocks in technology domains of location-based services and artificial intelligence contributed substantially to firm value. The premiums gained from personal data related innovation were particularly significant for data giants holding knowledge stocks in the location-based service domain. Our empirical results indicate that a strong positive relationship between personal data related knowledge stocks of the location-based services domain and firm value relates primarily to investor attention intensified during periods of media hype. Our data provide new insights into the market valuation of intangible assets: investors seem to overweight more salient right tails of firms’ knowledge stocks of emerging technologies while neglecting salient left tails.
G41|Can the Greater Fool Theory Explain Bubbles? Evidence from China|"Many have noticed the phenomenon that naïve investors are attracted to the market as stock prices soar, yet few empirical studies have tested for this bubble phenomenon. This paper presents previously unused data on the aggregate number of newly opened brokerage accounts in China and tests the role of new investors in bubble formation. I find that new investors, attracted by soaring stock prices and the intensive trading activities of others, drove the Chinese stock market bubbles in 2007 and 2015, supporting the Greater Fool theory of bubbles. The inexperienced and naïve new investors appear more likely to be the ""greater fools."" Using the residual orthogonalization method, I build a data-driven structural model system, where shocks from the new accounts variable explain 40-55% of Chinese stock return variation."
G41|Loss Aversion and Search for Yield in Emerging Markets Sovereign Debt|A decline in international risk-free interest rates decreases emerging markets (EM) sovereign spreads. I show that a quantitative model of sovereign debt and default exhibits this pattern if foreign lenders are loss-averse and have reference dependence. This happens because investors search for yield in risky EM bonds when the risk-free rate is lower than their return of reference
G41|Conned by a Cashback? Disclosure, Nudges and Consumer Rationality in Mortgage Choice|Financial products with a cashback feature typically cost consumers more in the long run, but their popularity is rising in the mortgage and credit markets. Using a nationally representative online sample, we find that consumers who are younger, less educated and suffer from present bias are more likely to choose costly cash back mortgages. Through a series of experiments, we provide strong evidence that advanced disclosure improves financial decision making of customers and that negative nudges, or advertising, encourages prospective buyers into more costly mortgages. We also find evidence that consumers who demonstrate limited attention bias choose more expensive cashback mortgages that are financially equivalent at the point of drawdown.
G41|Textual Sentiment, Option Characteristics, and Stock Return Predictability|We distill sentiment from a huge assortment of NASDAQ news articles by means of machine learning methods and examine its predictive power in single-stock option markets and equity markets. We provide evidence that single-stock options react to contemporaneous sentiment. Next, examining return predictability, we discover that while option variables indeed predict stock returns, sentiment variables add further informational content. In fact, both in a regression and a trading context, option variables orthogonalized to public and sentimental news are even more informative predictors of stock returns. Distinguishing further between overnight and trading-time news, we find the first to be more informative. From a statistical topic model, we uncover that this is attributable to the differing thematic coverage of the alternate archives. Finally, we show that sentiment disagreement commands a strong positive risk premium above and beyond market volatility and that lagged returns predict future returns in concentrated sentiment environments.
G41|Migration Fear, Uncertainty, and Macroeconomic Dynamics|This paper examines the effects of changes in immigration-related uncertainty and fear on the real economic activity in four advanced economies (i.e., US, UK, Germany and France). Immigration uncertainty/fear is first captured by two news-based indicators developed by Baker et al. (2015), namely the Migration Policy Uncertainty Index (MPUI) and the Migration Fear Index (MFI), and then by a novel Google Trend Migration Uncertainty Index based on the frequency of internet searches for “immigration” (GTMU). VAR investigations suggest that the macroeconomic implications of rising immigration uncertainty/fear depend on the country under examination as well as on the way in which immigration uncertainty/fear is measured. In the US and UK, MPUI, MFI and GTMU shocks induce positive long-run effects on the real economic activity. Differently, in Germany, MPUI and MFI shocks lead to expansionary reactions whereas GTMU shocks generate significant adverse effects on the economy. This suggests that increasing media attention and rising population’s interest in immigration-related issues affect people’s mood in a different way. In France, MPUI, MFI and GTMU shocks induce negative macroeconomic effects in the long-run. A battery of robustness tests confirms our main findings.
G41|The Role of Financial Literacy and Money Education on Wealth Decisions|We investigate the impact of financial education on a wide range of wealth decisions using Dutch data from the DNB Household Survey. We consider two indexes representative of basic and advanced financial literacy acquired when adults, and money education received from the family during adolescence. Advanced financial literacy is a significant determinant of all the wealth outcomes under examination, while basic financial literacy affects only the propensity to plan for retirement and the likelihood of holding debt. Studying the individual components of financial literacy, the most relevant effects are associated with the understanding of numeracy and inflation, together with the correct knowledge of market mechanisms. Interestingly, money education received from the family during adolescence is as important as advanced financial literacy to foster individuals’ wealth decisions. We also find evidence of a gender gap, with males’ wealth decisions more affected by higher levels of financial education. Our results highlight the importance of improving financial knowledge not only through proper educational programs when adults, but also in the family environment during adolescence, where teens can learn positive attitudes towards money that are maintained throughout their life.
G41|The effect of health shocks on financial risk preferences differs by personality traits|We investigate whether personality traits influence the impact of health shocks on financial risk preferences using 11 waves (1998-2008) from the US Health and Retirement Study (HRS). We model stock market participation and the share of risky assets in portfolios and stratify our sample into single person households and couples. Our results indicate that personality traits play a more important role in the portfolio choices for couples than for single people. Moreover, there are differences between women and men within couples, and between chronic and acute health shocks.
G41|Steady states, stability and bifurcations in multi-asset market models|Abstract We provide a full analytical treatment of a multi-asset market model in which speculators have the choice between two risky and one safe asset. As it turns out, the dynamics of our model is driven by a four-dimensional nonlinear map and may undergo a transcritical, flip or Neimark–Sacker bifurcation. While the first bifurcation is associated with an undervaluation of the risky assets, the latter two may trigger (complex) endogenous dynamics. To facilitate our analysis, we first study a simpler two-dimensional setup of our model in which speculators can only switch between one risky and one safe asset.
G41|Social aspirations in European banks: peer-influenced risk behaviour| We test a sample of 3,586 banks from 33 European countries to determine whether performances above or below a social aspiration level (median performance of peer banks) influence banks’ aggregate risk levels. Our results are consistent with the behavioural theory of the firm and prospect theory in that we find that bank performance below a bank’s social aspiration level is followed by increased aggregate risk, i.e. risk-taking behaviour in the subsequent year. Although under-performing banks tend to be risk-takers, large banks and banks with high aggregate risk levels tend to limit the increase in their aggregate risk levels.
G41|A nudge to quit? The effect of a change in pension information on annuitization, labor supply and retirement choices among older workers|Nudge is about affecting behavior in a certain way through small changes to the choice architecture. However, a nudge may also affect behaviors that the architect did not intend. We show that such spillover effects exist in a highly policy relevant context where the use of nudge is widespread; retirement. Specifically, we find that an exogenous application form change in the Swedish pension system that highlighted a five-year payout on the expense of a life annuity not only increased the demand for the nudged payout (as expected), but also induced individuals to retire earlier. We attribute the effects to decision-framing.
G41|Smog, Cognition and Real-World Decision Making|Cognitive functioning is critical as in our daily life a host of real-world complex decisions in high-stakes markets have to be made. The decision-making process can be vulnerable to environmental stressors. Summarizing the growing economic and epidemiologic evidence linking air pollution, cognition performance and real-world decision making, we first illustrate key physiological and psychological pathways between air pollution and cognition. We then document the main patterns of air pollution affecting cognitive test performance by type of cognitive tests, gender, window of exposure, age profile, and educational attainment. We further extend to a review of real-world decision making that has been found to be affected by air pollution and the resulting cognitive impairments. Finally, rich implications on environmental health policies are drawn based on existing evaluations of social costs of air pollution.
G41|Beyond Bitcoin And Cash: Do We Like A Central Bank Digital Currency? A Financial And Political Economics Approach|The aim of this paper is to offer a theoretical primer in order to analyse the demand of a central bank digital currency (CBDC). Using a financial portfolio approach and assuming that individual preferences and policy votes are consistent, we identify the drivers of the political consensus in favour or against such as new currency. Given three different properties of a currency – where the first two are the standard functions of medium of exchange and store of value and the third one is the less explored function of store of information – and three different existing moneys – paper currency, banking currency and cryptocurrency – if the individuals are rational but at the same time can be affected by behavioural biases – loss aversion - three different groups of individuals – respectively lovers, neutrals and haters – emerge respect to the CBDC option. Given the alternative opportunity costs of the different currencies, the CBDC issuing is more likely to occur the more the individuals likes to use a legal tender, and/or are indifferent respect to anonymity; at the same time, the probability of the CBDC introduction increases if a return can be paid on it, and/or its implementation can guarantee at least the counterparty anonymity.
G41|The Ostrich in Us: Selective Attention to Financial Accounts, Income, Spending, and Liquidity|A number of theoretical research papers in micro as well as macroeconomics model and analyze attention but direct empirical evidence remains scarce. This paper investigates the determinants of attention to financial accounts using panel data from a financial management software provider containing daily logins, discretionary spending, income, balances, and credit limits. We find that individuals are considerably more likely to log in because they get paid utilizing exogenous variation in paydays due to weekends and holidays. Beyond looking at the causal effect of income on attention, we examine how attention depends on individual spending, balances, and credit limits within individuals’ own histories. We find that attention is decreasing in spending and overdrafts and increasing in cash holdings, savings, and liquidity. Moreover, attention jumps discretely when balances change from negative to positive. We argue that our findings cannot be explained by rational theories of inattention. Instead our findings are consistent with Ostrich effects and anticipatory utility as the main motivation for paying attention to financial accounts and thus provide new tests for information- or belief-dependent utility models. Furthermore, we show that some of our findings can be explained by a recent influential one of those models (Kőszegi and Rabin, 2009), which assumes individuals experience utility over news or changes in expectations about consumption.
G41|Socioeconomic Status and Macroeconomic Expectations|We show that individuals' macroeconomic expectations are influenced by their socioeconomic status (SES). People with higher income or higher education are more optimistic about future macroeconomic developments, including business conditions, the national unemployment rate, and stock market returns. The spread in beliefs between high- and low-SES individuals diminishes significantly during recessions. A comparison with professional forecasters and historical data reveals that the beliefs wedge reflects excessive pessimism on the part of low-SES individuals. SES-driven expectations help explain why higher-SES individuals are more inclined to invest in the stock market and more likely to consider purchasing homes, durable goods, or cars.
G41|CAPM-Based Company (Mis)valuations|There is a discrepancy between CAPM-implied and realized returns. As a result, using the CAPM in capital budgeting decisions -- as is recommended in finance textbooks -- should have valuation effects. For instance, low beta projects are expected to be valued more by CAPM-using managers than by the market. This paper empirically tests this hypothesis using publicly announced M&A decisions. We show that takeovers of lower beta targets are accompanied by lower CARs for the bidder. Consistent with our hypothesis, the effect is more pronounced for larger acquisitions, higher growth targets, and private targets. Furthermore, low beta bidders are more likely to use their own stock to finance the deal. More generally, low beta firms are less likely to issue equity, and more likely to repurchase shares. These effects are not reversed in the long-run, suggesting that CAPM-using managers may be irrational, though this last test lacks power.
G41|Why APRC is misleading and how it should be reformed|The annual percentage rate of charge (APRC) designed to reflect all costs of borrowing is a widely used measure to compare different credit products. It disregards completely, however, risks of possible future changes in interest and exchange rates. As an unintended consequence of the general advice to minimize APRC, many borrowers take adjustable-rate mortgages with extremely short interest rate period or foreign currency denominated loans and run into an excessive risk without really being aware of it. To avoid this, we propose a new, risk-adjusted APRC incorporating also the potential costs of risk hedging. This new measure eliminates most of the virtual advantages of riskier structures and reduces the danger of excessive risk taking. As an illustration, we present the latest Hungarian home loan trends but lessons are universal.
G41|Noncognitive Abilities and Financial Distress: Evidence from a Representative Household Panel|This paper provides evidence for a causal effect of noncognitive abilities on financial distress. In a representative panel of households, we find that people in the bottom decile of noncognitive abilities are five times more likely to experience financial distress than those in the top decile. This relation arises largely from worse financial choices and lack of financial insight by low-ability individuals, and only to a lesser degree reflects differential exposure to income shocks. We account for potential confounding factors including preferences, cognitive abilities, and demographics. Implications for policy and finance research are discussed.
G41|More than a feeling: confidence, uncertainty and macroeconomic fluctuations|Economists, observers and policy-makers often emphasize the role of sentiment as a potential driver of the business cycle. In this paper we provide three contributions to this debate. First, we give a concise overview of the recent literature on sentiment (considering both confidence and uncertainty) and economic activity. Second, we review existing empirical measures of sentiment, in particular consumer confidence, stock market volatility (SMV) and Economic Policy Uncertainty (EPU), on monthly data for 27 countries, 1985-2016. Third, we identify some new stylized facts based on international evidence. While different measures are surprisingly lowly correlated on average in each country, they are typically highly positively correlated across countries, suggesting the existence of a global factor. Consumer confidence has the closest co-movement with economic and financial variables, and most of the correlations are contemporaneous or forward-looking, consistent with the view that economic sentiment is indeed a driver of activity. JEL Classification: E32, E71, F44, G15, G41
G41|Response of firms to listing: Evidence from SME exchanges|Public equity markets have increasingly become accessible to small and medium firms with the introduction of dedicated exchange that lower listing criteria to allow such firms to list their equity. We exploit the introduction of such a dedicated exchange in India to ask how listing impacts the financial constraints and growth prospects of small and medium firms. The causal impact is assessed using a difference-in-differences estimation based on a sample of firms that listed on these exchanges over a three year period, where we also observe matched firms that are not listed. We find that listing improves the asset size and capital structure of listed firms relative to firms that do not list. But we find no evidence that these firms are subsequently able to access higher debt finance from formal institutions, nor evidence of improvement in the performance of these firms, after listing.
G41|Improving the 30-Year Fixed-Rate Mortgage|"The 30-year fixed-rate fully amortizing mortgage (or ""traditional fixed-rate mortgage"") was a substantial innovation when first developed during the Great Depression. However, it has three major flaws. First, because homeowner equity accumulates slowly during the first decade, homeowners are essentially renting their homes from lenders. With so little equity accumulation, many lenders require large down payments. Second, in each monthly mortgage payment, homeowners substantially compensate capital markets investors for the ability to prepay. The homeowner might have better uses for this money. Third, refinancing mortgages is often very costly. We propose a new fixed-rate mortgage, called the Fixed-Payment-COFI mortgage (or ""Fixed-COFI mortgage""), that resolves these three flaws. This mortgage has fixed monthly payments equal to payments for traditional fixed-rate mortgages and no down payment. Also, unlike traditional fixed-rate mortgages, Fixed-COFI mortgages do not bundle mortgage financing with compensation paid to capital markets investors for bearing prepayment risks; instead, this money is directed toward purchasing the home. The Fixed-COFI mortgage exploits the often-present prepayment-risk wedge between the fixed-rate mortgage rate and the estimated cost of funds index (COFI) mortgage rate. Committing to a savings program based on the difference between fixed-rate mortgage payments and payments based on COFI plus a margin, the homeowner uses this wedge to accumulate home equity quickly. In addition, the Fixed-COFI mortgage is a highly profitable asset for many mortgage lenders. Fixed-COFI mortgages may help some renters gain access to homeownership. These renters may be, for example, paying rents as high as comparable mortgage payments in high-cost metropolitan areas but do not have enough savings for a down payment. The Fixed-COFI mortgage may help such renters, among others, purchase homes."
G41|Adjusting classical portfolio theories with behavioral practices|This paper represents a study of the concepts and practices defined by the up-and-coming research field, namely Behavioral Finance. In addition to presenting these concepts and practices, the work incorporates behavioral issues in an attempt to build a portfolio model that is based and tailored to a particular investor profile. The paper also presents a brief description of an analysis of the investment funds on the Romanian market, and the emphasis is on the observation of the correlation between the fund allocations strategies in relation to the yields obtained. Therefore, this paper wishes to study the methods and concepts by which Behavioral Finance helps an investor make better decisions. This new direction of research helps discover those aspects that lead to irrational decisions, and by knowing them, corrective measures can be taken upon irrationality. To capture investor behavior correlated with the yields obtained, a sample of mutual funds have been analyzed for the period of Dec 2007 – Apr 2017. This part of analysis reveals the importance of risk perception, and how different perspectives upon risks, drive completely different conclusions. With this observation in mind, we then simulate a portfolio that is tailored to a specific investor profile and his goals, applying along the way portfolio optimization techniques and adjusting it with behavioral finance practices. The end result is a simulated portfolio strategy allocation that can be used as a basis for investment decision.
G41|Response of Firms to Listing: Evidence from SME Exchanges|Public equity markets have increasingly become accessible to small and medium firms with the introduction of dedicated exchange that lower listing criteria to allow such firms to list their equity. The paper exploit the introduction of such a dedicated exchange in India to ask how listing impacts the financial constraints and growth prospects of small and medium firms. The causal impact is assessed using a difference-in-differences estimation based on a sample of firms that listed on these exchanges over a three year period, where we also observe matched firms that are not listed. The paper finds that listing improves the asset size and capital structure of listed firms relative to firms that do not list. But they have not found any evidence that these firms are subsequently able to access higher debt finance from formal institutions, nor evidence of improvement in the performance of these firms, after listing.
G41|The Investor in Structured Retail Products: Marketing Driven or Gambling Oriented?|Structured retail products (SRP) are one of the most visible faces of financial innovation and are becoming increasingly popular amongst retail investors. However, there is strong consensus that retail investors’ preference for structured products is difficult to explain using the standard rational theory, those products being in general sold at a significant premium. Studying the actual trading behavior of individual investors we provide evidence consistent with the view that SRP likely offer value to some informed investors compared to other products, that product complexity is a way to complete markets and that SRP allow investors to access segments otherwise not available to them. Nonetheless, our results also suggest that the increasing popularity of SRP is deeply related to investors’ behavioral biases, particularly overconfidence and gambling. Moreover, results also show that SRP trading activity cannot be dissociated from aggressive marketing practices. The study is structured as follows: The next section describes the database used. The third section traces the socio-demographic profile of investors in SRP, making a comparison with equity investors and the general Portuguese population. In section 4 alternative models are estimated to help define the profile of investors in SRP and evaluate the influence of behavioral traits in this characterization. In the last section some final conclusions are drawn. We start out documenting that investors in SRP are different than investors in other instruments. We then test the impact of financial literacy on the investment in SRP and conclude that more knowledgeable and sophisticated investors are more likely to invest in SRP. This is consistent with the idea that if product complexity is a way to complete markets, then more knowledgeable and sophisticated retail investors will be offered (and will invest in) more complex structured products. We also conclude that overconfident investors participate (and trade) more in the structured retail product market, and that the contact between the product distributor and the investor is most relevant. Therefore, marketing is a strong determinant of the investment is SRP thus providing a rationale for overpricing. Finally, our results allow us to conclude that gambling may justify investors’ irrationality when they opt for SRP.
G41|How Biased is the Behavior of the Individual Investor in Warrants?|Based on the actual trading behavior of individual investors in the Portuguese financial market during almost ten years this paper examines the socio-demographic characteristics of retail investors in warrants, and discusses the hypothesis that some behavioral biases do have an impact on the investors’ predisposition to invest and trade in warrants, a complex financial instrument. One finds that there is a profile of investors in warrants: younger and less educated men are more likely to invest in warrants and that overconfident,disposition-prone and investors exhibiting a gambling attitude are more likely to invest and trade in warrants. Secondly, the gambling motive seems to be a distinguishing characteristic of investors in warrants. In other words, when investors are driven to trade in financial markets for pleasure/fun they tend to trade complex products more and to trade simple and easier to understand financial instruments less. Finally, the higher the intensity of trading the more relevant are the disposition and the gambler’s biases.
G41|Gender Differences in Competitiveness and Risk-Taking among Children, Teenagers, and College Students: Evidence from Jeopardy!|Studying competitiveness and risk-taking among Jeopardy! contestants in the US, this paper analyzes whether and how gender differences emerge with age and by gender of opponent. Our samples contain 186 children (aged 10–12), 310 teenagers (aged 13–17), and 299 undergraduate college students. We measure competitiveness via the likelihood of (i) winning an episode, (ii) responding to a clue (i.e., 'buzzing' in), and (iii) responding correctly to a clue. Risk-taking is assessed via Daily Double wagering decisions. We identify no noticeable gender differences in our competitive measures throughout all three samples, but this result changes when considering risk-taking. Although we identify no gender differences in wagering for children, males begin to wager substantially more as they become teenagers, leading to the emergence of the gender gap. In terms of magnitude, teenage girls wager 7.3 percentage points less of their maximum wager than teenage boys, equivalent to approximately $451. This gap persists for college students, albeit with a somewhat smaller magnitude of $297. Finally, male teenagers and college students wager substantially less when competing against females. In turn, the gender of opponents does not influence female competitive behavior and risk-taking.
G41|The Ostrich in Us: Selective Attention to Financial Accounts, Income, Spending, and Liquidity|A number of theoretical research papers in micro as well as macroeconomics model and analyze attention but direct empirical evidence remains scarce. This paper investigates the determinants of attention to financial accounts using panel data from a financial management software provider containing daily logins, discretionary spending, income, balances, and credit limits. We find that individuals are considerably more likely to log in because they get paid utilizing exogenous variation in paydays due to weekends and holidays. Beyond looking at the causal effect of income on attention, we examine how attention depends on individual spending, balances, and credit limits \emph{within} individuals' own histories. We find that attention is decreasing in spending and overdrafts and increasing in cash holdings, savings, and liquidity. Moreover, attention jumps discretely when balances change from negative to positive. We argue that our findings cannot be explained by rational theories of inattention. Instead our findings are consistent with Ostrich effects and anticipatory utility as the main motivation for paying attention to financial accounts and thus provide new tests for information- or belief-dependent utility models. Furthermore, we show that some of our findings can be explained by a recent influential one of those models (Koszegi and Rabin, 2009), which assumes individuals experience utility over news or changes in expectations about consumption.
G41|Socioeconomic Status and Macroeconomic Expectations|We show that individuals' macroeconomic expectations are influenced by their socioeconomic status (SES). People with higher income or higher education are more optimistic about future macroeconomic developments, including business conditions, the national unemployment rate, and stock market returns. The spread in beliefs between high- and low-SES individuals diminishes significantly during recessions. A comparison with professional forecasters and historical data reveals that the beliefs wedge reflects excessive pessimism on the part of low-SES individuals. SES-driven expectations help explain why higher-SES individuals are more inclined to invest in the stock market and more likely to consider purchasing homes, durable goods, or cars.
G41|Who Falls Prey to the Wolf of Wall Street? Investor Participation in Market Manipulation|Manipulative communications touting stocks are common in capital markets around the world. Although the price distortions created by so-called “pump-and-dump” schemes are well known, little is known about the investors in these frauds. By examining 421 “pump-and-dump” schemes between 2002 and 2015 and a proprietary set of trading records for over 110,000 individual investors from a major German bank, we provide evidence on the participation rate, magnitude of the investments, losses, and the characteristics of the individuals who invest in such schemes. Our evidence suggests that participation is quite common and involves sizable losses, with nearly 6% of active investors participating in at least one “pump-and-dump” and an average loss of nearly 30%. Moreover, we identify several distinct types of investors, some of which should not be viewed as falling prey to these frauds. We also show that portfolio composition and past trading behavior can better explain participation in touted stocks than demographics. Our analysis offers insights into the challenges associated with designing effective investor protection against market manipulation.
G41|Stock Market Overvaluation, Moon Shots, and Corporate Innovation|We test how market overvaluation affects corporate innovation. Estimated stock overvaluation is very strongly associated with R&D, innovative output, and measures of innovative novelty, originality, and scope. R&D is much more sensitive than capital investment to overvaluation. Misvaluation affects R&D more via a non-equity channel than via equity issuance. We document how the sensitivity of R&D and innovative outcomes to misvaluation depends on growth, overvaluation, and turnover. The frequency of exceptionally high innovative inputs/outputs increases with overvaluation. This evidence suggests that market overvaluation may generate social value by increasing innovative output and by encouraging firms to engage in ‘moon shots.’
G41|Index Investing and Asset Pricing under Information Asymmetry and Ambiguity Aversion|Ambiguity aversion alone does not explain the market nonparticipation puzzle. We show that in a rational expectations equilibrium model with a fund offering the risk-adjusted market portfolio (RAMP), ambiguity averse investors hold the fund and an information-based portfolio, and thus participate in all asset markets, directly or indirectly. This result follows from a new separation theorem which states that an investor’s equilibrium portfolio can be decomposed into components, each matching the optimal portfolio based on only one information source (price versus private signal). Asset risk premia satisfy the CAPM with the fund as the pricing portfolio.
G41|The disposition effect when deciding on behalf of others|The disposition effect is a well-established phenomenon which describes the behavior of investors that are more willing to sell capital gains than capital losses. In this article we present experimental evidence on a situation where an investor decides on behalf of another person. In our setting, trading effort should only be affected by investors' intrinsic motivation, as trading actions only influence the profits of a matched person. In a control treatment, trades directly influence investors' profits. Overall, we find that trading on behalf of others increases disposition effects. In this treatment, we find that the effect is caused by inexperienced investors, characterized by a greater concern for others. Thus, trading for others results in an emotional burden for these investors, which leads to weak trading performance.
G41|How does the public perceive alliances? The Central and Allied Powers in World War I|World War I was fought by numerous countries siding together as the Central Powers and, respectively, the Allied Powers. The former established around the German Empire and Austria-Hungary and grew to four allies when the Ottoman Empire in late 1914 and Bulgaria in late 1915 entered the scene; the latter centered on the alliance between England, France, and Russia and was informally extended to many more countries as they entered into the war ad-hoc by signaling common interests with the core Allied Powers. This article addresses an oft-neglected dimension of the alliance formation phenomenon, namely how alliances were perceived by the public, in contrast to military leaders' perceptions of each other. Were the Central and Allied Powers perceived as credible alliances - monolithic blocks - right at the time? We seek to determine the degree of 'alliance integration' among pairs of countries by applying cointegration analysis based on securities prices. It is assumed that prices of countries perceived as 'integrated' should show signs of co-movement. More specifically, we focus on the Amsterdam market for foreign government bonds providing us with a neutral's view on that matter. Our analysis is based on the yields for 13 belligerent countries' representative bonds traded during the war, but also before and after. Among other things, we cannot corroborate that investors recognized two monolithic blocks simply fighting the war.
G41|"Diseño de un modelo específico para la predicción de la quiebra de micro-entities || Design of a Specific Model for Predicting Micro-Entities Failure"|"La importancia de las micro-entities como generadoras de empleo y propulsoras de la actividad económica conlleva, unida a sus mayores tasas de quiebra y a su dificultad para acceder a las fuentes de financiación, la necesidad de diseñar métodos apropiados que anticipen sus quiebras. Con este fin, en este trabajo se desarrolla un modelo híbrido mediante la combinación de enfoques paramétricos y no paramétricos para la detección de sus quiebras. Para ello, se seleccionan las variables con mayor poder predictivo para detectar la quiebra mediante un modelo híbrido de regresión logística (LR) y árboles de regresión y clasificación (CART). Nuestros resultados muestran que este modelo híbrido obtiene una mejor performance que aquellos modelos implementados de forma aislada, además de tener una más fácil interpretación y una convergencia más rápida. Por otra parte, se constata la conveniencia de la introducción de variables no financieras y macroeconómicas que complementen a la información proporcionada por los ratios financieros para la predicción de la quiebra de las micro-entities, lo cual está en línea con las características propias e idiosincrasia de este tamaño empresarial recientemente definido por la Comisión Europea. || The importance of micro-entities due to their generation of employment and propelling economic activity, together with the fact of their particularities, implies the need to design appropriate methods that anticipate their bankruptcies. For that purpose, a hybrid model by combining parametric and nonparametric approaches is developed in this paper. First, the variables with the highest predictive power to detect bankruptcy are selected using logistic regression (LR). Subsequently, a non-parametric method, namely regression trees and classification (CART), is then applied to companies classified as ""bankruptcy"" or ""non-bankruptcy"". Our results show that this model provides a better result than when it is implemented in isolation, which joins its easier interpretation and faster convergence. Moreover, we demonstrate that the introduction of non-financial and macroeconomic variables complement the financial ratios for bankruptcy prediction. Findings are based on a data set of micro-entities (MEs), as recently defined by the European Union."
G41|Excess premium offers and bidder success in European takeovers|For European takeovers, we study whether offering an “excess” premium has any effect on deal completion. We define “excess” premium as being higher than the “expected” premium derived from recent deals with comparable characteristics, controlling for industry, country, size, period, and other deal, bidder and target characteristics. We identify factors explaining why firms offer “excess” premiums and examine whether “excess” premiums increase the likelihood of deal completion. Our results suggest that merger and acquisition targets experience higher announcement returns in “excess” premium offers and successful bidders have a superior long-run performance regardless of paying an “excess” premium, whereas unsuccessful bidders’ performance is negative. The probability of offering an “excess” premium increases with bidder size but decreases with target size and depends on deal characteristics. Notably, deal completion is more likely when offering an “excess” premium. Copyright Eurasia Business and Economics Society 2015
G41|Time varying risk aversion|Exploiting portfolio data and repeated surveys of an Italian bank's clients, we test whether investors’ risk aversion increases following the 2008 crisis. We find that, after the crisis, both qualitative and quantitative measures of risk aversion increase substantially and that affected individuals divest more stock. We investigate four explanations: changes in wealth, expected income, perceived probabilities, and emotion-based changes of the utility function. Our data are inconsistent with the first two channels, while they suggest that fear is a potential mechanism underlying financial decisions, whether by increasing the curvature of the utility function or the salience of negative outcomes.
G41|China’s equilibrium exchange rate dynamics 1994–2004: A cointegration analysis|No abstract is available for this item.
G41|The Effect of Futures Markets on the Stability of Commodity Prices|Do futures markets have a stabilizing or destabilizing effect on commodity prices? Empirical evidence is inconclusive. We try to resolve this question by means of a learning-to-forecast experiment in which a futures market and a spot market are coupled. The spot market exhibits negative feedback between forecasts and prices, while the futures market is of the positive feedback type, which makes it susceptible to bubbles and crashes. We show that the effect of a futures market on spot price stability changes non-monotonically with the strength of the coupling between the spot and futures markets. This coupling depends positively on the number of speculators on the futures market and negatively on storage costs, speculator risk aversion, and the volatility of futures prices. In the end we observe a stabilizing effect on spot prices for weakly coupled markets and a destabilizing effect when the coupling with the futures market is strong.
G41|Editorial Statement of Intent for Advances in Decision Sciences (ADS): 22nd Anniversary Special Issue in 2018|This note is concerned with an editorial statement of intent for Advances in Decision Sciences (ADS), which was founded in 1997, so that 2918 marks the 22nd Anniversary of the journal. The note discusses the aims and scope of ADS in Section 1, innovative topics in all fields of optimal decision making in Section 2, invitation to submit papers to ADS in Section 3, editors and members of the editorial board in Section 4, and acknowledgements in Section 5.
