H13|Modern Democracy-Welfare State and Public Goods. A current consequence for Greece|People expect the state to create jobs and provide them with a social security net. Whatever its defects, whatever the virtues of the private sector, no structure other than the state can today provide citizens with the basic public goods. Under the present right-wing government of Nea Dimokratia in Greece, which is not particularly at odds with neoliberalism, a very active role of the state is not expected. Also is nor expected the introduction of a serious program of public investment and demand boosting to stimulate the national economy and enter into a virtuous circle of recovery. Greece, which has undergone the economic crisis with drastic cuts in its traditionally deficient social state, has to respond directly to the marked underinvestment in public goods (in key areas such as education, health, natural disasters, dealing with decent living conditions).The most important tool for inputting resources is the tax system.
H13|La Empresa Estatal Como un Sustituto a los Impuestos|En este trabajo planteamos un modelo de estatización de empresas privadas basado en el supuesto de que el gobierno es un agente maximizador de recursos fiscales. El gobierno puede permitir el funcionamiento de una empresa privada y obtener recursos fiscales a través de impuestos o puede estatizar la empresa y obtener recursos fiscales de los beneficios de la empresa estatal. Un gobierno maximizador de recursos decidirá estatizar una empresa privada cuando los beneficios que le genera la empresa bajo control del Estado menos los costos de estatizarla superen a la recaudación impositiva que le brinda la empresa privada.
H13|Der Wohlfahrtstaat als Grundbestandteil des modernen demokratischen Staatsgefüges<BR>[The welfare state as a basic component of the modern democratic state structure]|Defining the welfare state is not a simpleminded task. Actually, there are numerous definitions which try to reflect at least some of the basic characteristics of the welfare state or its objectives and its functions. For some, there is primarily an institutional parameter, for others there are functional issues which have to be firstly indicated and for others, the ideological and political factors determine the definition and the attitude towards the welfare state. Apart from all these crucial ascertainments, there are some basic fundamental characteristics and values of the welfare state which render it as a precondition of the existence of the modern state. Unquestionably, it reflects a distinct part of the state but most importantly, it comprises a prerequisite for its existence. This is the exact aim of this paper; to surpass the theoretical diversifications and to find the fundamental common ground which forms the indispensability for the existence of the welfare state.
H13|Co-investments and African infrastructure deficit: Understanding and mitigating political risks in Conflicts Affected and Fragile States|This article through a qualitative assessment identifies political risks confronted by FDI in infrastructures project in African Conflicts Affected and Fragile (CAF) States and studies the structure for infrastructures financing which allows lessening political risks. Outside hydrocarbon sector which remains attractive even in a worse political context, African CAF regions infrastructures sector as other sectors remain unattractive to foreign investors. By considering global investors’ weak preferences for CAF countries infrastructures assets, due to high levels of political risks, we argue that: to fill the CAF States’ infrastructure gap and addressing at the same time political risks concern, an optimal solution is located in a strategic tricky balance between African SWFs as kick-started, Multi-Development Banks (MDBs) (like MIGA agency under the World Bank Group) and long-term institutional investors like foreign SWFs. In the initial phase, MDBs with both their flexibility and experience ought to help finance the riskiest phases of infrastructure projects after African SWFs have to identified bankable projects. In the second period, MDBs ought to disengage and transfer their mature green infrastructure projects to secure the path for a workable involvement of long-term institutional investors such as sovereign wealth funds. With the aim to foster a vast African infrastructure bonds’ markets in which the African CAF States could play a pivotal role, strengthening rules of law (regulatory and legal frames) should begin straightaway
H13|Are Resettled Oustees from the Sardar Sarovar Dam Project Better off Today than their Former Neighbors who were not Ousted?|"The Sardar Sarovar Dam in Gujarat is arguably the most controversial dam ever built in India, with over a 100,000 displaced people. Most ousted families in Gujarat were resettled in the late 1980s and early 1990s. All oustees were tribals—a term used in India to cover a list of tribes viewed as so backward and historically oppressed that the Indian Constitution in 1950 reserved a quota of seats in education, government jobs, and Parliamentary seats for them. The Gujarat government promised to offer each male adult in the ousted families above the age of 18 five acres of land regardless of their earlier forest holdings. Additional compensation was to be given for loss of houses and livestock. Despite the continuing opposition to the dam from influential NGOs, there is no systematic empirical study of its effects on the long-term wellbeing of the ousted families. Our study investigates: Are resettled oustees from the Sardar Sarovar Dam project better off in 2017, approximately three decades after resettlement, than their former neighbours who were not ousted? We carried out a survey of a randomly selected sample of outsted families (treatment group) and a randomly selected sample of their former neighbors who lived in high areas that would remain above water when the reservoir rises to its maximum height and therefore were allowed to stay (comparison group). We found that, despite implementation glitches, those displaced were far better off than their former forest neighbours in ownership of a range of assets including TVs, cellphones, vehicles, access to schools and hospitals, and agricultural markets. The gap in asset ownership and other outcomes between the treatment and comparison groups were often statistically larger if the heads of the household were illiterate compared to the gap if they were literate. This finding suggests that resettlement helped vulnerable groups more than the less vulnerable and that fears that resettlement will destroy the lives and life-styles of tribals have been grossly exaggerated. We also found that 54% of displaced folk wished to return to their old habitat, showing that nostalgia for ancestral land can matter more than onweship of assets and economic wellbeing. Nearby undisplaced forest dwellers were asked if they would like to be ""forcibly"" resettled with the full compensation package. Of two forest groups, 31% and 52% said yes. Clearly many, though not all, tribesfolk yearn to leave the forest."
H13|The transformation of post-socialist capitalism – from developmental state to clan state?|Various characterisations exist of the model of post-social capitalism exist. While most typologies underscore the prominent role of the state in post-socialist capitalism compared to Western economies, the literature is less clear about what exactly this role consists of. For the case of East Central Europe, some authors underscore the weakness of the state and its ‘capture’ by business interests, while others attribute to the state a benign role in successful industrial restructuring. We show that both views are of limited use to understand the phase of ‘backsliding’ that these economies are currently experiencing. We draw on anthropological models of post-socialist states that focus on elite dynamics within the state and show that this focus allows us to interpret backsliding in Hungary as a reversal of the developmental state into a clan-state.
H13|Optimal fertility under age-dependent labour productivity|Abstract In the so-called Rapport Sauvy (1962), the French demographer Alfred Sauvy argued that Wallonia’s fertility rate was socially suboptimal, and recommended a 20 % rise of fertility, on the grounds that a society with too low a fertility leads to a low-productive economy composed of old workers having old ideas. This paper examines how Sauvy’s intuition can be incorporated in the Samuelsonian optimal fertility model (Samuelson, Int Econ Rev 16:531–538, 1975). We build a four-period OLG model with physical capital and with two generations of workers (young and old), the skills of the latter being subject to some form of decay. We characterize the optimal fertility rate and show that this equalizes, at the margin, the sum of the capital dilution effect (Solow effect) and the labour age-composition effect (Sauvy effect) with the intergenerational redistribution effect (Samuelson effect). Numerical simulations show that it is hard, from a quantitative perspective, to reconcile Sauvy’s recommendation with facts. This leads us to examine other potential determinants of optimal fertility, by introducing technological progress and a more general social welfare function.
H13|Russia’s Crony Capitalism: Stagnant But Stable|A conundrum this paper aims to explain is how Russia, a country that pursues such rigorous and conservative macroeconomic policies can be so tolerant of state and crony capitalism. The key issue is what Putin’s economic model amounts to, which is being presented already in section one. Section two reviews Russia’s recent economic performance, while the three ensuing sections examine three key aspects of the Russian economy, namely the eminent macroeconomic policy, the role of energy, and the impact of the Western sanctions since 2014. The final section attempts to answer the likelihood of serious market reforms.
H13|¿Qué hacer con el cobre?|En este artículo se propone una nueva política para el cobre. La base de cualquier modelo de desarrollo para Chile es su estrategia económica y dentro de ella, la política respecto al cobre. En la primera sección se define el concepto de renta. En la segunda, se resumen estudios que cuantifican la sobre normal magnitud de las rentas económicas por parte del sector privado. En la tercera sección se justifica la necesidad de recuperar estas rentas para el Estado: no solo hay altas rentas, también hay bajo valor agregado y perspectivas de agotamiento de las altas rentas. En la sección cuarta se pregunta si los argumentos a favor de la nacionalización el cobre que se tomaron en cuenta en 1971 resisten el paso del tiempo. En la sección quinta, se propone que mientras ello no sea posible, al menos, se debe actuar sobre la tributación, especialmente corrigiendo la elusión y la evasión. Finalmente, se resume el artículo con alternativas de cómo implementar la nacionalización y de qué modo podría financiarse.
H13|Perfect Public Offering: A Process to Provide Complete Ownership & Direction of Businesses to the Entire Public|A process for a business to exclusively and completely sell its shares to a 501(c)3 charity to transfer full ownership & direction of the business to the entire public. Nonprofit universities are charities well positioned to completely own & operate businesses: to produce and allocate their goods and services to society efficiently, effectively and in harmony with the best interests of the entire public, especially when employees of acquired businesses become faculty of the university; When work becomes education in motion; When operating costs of the university and the acquired businesses are subsidized by the goods, services, amenities, and processes of the university and the businesses it acquires; And when socioeconomic order is naturally regulated via the infrastructures of universities. The social and economic efficiency and effectiveness of businesses completely owned and operated by nonprofit universities induce logic and peer-pressures which encourage global assimilation. The mechanism relies on an iterated prisoner’s dilemma scenario established amongst all businesses, created by global externalities produced from the localized interactions of an initial group of businesses being completely acquired by a nonprofit university, which uses an internet platform to localize their social and economic information and activities to help concentrate public understanding, trust and support to itself and the businesses, which initially join to benefit being first within their industry to be acquired. [1] The result, efficiently and effectively produces and allocates goods, services, knowledge, resources, jobs, and opportunities amongst society; Establishes Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs; And naturally resolves many socioeconomic issues.
H13|Securing Property Rights|A central challenge in securing property rights is the subversion of justice through legal skill, bribery, or physical force by the strong--the state or its powerful citizens--against the weak. We present evidence that the less educated and poorer citizens in many countries feel their property rights are least secure. We then present a model of a farmer and a mine which can pollute his farm in a jurisdiction where the mine can subvert law enforcement. We show that, in this model, injunctions or other forms of property rules work better than compensation for damage or liability rules. The equivalences of the Coase Theorem break down in realistic ways. The case for injunctions is even stronger when parties can invest in power. Our approach sheds light on several controversies in law and economics, but also applies to practical problems in developing countries, such as low demand for formality, law enforcement under uncertain property rights, and unresolved conflicts between environmental damage and development.
H13|Economic Sectors Of Strategic Importance To The National Security. A Case Of Poland|The purpose of the paper is to properly define the economic sectors of strategic importance to the national security and to evaluate the state’s tools which protect this security. The paper’s methodology is based on two analyses; the former focusing on instruments which are applied by the state in order to control certain fields of the economy, and the latter investigating economic sectors in terms of concentration, impact on the state security and integration with other sectors. The paper also defines the criteria which helped to identify sectors which have strategic importance to the national security, i.e. production and supply of electric energy; extraction and supply of natural gas; extraction, distribution and storage of liquid propellants, telecommunications, banking industry; banknotes and documents’ production (together with related IT solutions) and military industry. The article leads to the conclusion that these sectors are strategically important to the national security. However, there is still a lack of coherent and complete legal regulations that would protect the national security interest related to the part of the economy represented by the analyzed sectors and companies.
H13|Spatial Externalities, Openness and Financial Development in SADC: Beyond the Multilateral Monetary Agreement|This study empirically evaluates spatial externalities in financial development in SADC in line with spatial proximity theory, which asserts that externalities increase with proximity. Precisely, the study tests if financially less developed economies in SADC benefit from linkages with and proximity to South Africa, a financially developed economy. The Spatial Durbin Model estimated using GMM and Dynamic Panel Estimations, establishes that financial development in the SADC region is sensitive to space and hence not immune to spatial externalities. Results indicate that monetary measures are highly sensitive to geography than credit and that allowing for spatiality, credit from South Africa crowds-out domestic and private credit of other SADC countries. Precisely, proximity to South Africa brings negative externalities in credit but positive externalities in money markets. Implicitly, the spatial variable has a substitution effect in the local credit market and a complementary effect in the money market. Estimations that controlled for effects of monetary union in the model also confirms that financial development is affected by spatiality in the money market and is not responsive to spatial effects in credit. The results also indicated that financial openness is a necessary condition for financial development to take place in the SADC region.
H13|Securing Property Rights|A central challenge in securing property rights is the subversion of justice through legal skill, bribery, or physical force by the strong?the state or its powerful citizens?against the weak. We present evidence that the less educated and poorer citizens in many countries feel their property rights are least secure. We then present a model of a farmer and a mine which can pollute his farm in a jurisdiction where the mine can subvert law enforcement. We show that, in this model, injunctions or other forms of property rules work better than compensation for damage or liability rules. The equivalences of the Coase Theorem break down in realistic ways. The case for injunctions is even stronger when parties can invest in power. Our approach sheds light on several controversies in law and economics, but also applies to practical problems in developing countries, such as low demand for formality, law enforcement under uncertain property rights, and unresolved conflicts between environmental damage and development.
H13|Fairness and efficiency in US Revolutionary War takings and post-war debt redemption|Abstract Many have noted the debate amongst Hamilton, Jefferson, and others on compensating original versus final US Revolutionary War debt holders upon federal assumption of state debts in 1790. However, to our knowledge the economics literature has not yet proposed a theoretical model of the argument. The purpose of this paper is to propose a simple household-level economic model to capture the most salient aspects of the debate, including the role of military impressment and the emergence of the Takings Clause of the US Constitution.
H13|Alexis Tsipras und der rhetorische Diskurs als Politik<BR>[Alexis Tsipras and the rhetorical discourse as Policy]|"Es existiert wohl keinerlei «Präzedenzfall», der in irgendeiner Weise vergleichbar wäre mit der vollkommenen Verwandlung des derzeitigen griechischen Ministerpräsidenten Alexis Tsipras und dessen Anpassung an die Anforderungen der griechischen Realität. Wahrhaft, all zu rasch übersetzte sich sein radikaler, unkonventioneller und extremer Diskurs gegen die in Griechenland seit 2010 implementierte harte Sparpolitik, in einen taktischen Rückzug. Die SYRIZA Partei, eine heterogene Mischung linker Strömungen, nutzte den Unmut der Bevölkerung gegenüber den schmerzhaft anmutenden Sparmaβnahmen des sogenannten griechischen Memorandums, um den eigenen machtpolitischen Senkrechtsstart voranzutreiben und sich ziemlich rasch von einer kleinen Protestpartei zu einer Machtpartei zu verwandeln. Dementsprechend transferierte diese Partei, ohne die geringste moralische Umschweife, die Verzweiflung der Bürger in einen extremen rhetorischen Diskurs der scheinbaren „Verteidigung sozialer Rechte“ hinein, jedoch mit dem Ziel des eigenen Wahlsieges und anschließend die Übernahme der Macht. Abstract English There is probably no ""precedent"", which would be comparable in any way with the perfect transformation of the current Greek Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras and its adaptation to the requirements of the Greek reality. Truly, all too quickly his radical, unconventional and extreme discourse against the implemented in Greece since 2010 tough austerity policy, is transformed into a tactical retreat.. The SYRIZA party, a heterogeneous mixture of left Groups , used the displeasure of the population to the painful-looking Austerity measures of the so-called Greek memorandum to advance their own political take off to power and rather rapidly to transform from a small protest party to a ruling party. Accordingly, this party transferred, without the slightest moral ado, the despair of the citizens in an extreme rhetorical discourse of apparent ""defense of social rights"" into it, however, with the aim of the own electoral victory and then the acquisition of power."
H13|Do changes in social and economic characteristics affect attitude towards price control?|This work examines how an individual adjusts his preferences about government price control when his social and economic characteristics change. Employing unique individual level data collected from Russian household in 2006 and 2013, we show that acquiring higher education decreases individual preferences toward government price control. Having a set of individuals questioned in 2006 and 2013 we observe changes of their preference along with changes in social and economic characteristics. This in turn, allows us to use first difference OLS estimations and eliminated bias caused by correlation of education and variety of unobserved characteristics that are fixed in time (i.e. unobserved innate abilities). Among other characteristics affecting decreasing individual demand for government price control are income and positive economic expectations.
H13|The Impact of Expropriations on the Stock Prices of the Parent Companies: Sell on the rumor, buy on the news?|We measure the impact of warnings of expropriation and of forced divestments of private property on the stock prices of the parent company. We use a unique database of 116 events in 12 countries from 2005 to 2013. Our results show significant negative effects on the stock prices of different kinds of warnings; the largest effect is when the warning takes the form of a transitory permit revocation. In the case of forced divestments, we find a significant negative impact when there is a permanent revocation of a permit. However, nationalizations seem to generate a positive market reaction.
H13|Particularities Companies With Locally Activity|In our view, companies operating locally engine should be both balanced territorial development, and sustainable development. In this regard, our research focused on finding mechanisms, means, techniques, methods by which financial side asymmetry territorial development plan can be reduced, consistent with the objectives of sustainable development at national and regional level. In our country, just administrative doctrine is the biggest obstacle to territorial development plan of these types of companies. Although there is a favourable legal framework that allows private provision in the form of public services, there are many cases when they are made by local government, but at a level determined predominantly by sources and appropriate level of financial resources. An alternative to the current state is the economic development zone, a concept proposed by us and trying to solve problems of interconnecting various locations (sized entities with different socio-economic structures) but which have in common a particular purpose. Public - private partnership thus becomes another dimension, the territorial level, the ultimate goal of meeting the needs of the population in the area.
H13|Hedonic and environmental quality: A hybrid model of product differentiation|In this paper, we analyze how strategic competition between a green firm and a brown competitor develops when their products are differentiated along two dimensions: hedonic quality and environmental quality. The former dimension refers to the pure (intrinsic) performance of the good, whereas the latter dimension has a positional content: buying green goods satisfies the consumer's desire to be portrayed as a socially worthy citizen. We consider the case in which these quality dimensions are in conflict with each other so that the higher the hedonic quality of a good, the lower the corresponding environmental quality. We characterize the equilibrium configurations and discuss the policy implications deriving from our analysis.
H13|State-controlled companies and political risk: Evidence from the 2014 Brazilian election|The 2014 Brazilian election offers an opportunity to estimate the vulnerability of state-controlled companies to political risk. This paper proposes a method for studying the effect of an election on asset prices using only data on stock options. We apply this method to the 2014 Brazilian Presidential election. Results suggest that Petrobras, the Brazilian oil company, would be worth around 60%–65% more if the incumbent, Ms. Rousseff, had not been reelected. We also find that reelection had a negative impact on the stock market index, but state-controlled companies were more strongly affected.
H13|Per una comparative political economy dell’impresa pubblica: alcuni contributi recenti (2013-2015)|Questo articolo discute recenti contributi e propone alcuni temi di ricerca per una ‘comparative political economy’ dell’impresa pubblica. Si argomenta l’opportunità di mettere al centro dell’indagine la relazione fra politiche e organizzazioni, andando oltre il tradizionale confronto di performance fra controllo pubblico e privato. In questa prospettiva, si segnalano contributi sulla fase formativa dell’intervento pubblico nell’economia di sei grandi potenze con un metodo di analisi storica comparata; sull’evoluzione dell’impresa pubblica nelle economie emergenti, particolarmente in America Latina; sulla ‘societarizzazione’ delle imprese pubbliche nel Sud del mondo; sulla rivalutazione della missione di imprese pubbliche locali e nazionali in economie sviluppate. In questa ottica si sostiene che la storia della liquidazione dell’ IRI, il maggiore gruppo industriale italiano andrebbe considerata come parte della crisi di un assetto politico-economico e non prevalentemente come una operazione finanziaria. L’articolo è concluso da considerazioni sull’agenda di ricerca futura.
H13|The Evolution Of Mergers And Acquisitions In Central And Eastern Europe And The Impact Of The Economic Crisis On Them|In order to fulfill the recovery and development objective, the companies may choose from internal or external growth strategies, but most of the time they turn to mixes of them. The growth strategy through mergers and acquisitions is often preferred against the internal development or forming alliances/groups/clusters etc., because the decision makers wish to hold complete control and to protect themselves of the unforeseen represented by another manager’s decision given that choosing a strategy from the ones mentioned previously may lead to similar results with financial effort and less risks. The companies’ mergers respond to the growth strategies the decision makers adopt, regardless if the result is wished to be the increase of the market share and obtaining key advantages (mergers that respond to offensive strategy) or the strengthening position in a sector and moment of the market that do not offer growth opportunities (defensive strategies).
H13|Privatization in Romania – A Challenge both For the Government and For the Companies|The privatization in Romania was conceived as an extended program, including on one side a free component and on the other side selling block shares to interested investors. The positive aspect of this process, undoubtedly, is represented by the privatization of the economic activity, with direct measurable result in the increase of its contribution to the GDP. The privatization process was conducted in parallel with the establishment of the capital market that played the role of an accelerator that transmitted the information to possible investors from the company equally with the transmission of information toward the company from the investors. However, excepting the last 3 years, this method has been underused unlike traditional methods. The results obtained following the calling of this method have been positive, with little exceptions when deficiencies wave been registered, while preparing the listing.
H13|Strong State, Weak Managers: How Firms Cope with Autocracy in Hungary|This paper investigates how companies manage risk associated with political ties in the context of the ‘return of state capitalism’. We show that findings from previous studies of firms’ copying strategies under autocratic regimes are of limited relevance in the context of Hungary, because they lack a sophisticated, theoretically underpinned conceptualisation of ‘the state’. We develop a more fine-grained analysis of the role of the state in emerging markets. We then show that the type of ‘state capitalism’ that is emerging in Hungary poses unique challenges to companies with implications for existing theories of companies’ political ‘buffering strategies’. Based on interviews with business leaders in Hungary, we identify two coping strategies: responsiveness –whereby firms accommodate state pressures by giving in to them – and a non-responsive strategy of ‘dormancy’, which consists in firms putting forward-looking activities on hold and focussing on survival. We discuss implications for theories of corporate political risk management.
H13|Identity and Incentives an Economic Interpretation of the Holocaust|This paper proposes an interpretation of the Holocaust along the lines of economic theory and public choice. The Holocaust had been the most inhumane and brutal genocide in the twentieth century, and also a gigantic predatory enterprise shaped and engineered by a complex institutional machinery. The paper proposes a general interpretation based on the inclusion of identity-associated elements in the utility functions of Nazis. Under the Nazi regime, the production and strengthening of Nazi identity was a matter of political economy. In addition, interpretations of Aryanization (appropriation of Jewish property) and the running of extermination camps are provided.
H13|جایگاه سپاه در اقتصاد ایران<BR>[The Economic Role of Sepah (The Guardians of Revolution)in the Iranian Economy]|This paper studies the economic role of Sepah (The Guardians of Revolution) in the Iranian Economy. It discusses the relationship of Sepah and the indeterminate property rights, parastatal sector and the confiscatory regime under the Islamic republic of Iran.
H13|Sektory gospodarcze o strategicznym znaczeniu dla bezpieczenstwa panstwa|Celem pracy jest wlasciwe zdefiniowanie sektorow gospodarki o strategicznym znaczeniu dla bezpieczenstwa panstwa i ocena stosowanych przez panstwo instrumentow ochrony przedmiotowego bezpieczenstwa. W artykule zdefiniowano kryteria, na podstawie ktorych wyodrebniono sektory gospodarcze o strategicznym znaczeniu dla bezpieczenstwa panstwa, tj. wytwarzanie i zaopatrywanie w energie elektryczna; wydobycie, przesyl, dystrybucje i magazynowanie paliw gazowych; wytwarzanie, przesyl i magazynowanie paliw plynnych; telekomunikacje; bankowosc; produkcje dokumentow (w tym zwiazanych z nimi systemow IT) i banknotow oraz przemysl zbrojeniowy. Artykul prowadzi do konkluzji, ze pomimo strategicznego znaczenia tych sektorow dla bezpieczenstwa panstwa oraz udzialu Skarbu Panstwa w spolkach reprezentujacych te sektory, brakuje spojnych i kompleksowych uregulowan prawnych, ktore chronilyby interes bezpieczenstwa panstwa zwiazany z czescia gospodarki narodowej reprezentowanej przez wskazane sektory i spolki. W pracy wykorzystano metodyke oparta o analize instrumentow stosowanych przez panstwo w zakresie kontroli nad wybranymi dziedzinami gospodarki oraz analize sektorow gospodarczych w zakresie koncentracji, wplywu na bezpieczenstwo panstwa oraz integracji z innymi sektorami.
H13|Government Control over Innovative Ventures in the West European Countries|The article analyzes strategies and mechanisms of government control over the innovative ventures in the countries of Western Europe. All countries use their own mechanisms and tools for innovative ventures stimulation on the government level and their effectiveness is quite different. The paper is concentrated on studying the experience of government control models over innovative ventures in Switzerland, Finland and Sweden; countries, which take top positions in innovation implementation strategies among the leading countries in the world. Main results of their government innovative policy were analyzed; conclusions about their applicability for the development of the Russian innovative ventures were made.
H13|Natural resources and sovereign expropriation|A government wants to exploit a renewable resource, yielding a time-varying flow of rent, by leasing it. Leasing contracts can be expropriated before expiration, albeit at a cost. To minimise transactions costs and avoid the ‘resource trap’ the government would prefer to enter into an infinitely long contract (i.e. sell the resource), if it could commit not to expropriate. However, with finite costs of expropriation credible commitment is impossible: the government either enters into finite contracts, expropriates with positive probability or does both. The value of the resource to the government is increasing in the cost of expropriation, but decreasing in the variability of the resource rent.
H13|Hukou Changes and Subjective Well-Being|The literature on subjective well-being has highlighted the negative effects associated with the restrictions and inequality imposed by the hukou system on China's rural population. However, quantifying the cost of holding a rural hukou has generally been problematic, principally for lack of suitable data or measurements. Thanks to RUMiC, a new longitudinal database on China, this limitation can be overcome by exploiting exogenous changes in hukou status due to expropriation. The results support that granting an urban hukou substantially enhances subjective well-being within the household, especially for the household heads. The results complement a growing literature on subjective well-being focusing on China.
H13|Hedonic Quality and Social Norms: a hybrid model of product differentiation|"We analyse how strategic competition between a green firm and a brown competitor develops when their products are differentiated along two dimensions: hedonic quality and environmental quality. The former dimension refers to the pure (intrinsic) performance of the good, whereas the latter dimension has a positional content: buying green goods satisfies the consumers’ desire to be socially worthy citizens. Product variants thus comply at different levels with ""green"" social norms. Consumer preferences depend on a combination of hedonic quality and compliance with social norms. Assuming that the high hedonic quality variant complies less with these norms than the low hedonic quality variant, we characterize different equilibrium configurations which appear as a result of both the intensity of such norms and the willingness to pay for the hedonic quality. Afterwards, we discuss the policy implications of our analysis."
H13|Public and private funding of the health care in Poland – the current state and proposals of solutions (Publiczne i prywatne finansowanie ochrony zdrowia w Polsce – stan obecny i propozycje rozwiazan)|The article is showing ways of entering private health insurance into the Polish system of the health care. Relating to conditioning for functioning of the health care and principles every country should accept as a result of the social agreement concerning financing and functioning of the health care universal purposes standing before the health care in every country were presented. Next for Poland statistical data on public and private funding of the health care in relation to macroeconomic conditioning were presented. A proposal of ways of solving the issue to include the private funding in the form of commercial insurance in the financing mechanism of the health care in Poland is the most important part of the article.
H13|El posible desenlace de la Ronda Uno de la reforma energética|Medium-term prospects for energy reform 2013-2014 as from the results of the first phase of Round One tenders, conducted on July 15 and September 30 2015 and associated with 19 hydrocarbon blocks in water shallow southeast of the country are analyzed. In doing so it is taken into account the context of the global hydrocarbon that spans from mid-2014 on and also the lack of interest shown by international oil companies to support the reform by which struggled both to explore and extract hydrocarbons in the Mexican territory. This resulted, well into 2015, in the breach of the purposes for which people were convinced to support the reform, and affects the current situation and prospects of such an industry and the economy as a whole. Therefore, social pressure of various kinds are becoming evident, including the possibility that opposition parties redouble their insistence both in the country and abroad regarding the right of society to decide by referendum the future of an industry which represents too much in terms of the Mexican Revolution fulfillment
H13|Nationalization as credible threat against tacit collusion|Within a simple model of differentiated oligopoly, we show that tacit collusion may be prevented by the threat of nationalising a private firm coupled with the appropriate choice of the weight given to private profits in the maximand of the nationalised company. We characterise the properties of such a threat and prove that it may allow to credibly deter tacit collusion.
H13|Determinants of School Choice: Evidence from Rural Punjab, Pakistan|The objective of this study is to understand why parents in rural areas of Punjab, Pakistan, choose to send their children to private schools when free public schools are available. The study utilizes the Privatization in Education Research Initiative (PERI) school choice dataset compiled by the Lahore School of Economics in collaboration with the Punjab Bureau of Statistics. These data provide rich information on parents’ perception of their child’s school relative to alternative schools he or she could have attended. The findings suggest that parents’ perceptions play an important role in school choice. In particular, their perceptions of school quality and employment opportunities emerge as key determinants of private school choice. Additionally, expenditure on and access to private schooling relative to public schooling as well as the socioeconomic status of the household have a significant impact on parents’ probability of choosing a private school for their child.
H13|Expropriation with Hukou Change: Evidence from a Quasi-Natural Experiment|We study the labor market outcomes of males aged 18-60 obtaining an urban hukou as a result of land expropriation across a number of provinces in China. Using 2008 and 2009 RUMiC data pooling urban, rural and migrant samples, we find that those obtaining an urban hukou have better labour market outcomes than rural stayers and migrants, and close the gap vis-à-vis native urbanites. We also find that children of families experiencing a hukou change due to expropriation have similar investment in human capital as the children of native urban hukou holders. The results confirm the hukou status as a strong economic determinant of labor market outcomes and as a source of inequality. Differences in educational investment, regardless of the differences in parental background, appear however to disappear for the children of families experiencing expropriation, suggesting that leveling the hukou status amongst children in an urban area may be a first step towards reducing intergenerational inequality.
H13|Hedonic quality, social norms, and environmental campaigns|"We analyse how market competition in a vertically differentiated polluting industry is affected by product variants that comply at different levels with ""green"" social norms. A green consumption behavior is considered as a byword of good citizenship. Consumer preferences depend on a combination of hedonic quality and compliance with social norms. Assuming that the high hedonic quality variant complies less with these norms than the low hedonic quality variant, we characterize different equilibrium configurations which appear as a result of both the intensity of such norms and the country-specific income dispersion. Then, we focus on the role that institutions may have in using these norms to reduce pollution emissions."
H13|Population Ageing, Taxation, pensions and Health Costs|This paper argues against the policy position that begins with a doomsday scenario of publicly provided health insurance and pension systems threatened with collapse under the stresses imposed by population ageing, and instead contends that the threat of crisis in these systems is policy driven. The central thesis of the paper is that a range of policies lead to the creation of an ageing crisis by inhibiting the efficient reallocation of female labour from the home to the market in response to the decline in fertility. The analysis focuses on family support policies that create large effective tax burdens on female labour supply, by means testing the support on family income, or selectively on the second income. Examples include Family Tax Benefit Part A and Part B, the Medicare Levy and the Medicare Safety Net. The analysis draws on household survey data to show that female labour supply is strongly positively associated with household saving, the purchase of private health insurance and spending on family health generally. Policies that inhibit female labour supply therefore have the effect of reducing the tax base for funding public pensions and health care, while simultaneously reducing the capacity of families to fund them privately.
H13|Public land leasing and the changing roles of local government in urban china|No abstract is available for this item.
H13|Una propuesta metodológica para el dictamen del balance de la nación|En este artículo se realiza una propuesta metodológica para la elaboración del informe odictamen del Balance de la Nación. Dicho balance es el informe que se debe presentar sobre lagestión fiscal de las entidades o personas que manejen fondos públicos y su elaboración esfunción del Controlar General de la República. El enfoque metodológico planteado, difiere dela auditoría tradicional de los estados financieros por cuanto la Constitución Política de Colombiaestablece que el control Fiscal debe tener en consideración los criterios de eficiencia, eficacia,economía, equidad y valoración de los costos ambientales y estos criterios deberían ser objetode inclusión en el informe y dictamen del Balance de la Nación.
