H19|New Financial Stability Governance Structures and Central Banks|We evaluate the institutional frameworks developed to implement time-varying macroprudential policies in 58 countries. We focus on new financial stability committees (FSCs) that have grown dramatically in number since the global financial crisis, and their interaction with central banks, and infer countries’ revealed preferences for effectiveness versus political economy considerations. Using cluster analysis, we find that only one-quarter of FSCs have both good processes and good tools to implement macroprudential actions, and that instead most FSCs have been designed to improve communication and coordination among existing regulators. We also find that central banks are not especially able to take macroprudential actions when FSCs are not set up to do so. We conclude that about one-half of the countries do not have structures to take or direct actions and avoid risks of policy inertia. Rather countries’ decisions appear to be consistent with strengthening the political legitimacy of macroprudential policies with prominent roles for the ministry of finance and avoiding placing additional powers in central banks that already are strong in microprudential supervision and have high political independence for monetary policy. The evidence suggests that countries are placing a relatively low weight on the ability of policy institutions to take action and a high weight on political economy considerations in developing their financial stability governance structures.
H19|Modern Democracy-Welfare State and Public Goods. A current consequence for Greece|People expect the state to create jobs and provide them with a social security net. Whatever its defects, whatever the virtues of the private sector, no structure other than the state can today provide citizens with the basic public goods. Under the present right-wing government of Nea Dimokratia in Greece, which is not particularly at odds with neoliberalism, a very active role of the state is not expected. Also is nor expected the introduction of a serious program of public investment and demand boosting to stimulate the national economy and enter into a virtuous circle of recovery. Greece, which has undergone the economic crisis with drastic cuts in its traditionally deficient social state, has to respond directly to the marked underinvestment in public goods (in key areas such as education, health, natural disasters, dealing with decent living conditions).The most important tool for inputting resources is the tax system.
H19|Municipal indebtedness in Poland ? formal and informal conditions|The ongoing processes of decentralization, which are present in many countries, cause a growing proportion of public funds to be collected and spent at the local government tier, which necessitates the use of fiscal rules not only at the state level. This issue may raise some controversy due to the specific character, autonomy and empowerment of local government and local communities. Therefore, the analysed subject is based on three questions: 1. Limited fiscal autonomy of local self-government and it?s consequences 2. A real need for and the scope of the use of fiscal rules in local government finance, 3. The informal factors that directly determine the indebtedness in local governments in the light of literature and selected empirical research. We use a descriptive method supported by an analysis of financial data and a case study as it presents selected aspects of Polish experience in the subject matter. The results of the analysis seem to point to the necessity of the use of fiscal rules in local government finance, which paradoxically strengthens the processes of decentralization, democratization, technological advancement and globalization. Some primary results of our research indicate investment expenditure, own revenues, number of companies (level of GDP) and election cycle as important, significant factors (in statistical meaning) effecting the local deficit and debt. The conclusions list the advantages of the use of fiscal rules at the local government tier and large diversity of informal conditions across the whole country.
H19|Plunging into the Sea: Ideological Change, Institutional Environments and Private Entrepreneurship in China|This paper examines the integration of Chinese Communist Party membership and private entrepreneurship in China after 2002, when the Party revised its constitution and officially removed ideological discrimination against private entrepreneurs. Using six waves of a nationwide survey of privately owned enterprises in China from 1997 to 2008, we find that the constitutional change led to an exodus of Party members, and particularly senior officials, into the private sector. On the contrary, very few private entrepreneurs were admitted to the Party. The exodus of Party members was more prominent in regions with weaker market-supporting institutions. After the reform, Party affiliation is also shown to provide considerable private benefits to entrepreneurs, in the form of easier access to loans from state owned banks, reduced government expropriation, improved firms’ performance. These political rents were larger in regions with weaker market-supporting institutions.
H19|The health effects of smoking bans: Evidence from German hospitalization data|This paper studies the short‐term impact of public smoking bans on hospitalizations in Germany. It exploits the staggered implementation of smoking bans over time and across the 16 federal states along with the universe of hospitalizations from 2000 to 2008 and daily county‐level weather and pollution data. Smoking bans in bars and restaurants have been effective in preventing 1.9 hospital admissions (−2.1%) due to cardiovascular diseases per day, per 1 million population. We also find a decrease by 0.5 admissions (−6.5%) due to asthma per day, per 1 million population. The health prevention effects are more pronounced on sunny days and days with higher ambient pollution levels.
H19|Der Wohlfahrtstaat als Grundbestandteil des modernen demokratischen Staatsgefüges<BR>[The welfare state as a basic component of the modern democratic state structure]|Defining the welfare state is not a simpleminded task. Actually, there are numerous definitions which try to reflect at least some of the basic characteristics of the welfare state or its objectives and its functions. For some, there is primarily an institutional parameter, for others there are functional issues which have to be firstly indicated and for others, the ideological and political factors determine the definition and the attitude towards the welfare state. Apart from all these crucial ascertainments, there are some basic fundamental characteristics and values of the welfare state which render it as a precondition of the existence of the modern state. Unquestionably, it reflects a distinct part of the state but most importantly, it comprises a prerequisite for its existence. This is the exact aim of this paper; to surpass the theoretical diversifications and to find the fundamental common ground which forms the indispensability for the existence of the welfare state.
H19|China's Decentralized Privatization and Change of Control Rights|A distinct feature of China's privatization is that its design and implementation are decentralized and administered by the local governments. Based on a proprietary survey dataset containing 3,000 firms in over 200 cities, this paper studies how city governments choose among various privatization methods, how these methods transfer control rights, and how they influence privatization outcomes. We find that less political opposition to labor downsizing and greater fiscal capacity prompt cities to choose direct sales to insiders (MBOs) as their privatization method. This method transfers the most control rights to private owners, retains the least government supports and is associated with most hardened budget constraints, restructure most effectively, and achieves the greatest performance improvement.
H19|Estimating Aging Effects in Running Events|This paper uses world running records by age to estimate a biological frontier of decline rates. Two models are compared: a linear/quadratic (LQ) model and a non-parametric model. Two estimation methods are used: 1) minimizing the squared difference between the observed records and the modeled biological frontier and 2) using extreme value theory to estimate the biological frontier that maximizes the probability of observing the existing world records by age. The results support the LQ model and suggest there is linear percentage decline up to the late 70’s and quadratic decline after that. The extreme value estimates suggest that the true biological frontier is on average about 8 percent below the existing world records. The estimated age factors are also compared to the World Master Athletics (WMA) age factors. The two sets of age factors are close except at the old ages, where the WMA factors are noticeably smaller. Also, the WMA age factors do not meet an important biological constraint.
H19|Corruption in the public and private sector from Romania: a comparative study|Corruption is becoming an increasingly acute problem lately for Romania and the authorities are trying to find solutions in this regard. Until now the anti-corruption strategy has undergone four stages, by approving as many sets of anti-corruption strategic documents (National Anti-corruption Strategies in 2001, 2005, 2008 and 2012). In this research, we started from the assumption that there is a correlation between corruption in the public sector and the corruption in the private sector, involving the corrupting power represented by the private sector and corruptible power represented by the public sector. The hypothesis was confirmed by detailed analyzes conducted in this regard using a number of variables such as the percentage of convictions in the public or private sector, the position that the culprit holds, the county he/she comes from, the institution in which they operate, type of sentence (suspended or performed) and the penalty in months. Then using the statistical functions Data Analysis, PivotTable of Excel software, the 3110 observations were processed. The centralizing tables were made by filtration and then the ventilation data by numerical and geographical coordinates. The quantitative information provided by these summary tables combined with qualitative information derived from extensive analyzes conducted during this investigation, led to the confirmation of the basic assumption that there is a correlation between corruption manifested in the public and private sector. This correlation becomes more powerful as the bureaucratic system, namely the workload in the public sector is growing. In this regard, we have concrete examples in the counties of Cluj, Timiș, Constanța, Prahova, Bucharest, respectively.
H19|Does firm ownership structure matter? Evidence from sugar mills in India|This paper examines the effect of firm ownership structure on firm behavior and the economic outcomes of upstream suppliers by comparing privately owned sugar mills to cooperatives and public mills in India. In this setting, government support for cooperative and public mills allows meaningful variation in ownership structure to be observed, while the “command area” zoning system – whereby mills are given monopsony power to operate within an assigned area – helps tackle the identification challenge. The borders of command areas allow for a geographic regression discontinuity design, where underlying soil, weather, and institutional characteristics are exactly the same but ownership structure changes across boundaries. Using satellite images overlaid on digital maps to measure sugarcane grown along the borders, as well as a survey to determine the effects of crop choices on farmer welfare, I find that private mills encourage sugarcane production. Greater cane cultivation is tied to better credit provided by private mills, and it results in higher income and consumption for farmers.
H19|Section 1. Russian Economic Policy in 2015: Anti-Crisis Measures or Structural Reforms (Mau V.)|Глобальный кризис, начавшийся в 2007–2008 гг., оставался определяющим фактором социально-экономического развития ведущих стран мира, включая Россию. Мы рассматриваем кризис в данном случае не как циклическое колебание от роста к спаду (или от ускорения к торможению) в развитии страны или группы стран. Речь идет о достаточно длительном периоде турбулентности, когда в результате глубинных сдвигов формируется новая модель экономического роста, оказывающая существенное влияние на социально-экономическую ситуацию, на глобальные экономические и политические балансы.
H19|Раздел 1. Социально-Экономическая Политика России: Обретение Новых Рубежей|Глобальный кризис, начавшийся в 2007–2008 гг., оставался определяющим фактором социально-экономического развития ведущих стран мира, включая Россию. Мы рассматриваем кризис в данном случае не как циклическое колебание от роста к спаду (или от ускорения к торможению) в развитии страны или группы стран. Речь идет о достаточно длительном периоде турбулентности, когда в результате глубинных сдвигов формируется новая модель экономического роста, оказывающая существенное влияние на социально-экономическую ситуацию, на глобальные экономические и политические балансы.
H19|Soft Power as a Effect Instruments in Foreign Policy: Turkey's Soft Power Analysis and the Assessment of its Soft Power Capacity on Azerbaijan|"With the emergence of first political structures of the world, struggles between them gave rise to the concept of power. Since the ancient times, power has played an important role in the concept of international relations and made a significant contribution to the establishment of the discipline as an autonomous structure. The concept of power, which has always maintained its importance, has evolved in time and, for the time being, is known for its rather soft side. In this century, many academic studies that dealt with the soft side of the power have been published, however, while being mentioned in popular publications, the concept has not been favored in the academic publications in Turkey. With this dissertation that is the first study that deals with the soft power within the context of international relations, we intended to contribute to the filling of the void in the Turkish literature. For this purpose, we first discussed the concept of power and the soft power in every aspect. Afterwards, we analyzed the soft power potential of Turkey culturally, politically and within the frame of foreign affairs practices and essentially in the context of Middle East, Caucasus and Central Asia regions. As the soft power sources that may influence the national politics may vary for every country, we chose Azerbaijan as the model of this study and sought for an answer to the question, ""How Turkey can possibly/efficiently have the soft power influence over Azerbaijan?"". As the hypothesis of the study and the answer of the question, we considered the cultural link between these two countries would constitute the most important and effective soft power source. In the conclusion of the study, we interviewed a group of fifteen Azerbaijanis that consisted NGO members, journalists and academicians thus proved the hypothesis of the study."
H19|Alexis Tsipras und der rhetorische Diskurs als Politik<BR>[Alexis Tsipras and the rhetorical discourse as Policy]|"Es existiert wohl keinerlei «Präzedenzfall», der in irgendeiner Weise vergleichbar wäre mit der vollkommenen Verwandlung des derzeitigen griechischen Ministerpräsidenten Alexis Tsipras und dessen Anpassung an die Anforderungen der griechischen Realität. Wahrhaft, all zu rasch übersetzte sich sein radikaler, unkonventioneller und extremer Diskurs gegen die in Griechenland seit 2010 implementierte harte Sparpolitik, in einen taktischen Rückzug. Die SYRIZA Partei, eine heterogene Mischung linker Strömungen, nutzte den Unmut der Bevölkerung gegenüber den schmerzhaft anmutenden Sparmaβnahmen des sogenannten griechischen Memorandums, um den eigenen machtpolitischen Senkrechtsstart voranzutreiben und sich ziemlich rasch von einer kleinen Protestpartei zu einer Machtpartei zu verwandeln. Dementsprechend transferierte diese Partei, ohne die geringste moralische Umschweife, die Verzweiflung der Bürger in einen extremen rhetorischen Diskurs der scheinbaren „Verteidigung sozialer Rechte“ hinein, jedoch mit dem Ziel des eigenen Wahlsieges und anschließend die Übernahme der Macht. Abstract English There is probably no ""precedent"", which would be comparable in any way with the perfect transformation of the current Greek Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras and its adaptation to the requirements of the Greek reality. Truly, all too quickly his radical, unconventional and extreme discourse against the implemented in Greece since 2010 tough austerity policy, is transformed into a tactical retreat.. The SYRIZA party, a heterogeneous mixture of left Groups , used the displeasure of the population to the painful-looking Austerity measures of the so-called Greek memorandum to advance their own political take off to power and rather rapidly to transform from a small protest party to a ruling party. Accordingly, this party transferred, without the slightest moral ado, the despair of the citizens in an extreme rhetorical discourse of apparent ""defense of social rights"" into it, however, with the aim of the own electoral victory and then the acquisition of power."
H19|Politik im Neuland des Internet<BR>[Politics in the “Neuland” of the Internet]|Zusammenfassung Die digitale Wirtschaft stellt an die Politik in mehreren Bereichen Anforderungen. Insbesondere muss die Wettbewerbspolitik gewährleisten, dass Internetplattformen ihre Marktmacht nicht künstlich ausweiten und dass andere Marktteilnehmer ihre Rechte gegenüber marktmächtigen Plattformen wirksam schützen können. Die politische Innovationsförderung sollte darauf gerichtet sein, die Bedingungen für einen Marktzutritt mit innovativen Produktangeboten zu erleichtern. Für die Medienpolitik ist die Erweiterung der Informationsangebote im Internet relevant und die Tatsache, dass Nutzer einen kommerziellen Hintergrund solcher Angebote erkennen können sollten. In anderen Politikbereichen ist die Erweiterung positiv zu sehen, kann zugleich aber auch zu neuen Problemen führen.
H19|Voting and Popularity|For about 45 years, vote and popularity functions have been estimated for many countries indicating that voting intentions as well as actual votes are influenced by economic development. The economy is, of course, not the only and probably not always the most important factor, but there is no doubt anymore that it is an important factor. The most relevant variables are still unemployment, and/or real growth, and inflation. The estimated coefficients vary considerably between countries and time periods. In papers, retrospective sociotropic voting dominates. However, the evidence is not so univocal; it rather tells that voting has egotropic as well as sociotropic aspects, and it is prospective as well as retrospective. It is still open what roles self-interest and altruism play in voting.
H19|Aktuelle und künftige Herausforderungen der Wirtschaftspolitik und der Politikberatung in Deutschland|Festvortrag von Sigmar Gabriel, Bundesminister für Wirtschaft und Energie, zur 66. Jahresversammlung des ifo Instituts am 12. Juni 2015
H19|China’s Decentralized Privatization and Change of Control Rights|A distinct feature of China’s privatization is that both its design and its implementation are highly decentralized and are administered by the local governments. Based on a survey of 3,000 firms in over 100 Chinese cities, this paper studies how city governments choose among various privatization methods, how these different methods transfer control rights from the government to private owners, and how various privatization methods lead to different restructuring and performance. Our data indicate that although privatization in China has made substantial progress in reallocating control rights from the government to private owners, the degree of remaining government influence in corporate decisions across different privatization methods varies significantly. More importantly, political and fiscal constraints critically determine city governments’ decisions on how to privatize. Cities with less political opposition to labor shedding and where the government has stronger fiscal capacity tend to choose direct sales to insiders (MBOs) as the privatization method, which transfers control rights to private owners most completely. As a result, MBO firms restructure most effectively and achieve the greatest performance improvement.
H19|Regression Discontinuity Designs Based on Population Thresholds: Pitfalls and Solutions|In many countries, important features of municipal government (such as the electoral system, mayors' salaries, and the number of councillors) depend on whether the municipality is above or below arbitrary population thresholds. Several papers have used a regression discontinuity design (RDD) to measure the effects of these threshold‐based policies on political and economic outcomes. Using evidence from France, Germany, and Italy, we highlight two common pitfalls that arise in exploiting population‐based policies (compound treatment and sorting), and we provide guidance for detecting and addressing these pitfalls. Even when these problems are present, population‐threshold RDD may be the best available research design for studying the effects of certain policies and political institutions.
H19|Lack of Governance During 2000-2001 Economic Crises in Turkey|Governance covers the quality of institutions and their effectiveness in translating policy into successful implementation. There are different types of governance such as global governance, corporate governance, regulatory governance, public sector governance, etc., however, we mainly focus on public sector’s governance. In this article we will try to explain evaluation of policies the 2000 and 2001 economic crises in Turkey before and during the crisis by adding crises management policies in order to monitor good or bad governance activities.
H19|Land equalisation, social mobility, and the rise of the Civil Service exam system|"""The Civil Service Exam System in Imperial China, which is the earliest Official Selection System in the world, and also is foundation of the Civil Servant System of western countries, appeared in replace of the Hereditary System in Tang Dynasty (618-907). This paper seeks for the economic driving force behind this political institutions transformation. We find that the implementation of Land Equalization policy could explain why the rise of Civil Service Exam System happened in Tang China. The long-term enforcement of Land Equalization policy impaired economic base of aristocrat groups as well as their monopoly political power; therefore, social structure became more horizontal than in the aristocrat and hereditary system. For this reason, the aristocrat groups had to share political power with elites selected from the populace by means of examination, which induced the rise of Civil Service Exam System. Probit regression using a newly-constructed dataset from first-hand biographies provided solid empirical evidence for our conjectures, and IV estimation verifies that the relationship is causal. Our finding suggests that only if economic factor changed social structure thoroughly, it could lead to momentous political institution transition."""
H19|Section 1. Russia’s Socioeconomic Policy: Emergence of New Horizons|The global crisis, which first emerged in 2007–2008, has remained the major factor determining the socioeconomic development of the world’s leading countries, Russia including. In this case, we view a crisis not as a phase in the cyclical fluctuations between growth and decline (or acceleration and slowdown) as part of the development of a given country or group of countries. Instead, we are speaking of a sufficiently lengthy turbulence period when, as a result of some profound shifts, a new economic growth model comes to the fore and begins to strongly influence the socioeconomic situation and the global economic and political equilibriums.
H19|Раздел 1. Социально-Экономическая Политика России: Обретение Новых Рубежей|Глобальный кризис, начавшийся в 2007–2008 гг., оставался определяющим фактором социально-экономического развития ведущих стран мира, включая Россию. Мы рассматриваем кризис в данном случае не как циклическое колебание от роста к спаду (или от ускорения к торможению) в развитии страны или группы стран. Речь идет о достаточно длительном периоде турбулентности, когда в результате глубинных сдвигов формируется новая модель экономического роста, оказывающая существенное влияние на социально-экономическую ситуацию, на глобальные экономические и политические балансы.
H19|Political Constraints on Modernization of National Economy|The main political constraints blocking modernization of Russian economy are a low quality of official concepts of modernization, prevalence of authoritarian values and attitudes in Russian political culture, and excessive military expenditures. The recently formulated economic doctrines tend to minimize the import of technology and to restrict access of foreign capital into the most attractive industries. The most likely effect of such doctrines (if implemented) is - at best - stagnation, and at worst - the prevalence of an archaic economy, which supplies low-quality products and maims the environment. In Russian political culture today one can see a prevalence of a conflicting mixture of right and left authoritarian value-orientations, poorly compatible with requirements of the XXI century modernization. In 2010-2014 Russian military expenditures increased steadily. Meanwhile, limited by the GDP size, these expenditures are not able to provide Russia with a place among the world leading military powers, but they can easily undermine the financial basis of Russian modernization. The presence of these constraints is largely due to the worldview of a significant part of Russian political elite. And this cultural problem is much more complicated than any political issue.
H19|The Seventeenth Amendment, Senate ideology and the growth of government| The Seventeenth Amendment disturbed the existing electoral system in the United States by requiring direct elections for state Senators. Scholars have argued this made the Senate more populist and contributed to the growth of government in the US post-1913. We employ econometric tools to investigate whether the mean ideology of the Senate and its winning policies experienced a structural change around the time of the enactment. We find no compelling evidence of a structural break at that time but do find some evidence for a change in the mid-to-late 1890s.
H19|Score test for a separable covariance structure with the first component as compound symmetric correlation matrix|Likelihood ratio tests (LRTs) for separability of a covariance structure for doubly multivariate data are widely studied in the literature. There are three types of LRT: biased tests based on an asymptotic chi-square null distribution; unbiased/unmodied tests based on an empirical null distribution; and unbiased/modied tests with a test statistic modied to follow a theoretical chi-square null distribution. The Rao's score test (RST) statistic, an alternative for both bi-ased and unbiased/unmodied versions of the corresponding LRT test statistics are derived fora common case. The separability of a covariance structure with the rst component as a com-pound symmetric correlation matrix under the assumption of multivariate normality is tested. Simulation studies compare the biased LRT to biased RST, and unbiased/unmodied LRT to unbiased/unmodied RST. The RSTs outperform their corresponding LRTs in general. Three ex-amples are presented. Since the RST does not require estimation of a general variance-covariance matrix (the alternative hypothesis), this test can be performed for small sample sizes, where the variance-covariance matrix could not be estimated for the corresponding LRT, making the LRT infeasible. In cases where both LRT and RST are feasible, the RST outperforms a comparable LRT.
H19|Cohesion Policy as a Function of the EU Budget: A Perspective from the CEE Member States|Summary This study analyses the key patterns of cohesion policy within the overall framework of the EU budget, viewed from the perspective of the new Member States of Central and Eastern Europe. In more specific terms, the main objectives are, first, to analyse past trends of cohesion policy and the attitude of various groups of countries towards this policy; second, to assess the position of cohesion policy within the 2014-2020 medium-term financial framework of the EU; and third, to discuss alternative options for cohesion policy within the framework of the EU budget in the post-2020 period. In methodological terms, the conceptual parts are based primarily on a qualitative analysis of the literature while empirical inputs were provided first of all through an expert questionnaire survey and country case studies. The research results convey the important message that the feasibility of scenarios other than maintaining the ‘status quo’ will most probably not depend on the behaviour of the new Member States. Despite their strong and explicit interest in securing ample resources from cohesion policy funds for themselves, the new Member States’ administrative and academic experts with their non-negligible influence on the political decisions of their governments cannot be seen as a stumbling block in the way towards reforms for a modernised and more rule-based EU budget. A resolute shift towards increased EU budgetary support for projects with more European value added and stronger future orientation than today, and a fair and transparent distribution of net financial positions will be far more determined by the outcome of multifaceted interest reconciliation among the ‘major players’ of the ‘old’ EU-15.
H19|Consequences of the Public Debt Crisis on Growth and Stability|This research examines the public debt crisis that caused by the financial crisis in 2007-2008 after the immense involvement of the state as last resort. The purpose is to explain the consequences of the public debt crisis on growth and stability. This paper compares the macroeconomic policy of fiscal and monetary stability that characterizes modern Germany versus the expansive model that USA authorities exercise with fiscal stimulus and monetary quantitative easing. The author concludes that the restoration of the classical American constitutional tradition that restricts efficiently the expansive role of the state is the sufficient and the necessary condition, alongside a stable Germany, for divesting the disequilibria of the world economy. A balanced and symmetrical economic policy, based on the golden rule of stability, is the most effective way for the exodus of the world economic system from the global public debt crisis and for the global economic recovery.
H19|On the Process of Scientific Policy Advice - With Special Reference to Economic Policy|We first show three major disagreements among today’s leading economists: the minimum wage, the effects of large government debt and the politics of the European Central Bank. Using a prominent and highly relevant example, the possible deterrent effect of death penalty, we demonstrate how political convictions can have an impact on the results of empirical research even if the most advanced statistical methods are applied. Then we deal with three different approaches to analyse the process of political advice: the traditional approach, the Public Choice approach and the Political Economy of Scientific Advice. Contrary to the two others, the latter consistently applies the economic model of behaviour to all agents of this game: economic agents, politicians, but also scientists as political advisors. We then deal with the process of policy advice; the main scope is to show how this process has to be organised in order to allow for at least some objectivity, even if advisors are politically biased. To understand (and perhaps even improve) this process, the economic model of behaviour should be applied to all agents; a ‘new’ economic theory is not necessary.
H19|The Rationality of Real Estate Management: the Aims of Ownership in the Private and Public Sector|The aim of this article is to present the problem of assessment of the rationality of property management in the context of different ownership goals. Due to a small number of research which are dealing with public sector, the main goal of this work is to present the nature of assessment of real estate management in the public sector and present indicators related to the assessment of real estate management in a commune. In conclusions it is necessary to emphasize that the assessment should have a multi-criterion character, not only a short-term but also a long-term perspective, and take into account various (financial and social) aspects of real estate management, remembering that the assets which are at the disposal of a public unit are one of the most important instruments to The discussion is based on literature review.
H19|Biomarkers and long-term labour market outcomes: The case of creatine|Using the Young Finns Study (YFS) combined with the Finnish Linked Employer-Employee Data (FLEED) we show that quantities of creatine measured in 1980 prior to labour market entry affect labour market outcomes over the period 1990–2010. Those with higher levels of creatine (proxied by urine creatinine) prior to labour market entry spend more time in the labour market in the subsequent two decades and earn more. The associations between creatine and labour market outcomes are robust to controlling for other biomarkers, educational attainment and parental background. Creatine is a naturally occurring nitrogenous organic acid which supplies energy to body cells, including muscles. Our findings are consistent with high energy levels, induced by creatine, leading to productivity-enhancing traits such as a high propensity for effort, perseverance, and high-commitment.
H19|Instytucjonalizacja przestrzeni społecznej poprzez dobra publiczne|Celem artykułu jest próba przedstawienia przyczyn destrukcji przestrzeni społecznej, stanowiącej obszar wspólnego działania jednostek oraz większych grup ludzkich, w ramach zorganizowanych organizmów. Destrukcja jest skutkiem łamania obowiązujących norm porządku instytucjonalnego zarówno formalnego, jak i nieformalnego. Rodzi to liczne patologie, stanowiące syndrom braku zaufania, strachu i chciwości. Jest to zjawisko powszechne wskutek globalizacji i rewolucji informacyjnej. Destrukcja przestrzeni społecznej, w tym także publicznej, ma główne źródła w pojawieniu się z jednej strony jednolitej formy gospodarowania w postaci gospodarki rynkowej, a z drugiej istnienia zróżnicowanych systemów politycznych, społecznych i kulturowych w poszczególnych państwach. Na początku lat 90. XX w. próbowano narzucić jednolity model rozwoju oparty na teorii neoliberalnej (co w dużej mierze udało się osiągnąć), który w dużym stopniu jest odpowiedzialny za ową destrukcję. Destrukcja przestrzeni społecznej ma miejsce na poziomie światowym i państwowym. Jeśli na poziomie światowym przejawia się głównie w postaci braku ładu światowego i różnych typach rywalizacji, to na poziomie państw ma bardziej zróżnicowany charakter. Na obu jednak poziomach ma miejsce łamanie obowiązującego porządku instytucjonalno­‑prawnego. Destrukcja na poziomie światowym w istotny sposób wpływa na destrukcję na poziomie państwowym, jednakże decydujący, a także specyficzny wpływ mają w tym czynniki wewnętrzne. Destrukcja przejawia się olbrzymim zróżnicowaniem dochodowym, załamaniem rynku pracy, minimalizacją podaży dóbr publicznych, powiązaniem sił politycznych z biznesem oraz korupcjogennością, w tym także elit politycznych. Przywracanie ładu w przestrzeni publicznej może mieć miejsce poprzez wykorzystanie koncepcji globalnych dóbr publicznych. Proces ten może mieć charakter wieloetapowy, a globalne dobra publiczne muszą się charakteryzować: niesprzecznością z regułami gospodarki rynkowej, neutralnością ideologiczną, świadomością (przystąpienie do uczestnictwa w nich musi być dobrowolne). W początkowym okresie w tym procesie mogą uczestniczyć głównie państwa.
H19|Estimating noncooperative and cooperative models of bargaining: an empirical comparison|This paper examines the issue of model selection in studies of strategic situations. In particular, we compare estimation results from a noncooperative formulation of government formulation à la (Baron and Ferejohn in Am Poli Sci Rev 87:34–47, 1989 ) with those from two alternative cooperative formulations (Nash in Econometrica 18:155–162, 1950 ; Shapley and Shubik in Am Poli Sci Rev 48:787–792, 1954 ). Although the estimates of the ministerial ranking are similar, statistical testing suggests that the noncooperative formulation is best fitted to the observed data among the alternative models. This result implies that modeling the noncooperative structure in bargaining situations is crucially important at the risk of possibly misspecifying the details of the game. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014
H19|On the Process of Scientific Policy Advice - With Special Reference to Economic Policy|We first show three major disagreements among today’s leading economists: the minimum wage, the effects of large government debt and the politics of the European Central Bank. Using a prominent and highly relevant example, the possible deterrent effect of death penalty, we demonstrate how political convictions can have an impact on the results of empirical research even if the most advanced statistical methods are applied. Then we deal with three different approaches to analyse the process of political advice: the traditional approach, the Public Choice approach and the Political Economy of Scientific Advice. Contrary to the two others, the latter consistently applies the economic model of behaviour to all agents of this game: economic agents, politicians, but also scientists as political advisors. We then deal with the process of policy advice; the main scope is to show how this process has to be organised in order to allow for at least some objectivity, even if advisors are politically biased. To understand (and perhaps even improve) this process, the economic model of behaviour should be applied to all agents; a ‘new’ economic theory is not necessary.
H19|Teoria da Realocação da Poupança Interna: Uma Integração Metodológica a Partir de Abba Lerner Haavelmo e Kaldor|O termo realocação da poupança interna se refere ao fato de que os instrumentos de política econômica e de planejamento econômico que passam a possibilitar o autofinanciamento do Estado pelo mecanismo de emissão monetária, só serão materializados por meio do lado real da economia, através da reestruturação do processo de formação da poupança interna. Realocação, neste caso, vem a ser sinônimo de “reutilização” e “alavancagem”, isto é, os instrumentos de formação das Finanças Públicas são determinados por um mecanismo de criação e de destruição automáticas de moeda e de posterior reutilização da mesma moeda emitida anteriormente. Neste sistema, o Estado determina o volume de recursos públicos através da emissão monetária, pelo fato desta moeda possuir “lastro real fiduciário”, em razão de sua respectiva “destruição automática” no momento exato de sua criação.
H19|Zur Rolle der Ökonometrie in der wissenschaftlichen Politikberatung|Because economic theory alone does in many situations not provide unambiguous policy advice, most of the time empirical analyses are needed in addition. Thus, today econometric analyses are often parts of reports for political institutions or courts. However, it is not unusual that reports with contradicting evidence are presented by different groups or parties. Using the relation between government size and economic growth as an example, it is shown how such contradicting results are possible even if all scientists involved behave sincerely and adhere to the rules of scientific research. Our second example, studies investigating whether the death penalty serves as a deterrent to homicide, shows that the results of empirical analyses might to a large extent depend on a priori convictions of the scientists. Thus, the process of scientific policy advice has to be organised in a way so that – similar to the genuinely scientific discourse – open discussion and criticisms of methods and results are possible. In order to disclose possible conflicts of interests, this demand transparency of the whole process and, in particular for empirical analyses, that data and programmes are made available for re-estimations.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
H19|Does Wagner´s Law Ruin the Sustainability of German Public Finances?|The literature on long-term relationships in public finance is dominated by two approaches: fiscal sustainability and Wagner´s law. In this paper, we argue that they should be analyzed simultaneously, using vector error-correction models for public expenditures, revenues, and GDP. For Germany, we show that since 1973 the sustainability of public finances has been ruined by the interaction of Wagner´s law with permanent expenditure increases and revenue reductions resulting from fiscal policy reactions to the oil crisis. Our findings underline the importance of the German debt brake for reestablishing sustainable public finances.
H19|A Revisit of the East Asian Development Experiences in the Context of South Asia|This paper compares the level of economic development in South Asia and East Asia, and explores the features of East Asian Development experiences and existing situation in South Asia. Several development indicators such as per capita income, human development index and millennium development goals' indicators reveal that South Asia is far behind many East Asian countries where some distinctive features of the development process were followed in the past such as developmental role of the state, high savings and investment, emphasis on the manufacturing sector, export-led growth, focus on infrastructure and human capital as reflected in macroeconomic data. However, data show that South Asia lack these features. South Asia should follow these features to accelerate economic progress, including giving focus on productive use of remittance, and achieve an increasing return in service sectors considering changing circumstances.
H19|Dissent in Parliament as Reputation Building|Dissenting votes in parliamentary systems are overt displays of defiance by individual Members of Parliament (MPs) vis-à-vis their parties. Dissension is particularly surprising as in the vast majority of situations voting against one's party yields no change in legislative outcomes while still generating costs for MPs. This study examines the decisions of elected representatives who face conflicting incentives. A model is developed where MPs choose to dissent in an effort to build reputations with their local constituents. Using all 32,216 observations at MP-bill-vote level for the 39th Parliament of Canada, a reputation building hypothesis is specified and tested. I provide evidence that MPs whose previous election was competitive are 13 percent more likely to cast any dissenting vote and, for a one standard deviation decrease in expected margin of victory, 2.3 percent more likely to defect on any given vote, results which suggest that MPs are actively attempting to build reputations with their local constituents
H19|Impact of the Fukushima nuclear accident on the body mass index of students in Japan|Based on prefecture-level panel data from Japan for 2010 and 2012, this paper investigates how the 2011 Fukushima nuclear accident influenced the body mass index (BMI) of students aged between 5 and 17 years old. A differences-in-differences approach was used to show that (1) students’ BMIs reduced across Japan from 2010 to 2012 and (2) compared with other prefectures there was an increase in the BMIs of primary school students aged 5–11 years old in Fukushima as a result of the Fukushima accident. These findings suggest that restrictions placed on outdoor exercise as a result of the nuclear accident in Fukushima prevented primary school children from burning calories consumed; in other areas a reduction in the use of air-conditioning increased the burning of calories.
H19|Governance of Innovation and Intermediation in Triple Helix Interactions|Research on sustainability and innovation-driven economic growth has exposed a lack of sufficient knowledge in the governance literature about the appropriate extent of government involvement. This paper focuses on the governance of innovation and the intermediary role of the state. The author synthesizes the literature on governance and regulation and introduces the concept of intermediation in the innovation process. The paper employs the Triple Helix model, which describes interactions and intermediation between government, industry and universities, and extends it by looking at the role played by intermediaries, including public and private institutions, government bodies and independent organizations. A new theoretical framework for the analysis of intermediation and the governance of innovation is developed and applied to four case studies of intermediaries in the health technology cluster in the Greater South East region of the UK. The empirical findings demonstrate the heuristics of the intermediation concept and the application of the intermediation framework.
H19|Benefit Charges For Firms And Households For Maintenance Of The Legal System|"We present an aggregate four good model (consumption, investment and two government goods) in which the current flows of one government good are in part pure public intermediate goods. The other public goods has ""final"" services for house holds. We are interested in a benefit approach to charging for government services that includes government services flowing directly to firms. The legal system is our representative intermediate public good and benefit charges to firms should include part of the maintenance of the legal system."
H19|And now for something different: modelling socio-political landscapes|GIS technology has been used to build an e-research facility whereby it is possible to (a) investigate and visualise on-line spatial patterns of voter support for political parties at the local level of scale at federal elections in Australia, and (b) model the relationships between those voting data and variables derived from census data on the demographic and socio-economic characteristics of local populations. Using data on voting at the 2007 federal election and from the 2006 census, the paper shows that patterns of voter support for political parties have a distinct geography across Australia’s cities and regions. Spatial and statistical modelling is used to derive spatial typologies of voter support for political parties and to identify key demographic and socio-economic factors that discriminate voter support for political parties. Clear socio-political landscapes are evident. The position of political parties in a two-dimensional socio-political space has changed over the last three federal elections, the first two of which in 2001 and 2004 saw the Coalition Government returned with strong majorities, while the third election in 2007 saw a marked voter swing to oust the Coalition parties and put the Labor Party into government. Copyright Springer-Verlag 2013
H19|Issues Concerning The Role Of Promotion For Tax Authorities|Tax administration having as general objectives fighting against tax evasion, business support, modernization and improvement of procedures, prevention of tax evasion during collection, improving the collection of budgetary debts wants to be a modern administration that rely on principles of efficiency, transparency and responsibility. How the objectives of tax administration are known? Does everyone understand the objectives of tax administration? Do taxpayers know that major strategic orientation of the tax administration is the attention to expectations of citizens and businesses? What are the actions that can improve and stimulate the relationship taxpayer – tax administration? Through this article we intend to present a number of aspects of marketing policy that can be implemented by the institutions with attributions in tax administration to promote the image among taxpayers and thus provide the answer to the above questions.
H19|Bringing French Public Debt Down: The Options for Fiscal Consolidation|France has a track record of persistent general government deficits, partly reflecting pro-cyclical fiscal policies in upswings. This has resulted in a quadrupling of its public debt-to-GDP ratio since the 1970s to above 80% of GDP. Reducing public debt is crucial because a high level of public debt may hamper long-term growth and may have a direct impact on fiscal sustainability if long-term interest rates rise. Bringing back public debt to 60% of GDP even by 2030 would require a fiscal effort of 4 to 5 percentage points of GDP (under the assumption of unchanged long-term rates), implying permanent primary general government surpluses, which is very ambitious in view of French fiscal history since 1970. The government?s consolidation programme, which is aimed at reducing the general government deficit to 3% of GDP by 2013, represents around two-thirds of this effort. This study analyses how fiscal governance could be improved by the creation of a structural deficit rule and looks at ways the public deficit could be lowered. With France already having a very large public sector, most of the effort should be borne by holding down spending. Better control of the public wage bill, increasing public-sector efficiency and tackling age-related costs are the obvious candidates to contain expenditure. On the revenue side, there is significant potential for cutting tax expenditures. Furthermore, eliminating distortions in the tax base would encourage economic growth.
H19|Leadership Styles and Emotional Intelligence of Romanian Public Managers. Evidences from an Exploratory Pilot Study (English version)|Research regarding the relationship between emotional intelligence, leadership styles and leadership effectiveness has reached high levels of interest in recent years, focusing on the framework of transformational/ transactional leadership proposed by Bass & Avolio. 101 Romanian Public Managers enrolled in the YPS (Young Professionals Scheme) program were assessed in view of exploring the relationship between leadership styles and emotional intelligence using MLQ (5x-Revised Form) and Bar-On’s EQ-i. On the investigated sample, transformational leadership was the dominant self-reported style, significant positive correlations being obtained between transformational leadership and emotional intelligence and between leadership effectiveness and emotional intelligence. Transactional leadership correlated with general EI score, and with the Adaptability and Interpersonal scale of EQ-i, negative significant correlation being obtained between Passive/Avoidant leadership, general EQ-i score and all the EQ-i subscales. The interaction between the Interpersonal, Stress Management and General Mood scales of EQ-i predicted 47.5% of the total variance of transformational leadership and the interaction between Interpersonal and Stress Management scales of EQ-i predicted 38.2% of the total variance of leadership effectiveness. The results offer a clearer perspective on the relationship between emotional intelligence and leadership styles, the practical implications of the research consisting in the possibility to conceive organizational selection and training programs of transformational leaders based on emotional intelligence abilities.
H19|Free economy in a Jewish perspective|Science and rationality always excluded religion. However, in his last work, The Fatal Conceit, the great economist Friedrich von Hayek stated that religion has been one of the enduring pillars of the free market economy, through a consistent heritage of practices and beliefs. By making some analogies to the liberal point of view, this paper analyses the way Jews embraced free economy. The research goal is to establish connections between Jewish and liberal thought, concerning wealth and liberty. We find out that the principles of Judaism are supporting private charity, limited government and laissez-faire capitalism.
H19|Romania’s Governmental Public Debt in the Context of the Present Day Financial Crisis: its Dynamics During the Last Ten Years|The main objective of this work is to identify the determining role of the evolution of government debt on the Romanian economy in current conditions of global financial crisis. With a view to make clear the analyzed phenomenon, we have employed an important amount of statistic data in order to carry out the research dealing with the dynamics of Romania’s governmental public debt during the period 2001-2010 which emphasized the main tendencies displayed by its evolution and which influence the measures meant to improve the management of public debt.
H19|Leading change in the public arena|The public arena is constantly exposed to social and economic pressures, forcing governmental organizations to question their capacity to change and to rethink their leadership status. First, we will provide an overview of the importance of leadership in achieving successful change, which is undoubtedly recognized through the academic literature on public leadership. Then, drawing on the concept of organizational change, this article explores the role of public leaders as change agents and illustrates empirical evidence that support the positive effect of change-oriented leaders actions in the public context.
H19|Difficulties Regarding The Absorbtion Of Structural And Cohesion Funds In Romania|Cohesion and structural funds absorption in the EU is one of the most debated issues at hand in terms of macroeconomic management and financial development of the MS. This direction results in the development of funds and all the related structural and cohesion policies as to assure structural adjustment and harmonize operations by homogenizing and sustaining the economic standards of MS. Central national budgets have to mold and be structured in order to ensure the co-financing in the projects appliance and also the fine implementation of growth through fund allotment and absorption.
H19|Políticas públicas en discapacidad en Colombia|Este artículo presenta resultados de la investigación titulada: “Política pública para población con discapacidad en Colombia. ¿Fallo institucional o realidad inexistente?”, adelantada por los autores en desarrollo de su trabajo de grado de la Maestría en Ciencias Económicas en la Universidad Santo Tomás En Colombia, la discapacidad manifiesta enormes dimensiones. De acuerdo con los datos del último censo general de población, alrededor de siete de cada cien habitantes se encuentran afectados por algún tipo de discapacidad, lo que representa cerca de 3 millones de personas. Discapacidades que van desde problemas para moverse o caminar, relacionarse con los demás, entender o aprender, hasta otras limitaciones de carácter permanente. La mayor parte de estas personas son vulnerables, viven en condiciones de pobreza, la cual se extiende a sus familias, tienen una baja participación laboral y se encuentran excluidas del sistema económico, por lo que presentan altos niveles de insatisfacción de sus necesidades básicas. Lo anterior demanda que el Estado recupere su papel de interventor en la economía reestructurando el diseño institucional para la discapacidad a la mayor brevedad posible, pues en el momento, se presenta un serio vacío de orden institucional. Asimismo, en los planes de desarrollo territorial y sus presupuestos, se requieren acciones y recursos para la atención de estas poblaciones discapacitadas vulnerables.
H19|The Effect of Government Size on the Steady-State Unemployment Rate: A Dynamic Perspective|The relationship between government size and the unemployment rate is investigated using a panel error-correction model that describes both the short-run dynamics and long-run determination of the unemployment rate. Using data from twenty OECD countries from 1970 to 1999 and after correcting for simultaneity bias, we find that government size, measured as total government outlays as a percentage of GDP, plays a significant role in affecting the steady-state unemployment rate. Importantly, when government outlays are disaggregated, transfers and subsidies are found to significantly affect the steady-state unemployment rate while government purchases of goods and services play no significant role.
H19|Women in politics: Evidence from the Indian States|"This paper uses panel data from the 16 larger states in India during the period 1967-2000 to study the effects of female political representation in the State Legislatures on public goods, policy and expenditure. It finds that politicians' gender affects policy, but that their social position, i.e., their caste, should be taken into account as well. Female legislators in seats reserved for lower castes and disadvantaged tribes invest more in health and early education and favor ""women-friendly"" laws, such as amendments to the Hindu Succession Act, which was designed to give women the same inheritance rights as men. They also favor redistributive policies, such as land reforms. In contrast, female legislators from higher castes do not have any impact on ""women-friendly"" laws, oppose land reforms, invest in higher tiers of education and reduce social expenditure. The causal effect of female legislators is estimated using close elections between women and men."
H19|Women in politics|This paper uses panel data from the 16 larger states in India during the period 1967–2000 to study the effects of female political representation in the State Legislatures on public goods, policy and expenditure. It finds that politicians' gender affects policy, but that their social position, i.e., their caste, should be taken into account as well. Female legislators in seats reserved for lower castes and disadvantaged tribes invest more in health and early education and favor “women-friendly” laws, such as amendments to the Hindu Succession Act, which was designed to give women the same inheritance rights as men. They also favor redistributive policies, such as land reforms. In contrast, female legislators from higher castes do not have any impact on “women-friendly” laws, oppose land reforms, invest in higher tiers of education and reduce social expenditure. The causal effect of female legislators is estimated using close elections between women and men.
H19|Reform and Management in Romania. Strategy and structural change (English version)|Reform of public management mean consists of deliberate changes in the structure and processes of public sector organizations with the purpose of making them function better (Pollitt and Bouckaert, 2004, p. 8). Reform efforts need to be deliberate, which means planned ahead and well structured. If after the implementation of reform actions the functioning of the public organization is even worse than at the initial starting point, the reforms cannot be justified. This article offers both a theoretical and empirical perspective on conceptualization and specific components of public sector reform as it developed throughout the recent years in different countries and also a critical view on Romania’s approach to reforming the public sector, since 1989 until now, with a case study on the Romanian public retirement system.
H19|Use of Public Sector Marketing and Leadership in Romania’s Local Public Administration (English version)|Both marketing and leadership are subjects of high interest especially for private sector organizations, with countless research done regarding their influence on organizational performance. However, their meaning and use changes when put in a public context. Taking into consideration the last 3 decades of NPM reforms both marketing and leadership got a new meaning for public organizations. The present paper explores the theoretical relation between public leadership and marketing as a managerial tool. The second part of the paper concentrates on testing, through qualitative research, whether basic marketing elements are present and used in the management of local public administration in the North-Western Region of Romania. Results show that public marketing is not yet present significantly in the local public institutions that where part of the study.
H19|Pre-electoral Coalitions and Post-election Bargaining|AbstractWe study a game-theoretic model where three political parties (left, median and right) can form coalitions both before and after the election. Before the election, coalitions can commit to a seat-sharing arrangement, but not to a policy platform or a division of rents from office; coalition members are free to break up and join other coalitions after the election. Equilibrium pre-electoral coalitions are not necessarily made up of the most ideologically similar parties, and they form under proportional representation as well as plurality rule. They form not only to avoid splitting the vote, but also because seat-sharing arrangements will influence the post-election bargaining and coalition
H19|Pre-electoral Coalitions and Post-election Bargaining|We study a game-theoretic model where three political parties (left, median and right) can form coalitions both before and after the election. Before the election, coalitions can commit to a seat-sharing arrangement, but not to a policy platform or a division of rents from office; coalition members are free to break up and join other coalitions after the election. Equilibrium pre-electoral coalitions are not necessarily made up of the most ideologically similar parties, and they form under proportional representation as well as plurality rule. They form not only to avoid splitting the vote, but also because seat-sharing arrangements will influence the post-election bargaining and coalition formation. The median party's share of the surplus in a two-party government is large if ideology is not very important, or if its ideological position is not very distant from the third (outside) party, so that it has a credible threat to switch coalition partners. On the other hand, if ideology is very important, and if the right and left parties are ideologically distant from each other so each is willing to give up a lot to prevent the other from joining a governing coalition, then the equilibrium outcome may be that the median party forms a one-party government.
H19|Réduire la dette publique française : Les options de l'assainissement budgétaire|France has a track record of persistent general government deficits, partly reflecting pro-cyclical fiscal policies in upswings. This has resulted in a quadrupling of its public debt-to-GDP ratio since the 1970s to above 80% of GDP. Reducing public debt is crucial because a high level of public debt may hamper long-term growth and may have a direct impact on fiscal sustainability if long-term interest rates rise. Bringing back public debt to 60% of GDP even by 2030 would require a fiscal effort of 4 to 5 percentage points of GDP (under the assumption of unchanged long-term rates), implying permanent primary general government surpluses, which is very ambitious in view of French fiscal history since 1970. The government’s consolidation programme, which is aimed at reducing the general government deficit to 3% of GDP by 2013, represents around two-thirds of this effort. This study analyses how fiscal governance could be improved by the creation of a structural deficit rule and looks at ways the public deficit could be lowered. With France already having a very large public sector, most of the effort should be borne by holding down spending. Better control of the public wage bill, increasing public-sector efficiency and tackling age-related costs are the obvious candidates to contain expenditure. On the revenue side, there is significant potential for cutting tax expenditures. Furthermore, eliminating distortions in the tax base would encourage economic growth.
H19|Effect of transparency on changing views regarding nuclear energy before and after Japan’s 2011 natural disasters: A cross-country analysis|Using cross-country data, this paper examines the influence of government transparency on changing views regarding nuclear energy before and after Japan’s natural and nuclear disasters of 2011. Empirical results show that transparency increases the rate of favor for nuclear energy.
H19|Effect of free media on views regarding the safety of nuclear energy after the 2011 disasters in Japan: evidence using cross-country data|Using cross-country data, this paper investigates how governance influenced views regarding the security of nuclear energy after the 2011 disasters in Japan. Key findings are: (1) citizens are less likely to agree that nuclear power plants are properly secured against accidents with the presence of a free media and higher levels of freedom of expression; and (2) freedom of expression and free media are positively associated with the presence of nuclear plants. These findings indicate that sufficient information leads citizens to both understand the risk of nuclear energy and to accept the existence of nuclear plants.
H19|The Relative Efficiency of Public and Private Health Care|A health care system is efficient when an increase in spending results in significant improvements in the health of a population. We test the relative efficiency of public and private health care spending in reducing infant and child mortality using cross-national data for 163 countries. There are two remarkable findings: First, an increase in public funds is both, significantly correlated with a lower mortality and significantly more efficient in reducing mortality than private health care expenditure. Second, private health care expenditure is in all estimations associated with higher, not lower, mortality, although this association is often not statistically significant. The results suggest, holding total health care expenditure constant, a potential decrease in total infant mortality in the 163 countries from 6.9 million deaths (2002) to 4.2-5.3 million deaths for completely publicly financed health care systems, but an increase to 9.0-10.0 million deaths for completely privately financed health care. We can explain some of the estimated difference in the efficiency of public and private health care expenditure by geographies and socioeconomic factors such as HIV prevalence, sanitation standards, corruption, and income distribution. However, the efficiency dfference remains large and statistically significant in all regressions.
H19|Lobbování v Evropské unii a v České republice<BR>[Lobbying in the European Union and Czech Republic]|The paper deals with lobbying in the EU and CR. The starting point is the selected definitions of lobbying and lobbying efforts to integrate into the broader context of promoting economic interests in society. The text therefore considers the criteria for defining lobbying, the defining of the environment for lobbying and the role of interest groups and tries to map the relevant literature on the topic. When you defi ne the issues of lobbying in the EU, the emphasis is on structural differences between the EU in terms of influence and being influenced and the bureaucratic apparatus throughout the countries. For various interest groups operating in the European political market is important to know the position of the EU institutions to lobbying and their willingness to create binding standards of behaviour and conduct (codes), as well as the need to define the line between lobbying and corruption. The text also deals with the assessment and measurement capabilities of different forms and methods of lobbing; it compares the direct and indirect data of the EU-15, the CR and the new EU Member States which regulate lobbying (unlike the CR).
H19|Rent Seeking and Inclusiveness|"This paper develops a model of political support in which governments gain support by creating wealth and also by creating rent, which gives rise to rent seeking, a major cause of inequality and poor economic performance. Rent seeking links the economic and political systems. A low rent-seeking option maximizes support only when “inclusiveness,” as defined and measured here, is high. The effects of inclusiveness on economic variables are examined, along with how the quest for political support causes inclusiveness to change. Depending on comparative political advantage, this quest can become the road to serfdom or the road to an inclusive polity, a kind of political invisible hand. The approach here avoids problems associated with the minimal ""winning coalition"" of selectorate theory."
H19|Reforming Legislatures: Is one House better than two?|During the last decade unicameral proposals have been put forward in fourteen US states. In this paper we propose a theoretical framework casting some lights on the drawbacks of bicameral state legislatures and on the effects of the proposed constitutional reforms. In a setting where lawmakers interact with a lobby through a bargaining process and with voters by means of elections, we show that when time constraints are binding, bicameralism might lead to a decline in the legislator's bargaining power vis-à-vis the lobby and to a reduction in his electoral accountability. On the other hand, when the time constraint is not binding, bicameralism might improve electoral accountability. Hence, arguments suggesting that bicameralism is a panacea against the abuse of power by elected legislators should be taken with due caution and the proposed unicameral reforms in US states may indeed reduce corruption levels among elected representatives.
H19|Venezuela: el sector privado ante la incertidumbre (2007-2008)|El documento presenta los resultados de una investigación cuyo objeto fue describir al sector privado venezolano dentro de las actuales condiciones políticas, económicas y sociales. La metodología de este documento es de interpretación cuantitativa al asociar o relacionar variables a contextos estructurales y situacionales referidos al tema estudiado. La investigación concluye que el sector privado debe colocarse en condiciones de generar consenso y hacer del crecimiento de la economía una palanca de desarrollo sostenible para elsector y el país.
H19|Towards A knowledge-Based Economy - Europe and Central Asia - Internet Development and Governance|The diversity and socio-economic differentiation of the real world prevents the full-scale cultivation of Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) to the benefit of all. Furthermore, the lack of determination and political will in some countries and slowness of responses to new technological opportunities in some others are responsible for the creation of another social divide – a digital one. The above problems were fully acknowledged by the World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS). The Summit called for a joint international effort to overcome the digital divide between and within the United Nations Member States under the Digital Solidarity umbrella. This report was prepared as a follow-up to the Summit and represents a brief review of the status and trends in the area of ICT and Internet development in the UNECE region and provides background information on the state of the art in some relevant ICT subsectors in the Member States. The report focuses on the state of the Internet critical resources and, consequently, on the ICT and Internet penetration across countries and social groups. It also looks into existing Internet governance arrangements and makes some recommendations. The report contains three parts and conclusions. The first part, “Towards a Knowledge-based Economy: Progress Assessment”, highlights the situation in the region with regards to the digital divide, both between and within countries, and national strategies and actions aiming at overcoming barriers to accessing the Internet. The second part, “Internet Development: Current State of Critical Internet Resources in the UNECE Region”, concentrates on reviewing the physical Internet backbone, interconnection and connectivity within the Internet in the UNECE Member States. The third part, “Governing the Evolving Internet in the UNECE Region”, focuses on the issues of Internet Governance in the countries of the region, challenges faced by the countries and participation of key stakeholders in ICT and Internet policy formulation and implementation. The final part contains conclusions and recommendations.
H19|Coalition governments in a model of parliamentary democracy|We analyse a model of coalition government in a parliamentary democracy where parties care both for ideology and perks from office, and examine how the magnitude of this tradeoff affects the nature of coalitions that form. It is shown that equilibrium coalitions can be minimal winning, minority or surplus and they may be ideologically disconnected. The types of coalitions that emerge depend upon the relative importance of rents from office and the distribution of party ideologies. Further, there is a non-monotonic relationship between ideological connectedness of coalitions and rents from office.
H19|L'État et ses épreuves : éléments d'une sociologie des agencements étatiques|Develops a pragmatist sociology of the State with an analysis of the conflict between urban guerrilla groups and the Federal Republic of Germany in the 1970s.
H19|Income Security and Stability During Retirement in Canada|Post-war policies and subsequent debates had two policy targets: reducing old-age poverty and enhancing income security for the “average worker” after retirement. While we know a lot about the first issue, the second has received less attention as a result of data limitations. We take advantage of unique longitudinal data based on Canadian tax files (the LAD) to examine income replacement rates of older Canadians relative to their economic status when they were in their mid-fifties. In 2005, the replacement income of retired individuals in their mid-seventies who were in the middle of the income distribution at age 55 (in the early 1980s) was between 70 and 80 percent of their previous incomes some 20 years earlier This figure is at the high end of the range (65 to 75 percent) that experts generally consider “adequate” for middle-income retirees to maintain their pre-retirement living standards. However, we also show that there is considerable variation in replacement rates. By age 75, about a quarter of middle-income persons had retirement incomes of less than 60 percent of the income they were receiving in their mid-fifties, a result of differential access to private pension income. We also ask whether income replacement rates have been rising or falling among more recent cohorts of retirees but find little change. Finally, we report results about the stability of incomes in the retirement years. We conclude that year to year instability in family income declines for both high and low income earners as they age, largely because of the stabilizing effect of public pension income sources.
H19|Ministerial Weights and Government Formation: Estimation Using a Bargaining Model| This article proposes a method to estimate relative ministerial weights in parliamentary democracies. Specifically, we present a bargaining model of government formation and estimate structural parameters of the model using data for (i) who the formateurs are, (ii) what each party's voting weight is, and (iii) what ministerial seats each party obtains. We also measure the effects of voting weights and formateur advantage on bargaining results. We apply our proposed method to the case of Japan. Our estimation results show that political players value pork-related posts (such as the Minister of Construction) much more than prestigious ones (such as the Minister of Foreign Affairs). We also find that there is a significant formateur advantage, whereas voting weights do not have a significant scale effect, which is consistent with the findings for European democracies. The Author 2007. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Yale University. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oxfordjournals.org, Oxford University Press.
H19|Výuka webových technologií v souvislosti s potřebami podnikatelského prostředí a státní správy<BR>[Education of Web Technologies in Connection with Needs of Corporate Environment and Public Administration]|Internet with all services is integral part of profession and private life of the all community. Web technologies develop very quickly and its usage has an increasing trend. Web technologies are used for various purposes in private business and public administration companies. In both cases web technologies are very important and have a big sense to support of presentation, communication and generally control processes. Today there are quite a number of standards and methods of web interface development. One of main goal of web technologies is communication of external environment and information systems, because information systems are one of fundamental part of all types of companies because of support operational and control processes. With web technologies expansion is growing need to educate new specialists and users. It is target of technical and economic universities. In this respect we have to observe uses of external environment and offer fields of study whose school-leavers find good jobs. Web technologies area is very extensive and always we have to do thorough evaluation what to teach in terms of fields of study in singles types of schools.
H19|Health Sector Reforms in India: A Situation Analysis|The process of economic reforms in the 1990s has resulted in a paradigm shift in the health sector in India. This paper is a modest attempt to address these concerns by focussing on aspects of health equity interplay between private and public sector service providers, and determinants of service providers. Our finding indicates that to a large extent, accessibility and quality of services govern the choice of health service provider. We also find that the existence of an efficient public health system can act as a major anchor for equity in the health service system
H19|On Rent-Seeking Cost Under Democracy And Under Dictatorship|This note argues that, broadly speaking, democracies have a comparative advantage over dictatorships in keeping rent-seeking costs down by imposing penalties that reduce returns to scale in rent-seeking. Dictatorships have a comparative advantage in restricting the number of rent-seekers through higher entry barriers into rent-seeking, although not to the point of eliminating rent-seeking altogether. Of the two, the former is potentially a more effective way to control rent-seeking costs. For this reason, a democracy has the potential to achieve lower rent-seeking losses, as a share of total rent available, than does a dictatorship, although this may require the democracy to achieve a high degree of transparency of government, along with freedom of the press, the judiciary, and public and private watchdog agencies to criticize politicians and public officials.
H19|The Formation of the Tibetan State Religion: The Geluk School 1419-1642|Monopolistic competition of Tibetan Buddhism by the eleventh-twelfth century allowed for many schools and sects to develop with little differentiation in religious products. The rise of the Ming dynasty (1368-1424) represented a significant shift in Yuan foreign policy toward Tibetan affairs. Ming disengagement of China in Tibet translated into a liberalization of local politics with one major pattern emerging: a shift from secular politics and clan wealth to ecclesiastical monastic institutions. The Geluk sect formed during this period, successfully introducing superior technology in its organizational characteristics (celibacy, ordained abbots, casuistical adherence, scholastic training and doctrinal orthodoxy). The club model formation of the Gelukpa distinguished it from other schools and sects, reinforcing the technological superiority of its organization. With the loss of its major Tibetan patron, the Gelukpa facing extinction by its fiercest competitor, the Karmapa, raised the stakes by introducing the incarnate position of the Dalai Lama and his labrang (financial estate). The introduction of the incarnate Dalai Lama represented a technological improvement in that the Gelukpa could now directly compete for wealthy patrons with their fiercest competitor, the Karmapa. By forming an alliance with a foreign power (Mongols), the Gelukpa were willing to use extreme violence to become the state religion.
H19|Del deber ser de la acción política|Resumen: En los Estados democráticos modernos la política se distingue como el conjunto de acciones encaminadas a conquistar y preservar el poder supremo de la soberanía. Poder soberano que se encuentra y radica en la sociedad, la cual, a través de su accionar define las leyes e instituciones para ser defendida y gobernada. De esta manera, si bien el Estado puede implementar medidas que afecten a la sociedad en su conjunto, también es cierto que él mismo se encuentra regulado por la sociedad que lo conforma, es decir, por los procesos normativos y sociales que lo delimitan en su acción. Finalmente, es la sociedad que con su sentir y con su obrar forja el gobierno que desea o merece.Abstract: In modern democratic status, politics is distinguished as a set of actions that seek for conquering and preserving the supreme power of sovereignty. Sovereign power takes root in society, which, through its actions, defines the laws and institutions in order to be defended and governed. Thus, although the State can influence the society as a whole, it is also true that the State is regulated by its society, that is to say, by the normative and social processes that delimitate its actions. Ultimately, it is society that, with its feelings and actions, forges the government it wants and deserves.
H19|La micro, pequeña y mediana empresa (MiPyME) exportadora del sector textil confección en el Valle de Aburrá: hallazgos a partir de análisis de casos|ResumenEste trabajo realiza una aproximación a las empresas micro, pequeñas y medianas -MiPyMEs- del sector textil-confección, teniendo en cuenta las políticas e instituciones de apoyo y su experiencia internacional. La metodología empleada fue el análisis de casos, aplicando un cuestionario a 23 empresas del Valle de Aburra; el desconocimiento y la desarticulación de los empresarios sobresalió como principal respuesta en la aplicación de los cuestionarios.Abstract: this article makes an approach to the small and médium sized enterprises (SME´s) of the textile and apparel sector, taking into account the policies and institutions that supports them, as well as their international experience. The methodology used was case studies, for which a questionnaire was applied to 23 companies of the Valle de Aburra; the lack of knowledge and articulation of the businessmen appeared as the main element
H19|Are Female Leaders Good for Education? Evidence from India|This paper shows that the gender of politicians affects the educational levels of individuals who grow up in the districts where these politicians are elected. A unique dataset collected on politicians in India is matched with individual data by cohort and district of residence. The political data allow the identification of close elections between women and men, which yield quasi-experimental election outcomes used to estimate the causal effect of the gender of politicians. Increasing female political representation increases the probability that an individual will attain primary education in urban areas, but not in rural areas, and not in the sample as a whole. (JEL D72, I20, J16, 015, 017)
H19|The Effect of Government Size on the Steady-State Unemployment Rate: An Error Correction Model|The relationship between government size and the unemployment rate is investigated using an error-correction model that describes both the short-run dynamics and long-run determination of the unemployment rate. Using data from twenty OECD countries from 1970 to 1999 and after correcting for simultaneity bias, we find that government size, measured as total government outlays as a percentage of GDP, plays a significant role in affecting the steady-state unemployment rate. Importantly, when government outlays are disaggregated, transfers and subsidies are found to significantly affect the steady-state unemployment rate while government purchases of goods and services play no significant role.
H19|Cognitive functioning and labour force participation among older men and women in England|This paper analyses the relationship between cognitive functioning and employment among older men and women using data from the English Longitudinal Study of Ageing. Regression analysis shows that the change in cognitive functioning over time does not have any statistically significant effects on the probability to exit or enter employment, or on working hours. These results are not sensitive to the definition of work. My findings differ from earlier research on younger age groups in Germany and the USA where some effects of cognitive functioning on labour force participation were found.
H19|One-off and off-budget items: An alternative approach|Fiscal analysis requires a set of indicators. For calculating the structural deficit, it is examined whether measures have permanent or temporary budgetary impacts, if any (creative accounting). For measuring fiscal impulse, it is examined when a given measure has a ‘true’ economic impact, if ever (creative accounting). For example, capital transfers to cover the losses of quasi-fiscal activities do not spread to the actual (‘true’) period of time by accrual recording. It is important to remove such illusory items from statistical expenditures and revenues, but in order to account for the ‘true’ effect, expenditures must be augmented, e.g. by quasi-fiscal losses and PPP investment. This type of analytical indicator has been employed by the central bank of Hungary for a decade. According to our experience, this ‘true’ measure is consistent in a macroeconomic sense and methodologically more robust than the statistical deficit, which often requires a subsequent upward revision. This kind of analytical methodology allows flexibility supported by expert judgement, and at the same time it requires transparency of methods and data.
H19|Fiscal transparency from central banks’ perspective: off-budget activities and government asset funds|This paper reviews how central banks in emerging market countries assess fiscal positions, and discusses two aspects of fiscal transparency that have recently gained importance from central banks’ perspective: off-budget activities and special fiscal funds. By increasing uncertainty about the true fiscal position of the government, these activities are of concern both to central banks that set monetary policy on their own, taking fiscal policy as given, and to those that have adopted an institutional framework for coordinating monetary and fiscal policies.
H19|Bicameralism and Government Formation|In this paper we present a structural approach to the study of government formation in multi-party parliamentary democracies. The approach is based on the estimation of a stochastic bargaining model which we use to investigate the effects of specific institutional features of parliamentary democracy on the formation and stability of coalition governments. We then apply our methodology to estimate the effects of governmental bicameralism. Our main findings are that eliminating bicameralism does not affect government durability, but does have a significant effect on the composition of governments leading to smaller coalitions. These results are due to an equilibrium replacement effect: removing bicameralism affects the relative durability of coalitions of different sizes which in turn induces changes in the coalitions that are chosen in equilibrium.
H19|National Identity and the Preference for State Opting-Out in the Basque Country|We argue that preferences for secession are the expression of common unobserved factors determining national identity, and accordingly that identity matters. This paper examines the hypothesis of support for secession (independent Euskadi) and Basque national identity as being dependent in the light of a reformulation of Akerloff and Kranton (2000). We examine observed economic determinants of individuals national identity (and their perceived imagined community or nation) formation as well as those that influence the propensity of individuals to support the secession.. We undertake econometric survey analysis for the Basque Country using a bivariate probit model and publicly available data from the Spanish Centre for Sociological Research. Our results suggest evidence of a common determination of national identity and political preferences for the secession of the Basque Country consistently with Akerloff and Kranton model.
H19|Instituciones o cultura: ¿de qué materia prima está hecha la legitimidad de las nuevas democracias?|En los últimos años, se han retomado perspectivas teóricas que sostienen que la cultura, los valores y las creencias compartidas por los ciudadanos son condiciones para el desarrollo y la democracia (Putnam, 1996; Inglehart, 2002). Contrario a estos abordajes analíticos, la finalidad de este trabajo es demostrar que los valores cívicos o el capital social no constituyen prerrequisitos para fundar instituciones democráticas en el plan nacional. Para verificar esta hipótesis, el presente trabajo intenta comparar 47 naciones, con distintos modelos institucionales y valores culturales. La información referente a los valores culturales se aisló con base en el índice de capital social, producido a partir del World Values Study. El índice empleado para formalizar y medir diversos grados de democratización alcanzados en diferentes sociedades nacionales, fue el generado por Freedom House, producido a partir de una combinación de valores referentes a derechos políticos, libertades civiles, características del régimen político, expectativa de vida y renta per cápita. Las correlaciones observadas entre indicadores de capital social y democracia fueron modestas. El examen comparativo muestra países que presentan una configuración democrática, al lado de bajos índices de capital social, sobre todo entre las nuevas democracias, desviándose, por tanto, de las prediciones del enfoque de capital social. La principal conclusión es que valores cívicos o altos niveles de capital social no son condiciones para fundar instituciones democráticas. Los datos sugieren, alternativamente, que hay una relación entre mayor dispersión de poder compartido o power-sharing (Lijphart, 1996) y formación de instituciones poliárquicas, y sostienen una recomendación de que cuando los niveles de desarrollo y valores cívicos son bajos, dividir el poder es la mejor condición para la constitución de democracias.
H19|Elasticity of Substitution, Capital Inflow and Government Size|A number of recent studies have attempted to identify the determinants of government size. It is well known that the size of government has implications for welfare and economic growth. This paper shows that the size of the fixed cost involving public good provision affects the magnitude of capital inflow induced changes in government size and welfare. By making use of a simulation exercise, it is argued that capital inflow can decrease (increase) the size of government and welfare if the elasticity of substitution is sufficiently large (small).
H19|The Effect of Government Size on the Steady-State Unemployment Rate: A Structural Error Correction Model|In this paper, we investigate the relationship between government size and the unemployment rate using a structural error correction model that describes both the short-run dynamics and long-run determination of the unemployment rate. Using data from twenty OECD countries from 1970 to 1999, we find that government size, measured as total government outlays as a percentage of GDP, plays a significant role in affecting the steady-state unemployment rate. We disaggregate government outlays and find that transfers and subsidies significantly affect the steady-state unemployment rate while government expenditures on goods and services play no significant role.
H19|Performance of Primary Cooperatives in India: An Empirical Analysis|Cooperatives as an institution in India are more than a century old. With more than a lakh grass root level cooperatives, their presence is formidable. Notwithstanding, impressive gains made by cooperatives in terms of their rural outreach and coverage of small and marginal farmers, their financial health has been a matter of concern. The study is an attempt to enquire into the factors which impact financial health of cooperatives reflected through their recovery performance. The empirical findings suggest that government should allow the cooperatives to evolve in a natural manner rather than through initial official encouragement and subsequent intervention. Government’s contribution to share capital of cooperatives should be stopped. There is also a need to revisit the issue of appropriate member size for a base level cooperative so that cooperative principles are internalized amongst members. Very large cooperatives should be avoided both in principle and practice.
H19|Генезис Цивитальной Организации: Идеология Нового Мира<BR>[Genesis of the social organisation: ideology of the new world]|The monography considers laws and mechanisms of social development from positions of positivism, dialectic materialism and the theory of systems. The methodology of the author is based on causality in relations of a society and social institutes. Social development is considered as result of opposition of a society and the social systems. The author offers new methodology of the analysis of social processes in the conditions of crisis of traditional social philosophy.
H19|Fiskalische Transparenz und ökonomische Entwicklung: Der Fall Bosnien-Herzegowina|Fiskalische Transparenz ist die Offenheit bezüglich der Planung, Formulierung und Implementierung von Finanzpolitik. Fiskalische Transparenz ist nicht nur ein wichtiges Konzept der gegenwärtigen entwicklungspolitischen Diskussion, sondern gleichzeitig ist auch in Ländern der Europäischen Währungsunion unter anderem im Zusammenhang mit der Einführung des Stabilitäts- und Wachstumspaktes ein stärkeres Interesse an transparenter Haushalt- und Finanzpolitik gegeben. Während eine Reihe empirischer Studien auf einen positiven Zusammenhang zwischen fiskalischer Transparenz und Wirtschaftswachstum hindeuten, lässt sich aber in der wirtschaftswissenschaftlichen Literatur keine fundierte, theoretische Abhandlung der Wirkungsweise fiskalischer Transparenz finden. Ziel dieses Artikels ist es nach einer kurzen Definition der Begriffe fiskalischer und budgetärer Transparenz zwei mögliche Wirkungskanäle fiskalischer Transparenz aufzuzeigen. Die Arbeit endet mit einem zweiteiligem Ausblick: Erstens werden Implikationen in Bezug auf die Ausgestaltung der Finanzpolitik eines Landes im Allgemeinen gegeben. Zweitens folgt eine Fallstudie über die Finanzpolitik Bosnien-Hercegovinas. Hierbei liegt der Schwerpunkt auf der Darstellung der Probleme der gesamtstaatlichen Koordinierung der Finanzpolitik, welche aus dem gegenwärtigen Staatsaufbau resultieren. Nach der Konsolidierung des Staatshaushaltes sollte nun zehn Jahre nach Dayton als zweiter Reformschritt durch die stärkere Kooperation der Volksgruppen die Entflechtung des Staatsaufbaus angegangen werden.
H19|Magison-ison: A parallel reality construction of war among Joloano Muslim Survivors in Sulu, Philippines|The Mindanao conflict in Southern Philippines is a long-standing controversy that has eluded comprehensive solutions. Despite efforts of the Government of the Philippines (GRP) and the representatives from the peoples of Mindanao in undertaking peace initiatives, “the war:” continues. The establishment of the Autonomous Region of Muslim Mindanao (ARMM) as embodied in an organic law provided in the 1986 Philippine Constitution has not seemed to bring about the much-anticipated progress. Even with the so-called “autonomy” already in place to substantiate the clamor of the Muslims for self-rule in the Tripoli Agreement, conflict has escalated signifying unrest among the people. Instead of dealing with the problem from the standpoint of an “outsider” who may know about the Mindanao conflict from what they hear, the study attempted to get a glimpse of “the war” from the “insiders” who have survived and lived to tell their own stories. From the perspectives of two distinct peoples of Sulu- the Christian and Muslim Joloanos, the study was able to penetrate the heart of conflict in Mindanao. The study was able to visualize “the 1974 war” and the on-going conflicts from two cultural lenses and in the process was able to demonstrate a “parallel reality construction” among the war survivors who provided interesting insights of “the war” from their “fantasy themes”. The research has not only surfaced conflicting notions in their revelations of “the war” as experienced (subjective realities) but has generated elements of “convergence” as their experiences were correlated with the institutionalized beliefs of war (objective realities) or the war as told. Despite distinct subjective realities, they have shown proclivity towards parallel perceptions. The Joloano war survivors’ subjective realities as applied in the study include their psycho-social trauma of the war and their portrayal of the role of “the other” culture as co-survivors of war. Among the elderly, descriptions of their fears and negative emotions have strongly echoed “old prejudices”. Among the middle-aged, “prudence” and tact in their narratives revealed a tendency to rationalize and to show sympathy towards “the other” culture. From the young war survivors a propensity towards confronting their dilemma suggested optimism and resilience in their perceptions. Transitions in the subjective realities of the war survivors are apparent across culture and age. Opposing views are very strong among the elderly except for one Christian and a Muslim who are associated with “the other” culture by reason of marriage with them. The older Christian Joloanos for instance believe that the war was “unnecessary” while the older Muslims were convinced it was “inevitable”. The study has strongly shown that “shifts” in perceptions could be anchored on the participants’ religious beliefs and changing circumstances that come with age, political set-up, economic climate and inter-marriage among others. Their reactions towards the prevailing issues of war (media war issues, other concepts and beliefs of war) which constitute the institutionalized-objective realities as defined in the study are “convergent” despite distinct experiences and personal circumstances. They have for example generally shown disagreement towards the commonly held concept that the mass media function to crystallize relevant issues, like the war in Mindanao. The majority of the co-authors furthermore negated the belief of the general public that “Christians and Muslims can never co-exist peacefully, and that the 1974 war was a form of “jihad” or a religious war among Muslims. In the study therefore, communication has been proven once again to play a vital role in clarifying issues of the Mindanao conflict. It performed an emancipatory role in ways that provided rhetorical and psychological relief by allowing an occasion for war survivors to deconstruct their realities through their narratives. And to reconstruct their meaning of war by actively taking part in correcting prevailing notions of war to bring about the much needed change in a war-torn community like Sulu.
H19|Jurnalistii si factorul politic in anul 2004<BR>[The romanian journalists and political factor in 2004]|This study attempts to identify some characteristics of the relationship between journalists and politicians. The methodology of the research is based on the analysis of responses to interviews in depth applied to a sample of 50 print and audiovisual journalists from Bucharest, Suceava, Pitesti, Galati and Zalau. The central points of interest have focused on tracking the degree of the journalists'independence from the political and consequently economic factors. The results of the analysis found that often political interference in editorial media agenda materialized through print and audiovisual media owners. One of the ways used by the political parties in influencing journalists consist in the providing of economic benefits as state advertising to obedient publications. Precariousness of the professional organizations and associations of journalists from Romania explains in some degree the problems revealed by journalists interviewed.
H19|Proxies for Economic Freedom: A Critique of the Hanson Critique|Economic freedom indicators have become quite popular recently as a useful tool to quantify the relationship between a country's institutions and its prosperity. In a recent article, Hanson (2003) criticizes these types of studies for: (i) failing to adequately distinguish between different proxies for economic freedom, (ii) not considering the potential for endogeneity, and (iii) accepting significance of economic freedom's ability to promote prosperity even though regression analysis generates “nonsensical” results. Closer inspection reveals that most of his arguments are questionable, do not apply to much of the literature, or are not original, and that he is guilty of misinterpreting his own econometric evidence relating freedom to the level of GDP.
H19|The Interregional Incidence of Public Budgets in Federations: Measurement Issues, Evidence from Canada, and Policy Relevance|In this paper, we examine the issue of the incidence of central government budgets in federal countries. In Section 1, we discuss a number of reasons why the picture painted of reality by even the best fiscal flow analysis is inevitably partial and hence inherently flawed to an unknowable extent. Despite these cautions, in Section 2 we review the evidence on the regional incidence of federal budgets in Canada, considering both aggregate results and some specific federal expenditure programs (e.g. equalization and employment insurance), as well as some relevant issues (e.g. the regional effect of some regulatory programs) not depicted in fiscal flows. We find that the regional distributional patterns revealed in this analysis are both robust to various reasonable adjustments and relatively stable over time. Nonetheless, we conclude in Section 3 that, while such studies are potentially useful in terms of providing a base-line for assessing performance in some respects, they cannot be used to demonstrate that e.g. one region is paying (or receiving) 'too much' or 'too little', let alone that there is a 'fiscal imbalance' that needs to be corrected. Numbers are necessary, and good numbers are better than bad ones; but they have to be interpreted carefully and in context before drawing any policy conclusions.
H19|Party Formation and Coalitional Bargaining in a Model of Proportional Representation|We study a game theoretic model of a parliamentary democracy under proportional representation where `citizen candidates' form parties, voting occurs and governments are formed. We study the coalition governments that emerge as functions of the parties' seat shares, the size of the rents from holding office and their ideologies. We show that governments may be minimal winning, minority or surplus. Moreover, coalitions may be `disconnected'. We then look at how the coalition formation game affects the incentives for party formation. Our model explains the diverse electoral outcomes seen under proportional representation and integrates models of political entry with models of coalitional bargaining.
H19|Party Formation And Coalitional Bargaining In A Model Of Proportional Representation|We study a game theoretic model of a parliamentary democracy under proportional representation where `citizen candidates' form parties, voting occurs and governments are formed. We study the coalition governments that emerge as functions of the parties' seat shares, the size of the rents from holding office and their ideologies. We show that governments may be minimal winning, minority or surplus. Moreover, coalitions may be `disconnected'. We then look at how the coalition formation game affects the incentives for party formation. Our model explains the diverse electoral outcomes seen under proportional representation and integrates models of political entry with models of coalitional bargaining.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
H19|"""Managing for Outcomes"" in the New Zealand Public Management System"|Managing for Outcomes is the process by which central agencies and Ministers are seeking to promote a results focus within the New Zealand public management system. This paper argues that if a results focus is to truly be introduced to the New Zealand public management system then all aspects of the wider system will need to be amended, in order to support a general cultural change. In promoting this view the paper provides a summary of the system as it currently stands and considers how the structural, financial, strategic and performance management elements of the wider public management system could be amended to support an outcomes focus within the core New Zealand public service.
H19|Primary inputs supply, government size and welfare in the presence of monopolistic competition|The paper considers the impact of exogenous changes in the supply of primary inputs on government size and welfare in the presence of monopolistic competition. By making use of a simple general equilibrium model, this paper shows that an increase in the supply of labor increases (decreases) the relative size of government if the share of capital in the final good sector is larger (smaller) than the share of capital in the public good sector. An increase in the supply of capital decreases the relative size of government only if the share of capital in the final good sector is equal to (or larger) than the share of capital in the public good sector. An increase in the overall size of the country decreases the relative government size. In addition, an increase in the supply of both capital and labor increases welfare.
H19|Gerardo Molina y el Estado Providente|In this essay, Gonzalo Cataño examines the ideas on the State defended by the notable thinker and Colombian socialist leader: Gerardo Molina. The article presents a brief biography, followed by a study of his ideas concerning the functions of the State. Although a critical tone predominates all way through the article, it must be remembered that the limitations of an intelligent analyst of the public subjects are always more instructive than the correct considerations of a trivial expositor of the policy. The paper defines Provident State – also known as Welfare State or Supportive State– as a State that guarantees minimum standards of income, health, food, housing, education and labor, as political rights, not charity.
H19|Externalities of social capital : the role of values, norms and networks| The economic perspective on values and norms shows that they may bring about externalities for the society as a whole. This possibility of market failure provides a good reason for the government to follow closely the developments in values and norms, and the resulting behaviour in communities and networks. It justifies the initiative of Prime Minister Balkenende to organise the debate on these matters in the Netherlands (and, under the Dutch EU-presidency, in Europe). Networks can be associated both with positive (Putnam type) and with negative (Olson type) externalities. This paper discusses the various influences of values, norms and networks on socio-economic welfare and provides empirical evidence on these relationships. The focus of our own empirical analysis is on the Netherlands. Trust as part of social capital, and the role that values, norms and networks play as co- ordination mechanism, form important aspects both in the theoretical and in the empirical analysis. It appears that there has been no obvious decrease in these aspects of social capital in the Netherlands. It contrasts the findings of Putnam for the US.
H19|The Political Economy of Growth in Latin America and East Asia: Some Empirical Evidence|This article examines the historical records of poor economic performance of Latin America compared to East Asia's relative success in the 1970s and 1980s. Although both regions adopted similar postwar protective inward‐oriented development strategies, their experiences and economic outcomes diverged significantly in subsequent years. Some have argued that East Asian countries outperformed Latin American ones because they implemented appropriate policies that were adaptive to changes in the global market scene. This study shows that the respective sociopolitical and institutional environment of the two regions was also an important factor contributing to their economic outcomes. A growth model augmented with policy‐driven and sociopolitical variables is developed. Using data for selected countries in both regions, the results confirm the hypothesis of a negative direct (efficiency) effect of sociopolitical instability on growth, with an additional indirect (accumulation) effect through investment, irrespective of a country's location. Policies adopted by governments, particularly to control inflation and foreign indebtedness and to enhance economic freedom and human capital accumulation, appear crucial for stability. Such policies influenced economic performance through both the direct and the indirect channels. (JEL B25, E13, F43, H19, O57)
H19|Beyond the Good and the Evil: Anarchy, Commitment, and Peace|No abstract is available for this item.
H19|The Effects of Constitutions on Coalition Governments in Parliamentary Democracies|In this article we present an overview of our recent research on the effects of constitutions on coalition governments in parliamentary democracies. Our approach is based on the solution and estimation of a multilateral bargaining model which we use to investigate the consequences of constitutional features of parliamentary democracy for the formation and stability of coalition governments.
H19|Abstention because of Indifference and Alienation, and Its Consequences for Party Competition: A Simple Psychological Model|The basic idea behind this paper is that voters have to be able to distinguish the positions of the parties. Following Weber’s Law this depends on the relative distance with respect to their own optimal position. Using such a measure a model of voter participation is developed which allows for abstention because of indifference as well as alienation. Two variants of this model are applied on a two parties contest: one where participation is proportional to the relative distance and another one where voters participate if this distance is above a certain convergence to the median voter’s position.
H19|Striking a Balance: Centralised and Decentralised Decisions in Government|This paper identifies factors to be looked at when considering the extent to which decisions within government should be centralised or decentralised. In practice, the solution is almost always likely to involve a balance between centralised and decentralised decision-making. Nevertheless there are a number of common factors that are generally applicable to questions of centralisation and decentralisation. This paper identifies those factors in order to provide some guidance for decisions regarding the location of decision rights. Rather than being prescriptive, the paper simply presents the relevant issues for consideration. Centralisation (or decentralisation) is a complex and multi-dimensional issue. It is partly for this reason that the paper does not suggest any specific solutions. The solution in any particular case will involve tradeoffs between the factors identified in the paper as well as value judgements regarding the ranking of the various factors. In determining the appropriate balance between centralised and decentralised decisions, various factors are in tension. Centralisation can help ensure uniform and consistent standards, minimise inequalities, avoid the duplication of services, allow for the achievement of economies of scale, and increase coherence and coordination. Decentralisation, on the other hand, can help enhance local autonomy and empowerment, encourage customisation and innovation, and increase participation. Economic, social, managerial and constitutional perspectives offer a number of theoretical frameworks that are useful in considering issues of centralisation/ decentralisation. This paper draws together ideas from across these perspectives. It concludes that the solution is likely to be characterised by a “tight/loose” pattern whereby there is “tight” or centralised control over the major objectives that is then joined by “loose” or decentralised discretion over the ways in which those objectives are achieved to varying degrees.
H19|Bicameralism and Government Formation, Second Version|In this paper we present a structural approach to the study of government formation in multi-party parliamentary democracies. The approach is based on the estimation of a stochastic bargaining model which we use to investigate the effects of specific institutional features of parliamentary democracy on the formation and stability of coalition governments. We then apply our methodology to estimate the effects of governmental bicameralism. Our main findings are that eliminating bicameralism does not affect government durability, but does have a significant effect on the composition of governments leading to smaller coalitions. These results are due to an equilibrium replacement effect: removing bicameralism affects the relative durability of coalitions of different sizes which in turn induces changes in the coalitions that are chosen in equilibrium.
H19|Specific Issues of the Structure and Relations between Executive and Legislature at Local Level in Romania|Public management and civil servant's performance, productivity and quality of public service, flexibility and responsiveness to challenges of change in administration, autonomy and decentralising, the reduced costs of reform represent only a part of the characteristics and requirement of administration. Administration as structure is approached from organisational perspective.The principles of public administration are the following: local autonomy, decentralising civil services of local interest, electing local government authorities, legality, consulting the citizens on local problems of special interest
H19|Government Turnover in Parliamentary Democracies|In this paper we consider a dynamic model of government formation and termination in parliamentary democracies. Our analysis accounts for the following observed phenomena: (1) Cabinet reshuffles; (2) Cabinet replacements; (3) Early elections; (4) Surplus governments; (5) Minority governments; (6) The relative instability of minority governments.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
H19|Finance versus costs for teaching hospitals in Spain|In this paper we analyse the observed systematic differences in costs for teaching hospitals (THhenceforth) in Spain. Concern has been voiced regarding the existence of a bias in the financing of TH’s has been raised once prospective budgets are in the arena for hospital finance, and claims for adjusting to take into account the ‘legitimate’ extra costs of teaching on hospital expenditure are well grounded. We focus on the estimation of the impact of teaching status on average cost. We used a version of a multiproduct hospital cost function taking into account some relevant factors from which to derive the observed differences. We assume that the relationship between the explanatory and the dependent variables follows a flexible form for each of the explanatory variables. We also model the underlying covariance structure of the data. We assumed two qualitatively different sources of variation: random effects and serial correlation. Random variation refers to both general level variation (through the random intercept) and the variation specifically related to teaching status. We postulate that the impact of the random effects is predominant over the impact of the serial correlation effects. The model is estimated by restricted maximum likelihood. Our results show that costs are 9% higher (15% in the case of median costs) in teaching than in non-teaching hospitals. That is, teaching status legitimately explains no more than half of the observed difference in actual costs. The impact on costs of the teaching factor depends on the number of residents, with an increase of 51.11% per resident for hospitals with fewer than 204 residents (third quartile of the number of residents) and 41.84% for hospitals with more than 204 residents. In addition, the estimated dispersion is higher among teaching hospitals. As a result, due to the considerable observed heterogeneity, results should be interpreted with caution. From a policy making point of view, we conclude that since a higher relative burden for medical training is under public hospital command, an explicit adjustment to the extra costs that the teaching factor imposes on hospital finance is needed, before hospital competition for inpatient services takes place.
H19|Finance versus costs for teaching hospitals in Spain|In this paper we analyse the observed systematic differences in costs for teaching hospitals (THhenceforth) in Spain. Concern has been voiced regarding the existence of a bias in the financing of TH’s has been raised once prospective budgets are in the arena for hospital finance, and claims for adjusting to take into account the ‘legitimate’ extra costs of teaching on hospital expenditure are well grounded. We focus on the estimation of the impact of teaching status on average cost. We used a version of a multiproduct hospital cost function taking into account some relevant factors from which to derive the observed differences. We assume that the relationship between the explanatory and the dependent variables follows a flexible form for each of the explanatory variables. We also model the underlying covariance structure of the data. We assumed two qualitatively different sources of variation: random effects and serial correlation. Random variation refers to both general level variation (through the random intercept) and the variation specifically related to teaching status. We postulate that the impact of the random effects is predominant over the impact of the serial correlation effects. The model is estimated by restricted maximum likelihood. Our results show that costs are 9% higher (15% in the case of median costs) in teaching than in non-teaching hospitals. That is, teaching status legitimately explains no more than half of the observed difference in actual costs. The impact on costs of the teaching factor depends on the number of residents, with an increase of 51.11% per resident for hospitals with fewer than 204 residents (third quartile of the number of residents) and 41.84% for hospitals with more than 204 residents. In addition, the estimated dispersion is higher among teaching hospitals. As a result, due to the considerable observed heterogeneity, results should be interpreted with caution. From a policy making point of view, we conclude that since a higher relative burden for medical training is under public hospital command, an explicit adjustment to the extra costs that the teaching factor imposes on hospital finance is needed, before hospital competition for inpatient services takes place.
H19|Policy on Modern Small Scale Industries: A Case of Government Failure|In this paper, we address ourselves to an evaluation of government policy designed for the modern segment of the small scale manufacturing sector. We argue that the policy has been and continues to be supply-driven and paternalistic leading to dependency. In addition, the individual unit-centered atomistic approach of policy is dominated by continuous protective and discretionary promotional measures with perverse incentive effects for the healthy growth of this segment. We underline the need to move away from continued protection and bureaucratic discretion-based promotion and argue for a radical shift in this policy towards a demand-driven, group-oriented and collective effort-based (rather than atomistic) approach. We argue for the abolition of indiscriminate reservation of production lines for exclusive production in the small scale sector and introducing and strictly enforcing the time bound character of promotional concessions. It would induce this segment to get out of the syndrome of remaining small and inefficient. The suggested shift in policy is necessary in order to flexibly adjust to fast changing circumstances so as to better serve the longstanding and as yet unattained objective of developing a vibrant and self-reliant modern small scale industry.
H19|Subventionen in der Bundesrepublik Deutschland: Bestandsaufnahme und Bewertung|The extent and the structure of subsidies (including tax concessions) in the Federal Republic of Germany are analyzed. Subsidies per unit value added increased significantly after German reunification and declined only moderately in 1995. Nevertheless, the subsidies (comprehensively defined) reached roughly 8.6 p.c. of GDP.
H19|Who Should Run Trade Policy in Eastern Europe and How?|This paper discusses the design of appropriate institutions for trade policy-making in Central and Eastern Europe. Drawing on US and EU experience it argues that legislatures should set the broad parameters, leaving commodity-specific detail to the executives. Sectoral Ministries, e.g. of Agriculture, Energy or Industry, should not control trade policy, a task which should fall to a special Ministry with close links to the Treasury and Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It should be clear precisely who is responsible for trade policy and the public should be informed both of their general interest in trade policy and of the costs and benefits of any particular action.
H19|Work Characteristics, Firm Size and Wages| A positive wage-firm size relationship is well documented in the empirical literature in industrial organization and labor economics. Firm size seems to proxy various unobserved determinants such as job satisfaction, monitoring costs, more complex technologies, and worker participation in monopoly profits. It is generally argued that the greater the possibility of controlling for these latent factors, the less likely that a significant size effect will appear. This paper attempts to distinguish firm size from other wage determinants for a rich data source for West Germany and demonstrates the persistence of the size premium. Copyright 1991 by MIT Press.
H19|Why the ECB Should be Ultra-Liberal|The statute of the ECB states that its primary target should be to maintain price stability. The theoretical foundation behind this target is that of a socially optimal conservative central banker. We challenge the robustness of this result in a model with endogenous labor market policy, decided upon by a politically motivated government. In this model, the socially optimal choice of central banker is an ultra-liberal, who eliminates both inflation and unemployment and removes the political distortion. Somewhat paradoxically, the labor union supports an ultra-conservative central banker, because this means a more generous labor market policy.
H19|Regionalism and Political Violence|We study the e ect of representation by regional political parties on political vio- lence in India. Using a regression discontinuity design that exploits close elections, we nd that the election of a regional-party candidate increases the probability of a violent event in the subsequent inter-election years by 6 percentage points and the number of violent events by 9 percent. It increases the probability of a death due to political vio- lence by 6 percentage points and the number of deaths by 16 percent. The increase in violence is explained by insurgent groups being more able to carry out violent attacks when the local elected ocial is a member of a regional party, suggesting that regional ocials lack either the will or the capacity to control violence.
H19|Public Administration From Romania In The Knowledge Society And E-Learning|"In a recent report published by the International Monetary Fund noted that ""after two decades of reform with disastrous performance, Romania has made remarkable progress on stabilization, growth and poverty reduction over the last four years"". Lack of economic performance between 1990 and 2000 explains to some extent values for the current state of knowledge society (KS), in Romania. In the report's conclusions on the Information Society in our country state that Romania is behind other countries in Central and Eastern Europe but there is still a rapidly growing presence of mobile phones, Internet use, the use of computers connected to Internet by companies and investment expenditures and equipment and the number of employees in companies using the Internet has doubled in the construction industry and has seen significant growth in trade."
H19|The Case for Road Privatization: a Defense by Restitution|Many contributions explained in details the various benefits from private roads. Not only they stressed the possibility of such system, but also the functioning through different historical experiences. However, they put aside an important question: how should we proceed concretely in order to privatize the road network? Our contribution tries to answer this question. It explains the consequences of a public provision and its differences with a free market order. It defines the true meaning of the privatization process: a search for justice, and proposes a solution based on Rothbards theory of property rights. The paper concludes on some critics that we raised to alternative process of privatization.Le réseau routier constitue un bien privé qui peut faire lobjet dune offre de la part dentrepreneurs. Or aujourdhui, celui-ci est géré par le secteur public. Se pose le problème de sa désocialisation ou de sa transmission au secteur privé par privatisation. Nous démontrons que les procédés de privatisation couramment utilisés se focalisent seulement sur un critère de rentabilité et en cela se révèlent insuffisants. La méthode par restitution se présente quant à elle comme un procédé recherchant un principe de justice, conforme à léthique des droits de propriété. Nous présentons alors les modalités pratiques dune telle méthode appliquée au réseau routier.
H19|Die wissenschaftliche Politikberatungder Bundesregierung neu organisieren|"Der Ausgangspunkt unserer Analyse ist der Rat der Enquete-Kommission ""Wachstum, Wohlstand, Lebensqualität"" des Deutschen Bundestags, ""das bestehende Berichts- und Sachverständigenwesen der Bundesregierung im Wege einer Evaluierung auf Redundanzen und Verbesserungsmöglichkeiten hin zu überprüfen"". Nach unserer Besichtigung und Bewertung der Gremien- und Berichtslandschaft lassen sich einige Reformideen formulieren. Ausgangspunkt unserer Empfehlungen sind vier Überlegungen: (1) Sachliche Informationen sollten möglichst von unabhängigen Experten erarbeitet werden, (2) Relevanz sollte durch die Verpflichtung der Bundesregierung hergestellt werden, zu sachverständigen Berichten Stellung zu nehmen, (3) zwischen der Vorlage von Berichten und der Stellungnahme der Bundesregierung sollten die Organisationen der Zivilgesellschaft ausreichend (zeitliche) Gelegenheit zur Auseinandersetzung mit den Berichten bekommen. Öffentliche Wahrnehmung und verbesserte Legitimation von Beratungsprozessen dienen den Beratenden und Beratenen, und (4) ein effektives Berichtswesens muss auch die Frage beantworten, auf welche Berichte perspektivisch verzichtet werden kann. Wissen, das nicht verarbeitet werden kann, ist überflüssig."
