H22|Un modelo DSGE bayesiano para la heterogeneidad en shocks de impuestos como política fiscal en la reactivación económica del Perú|Durante los últimos años, el Perú atravesó recesiones debido a la dependencia externa estableciendo políticas fiscales para la reactivación económica. Sin embargo, la diversidad de impuestos y su escaso estudio no permitieron definir una política adecuada debido a la no consideración de heterogeneidad de sus efectos. Esta investigación estima el impacto de shocks del IGV y el IR considerando las limitaciones anteriores. Asimismo, a través del modelo de Equilibrio General Dinámico Estocástico (DSGE) Bayesiano se evidenció que un shock por IGV incrementa la economía en 2.2%, disminuye el empleo, aumenta el consumo en el periodo inicial y retrae la inversión. Por otra parte, un shock de IR impulsa la economía en 4.8%, retrae el consumo pero eleva el empleo casi proporcionalmente, e incrementa la inversión. Finalmente, se concluyó que una reforma tributaria de IR tiene efectos más satisfactorios, logrando una recaudación de 12.3% del PBI, en comparación del IGV (8.9%).
H22|Inequality, mobility and the financial accumulation process: a computational economic analysis|Abstract Our computational economic analysis investigates the relationship between inequality, mobility and the financial accumulation process. Extending the baseline model by Levy et al., we characterise the economic process through stylised return structures generating alternative evolutions of income and wealth through time. First, we explore the limited heuristic contribution of one and two-factors models comprising one single stock (capital wealth) and one single flow factor (labour) as pure drivers of income and wealth generation and allocation over time. Second, we introduce heuristic modes of taxation in line with the baseline approach. Our computational economic analysis corroborates that the financial accumulation process featuring compound returns plays a significant role as source of inequality, while institutional arrangements including taxation play a significant role in framing and shaping the aggregate economic process that evolves over socioeconomic space and time.
H22|Competition and Pass-Through: Evidence from Isolated Markets|We measure how pass-through varies with competition in isolated oligopolistic markets with captive consumers. Using daily pricing data from gas stations, we study how unanticipated and exogenous changes in excise duties (which vary across different petroleum products) are passed through to consumers in markets with different numbers of retailers. We find that pass-through increases from 0.44 in monopoly markets to 1 in markets with four or more competitors and remains constant thereafter. Moreover, the speed of price adjustment is about 60% higher in more competitive markets. Finally, we show that geographic market definitions based on arbitrary measures of distance across sellers, often used by researchers and policy makers, result in significant overestimation of the pass-through when the number of competitors is small.
H22|Soda tax incidence and design under monopoly|We consider an unhealthy good, such as a sugar-sweetened beverage, the health damages of which are misperceived by consumers. The sugar content is endogenous. We first study the solution under “pseudo” perfect competition. In that case a simple Pigouvian tax levied per unit of output but proportional to the sugar content is sufficient to achieve a first best solution. Then we consider a monopoly. Market power affects both output and sugar content, possibly in opposite directions, and these effects have to be balanced against Pigouvian considerations. We show that, nevertheless, a tax per unit of output achieves an efficient solution, but it must be an affine function of the sugar content; taxing “grams of sugar” is no longer sufficient. Interestingly, both the total tax as well as its sugar component can be positive as well as negative.
H22|Phase-out of 'coal to power' in an ETS|We investigate the displacement effects of phase-out-of-coal policies in a stylized model of electricity generation and CO2 regulation, in which a group of countries operates an emissions trading scheme (ETS). Electricity markets are either international or national and the emissions cap remains either unchanged or is tightened. With constant emissions cap and trade in electricity, some emissions as well as some coal-based electricity ‘leak’ into other countries and the aggregate welfare of the group of countries declines, if a country unilaterally phases out coal. With constant emissions cap and no trade in electricity, the unilaterally phasing-out country is worse off and the other countries are better off. Following a suggestion in a recently revised EU ETS Directive, we then combine a country’s phase-out policy with canceling the permits it formerly used to generate electricity from coal. When electricity is traded, that combined policy prevents the leakage of emissions and coal-based electricity and shifts a share of the welfare costs to other countries. Without trade in electricity, the other countries generate less coal-based electricity and all countries’ consumption welfare decreases, but all countries benefit from reduced climate damage. Finally, we offer an empirical calibration of our model to the European Union.
H22|Tax pass-through in the European beer market|We study the pass-through of indirect taxes on beer prices in the European Union (EU). Exploiting the variation of value added tax rates, beer excise tax rates, and beer prices in a panel of monthly data from 1996 to 2016 of all current 28 EU member states, we estimate the tax pass-through of specific beer excise taxes and ad valorem value added taxes (VAT). VAT is under-shifted at a rate of approximately 70%. Specific excise taxes are almost fully shifted to prices in the EU, but, in contrast to the empirical findings for the US, there is no evidence of over-shifting. The difference between the two tax pass-through rates points towards the importance of imperfect competition in the European beer market. Excise tax increases are passed through faster and at a higher rate than excise tax decreases.
H22|Inferring Tax Compliance from Pass-through: Evidence from Airbnb Tax Enforcement Agreements|Tax enforcement can be prohibitively costly when market transactions and participants are difficult to observe. Evasion among market participants may reduce tax revenue and provide certain types of suppliers an undue competitive advantage. Whether efforts to fully enforce taxes are worthwhile depends on the rate of compliance in the absence of such efforts. In this paper, we show that an upper bound on pre-enforcement tax compliance can be obtained using market data on pre- and post-enforcement periods. To do this, we estimate the pass-through of tax enforcement agreements between the largest online short-term housing rental platform and state and local governments, which achieve full compliance at the point of sale. Using transaction-level data on Airbnb listings across a number of U.S. metropolitan areas, as well as variation in enforcement agreements across time, location, and tax rate, we estimate that taxes are paid on no more than 23 percent of Airbnb transactions prior to enforcement. We also provide insight on demand- and supply-side responses to taxation in online and sharing economy marketplaces, as well as the potential associated inefficiencies.
H22|Who Bears the Burden of Real Estate Transfer Taxes? Evidence from the German Housing Market|This paper examines the effects of real estate transfer taxes (RETT) on house prices using a rich micro dataset on German properties covering the period from 2005 to 2018. We exploit a 2006 constitutional reform that allowed states to set their own RETT rates, leading to frequent increases in states’ tax rates in subsequent years. Our monthly event study estimates indicate a price response that strongly exceeds the change in the tax burden for single transactions. I.e., twelve months after a reform, a one percentage point increase in the tax rate reduces property prices by on average 3.5%. Effects are stronger for apartments and apartment buildings than for single family houses. We interpret these results in the context of a theoretical model that accounts for the effects of RETT on a property’s resale value. If a property is expected to be traded more frequently in the future, the decline in its price can exceed the in crease in the tax burden. Moreover, larger price effects can be explained by higher bargaining power of sellers.
H22|The Global Macroeconomics of a Trade War: The EAGLE model on the US-China trade conflict|We study the global macroeconomic effects of tariffs using a multiregional, general equilibrium model, EAGLE, that we extend by introducing US tariffs against Chinese imports into the US, and subsequently Chinese tariffs against US imports into China, consistent with recent trade policies by the US and the Chinese governments. We abstract from tariffs on goods exported from the euro area, focusing on a US-China trade war. A unilateral tariff from the US against China dampens US exports in line with the Lerner Symmetry theorem but global output contracts. Global output contracts even further after China retaliates. The euro area benefits from this trade war. These European trade diversion benefits are caused by cheaper imports from China and improved competitiveness in the US. As price stickiness in the export sector in each region increases, the negative effects of tariffs in the US and China are mitigated, but the positive effects in the euro area are then also dampened.
H22|Competition and Pass-Through: Evidence from Isolated Markets|We measure how pass-through varies with competition in isolated oligopolistic markets with captive consumers. Using daily pricing data from gas stations, we study how unanticipated and exogenous changes in excise duties (which vary across different petroleum products) are passed through to consumers in markets with different numbers of retailers. We find that pass-through increases from 0.44 in monopoly markets to 1 in markets with four or more competitors and remains constant thereafter. Moreover, the speed of price adjustment is about 60% higher in more competitive markets. Finally, we show that geographic market definitions based on arbitrary measures of distance across sellers, often used by researchers and policy makers, result in significant overestimation of the pass-through when the number of competitors is small.
H22|Did the 2017 Tax Reform Discriminate against Blue State Voters?|The Tax Cut and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA) made significant changes to corporate and personal federal income taxation, including limiting the SALT (state and local property, income and sales taxes) deductibility to $10,000. States with high SALT tend to vote Democratic. This paper estimates the differential effect of the TCJA on red- and blue-state taxpayers and investigates the importance of the SALT limitation to this differential. We calculate the effect of permanent implementation of the TCJA on households using The Fiscal Analyzer: a life-cycle, consumption-smoothing program incorporating all major federal and state fiscal policies. We find that the average percentage increase in remaining lifetime spending under the TCJA is 1.6 percent in red states versus 1.3 percent in blue states. Among the richest 10 percent of households, this differential is larger. Rich households in red states enjoyed a 2.0 percent increase compared to a 1.2 percent increase among the rich in blue-state households. This gap is driven almost entirely by the limitation on the SALT deduction. Excluding the SALT limitation from the TCJA results in a spending gain of 2.6 percent for rich red-state households compared to 2.7 percent for rich blue-state households.
H22|Intellectual Property and Taxation in Digital Platforms|I study the impact of competition and taxation on the openness and the intellectual property policies of two-sided digital platforms. I model a market in which two platforms compete for users and developers. First, I find that higher competition shortens the period of exclusivity granted to developers but does not influence the degree of openness of a platform. However, the higher the degree of differentiation in the developers market, the less open the platforms are. Second, I analyze two types of taxes, ad valorem and unit taxes. Ad-valorem taxes have no effect on the length of the exclusivity period. However, they increase the degree of openness of the platform when levied on users. Unit taxes instead limit the degree of openness and increase the period of exclusivity when levied on the developers market. Lastly, I find that multi-homing reduces the exclusivity period, but does not change the qualitative effects of taxation. My findings suggest that the new digital tax proposed by the European Commission, that should come into force in 2020, may reduce openness and innovation levels in the European Union.
H22|Mortgage risk since 1990|This paper provides a comprehensive account of the evolution of default risk for newly originated home purchase loans since 1990. We bring together several data sources to produce this history, including loan-level data for the entire GSE book. We use these data to track a large number of loan characteristics and a summary measure of risk, the stressed default rate. Among the many results in the paper, we show that mortgage risk had already risen in the 1990s, planting the seeds of the financial crisis well before the actual event. Our results also cast doubt on explanations of the crisis that focus on low-credit-score borrowers.
H22|Redistributive Impacts of Fiscal Policies in Mexico: Corrections for Top Income Measurement Problems|This study assesses the redistributive impacts of fiscal instruments in a 2014 Mexican household budget survey (ENIGH) correcting for potential top-income measurement problems. We use two correction methods based on within-survey information to re-estimate the redistributive impacts of contributory pensions and cash-like transfers; direct taxes; indirect taxes and subsidies; and in-kind transfers. The two methods are: survey-sample reweighting for households’ nonresponse probability, and replacing of top incomes using synthetic values from the Pareto distribution. This replacing is implemented either on all core income concepts, or on net market income from which it is passed onto other incomes through fiscal rules. These corrections yield higher inequality as measured by the Gini (0–9 pc.pt. increase) and the top 1% and 10% income shares (0–5, and 1–5 pc.pt. increases), consistently between the reweighting and replacing methods, and consistently across all income concepts. Moving from pre-fiscal market income to post-fiscal final income, corrections for nonresponse fall slightly, while corrections for mismeasurement rise. Taxable income is subject to the highest inequality, which further undergoes the highest upward correction for top income problems, potentially consistent with evidence of earnings misreporting among the rich. Conversely, nontaxable income has a strong equalizing impact of 3.3–4.5 points of the Gini further accentuated under the top-income corrections. The corrections confirm the inequality-neutral impact of pensions in Mexico, and equalizing impacts of transfers, direct taxes, indirect taxes and subsidies, and in-kind transfers. In-kind transfers, cash-like transfers and direct taxes have the strongest equalizing impacts of 4.7–5.7, 1.6–1.9, and 1.2–2.2 points of the Gini, respectively. Indirect taxes and subsidies are weakly equalizing, by 0.4-0.6 points. Finally, top-income measurement challenges retain their magnitude across the 2010, 2012 and 2014 ENIGH, but household nonresponse becomes more positively selected over time, causing more serious biases.
H22|Property Tax Reform and Land Use: Evidence from Japan|It is often said that farmland conservation in urban areas (i.e., cities and inner suburbs) is not desirable because it hinders converting farmland into residential areas, thereby deterring urbanization. If the preferential treatment of property taxes on farmland is rectified, these problems can be solved. In this paper, we study two property tax preferential treatment reforms that took place in Japan during the 1990s. We examine the effects of these reforms by theoretical and empirical investigation. The econometric results are consistent with our theoretic modelâ€™s main predictions; the proportion of farmland in the major cities in the three metropolitan areas (Tokyo, Chubu, and Kansai) decreased following the reforms. However, since landlords did not replace all the farmland with housing lots, the problem of obstructed urbanization remains to be solved.
H22|Does Tax-Benefit Linkage Matter for the Incidence of Social Security Contributions?|We study the earnings responses to three large increases in employer Social Security contributions (SSCs) in France. We find evidence of full pass-through to workers in the case of a strong and salient relationship between contributions and expected benefits. By contrast, we find limited pass-through of employer SSCs to wages for reforms that increased SSCs with no tax-benefit linkage. Together with a meta-analysis of the literature, we interpret these results as evidence that tax-benefit linkage and its salience matter for incidence, a claim long made by the literature but not backed by direct empirical evidence to date.
H22|Fertility, Inequality and Income Growth|This paper sets an endogenous fertility model with a two-sector model: one for the final goods sector and the other for child care service sector. Results of theoretical analysis indicate that the subsidy for children raises the labor share of the child care service sector and that it can increase fertility. An aging population reduces fertility and the labor share of the child care service sector. In addition to these results, we consider monetary policy effects on fertility. Results show that monetary policy can raise fertility and the labor share of the child care service sector by virtue of an increase in the pension benefit if a pay-as-you-go pension exists.
H22|Redistributive Impacts of Fiscal Policies in Mexico: Corrections for Top Income Measurement Problems|This study assesses the redistributive impacts of fiscal instruments in a 2014 Mexican household budget survey (ENIGH) correcting for potential top-income measurement problems. We use two correction methods based on within-survey information to re-estimate the redistributive impacts of contributory pensions and cash-like transfers; direct taxes; indirect taxes and subsidies; and in-kind transfers. The two methods are: survey-sample reweighting for households’ nonresponse probability, and replacing of top incomes using synthetic values from the Pareto distribution. This replacing is implemented either on all core income concepts, or on net market income from which it is passed onto other incomes through fiscal rules. These corrections yield higher inequality as measured by the Gini (0–9 pc.pt. increase) and the top 1%- and 10%-income shares (0–5, and 1–5 pc.pt. increases), consistently between the reweighting and replacing methods, and consistently across all income concepts. Moving from pre-fiscal market income to post-fiscal final income, corrections for nonresponse fall slightly, while corrections for mismeasurement rise. Taxable income is subject to the highest inequality, which further undergoes the highest upward correction for top income problems, potentially consistent with evidence of earnings misreporting among the rich. Conversely, nontaxable income has a strong equalizing impact of 3.3–4.5 points of the Gini further accentuated under the top-income corrections. The corrections confirm the inequality-neutral impact of pensions in Mexico, and equalizing impacts of transfers, direct taxes, indirect taxes and subsidies, and in-kind transfers. In-kind transfers, cash-like transfers and direct taxes have the strongest equalizing impacts of 4.7–5.7, 1.6–1.9, and 1.2–2.2 points of the Gini, respectively. Indirect taxes and subsidies are weakly equalizing, by 0.4-0.6 points. Finally, top-income measurement challenges retain their magnitude across the 2010, 2012 and 2014 ENIGH, but household nonresponse becomes more positively selected over time, causing more serious biases.
H22|Did the 2017 Tax Reform Discriminate against Blue State Voters?|The Tax Cut and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA) made significant changes to corporate and personal federal income taxation, including limiting the SALT (state and local property, income and sales taxes) deductibility to $10,000. States with high SALT tend to vote Democratic. This paper estimates the differential effect of the TCJA on red- and blue-state taxpayers and investigates the importance of the SALT limitation to this differential. We calculate the effect of permanent implementation of the TCJA on households using The Fiscal Analyzer: a life-cycle, consumption-smoothing program incorporating all major federal and state fiscal policies. We find that the average percentage increase in remaining lifetime spending under the TCJA is 1.6 percent in red states versus 1.3 percent in blue states. Among the richest 10 percent of households, this differential is larger. Rich households in red states enjoyed a 2.0 percent increase compared to a 1.2 percent increase among the rich in blue-state households. This gap is driven almost entirely by the limitation on the SALT deduction. Excluding the SALT limitation from the TCJA results in a spending gain of 2.6 percent for rich red-state households compared to 2.7 percent for rich blue-state households.
H22|Long-Run Tax Incidence in a Human Capital-based Endogenous Growth Model with Labor-Market Frictions|In a second-best optimal growth setup with only factor taxes, it is in general optimal to fully replace capital by labor income taxation in the long run. We revisit this important issue by developing a human capital-based endogenous growth model with frictional labor search, allowing each firm to create multiple vacancies and each worker to determine market participation. We find that the conventional efficient bargaining condition is necessary but not sufficient for achieving constrained social optimality. We then conduct tax incidence exercises in balanced growth by calibrating to the U.S. economy with a pre-existing 20% flat tax on capital and labor income. Our quantitative results suggest that, due to a dominant channel via the interactions between vacancy creation and market participation, it is optimal to switch only partially from capital to labor taxation in a benchmark economy where human capital formation depends on both physical and human capital stocks. This main finding is robust even along the transition with time-varying factor tax rates. Moreover, our quantitative analysis under alternative setups suggest that while endogenous human capital and labor market frictions are essential for obtaining a positive optimal capital tax, endogenous leisure, nonlinear human capital accumulation and endogenous growth are not crucial.
H22|Business Taxation in an Emerging Economy: Analysing Corporate Tax Incidence|This paper estimates the incidence of corporate taxes in an emerging economy –India- using the data from 5,666 business firms listed in the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) and the National Stock Exchange of India (NSE) for the period 2000-15. Using the dynamic panel models, we find that capital bear the burden of corporate taxation relatively more than the labour. Our findings highlight that the burden of corporate tax is more on capital than labour. It is also found that the effective tax rate is higher for the small corporate firms than the gigantic firms. Further research is required to understand whether less incidence of corporate taxation on wages in India is due to profit shifting.
H22|Tax Pass-Through in the European Beer Market|No abstract is available for this item.
H22|Neutral carbon tax and environmental targets in Brazil|We evaluate the effects of a carbon tax in the Brazilian economy using an input-output framework. First, we consider the impacts of a carbon tax of US$ 10 and US$ 50/metric ton of CO2 equivalent. As usual, the adoption of the carbon tax generates adverse effects on GDP, wages and jobs in the short term, but reduces emissions and generates new government revenues, especially in the case of the greater tax. Second, we consider a broader tax system reform. In this reform, we replace distortionary taxes by a tax on value added. To compensate for the loss of government revenue, we assume a carbon tax with equivalent revenue. We find that the net effect is a GDP increase of 0.47%, the creation of 533 thousand jobs and reduction of 1.6 million tons of CO2 emissions. Both scenarios exempt exports and levy imports to correct adverse effects on the countryâ€™s competitiveness.
H22|Soda tax incidence and design under monopoly|We consider an unhealthy good, such as a sugar-sweetened beverage, the health damages of which are misperceived by consumers. The sugar content is endogenous. We first study the solution under “pseudo” perfect competition. In that case a simple Pigouvian tax levied per unit of output but proportional to the sugar content is sufficient to achieve a first best solution. Then we consider a monopoly. Market power affects both output and sugar content, possibly in opposite directions, and these effects have to be balanced against Pigouvian considerations. We show that, nevertheless, a tax per unit of output achieves an efficient solution, but it must be an affine function of the sugar content; taxing “grams of sugar” is no longer sufficient. Interestingly, both the total tax as well as its sugar component can be positive as well as negative.
H22|Measuring the Distributional Impact of Taxation and Public Spending: The Practice of Fiscal Incidence Analysis|Taxation and public spending are key policy levers the state has in its power to change the distribution of income. One of the most commonly used methods to measure the distributional impact of a country’s taxes and public spending is fiscal incidence analysis. Rooted in the field of Public Finance, fiscal incidence analysis is the method utilized to allocate taxes and public spending to households so that one can compare incomes before taxes and transfers with incomes after them. Standard fiscal incidence analysis just looks at what is paid and what is received without assessing the behavioral responses that taxes and public spending may trigger on individuals or households. This is often referred to as the “accounting approach.” Although the theory is quite straightforward, its application can be fraught with complications. The salient ones are discussed here. While ignoring behavioral responses and general equilibrium effects is a limitation of the accounting approach, the effects calculated with this method are considered a reasonable approximation of the short-run welfare impact. Fiscal incidence analysis, however, can be designed to include behavioral responses as well as general equilibrium and inter-temporal effects. This article focuses on the implementation of fiscal incidence analysis using the accounting approach.
H22|Leaving No One Behind: Can Tax-Funded Transfer Programs Provide Income Floors in Sub-Saharan Africa?|"We use results from nine different country-based Commitment to Equity (CEQ) Assessments in sub-Saharan Africa to demonstrate the welfare impact in low- and middle-income countries of policy scenarios which (a) redirect current subsidy expenditures to direct cash transfer programs; (b) establish income floors to be funded from both current subsidy expenditure as well as from additional revenues generated through current direct and indirect tax instruments; and (c) target direct cash transfer spending to poor populations or to general populations (a ""universal"" transfer). Results indicate that at baseline the existing combination of taxes and transfers increases post-fiscal poverty in all countries but upper middle-income Namibia and South Africa. This result - which we call fiscal impoverishment - is most often due to the fact that the poor pay consumption taxes but receive very little in cash transfers and an exceedingly small share of total subsidies. Reallocating expenditures on general price subsidies to targeted transfers would yield better poverty outcomes in most countries, but a portion of the not-so-poor poor would then receive no transfers at all. Results also show that setting income floors equivalent to international poverty lines and funding the necessary transfers with direct taxes from individuals is often not feasible for two reasons: there is extreme reranking of individuals (from preto post-fiscal income) and negative post-fiscal incomes for tax-paying individuals and the tax burden on the nonpoor would be significantly higher. Scenarios establishing income floors are more likely to be feasible when the required additional funding is financed by a proportional increase in indirect taxes"
H22|Inflation and the Erosion of the Poverty Reduction Impact of Iran's Universal Cash Transfer|In December 2010, Iran replaced its energy and bread subsidies with an unconditional and universal cash transfer (UCT). In the short-run, this shift away from generalized subsidies had a significant effect on poverty. Studies show that the direct effect of the reform was a reduction in the headcount ratio from 22.5% to 10.6%. However, since the introduction of the reform, inflation has severely eroded the real value of the transfer because adjustments to its nominal value have been minimal in comparison. We estimate that after five years, during which time there was a cumulative 136.5% increase in prices (since 2011/2012 or 1390 in the Iranian calendar), the real value of the transfer was cut nearly in half. As a result of this cut, the poverty reducing effect of the transfer declined by about 40%, which translates into roughly a 5 percentage point increase in the headcount ratio. We find that this deleterious consequence of inflation is much higher in rural areas where the contribution of the transfer to the reduction in the incidence of poverty declines from 21.9 to 11.0 percentage points over the course of these five years. The only way for the UCT to recover the poverty reducing results observed at the beginning, without increasing the budget, is by making it a more targeted program focused on the poorest 40% of the population.
H22|Redistribution via VAT and cash transfers: an assessment in four low and middle income countries| As in high-income countries, reduced rates of VAT and VAT exemptions (“preferential VAT rates”) are a common feature of indirect tax systems in LMICs. Many of the goods and services that are granted preferential rates – such as foodstuffs and kerosene – seem likely to receive such treatment on the grounds that they provide a means for the government to indirectly target poorer households, for whom such expenditures may take up a large proportion of their total budget. We use microsimulation methods to estimate the impact of preferential VAT rates in four LMIC countries, considering their effect on revenues, poverty, inequality, and across the consumption distribution. We consider whether other policy tools might be better suited for the pursuit of distributional objectives by estimating the impact of existing cash transfer schemes and a hypothetical scenario where the revenue raised from broadening the VAT base is used to fund a Universal Basic Income (UBI) in each country. We find that although preferential VAT rates reduce poverty, they are not well targeted towards poor households overall. Existing cash transfer schemes are better targeted but would not provide a suitable means of compensation for a broader VAT base given issues related to coverage and targeting mechanisms. Despite being completely untargeted, a UBI funded by the revenue gains from a broader VAT base would create large net gains for poor households and reduce inequality and most measures of extreme poverty in each of the countries studied – even if only 75% of the additional VAT revenue was disbursed as UBI payments. This is the first draft of a paper examining the distributional impacts of VAT exemptions and reduced rates and direct cash (and near-cash) transfer schemes in a series of low and middle income (LMIC) countries. All results presented are preliminary; it is being shared in order to elicit comments and provide early sight of findings we consider robust.
H22|Taxes, Transfers and Income Distribution in Chile: Incorporating Undistributed Profits|This paper seeks to measure the distributive impact of fiscal interventions in Chile, applying the “Commitment to Equity” (CEQ) methodology, a standardized fiscal incidence analysis. As a methodological innovation, we incorporated income accrued and not received by Chilean taxpayers through their companies and corporations into the distribution of pre-fiscal income. We find that the difference between the distribution of accrued and received income turns out to be important, around 6 Gini percentage points for each main concept of income. In addition, when moving from the distribution of market income to the distribution of final income (after taxes and transfers) the distribution of income improves by 7 Gini percentage points. To assign the improvement in the distribution of income between the different fiscal interventions, we apply the Shapley value and it is observed that half of the improvement in the distribution of income is due to transfers in education, while direct taxes only explain 20% of the reduction of the Gini coefficient. Finally, based on the simulation of the impact of the 2014 tax reform carried out by the World Bank, we estimate that the reform would produce an additional reduction of 2.4 Gini percentage points when going from market income to final income.
H22|The Incidence of Soft-Drink Taxes on Consumer Prices and Welfare:Evidence from the French â€œSoda Taxâ€|The behavioural impact and acceptability of soft-drink taxes depend crucially on their incidence on consumer prices and welfare across socio-economic groups and markets. We use KantarWorldpanel homescan data to analyse the incidence of the 2012 French soda tax on Exact Price Indices (EPI) measuring consumer welfare from the availability and consumption of Sugar-Sweetened Beverages (SSB) and Non-Calorically Sweetened Beverages (NCSB) at a local geographical level. The soda tax has had significant, similar but small impacts on the EPI of SSB and NCSB (+4%), corresponding to an aggregate pass-through of about 40%. Tax incidence was slightly higher for low-income and high-consuming households. Retailers set higher pass-throughs in low-income, less-competitive and smaller markets. They did not change their product assortments. The lack of horizontal competition in low-income markets had a sizeable effect on tax regressivity. Finally, the negative income gradient in tax incidence was offset by a positive gradient in expected health benefits.
H22|Impact of the German real estate transfer: Tax on the commercial real estate market|The tax burden of real estate transactions in Germany increased considerably since the constitutional reform in 2006. We examine the impact of the real estate transfer tax (RETT) on transactions and (net-of-tax) prices of commercial buildings and vacant commercial lots by means of a fixed-effects panel regression. The empirical analysis shows an association of a rise of the RETT by 1% with a decrease of office transactions by up to 0.41% and reduced prices by up to 0.22%. On the market for other commercial properties, transactions and prices decline by 0.17% and 0.19% respectively following a RETT increase. The negative price effects on the commercial real estate market tentatively indicate tax incidence with the seller. In the case of vacant commercial lots, a RETT increase seems to induce an increase of average prices by 0.36%, denoting tax incidence with the buyer. We find no significant effect on transactions of vacant lots in the data. In addition, we analyze possible neighborhood effects among the states. The empirical evidence for these effects implies that with an average of a 1% RETT increase in the bordering states of one state, the prices for other commercial properties and for vacant lots rise by 0.51% and 0.71% respectively. Hence, the border effect seems to surpass the direct price effect and suggests spatial structural changes in the investment behavior.
H22|Do housing allowances increase rents? Evidence from a discrete policy change|A major concern with demand side housing subsidies to low-income tenants is the extent to which they may be captured by landlords in the form of higher rents. The Accommodation Supplement (AS) benefit is the largest housing subsidy policy in New Zealand. A 2005 policy change created a new AS-area around central Auckland that resulted in an increase in AS entitlement for residents within the area compared to those outside. In this paper we exploit the natural experiment created by this policy change to evaluate whether the increase in accommodation support for recipients in the new area led to relatively higher rents than paid by recipients outside the boundary. We use administrative data for a sample of AS recipients on either side of the new area boundary over the four-year period spanning the policy change. Our analysis shows that as a result of the policy change, recipients on the inside of the boundary received around $6.81 per week more in total accommodation support in the second year after the policy was implemented. We estimate that weekly rents increased on average about $2.44 more inside the boundary (36 percent of the increase in AS) and, as expected, the impacts were stronger at higher quantiles of the rent distribution. We also find that the rent increases were concentrated among families with children, and present some evidence that this reflected increased spending on housing (which may have reduced over-crowding), rather than a wider increase in rental prices.
H22|¿Cuánto tributan efectivamente el consumo, el trabajo y el capital en Colombia?|Saber cuánto tributan efectivamente los consumidores, trabajadores y propietarios del capital es importante para entender el impacto de los impuestos sobre sus decisiones, los costos de producción, la inversión, el ciclo y el crecimiento económico y la distribución de la carga tributaria. A la vez, es crítico para el estudio de tributación óptima y la toma de decisiones de política tributaria. El objetivo del documento es calcular, para Colombia, las tasas efectivas promedio de tributación brutas y netas sobre el consumo y los ingresos de los factores de producción, trabajo y capital, en el período comprendido entre 1994 y 2016. Además, con el fin de obtener una medida completa de la carga tributaria efectiva total del país, también se estima la tasa sobre el resto de impuestos, técnicamente no clasificados en las anteriores categorías. La conclusión general es que los impuestos en Colombia no son tan altos como se afirma, pero tan poco tan bajos o bien repartidos como se desea. Las implicaciones de política que se derivan de los resultados indican que las autoridades fiscales deben, ser cuidadosas a la hora de tomar decisiones de política tributaria basadas en las tasas nominales, eliminar los beneficios tributarios que no tengan soporte técnico, fortalecer los instrumentos para evitar la elusión y eliminar la evasión, balancear las cargas tributarias y, por último, pero no por ello menos importante, si eliminaran las contribuciones sobre la nómina, la carga tributaria sobre el trabajo se reduciría 13%. Más aún, si se redujeran los aportes a la seguridad social el alivio sería aún mayor.
H22|Taxation of Savings and Portfolio Choices of French Households|France is the European country in which, together with the United Kingdom, the taxation of saving is highest (6% of GDP in 2016, against on average 3.8% in the European Union and 3.5% in the euro area). This situation is evaluated with regard to the theoretical debate on optimal taxation. Although no clear-cut conclusion can be drawn from that debate, it appears that the “dual Nordic” is nowadays widely considered as satisfying. However, theoretical research tends to underestimate the genuine tax burden, as they do not take two factors into consideration, namely cumulated taxation and inflation. In fact, although taxation is only one the factors that influence the allocation of assets, it plays an important role in savers’ choices. As an illustration, an evaluation of the impact of the newly-created ‘prélèvement forfaitaire unique’ (single flat tax on saving income) is provided by Christian Pfister.
H22|The Evaluation of Fiscal Consolidation Strategies|: In this paper, we present a framework and perform an assessment of different fiscal consolidation strategies both on the revenue as well as on the expenditure sides of the budget in the context of Slovakia. The model we use for simulations is a behavioural general-equilibrium what-if model. We analyse the simulated impacts of consolidation strategies on growth and on fiscal balance (both in short- and long- term). The microsimulation approach allows us also to evaluate the distributional impacts. In addition, the approach permits to compare the statutory with the resulting tax incidence in the long-run. We simulate strategies based on taxing labour income, taxing consumption as well as cutting expenditures on social transfers. We document that corporate and labour taxes are more unfavourable to output growth, while consumption taxes belong to less damaging instruments for consolidation. We show that spending cuts may promote employment and are not detrimental to output growth.
H22|Inheritance Taxation and Wealth Effects on the Labor Supply of Heirs|Taxing bequests not only generates direct tax revenue, but can have a positive impact on the labor supply of heirs through wealth effects. This leads to an increase in future labor income tax revenue. How large is this effect? We use a state of the art life-cycle model that we calibrate to the German economy to answer this question. Our model successfully matches quasi-experimental evidence regarding the size of wealth effects on labor supply. Using this evidence directly for a back of the envelope calculation fails because (i) heirs anticipate the reduction in bequests through taxation and adjust their labor supply already prior to the actual act of bequeathing, and (ii) when bequest receipt is stochastic, even those who ex post end up not inheriting anything respond ex ante to a change in the expected size of bequests. We find that for each Euro of bequest tax revenue the government mechanically generates, it obtains an additional 9 Cents of labor income tax revenue (in net present value) through a higher labor supply of (non-)heirs.
H22|SAM and AGEM of Mexico and Taxes on Hydrocarbons Extraction|No abstract is available for this item.
H22|Heterogeneity in the tax pass-through to spirit retail prices: Evidence from Belgium|On 1st November 2015, the Belgian government increased the excise tax on alcoholic beverages. For spirits with 40% of alcohol and bottle size of 70cl, this tax change is equivalent to an amount of 2,43€ per bottle of spirits. This paper studies the impact of this tax reform on the retail price of six major brands of spirits, using a difference-in-differences method. The estimation is based on a balanced panel of scanner data from a major supermarket chain and uses the retail prices of the same brands sold in France by the same supermarket chain as a control group. Having information on each store geographical location, we can further test for heterogeneity in tax pass-through according to the intensity of local competition and the scope for cross-border shopping. We find that the tax was quickly passed through spirit retail prices already during the first month of tax implementation and that it was mostly over-shifted. Unlike the (nearly) uniform pricing in US retail chains, we show spatial variation in prices across stores, and we find a large heterogeneity in tax pass-through linked to variation in local competition and price elasticity of demand. Although the tax reform has considerably increased the relative price of Belgian spirits with respect to all its neighboring countries, we find a lower tax shifting only in stores bordering on Luxembourg. Which is the neighboring country with the lowest spirit prices before the alcohol tax reform. These findings have important implications for alcohol control policies as they highlight the risk that the health benefits of alcohol taxation can vary greatly across households according to where they live.
H22|"Progressive taxation and (in)stability in an exogenous growth model with non-market (""home"") production"|"We show that in a exogenous growth model with non-market (""home"") sector calibrated to Bulgarian data under the progressive taxation regime (1993-2007), the economy exhibits equilibrium indeterminacy due to the presence of non-market production. These results are in line with the findings in Benhabib and Farmer (1994, 1996) and Farmer (1999). Also, the findings in this paper are in contrast to Guo and Lansing (1988) who argue that progressive taxation works as an automatic stabilizer. Under the flat tax regime (2008-16), the economy calibrated to Bulgarian data displays saddle-path stability. The decrease in the average effective tax rate addresses the indeterminacy issue and eliminates the ""stable focus"" dynamics."
H22|Inheritance taxation in a model with intergenerational time transfers| We consider a two-period overlapping generation model with rational altruism a la Barro, where time transfers and bequests are available to parents. Starting from a steady state where public spendings are nanced through taxation on capital income and labor income, we analyze a tax reform that consists in a shift of the tax burden from capital income tax towards inheritance tax. In the standard Barro model with no time transfer and inelastic labor supply, such a policy decreases steady-state welfare. In our setting, inheritance tax modi es parent's trade-o between time transfers and bequests. We identify situations where the tax reform increases welfare for all generations. Welfare improvement mainly depends on the magnitude of the e ect of higher time transfers on the labor supply of the young.
H22|Inheritance taxation with agents differing in altruism and productivity| We analyze a shift from capital income tax towards inheritance tax in a two-period overlapping generation model with rational altruism a la Barro, where the population consists of two types of dynasties that di er in altruism and productivity. The tax reform is implemented in a way that leaves the capital-labor ratio constant at steady state. It increases welfare of less altruistic dynasties, but decreases welfare of the most altruistic one. We then extend the model by considering time transfers from the old to the young generation and assuming that the young have elastic labor supply. We discuss the condition for the tax reform to be Pareto-improving in steady state.
H22|Mechanics of replacing benefit systems with a basic income: comparative results from a microsimulation approach|Abstract Recent debates of basic income (BI) proposals shine a useful spotlight on the challenges that traditional forms of income support are increasingly facing, and highlight gaps in social provisions that largely depend on income or employment status. A universal “no questions asked” public transfer would be simple and have the advantage that no-one would be left without support. But an unconditional payment to everyone at meaningful but fiscally realistic levels would likely require tax rises as well as reductions in existing benefits. We develop a comprehensive BI scenario that facilitates an assessment of the resulting fiscal and distributional effects in a comparative context, undertake a microsimulation study to quantify them, and propose a simple decomposition to identify the mechanisms that drive effects in different country contexts. Results illustrate the challenges, but also the strengths, of existing social protection systems. A BI would fix benefit coverage gaps that exist in many countries, but would require very substantial tax rises if it were to be set at a meaningful level. As support would not be targeted on those most in need, it would not be a cost-effective way of directly reducing income poverty.
H22|Mechanics of replacing benefit systems with a basic income: comparative results from a microsimulation approach|Abstract Recent debates of basic income (BI) proposals shine a useful spotlight on the challenges that traditional forms of income support are increasingly facing, and highlight gaps in social provisions that largely depend on income or employment status. A universal “no questions asked” public transfer would be simple and have the advantage that no-one would be left without support. But an unconditional payment to everyone at meaningful but fiscally realistic levels would likely require tax rises as well as reductions in existing benefits. We develop a comprehensive BI scenario that facilitates an assessment of the resulting fiscal and distributional effects in a comparative context, undertake a microsimulation study to quantify them, and propose a simple decomposition to identify the mechanisms that drive effects in different country contexts. Results illustrate the challenges, but also the strengths, of existing social protection systems. A BI would fix benefit coverage gaps that exist in many countries, but would require very substantial tax rises if it were to be set at a meaningful level. As support would not be targeted on those most in need, it would not be a cost-effective way of directly reducing income poverty.
H22|The Economic Effects of a Tax Shift from Direct to Indirect Taxation in France|This paper uses the European Commission's DSGE model QUEST to investigate the impact of alternative tax reforms shifting the tax burden away from labour or corporates, making the French tax system more growth friendly. These experiments consist in raising VAT and, simultaneously reducing either social security contributions borne by employers or corporate income taxes. These tax reforms overall entail positive and permanent effects on GDP and price competitiveness. Scenarios that imply cuts in social contributions borne by employers bring about more positive effects on employment, the trade balance and the general government deficit. By contrast, while lowering corporate taxes also gives rise to a positive GDP response, external price competitiveness and private investment, they negatively affect employment, the trade balance and the general government deficit.
H22|The supply of non-renewable resources|There exists no formal treatment of non-renewable resource (NRR) supply, systematically deriving quantity as function of price. We establish instantaneous restricted (fixed reserves) and unrestricted NRR supply functions. The supply of a NRR at any date and location depends not only on the local contemporary price of the resource but also on prices at all other dates and locations. Besides the usual law of supply, which characterizes the own-price effect, cross-price effects have their own law. They can be decomposed into a substitution effect and a stock compensation effect. We show that the substitution effect always dominates: a price increase at some point in space and time causes NRR supply to decrease at all other points. Our newalthough orthodoxsetting takes into account not only NRR supply limitations but also the heterogeneity of NRR deposits, and the endogeneity of their development and opening. Our analysis extends to NRRs the partial-equilibrium analysis of demand and supply policies. Thereby, it provides a generalization of results about policy-induced changes on NRR markets.
H22|The Value Added Tax Incidence – the Case of the Book Market in CEE Countries|Conducting effective economic policy requires understanding of how taxes are shifted. The value added tax rates on books in the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland and Slovakia in 2003 – 2012 differed much and changed several times, hence it was a good case for exploring the tax incidence. The main objective of the article is to answer the question to whom (consumers, capital, labour) and to what extent the burden of the value added tax on books was shifted. Although the tax is often classified as a consumption tax, the tax on books wasn’t shifted to consumers at least within five months after a tax rate change. The research suggests that the tax is shifted to capital and labour. According to the econometric models, an increase of the value added tax rate on books of 1 percentage point leads to a decrease of the return on equity of book publishers between 0,43 and 0,76 percentage point. It suggests that the value added tax on books was partly shifted to capital. Although wages are rigid, employees bear, to some extent, the burden of the value added tax. The regressions allow concluding that an increase of the value added tax rate of 1 percentage point leads to a reduction in the average wage in book publisher companies in the range 0,84% - 0,92%.
H22|Modelling Electric Vehicles as an Abatement Technology in a Hybrid CGE Model|We present a novel methodology to quantify the social costs and benefits (net social costs) of electric vehicles as an endogenous, demand-driven abatement technology in a general equilibrium framework. This new costing approach relates general equilibrium effects resulting from an increased market penetration of electric vehicles to the external environmental and health effects of the corresponding change in emissions. To this end, we develop a hybrid model combining a computable general equilibrium (CGE) with a discrete choice (DC) model that is capable of depicting an endogenous demand-driven uptake of alternative fuel vehicles. The discrete choice model of the consumer purchase decision between conventional, hybrid, plug-in hybrid, and electric vehicles is directly integrated into the CGE model. This hybrid CGE-DC model features a detailed accounting of vehicle fleet development, including yearly numbers of vehicle purchases and cohort depreciation. It depicts nine households differentiated by the degree of urbanization and education, accounts for detailed consumer preferences for the purchase of a passenger vehicle and mode choice decisions. The hybrid CGE-DC model is additionally hard-linked to a bottom-up module for elektricity production by several technologies to provide input for an established impact pathway analysis to quantify the external costs relating to the changed composition of the vehicle fleet and technologies to generate electricity. We apply this methodology to Austria as an empirical example, considering current measures and trends for the uptake of electric vehicles into the vehicle fleet. In particular, we quantify the net social costs of additional measures to foster the introduction of electromobility that are part of the current policy discussion in Austria, and thus provide a blueprint for further application in different national contexts.
H22|Hidden Baggage : Behavioral Responses to Changes in Airline Ticket Tax Disclosure|We examine the impact on air travelers of an enforcement action issued by the U.S. Department of Transportation in January 2012 that required U.S. air carriers and online travel agents to incorporate all mandatory taxes and fees into their advertised fares. Exploiting cross-itinerary ticket tax variation within international city market pairs, we provide evidence that the more prominent display of tax-inclusive prices is associated with a significant reduction in tax incidence on consumers and a decline in passenger volume along more heavily-taxed itineraries. Ticket revenues are commensurately reduced. These results suggest a pronounced degree of inattention to ticket taxes prior to the introduction of full-fare advertising and reinforces the theoretical predictions and experimental findings of the literature on tax salience in a quasi-experimental context where taxes average more than $100 per ticket and where firms may engage in price-setting behavior.
H22|The Macroeconomic Effects of Trade Policy|We study the short-run macroeconomic effects of trade policies that are equivalent in a friction-less economy, namely a uniform increase in import tariffs and export subsidies (IX), an increase in value-added taxes accompanied by a payroll tax reduction (VP), and a border adjustment of corporate pro.t taxes (BAT). Using a dynamic New Keynesian open-economy framework, we summarize conditions for exact neutrality and equivalence of these policies. Neutrality requires the real exchange rate to appreciate enough to fully offset the effects of the policies on net exports. We argue that a combination of higher import tariffs and export subsidies is likely to trigger only a partial exchange rate offset and thus boosts net exports and output (with the output stimulus largely due to the subsidies). Under full pass-through of taxes, IX and BAT are equivalent but VP is not. We show that a temporary VP can increase intertemporal prices enough to depress aggregate demand and output, even when wages are sticky. These contractionary effects are especially pronounced under fixed exchange rates.
H22|Firm types, price-setting strategies, and consumption-tax incidence|We analyze price responses to large restaurant VAT rate reductions in two different European countries. Our results show that responses in the short and medium run were clustered around two focal points of zero pass-through and full pass-through. Differences between independent restaurants and chains is the key explanation for this pattern. While nearly all independent restaurants effectively ignored the tax reductions and left consumer prices unchanged, a substantial fraction of restaurants belonging to chains chose a rapid and complete pass-through. In the longer run, prices converged, but primarily through a price reversion among chain restaurants. The stark difference in price responses does not appear to arise because of different market characteristics such as location, initial price levels, meal types and restaurant segment.
H22|Managing the distributional effects of energy taxes and subsidy removal in Latin America and the Caribbean|Energy subsidies have been criticized due to their economic inefficiency and promotion of wasteful usage of energy and associated carbon emissions. Conversely, environmental taxes are advocated as efficient policy instruments. But removing subsidies and taxing energy can be politically challenging because vulnerable households rely on low energy prices. This study analyzes the impact of energy price hikes on different income groups using an energy-extended input-output approach. Our results show that higher-income groups benefit more from low energy prices than low-income groups when tracing both direct and indirect (supply chain) effects of energy price variations. Energy subsidies are a very expensive option to transfer income to poor households. For example, in Latin America and the Caribbean, using energy subsidies would cost about $12 to transfer $1 of income to households in the poorest quintile. Recycling a small fraction of fiscal revenues from energy subsidy removal or energy taxation could be sufficient to compensate vulnerable households from the effects of price hikes. Cash transfers to poor households and targeted subsidies for public transportation or food are the most effective measures to compensate households for welfare loss.
H22|Is changing the minimum legal drinking age an effective policy tool?|In year 1991 regional governments in Spain started a period of implementation of a law that rose the Minimum Legal Drinking Age from 16 to 18 years old. This process was fully completed in year 2015. To evaluate the effects of this change on consumption of legal drugs and its related morbidity outcomes, we construct a regional panel dataset on alcohol consumption and hospital entry registers and compare variation in several measures of prevalence between the treatment group (16-18 years old individuals) and the control group (20-22 years old individuals). Our findings show important differences by gender. Firstly, our main result regarding overall drinking prevalence show reductions ranging from -11.57% for the subsample including both genders to -14.31% for the subsample of males. Secondly, effects on males are driven mainly by reductions in beer with alcohol consumption (-8.98%). Thirdly, effects on wine and/or cava drinking prevalence range from -12.62% for the subsample including both genders to -9.65% for the subsample of females. No effects regarding overall smoking prevalence are found. Fourthly, we do not find evidence that these reductions in alcohol consumption are translated into hospitalizations related to alcohol overdose. To our knowledge, this is the first paper providing evidence on gender-based differences to policies aimed at reducing alcohol consumption. Our results have important policy implications for countries currently considering changes in the Minimum Legal Drinking Age.
H22|Redistribution via VAT and Cash Transfers: An Assessment in Four Low and Middle Income Countries|As in high-income countries, reduced rates of vat and vat exemptions (preferential vat rates) are a common feature of indirect tax systems in lmics. Many of the goods and services that are granted preferential rates - such as foodstuffs and kerosene - seem likely to receive such treatment on the grounds that they provide a means for the government to indirectly target poorer households, for whom such expenditures may take up a large proportion of their total budget. We use microsimulation methods to estimate the impact of preferential vat rates in four lmic countries, considering their effect on revenues, poverty, inequality, and across the consumption distribution. We consider whether other policy tools might be better suited for the pursuit of distributional objectives by estimating the impact of existing cash transfer schemes and a hypothetical scenario where the revenue raised from broadening the vat base is used to fund a universal basic income (ubi) in each country. We find that although preferential vat rates reduce poverty, they are not well targeted towards poor households overall. Existing cash transfer schemes are better targeted but would not provide a suitable means of compensation for a broader vat base given issues related to coverage and targeting mechanisms. Despite being completely untargeted, a ubi funded by the revenue gains from a broader vat base would create large net gains for poor households and reduce inequality and most measures of extreme poverty in each of the countries studied - even if only 75% of the additional vat revenue was disbursed as ubi payments.
H22|L'opus di Mauro Fasiani|Scopo di questo lavoro non è quello di discutere il pensiero scientifico di Fasiani, ma solo di attirare l'attenzione degli studiosi facendo conoscere il contenuto dei suoi apporti scientifici, perché Mauro Fasiani non sembra occupare ancora il posto che merita nell'ambito scientifico. In questo lavoro viene quindi presentato un profilo biografico di Mauro Fasiani, seguito da una breve analisi dei suoi scritti scientifici disposta secondo i principali filoni delle sue ricerche. Segue una bibliografia delle sue opere e la bibliografia degli scritti riguardanti il suo apporto scientifico. Il lavoro si conclude con la presentazione di trentotto schede, ciascuna corrispondente ad un suo saggio; rispetto agli scritti elencati nella bibliografia, mancano le schede corrispondenti a otto scritti, considerati del tutto trascurabili.
H22|Fertility, Income Growth and Inflation|This paper sets an endogenous fertility model with human capital accumulation and monetary policy in a closed economy, with subsequent examination of how fertility, education investment for children, and the inflation rate change. Results of theoretical analysis indicate that the child allowance raises fertility and reduces educational investment. However, the effect of the subsidy for education investment on fertility and educational investment is ambiguous because of the closed economy. Because of the change of fertility and income growth, the inflation rate can be changed by the child care policy. An increase in monetary stock policy raises human capital growth because the physical capital accumulation is facilitated.
H22|Do Corporate Tax Cuts Increase Income Inequality?|We study the effects of corporate taxes on income inequality. Using state corporate taxes as a setting, we provide evidence that corporate tax cuts lead to increases in income inequality. This result is robust across regression, matching, and synthetic controls approaches, and to controlling for a host of potential confounders. We use Statistics of Income data from the IRS to explore mechanisms behind this result. We find tax cuts lead to higher income for both top and bottom earners, but the gains to capital income for top earners exceed the gains to total income for bottom earners. This result suggests that, while all earners appear to benefit from a corporate tax cut, the relation between tax cuts and inequality is positive, in part, because high income individuals shift their compensation to reduce taxes.
H22|The Capitalization of Consumer Financing into Durable Goods Prices|A central question in the study of business cycles and credit is the relationship between asset prices and borrowing conditions. In this paper, we investigate the effects of cross-sectional credit-supply shocks on the prices of durable goods. Understanding how prices capitalize credit in the cross-section is important for understanding the incidence, transmission, and aggregation of credit-supply shocks. Using loan-level data on the prices paid for used cars by millions of borrowers and hundreds of auto-loan lenders, we measure what happens to individual-level prices when only some borrowers are exposed to an exogenous shock to the user cost of credit. Holding car quality fixed with a battery of age-make-model-trim by month fixed effects, we document that loan maturity is capitalized into the price treated borrowers pay for identical cars, attenuating the benefit of cheaper financing. For a car buyer with an annual discount rate less than 8.9%, the benefits of being offered cheaper credit are more than offset by the higher purchase price of the car. Overall, our estimates suggest that one additional year of loan maturity is worth 2.8% of the car’s purchase price, an implied elasticity of price with respect to monthly payment size of –0.23.
H22|The Impact of the Philadelphia Beverage Tax on Prices and Product Availability|In this paper, the authors examine the impact of Philadelphiaâ€™s beverage tax, enacted in 2017, on the prices and availability of taxed beverages and untaxed beverages that may be substitutes for consumers.
H22|The Pass-Through of the Largest Tax on Sugar-Sweetened Beverages: The Case of Boulder, Colorado|We estimate the incidence of a relatively new type of excise tax, a tax on sugar-sweetened beverages (SSBs). We examine the largest such tax to date, which is two cents per ounce, in Boulder, CO. Using data that were hand-collected from stores and restaurants in both Boulder and two control communities, as well as internet data of restaurant menus, we find that the tax was largely, but not completely, passed through to consumers 5-7 weeks after implementation. Some retailers add the tax only at the register, indicating that estimates solely from posted prices would result in an underestimate of pass-through.
H22|Wages and the Value of Nonemployment|Nonemployment is often posited as a worker's outside option in wage setting models such as bargaining and wage posting. The value of this state is therefore a fundamental determinant of wages and, in turn, labor supply and job creation. We measure the effect of changes in the value of nonemployment on wages in existing jobs and among job switchers. Our quasi-experimental variation in nonemployment values arises from four large reforms of unemployment insurance (UI) benefit levels in Austria. We document that wages are insensitive to UI benefit levels: point estimates imply a wage response of less than $0.01 per $1.00 UI benefit increase, and we can reject sensitivities larger than 0.03. In contrast, a calibrated Nash bargaining model predicts a sensitivity of 0.39 – more than ten times larger. The empirical insensitivity holds even among workers with a priori low bargaining power, with low labor force attachment, with high predicted unemployment duration, among job switchers and recently unemployed workers, in areas of high unemployment, in firms with flexible pay policies, and when considering firm-level bargaining. The insensitivity of wages to the nonemployment value we document presents a puzzle to widely used wage setting protocols, and implies that nonemployment may not constitute workers' relevant threat point. Our evidence supports wage-setting mechanisms that insulate wages from the value of nonemployment.
H22|Subsidizing Mass Adoption of Electric Vehicles: Quasi-Experimental Evidence from California|Little is known about demand for EVs in the mass market. In this paper, we exploit a natural experiment that provides variation in large EV subsidies targeted at low- and middle-income households in California. Using transaction-level data, we estimate two important policy parameters using triple differences: the subsidy elasticity of demand for EVs and the rate of subsidy pass-through. Estimates show that demand for EVs amongst low- and middle-income households is price-elastic and pass-through is complete. We use these estimates to calculate the expected subsidy bill required for California to reach its goal of 1.5 million EVs by 2025.
H22|Certain Effects of Uncertain Taxes|This paper explores the implications of tax rate uncertainty, identifying circumstances in which revenue-neutral tax rate variability increases profitability, economic activity, and the efficiency of resource allocation. Furthermore, with heterogeneous taxpayers, tax rate variability is shown to perform an efficiency-enhancing screening function, imposing heavier expected tax burdens on less responsive taxpayers. And while efficient tax uncertainty enables governments to reduce average costs of taxation, it necessarily increases the marginal cost of taxation over some ranges of expected revenue, so may reduce efficient levels of government spending.
H22|The CICE impact on prices: a twofold analysis on individual and sectoral data|The Competitiveness and Employment Tax Credit (CICE) is a major policy reducing labor cost, which could have been used by firms to decrease prices. In this study, we aim at measuring the impact of this cost shock on price dynamics both at the sectoral and at the firm levels. We respectively exploit between-sector and between-firm-within-sector comparisons in the tax credit exposure, namely the share of eligible labor cost. The sectoral analysis suggests that differential exposure to the CICE induces a price moderation in industrial sectors at the upper end of the production chain, and in services sectors close to final demand. However, this deflationary effect cannot be distinguished from a generalized cut in prices in these sectors. The hypothesis of a transmission through intermediate consumption via sectoral links is explored, as it could explain that the direct effect of the cost shock translates in fine into a common decrease in prices, uncorrelated with sectoral initial exposure. So as to circumvent transmission effects, the firm-level analysis is carried out sector by sector. In some sectors, prices moderation is indeed correlated with the tax-credit-induced reduction in cost. It is the case in some industrial sectors such as metallurgy, but also in services: we find a significant correlation in transport activities, specialized construction and administrative and support services activities. These sectors share a common feature: when classifying sectors along the share of eligible labor cost on total costs, they hold the top positions.
H22|Pass-Through as a Test for Market Power: An Application to Solar Subsidies|We formalize pass-through over-shifting as a simple yet under-utilized test for market power. We apply this test in the market for solar energy. Specifically, we estimate the pass-through of solar subsidies to solar system prices using rich micro-level transaction and subsidy data from California. Buyers of solar systems capture nearly the full subsidy, while there is more-than- complete pass-through to lessees. We conclude that solar markets are imperfectly competitive by ruling out alternative explanations for over-shifting, and reinforce this conclusion with a test of solar demand curvature. This procedure can serve to detect market power beyond the solar market.
H22|A Comparison of Multi-step GDP Forecasts for South Africa|To forecast at several, say h, periods into the future, a modeller faces two techniques: iterating one-step ahead forecasts (the IMS technique) or directly modeling the relation betwen observations separated by an h-period interval and using it for forecasting (DMS forecasting). It is known that structural breaks, unit-root non-stationarity and residual autocorrelation benefit DMS accuracy in finite samples, all of which occuring when modelling the South African GDP over the last thirty years. This paper analyzes the forecasting properties of the model developed by Aron and Muellbauer (2002) and compares with them that of 30 derived or competing models. We find that the GDP of South Africa is best forecast, 4 quarters ahead, using the technique developed by these authors and its variants as derived in the present paper. Rankings of other models vary over time and it is difficult to recommend one of them as a rule in this exercise.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
H22|Experimental evidence on tax salience and tax incidence|Although a basic theoretical principle in public economics assumes that individuals optimize fully with respect to the introduction of a tax, a growing body of research is proving that several heuristics are in place when people take decisions. We re‐examine the well known liability side equivalence principle in the light of the concept of salience. While these two topics have been extensively investigated in isolation, this paper innovates on the previous literature in that it focuses on their joint effects. Is tax incidence dependent on whether the subjects face a salient rather than a nonsalient tax? Does the salience of a tax exert a different effect depending on who is legally committed to bear the tax burden? We address these questions through a laboratory experiment in which one unit of a fictitious good is being traded through a double‐auction market institution. Based on a panel data analysis, our contribution shows that point of collection matters and determines the economic incidence of tax. Additionally, we find that the joint effect of salience and statutory incidence does not alter the informative efficiency, but has a positive effect on buyers’ allocational efficiency when the tax is levied on sellers.
H22|Who Bears the Corporate Tax Incidence? Empirical Evidence from India|Against the backdrop of corporate tax policy changes in India, the paper attempts to measure the incidence of corporate income tax in India under a general equilibrium setting. Using seemingly uncorrelated regression coefficients and dynamic panel estimates, we tried to analyze both the relative burden of corporate tax borne by capital and labor and the efficiency effects of corporate income tax. The data for the study is compiled from corporate firms listed on the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) and the National Stock Exchange of India (NSE) for the period 2000–15. Our empirical estimates suggest that in India capital bears more of the burden of corporate taxes than labor. However, the results vary with different proxies of capital used in the models. Though it is contrary to the Harberger (1962) hypothesis that the burden of corporate tax is shifted to labor rather than capital, it confirms the existing empirical results in the context of India.
H22|Labor income taxation in open economies: current trends and options for reforms|We analyze both the theoretical framework of labor taxation in the open economy and important current reforms of labor taxation in countries worldwide including the introduction of “social VAT”. The current tax theory considers the reforms of labor income taxation related to the shifting of taxation from more mobile tax bases to the less mobile ones, taking into consideration the reduction of tax rates with simultaneous broadening of the tax base. Such a reform is intended to reduce the distortion effects of taxation, and, as a consequence, to reduce the tax burden on labor. The empirical section includes analysis of indicators of labor income taxation in OECD countries. We calculated the progressivity index of overall tax wedge and its components – personal income tax, employer’s and employee’s social security contributions. The results enabled cross-country comparisons: we found that in a most OECD members both employees’ and employers’ social security contributions systems are regressive or flat, while personal income tax systems are progressive in all countries except Hungary with flat tax schedule. Moreover, in OECD countries with highest GDP per capita the employees bear average labor tax burden with simultaneously low employers’ social security contributions rates.
H22|Macroeconomic implications of Raising Income:The Nigerian Experience|Government, factor owners and investors share an intersecting objective, which is to boost income, notwithstanding its implications on the macroeconomy of Nigeria. More recently is the government drive to raise tax income, accompanied by the labour union agitation for a 110% rise in federal minimum wage in Nigeria. In line with the United Nations sustainable development goal 9, which is to build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation, this study evaluates the macroeconomic implication of raising income in order to achieve this goal in Nigeria. This study makes significant innovation in the unique adoption of minimum wage on labour productivity ratio, tax burden and capital utilization ratio to explain the variations in productivity and output growth in Nigeria. Over the 33 year period, minimum wage increase has caused an average of 12.33% significant reduction in labour productivity, 4.59% decline in capital productivity and 2.56% reduction in real output growth in Nigeria. In the same period, tax burden caused an average of 1.71%, 6.95% and 12.26% increase in the real output growth, labour productivity growth and growth in capital productivity respectively. Capital utilization on the average caused 2.83% increase in capital productivity growth, while declining real output growth by 0.52% in the same period. This signifies the need to boost tax income in the overall interest of productivity and output growth, which could lead to the achieving the UN-SDG-9
H22|Taxation and Market Power in the Legal Marijuana Industry|In 2012 the state of Washington created a legal framework for production and retail sales of marijuana. Nine other U.S. states and Canada have followed. These states hope to generate tax revenue for their state budgets while limiting harms associated with marijuana consumption. We use a unique administrative dataset containing all transactions in the history of the industry in Washington to evaluate the effectiveness of different tax and regulatory policies under consideration by policymakers and study the role of imperfect competition in determining these results. We examine 3 main research questions. First, how effective is Washington’s excise tax at raising revenue? With the nation’s highest tax rate on marijuana, is Washington maximizing revenue or potentially overtaxing, leading to reduced legal sales and lower tax revenue. Second, what is the incidence of taxes in this industry? Finally, most states have restricted entry, resulting in firms with substantial market power. What is the role of imperfect competition in studying these basic questions on tax policy? We combine structural methods and a reduced form sufficient statistic approach to show a number of results. First, Washington’s 37% excise tax is still on the upward sloping portion of the Laffer curve and state revenue could be substantially higher with a higher tax rate. The amount of revenue generated by a tax increase is significantly larger due to retailer market power than it would be under perfect competition. In addition, these taxes are primarily borne by consumers and not by firms, and there is a large social cost associated with each dollar raised.
H22|The corporate tax, apportionment rules and employment: Evidence using policy discontinuity at U.S. state borders|A recent set of empirical works highlights a puzzling asymmetric response of labor market outcomes to the corporate tax. This paper explores a potential source of this disparity, using differentials in profit accounting rules across U.S. states. I exploit policy discontinuities at state borders by pairing counties in states featuring a tax change with their contiguous counterparts in control states. I notice that corporate tax cuts do not boost employment while tax hikes reduce job creation. The incidence of tax increases on employment seems limited in states with a single sales factor apportionment formula and pronounced in states that use a triple factor apportionment rule. I present a basic conceptual framework that explains this pattern.
H22|Incidence, Salience and Spillovers: The Direct and Indirect Effects of Tax Credits on Wages|Tax credits are a popular way to alleviate in-work poverty. A common empirical assumption is that the benefit of the tax credit is borne solely by the claimant workers. However, economic theory suggests no particular reason why this should be the case. This paper investigates the impact of the Working Families’ Tax Credit, introduced in the UK in 1999, on wages. Unlike similar tax credit policies, this tax credit was paid through employers rather than directly to workers, making it more salient to the employer. Using a novel identification strategy, we can separately identify the effect on wages associated with an increase in the amount of tax credit and that associated with the change in salience. We find evidence that: (1) through the salience mechanism the firm cuts the wage of claimant workers relative to similarly skilled non-claimants by 30 percent of the tax credit, which is approximately 7 percent of the wage, and (2) there is a negative spillover effect onto the wages of claimant and non-claimant workers of 1.7 percent, which is approximately 8 percent of the tax credit for claimant workers.
H22|How to Use One Instrument to Identify Two Elasticities|We show that an insight from taxation theory allows identification of both the supply and demand elasticities with only one instrument. Ramsey (1928) and subsequent models of taxation assume that a tax levied on the demand side only affects demand through the price after taxation. Econometrically, we show that this assumption functions as an additional exclusion restriction. Under the Ramsey Exclusion Restriction (RER) a tax reform can serve to simultaneously identify elasticities of supply and demand. We develop a TSLS estimator for both elasticities, a test to assess instrument strength and a test for the RER. Our result extends to a supply-demand system with J goods, and a setting with supply-side or non-linear taxes. Further, we show that key results in the sufficient statistics literature rely on the RER. One example is Harberger’s formula for the excess burden of a tax. We apply our method to the Norwegian labor market.
H22|Tax Regime Incorporation And Its Incidence On The Income Tax In Mexico, El Regimen De Incorporacion Fiscal Y Su Incidencia En El Impuesto Sobre La Renta En Mexico|This paper provides a tributary legal analysis for the establishment of a tax regime and its impact on income tax in Mexico. The application of this taxation scheme began with the entry of the 2014 tax reform. This reform gave taxpayers the opportunity of 100% exemption from the tax during the first fiscal year. It gradually decreased to 10% per year over next 9 years. Some states, that in view of the positive results in the creation of the regime, strengthen the determination and payment of taxes and improved business growth and productivity. This was considered by the Mexican State as continuity of the stimulus during the year 2015. It was expanded to 11 rather than 10 years as planned. Despite the exemption of 100% of the tax for 2014 and the end of the first half of 2015, it has not shown significant impairment of long-lived and most important duty of the Mexican tax system
H22|Measuring income redistribution: beyond the proportionality standard|Traditional analyses of redistributive effects of the tax-benefit system are rooted in the concepts of relative income inequality and proportionality. This observation also applies to decompositions proposed by Kakwani (1977, 1984) and Lambert (1985) that reveal the vertical and horizontal effects of tax-benefit instruments. This paper generalises those decompositions within the frameworks of the alternative inequality concepts suggested by Ebert (2004) and Bosmans et al. (2014). As expected, the results of the empirical analysis indicate that for different views of inequality, different taxes and benefits play significantly different roles in reducing inequality.
H22|Fiscal Policy, Income Redistribution and Poverty Reduction in Low and Middle Income Countries|Using comparative fiscal incidence analysis, this paper examines the impact of fiscal policy on inequality and poverty in twenty-nine low-and middle-income countries for circa the year 2010. Success in fiscal redistribution is driven primarily by redistributive efforts (share of social spending to GDP in each country) and the extent to which transfers are targeted to the poor and direct taxes are targeted to the rich. While fiscal policy always reduces inequality, this is not the case with poverty. While spending on preschool and primary school is pro-poor (the per capita transfer declines with income) in almost all countries, pro-poor secondary school spending is less prevalent, and tertiary education spending tends to be progressive only in relative terms (equalizing, but not pro-poor). Health spending is always equalizing except for in Jordan.
H22|Assessing the Economic and Social Impact of Tax and Transfer System Reforms: A General Equilibrium Microsimulation Approach|We present a general-equilibrium behavioural microsimulation model designed to assess long-run macroeconomic, fiscal and social consequences of reforms to the tax and transfer system. The behaviour of labour supply is assessed along both the extensive and intensive margins, by merging the discrete choice and the elasticity of taxable income approaches. General-equilibrium feedback effects are simulated by embedding microsimulation in a parsimonious macro model of a small open economy. We estimate and calibrate the model to Hungary, and then perform three sets of simulations. The first one explores the impact of personal income tax reductions that are identical in cost but different in structure. The second one compares three different tax shift scenarios, while the third one evaluates actual policy measures between 2008 and 2013. The results suggest that while a cut in the marginal tax rate of high-income individuals may boost output, it does not have a significant employment effect. On the other hand, programs like the Employee Tax Credit do have a significant employment effect. We find that the policy measures introduced since 2008 substantially increase income inequality in the long run; the contribution of the changes after 2010 are about four times that of the changes before 2010. Our results highlight that taking account of household heterogeneity is crucial in the analysis of the macroeconomic effects of tax and transfer reforms.
H22|Corporate Tax Incidence in India|The paper attempts to measure the incidence of corporate income tax in India under a general equilibrium setting. Using seemingly uncorrelated regression coefficients and dynamic panel estimates, we tried to analyze both the relative burden of corporate tax borne by capital and labor and the efficiency effects of corporate income tax. The data for the study is compiled from corporate firms listed on the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) and the National Stock Exchange of India (NSE) for the period 2000-15. Our empirical estimates suggest that in India capital bears more of the burden of corporate taxes than labor. Though it is contrary to the Harberger (1962) hypothesis that the burden of corporate tax is shifted to labor rather than capital, it confirms the existing empirical results in the context of India.
H22|Business Taxation and Wages: Redistribution and Asymmetric Effects|Empirical evidence on the degree of business-tax shifting is rare. It remains open to which extent the tax burden is shifted, whether there are differences for tax increases and decreases, or whether there exists some treatment heterogeneity. Using a large administrative panel data set, we exploit the regional variation of the German business-income taxation and find that 65% to at most 93% is shifted to labour through real wage adjustments. We find that business taxation increases wage inequality significantly. Workers in a weak labour-market position bear the highest part of business taxation. The incidence effect of tax reliefs is significantly higher than that of tax increases. Therefore, reducing business taxes might, surprisingly, effectively reduce inequality.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
H22|Tax Pass-through in the European Beer Market|We study the pass-through of indirect taxes on beer prices in the European Union (EU). Exploiting the variation of value added tax rates, beer excise tax rates, and beer prices in a panel of monthly data from 1996 to 2016 of all current 28 EU member states, we estimate the tax pass-through of specific beer excise taxes and ad valorem value added taxes, respectively. Ad valorem taxes are under-shifted at a rate of approximately 70%. Specific excise taxes are almost fully shifted to prices in the EU, but, in contrast to the empirical findings for the US, there is no evidence of over-shifting. Nevertheless, the difference between ad valorem and specific tax pass-through rates indicates that imperfect competition plays an important role in the European beer market.
H22|What are the Financial Implications of Public Quality Disclosure? Evidence from New York City’s Restaurant Food Safety Grading Policy|Grading schemes are an increasingly common method of quality disclosure for public services. Restaurant grading makes information about food safety practices more readily available and may reduce the prevalence of foodborne illnesses. However, it may also have meaningful financial repercussions. Using fine-grained administrative data that tracks food safety compliance and sales activity for the universe of graded restaurants in New York City and its bordering counties, we assess the aggregate financial effects from restaurant grading. Results indicate that the grading policy, after an initial period of adjustment, improves restaurants’ food safety compliance and reduces fines. While the average effect on revenues for graded restaurants across the municipality is null, the graded restaurants located geographically closer to an ungraded regime experience slower growth in revenues. There is also evidence of revenue convergence across graded and ungraded restaurants in the long-term.
H22|Housing, the ‘Great Income Tax Experiment’, and the intergenerational consequences of the lease|This paper provides an analysis of how the New Zealand tax system may be affecting residential property markets. Like most OECD countries, New Zealand does not tax the imputed rent or capital gains from owner-occupied housing. Unlike most OECD countries, since 1989 New Zealand has taxed income placed in retirement savings funds on an income basis, rather than an expenditure basis. The result is likely to be the most distortionary tax policy towards housing in the OECD. Since 1989, these tax distortions have provided incentives that should have lead to significant increases in house prices and the average size of new dwellings, should have reduced owner-occupier rates, and should have led to a worsening of the overseas net asset position. The tax settings are likely to be regressive, and are not intergenerationally neutral, as they impose significant costs on current and future generations of young New Zealanders (and new migrants). Since it does not appear to be politically palatable to tax capital gains or imputed rent, to reduce the distortionary consequences of the tax system on housing markets New Zealand may wish to reconsider how it taxes retirement savings accounts by adopting the standard OECD approach.
H22|Public Finance in a Nutshell: A Cobb Douglas Teaching Tool for General Equilibrium Tax Incidence and Excess Burden|To help first- or second-year graduate students in economics apply their theoretical training, this paper shows how to solve a simple and intuitive computable general equilibrium (CGE) model using a calculator. Because this simplified Harberger model uses Cobb Douglas functional forms for utility and production, one can solve for all input and output prices and quantities with no taxes and then solve for exact measures of output with a large tax change (not using derivatives). We then show how to solve simultaneously for capital and labor prices (incidence on the sources side of income), for both output prices (incidence on the uses side), for exact measures of overall welfare loss such as the equivalent variation, for excess burden and marginal excess burden, and for the effects on revenue in the form of a Laffer Curve.
H22|Vertical and Horizontal Redistributions from a Carbon Tax and Rebate|Are carbon taxes regressive? To calculate effects of a carbon tax on each family’s expenditures, plus distributional effects of three revenue-recycling mechanisms, we employ the US Treasury Distribution Model. It includes 322,000 tax returns, matched social security information, imputations from the Consumer Expenditure Survey, and an input-output matrix to calculate output prices. Accounting for statutory indexing of federal transfer programs, the calculated carbon tax burden as a fraction of consumption is progressive. Rebate of revenues via transfers makes it even more progressive. Within each decile, we find large variation in energy demands such as for heat in winter and cooling in summer. As a result, commonly ignored horizontal redistributions within deciles are shown to exceed vertical redistributions between deciles. Rebates via transfers widen horizontal redistributions. Some reforms deliver net income gains to the poorest families on average, even as a majority of those poor families incur losses.
H22|Vertical and Horizontal Redistributions from a Carbon Tax and Rebate|Because electricity is a higher fraction of spending for those with low income, carbon taxes are believed to be regressive. Many argue, however, that their revenues can be used to offset the regressivity. We assess these claims by employing data on 322,000 families in the U.S. Treasury’s Distribution Model to study vertical redistributions between rich and poor, as well as horizontal redistributions among families with common incomes but heterogeneous energy intensity of consumption (different home heating and cooling demands). Accounting for the statutory indexing of transfers, and measuring impacts on annual consumption as a proxy for permanent income, we find that the carbon tax burden is progressive, rising across deciles as a fraction of consumption. The rebate of revenue via transfers makes it even more progressive. In every decile, the standard deviation of the change in consumption as a fraction of consumption varies around 1% or 2% and is larger than the average burden (about 0.7%). When existing transfer programs are used to rebate revenue, the tax and rebate together increase that variation to more than 3% within each decile. The average family in the poorest decile gets a net tax cut of about 1% of consumption, but 44% of them get a net tax increase. Relative to no rebate, every type of rebate we consider increases this variation within most deciles.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
H22|The Distributional Impacts of Energy Taxes|Taxes have long been advocated by economists for efficient pollution control, particularly in the energy sector. However, these taxes may enjoy less political support than standards-based regulation at least partly because of the common assumption that they place a greater burden on the poor than the rich. This article evaluates the validity of that assumption by reviewing the literature on the distributional impacts of energy taxes and by analyzing energy consumption surveys in select countries. The evidence suggests that energy taxes need not be as regressive as is often assumed. We find that the incidence (i.e., distributional impact) of such taxes depends upon the energy commodities that are taxed; the physical, social, and climatic characteristics of the jurisdictions in which they are implemented; and the use of energy tax revenues. We also show that the variation in household energy expenditure is greater within income groups than across income groups and that such variation is not easily reduced.
H22|The Taxation of Recreational Marijuana: Evidence from Washington State|The median United States voter supports the legalization of marijuana, at least in part due to a desire to increase state tax revenues. However, states with legal markets have implemented wildly different regulatory schemes with tax rates ranging from 3.75 to 37 percent, indicating that policy makers have a range of beliefs about industry responses to taxes and regulation. We examine a policy reform in Washington: a switch from a 25 percent gross receipts tax collected at every step in the supply chain to a sole 37 percent excise tax at retail. Using novel, comprehensive administrative data, we assess responses to the reform throughout the supply and consumption chain. We find the previous tax regime provided strong incentives for vertical integration. Tax invariance did not hold, with some types of firms benefiting much more than predicted. Consumers bear 44 percent of the additional retail tax burden. Finally, we find evidence that consumer demand for marijuana is price-inelastic in the short-run, but becomes price-elastic within a few weeks of a price increase.
H22|Who Bears the Economic Costs of Environmental Regulations?|Public economics has a well-developed literature on tax incidence – the ultimate burdens from tax policy. This literature is used here to describe not only the distributional effects of environmental taxes or subsidies but also the likely incidence of non-tax regulations, energy efficiency standards, or other environmental mandates. Recent papers find that mandates can be more regressive than carbon taxes. We also describe how the distributional effects of such policies can be altered by various market conditions such as limited factor mobility, trade exposure, evasion, corruption, or imperfect competition. Finally, we review data on carbon-intensity of production and exports around the world in order to describe implications for effects of possible carbon taxation on countries with different levels of income per capita.
H22|What Does (Formal) Health Insurance Do, and for Whom?|Health insurance confers benefits to the previously uninsured, including improvements in health, reductions in out-of-pocket spending, and reduced medical debt. However, because the nominally uninsured pay only a small share of their medical expenses, health insurance also provides substantial transfers to nonrecipient parties who would otherwise bear the costs of providing uncompensated care to the uninsured. The prevalence of uncompensated care helps explain the limited take-up of heavily subsidized public health insurance and the evidence that many recipients value formal health insurance at substantially less than the cost to insurers of providing that coverage. The distributional implications of public subsidies for health insurance depend critically on the ultimate economic incidence of the transfers that they deliver to providers of uncompensated care.
H22|Who Really Benefits from Consumption Tax Cuts? Evidence from a Large VAT Reform in France|This paper evaluates the incidence of a large cut in value-added taxes (VATs) for French sit-down restaurants in 2009. In contrast to previous studies, which only focus on the price effects of VAT reforms, we estimate the effects of the VAT cut on four groups: workers, firm owners, consumers, and suppliers of material goods. Using a difference-in-differences strategy on firm-level data, we find that: firm owners pocketed more than 55 percent of the VAT cut; consumers, sellers of material goods, and employees shared the remaining windfall with consumers benefiting the least; and the employment effects were limited.
H22|What Goes Up May Not Come Down: Asymmetric Incidence of Value-Added Taxes|This paper shows that prices respond more to increases than to decreases in Value-Added Taxes (VATs). First, using two plausibly exogenous VAT changes, we show that prices respond twice as much to VAT increases than to VAT decreases. Second, we show that this asymmetry results in higher equilibrium profits and markups. Third, we find that firms operating with low profit margins are more likely to respond asymmetrically to the VAT changes than firms operating with high profit margins. Fourth, this asymmetry persists several years after the VAT changes take place. Fifth, using all VAT changes in the European Union from 1996 to 2015, we find similar levels of asymmetry.
H22|Selection in Health Insurance Markets and Its Policy Remedies|Selection (adverse or advantageous) is the central problem that inhibits the smooth, efficient functioning of competitive health insurance markets. Even—and perhaps especially—when consumers are well-informed decision makers and insurance markets are highly competitive and offer choice, such markets may function inefficiently due to risk selection. Selection can cause markets to unravel with skyrocketing premiums and can cause consumers to be under- or overinsured. In its simplest form, adverse selection arises due to the tendency of those who expect to incur high health care costs in the future to be the most motivated purchasers. The costlier enrollees are more likely to become insured rather than to remain uninsured, and conditional on having health insurance, the costlier enrollees sort themselves to the more generous plans in the choice set. These dual problems represent the primary concerns for policymakers designing regulations for health insurance markets. In this essay, we review the theory and evidence concerning selection in competitive health insurance markets and discuss the common policy tools used to address the problems it creates. We emphasize the two markets that seem especially likely to be targets of reform in the short and medium term: Medicare Advantage (the private plan option available under Medicare) and the state-level individual insurance markets.
H22|Food vs. Fuel? Impacts of Petroleum Shipments on Agricultural Prices|Grain shippers and political figures in North Dakota and nearby states have voiced concern that the dramatic increases in shipments of crude oil by rail have caused service delays and higher costs. We investigate the potential impact of crude shipments on grain markets accounting for harvest effects and other potential sources of rail congestion. Increased crude oil shipments are associated with substantially larger spreads between wheat prices at regional elevators and in Minneapolis, the market hub. The effect on corn and soybean spreads are an order of magnitude smaller. Increased oil traffic is associated with small increases in rail rates but large increases in rail car auction prices. We document increases in wheat carry (storage) costs and decreases in shipment quantities. Surprisingly, little of the spread increase is due to lower prices paid to farmers, suggesting consumers rather than producers paid the cost of increased rail congestion.
H22|Pass-Through of Input Cost Shocks Under Imperfect Competition: Evidence from the U.S. Fracking Boom|The advent of hydraulic fracturing lead to a dramatic increase in US oil production. Due to regulatory, shipping and processing constraints, this sudden surge in domestic drilling caused an unprecedented divergence in crude acquisition costs across US refineries. We take advantage of this exogenous shock to input costs to study the nature of competition and the incidence of cost changes in this important industry. We begin by estimating the extent to which US refining’s divergence from global crude markets was passed on to consumers. Using rich microdata, we are able to decompose the effects of firm-specific, market-specific and industry-wide cost shocks on refined product prices. We show that this distinction has important economic and econometric significance, and discuss the implications for prospective policy which would put a price on carbon emissions. The implications of these results for perennial questions about competition in the refining industry are also discussed.
H22|The Taxman calls. How does Facebook answer? Global Effects of Taxation on Online Advertising| We study the effects of the taxation of digital platforms on the online advertising market. We exploit novel data on daily unit prices of Facebook ads targeted to country-specific audiences, collected around a major change in the firm's accounting practices following the introduction of the UK Diverted Profit Tax. We show that a substantial increase in ads prices followed such change, although with heterogeneous intensity across countries. These results are in line with a model of a platform operating in the global advertising market. We show that taxation of profits generated in one country makes the price charged to advertisers from that country (resp. other countries) increase (decrease). Accordingly, we demonstrate that aggregate advertising prices in OECD countries increased more, after the policy change, the larger is the market share of UK-based advertisers.
H22|Realisation of the Revenue Equalisation Function in Local Government by a General Grants - the Polish Case|Research background: General grants should pursue five different functions. One of them is revenue equalization. This function is achieved if the revenue gap is reduced after the application of the subsidising mechanism. The size of the support should be inversely proportional to own revenues. Purpose of the article: The aim of the article is to analyse the fulfilment of the revenue equalization function by general subsidies. Beside the theoretical analysis, which presents the general grants structure and the functions assigned to them, the article discusses the results of studies showing changes in the revenue gap after the application of the grant mechanism and the correlation between per capita own revenue and the amount of funds from selected parts of the general grant. The following tentative research hypothesis was adopted: general grants fail to fulfil the revenue equalisation function. Methodology/methods: Two research methods were applied: descriptive statistics and correlation – calculating the Pearson correlation coefficient. Findings & Value added: It was concluded that, once the corrective and equalising mechanism was applied, the range between the extreme per capita revenue values was reduced by 40–50% on average, at all local government levels, i.e. at commune, county and province levels, in each year from the period analysed, i.e. 2012–2015. The correlation between the sizes of revenue before and after budget subsidising is always negative, whereas the strength of the relationship ranged between low and significant, depending on the local government level. It was found that general grants do fulfil the revenue equalisation function, which contradicts the initially formulated research hypothesis.
H22|Decomposing the Marginal Excess Burden of Australia’s Goods and Services Tax|We estimate the marginal excess burden of the GST and its components. Our results show that the GST is highly distortionary in its treatment of intermediate inputs and investment, but is efficient as applied to household consumption. We also estimate the general equilibrium effects of changes to the GST base and rate, and its removal from investment. The general equilibrium estimates support the marginal excess burden estimates. Our results suggest that the efficiency of the GST could be improved by broadening the consumption base or removing it from investment. Simply increasing the GST rate would be welfare decreasing.
H22|Corporate tax incidence and its implications for the labor market|The paper investigates the relationship between corporate taxation and labor market indicators. This research supports the idea that the increase in corporate income tax rates in the open economy will lead to the capital outflow to the low-tax jurisdictions, resulting in tax incidence on labor with consequent decrease in labor productivity. An empirical analysis demonstrated the negative relationship between labor freedom index and corporate tax rate. In countries with higher GDP per capita the strength of such relationship differs from countries where GDP per capita is relatively low. In terms of corporate tax incidence, this means that in developed countries the corporate tax burden is shifted onto workers in lesser extent compared with developing and emerging economies. The estimation of specific elements of labor freedom index allowed to identify main tendencies of impact of change of the corporate income tax rate on certain labor market indicators in countries with different GDP per capita. We suggested that corporate tax incidence diversely affects the labor productivity in countries with different GDP per capita, and the direction of such impact is determined by composition of labor force and openness of economy.
H22|Business Taxation and Wages: Redistribution and Asymmetric Effects|Empirical evidence on the degree of business-tax shifting is rare. It remains open to which extent the tax burden is shifted, whether there are differences for tax increases and decreases, or whether there exists some treatment heterogeneity. Using a large administrative panel data set, we exploit the regional variation of the German business-income taxation and find that 65% to at most 93% is shifted to labour through real wage adjustments. We find that business taxation increases wage inequality significantly. Workers in a weak labour-market position bear the highest part of business taxation. The incidence effect of tax reliefs is significantly higher than that of tax increases. Therefore, reducing business taxes might, surprisingly, effectively reduce inequality.
H22|The Impact of Energy Prices on Employment and Environmental Performance: Evidence from French Manufacturing Establishments|This paper evaluates the historical influence of energy prices on a series of measures of environmental and economic performance for a panel of French manufacturing establishments over the period 1997-2010. The focus on energy prices is motivated by the fact that changes in environmental and energy policies have been dominated by substantial reductions in discounts for large consumers, making the evaluation of each policy in isolation exceedingly difficult. To identify price effects, we construct a shift-share instrument that captures only the exogenous variation in establishment-specific energy prices. Our results highlight a trade-off between environmental and economic goals: although a 10 percent increase in energy prices brings about a 6 percent reduction in energy consumption and an 11 percent reduction in CO2 emissions, such an increase also has a modestly negative impact on employment (-2.6 percent) and very small impact on wages and productivity. The negative employment effects are mostly concentrated in energy-intensive and trade-exposed sectors. Simulating the effect of a carbon tax, we show that job losses for the most exposed sectors can be quite large. However, these effects are upper bounds and we show that they are significantly mitigated in multi-establishment firms by labor reallocation across establishments.
H22|Evaluating place-based job creation programs in Japan|Abstract First, this paper empirically evaluates the incidence of the Japanese place-based job creation program, which has rarely been studied in Japan. The program increases employment, especially in the agricultural, retail trade, and service sectors, which most treated municipalities promote. Second, this paper explores the municipalities that the program affects most. Those with large aging populations and those with small working age populations decrease the effects of the program. Third, this paper assesses the externality effect of this program and does not observe a strong reduction in sales, workers, or establishments in the neighboring municipalities of a treated municipality.
H22|Who Benefits from Fiscal Redistribution in the Russian Federation?|This paper shows that the system of taxes and transfers in Russia has a limited redistributive capacity vertically (among different income groups)—particularly when pensions are assumed to be deferred income—though it does achieve significant horizontal redistribution (among sociodemographic groups). The main results of the analysis, concern the Russian fiscal system’s limited redistributive effect,low effectiveness in poverty reduction, and relatively poor net financial impact on all demographic groups except pensioners. Firstly, benchmarking shows that the Russian system of direct taxes and transfers does not compare well with countries that achieve larger redistribution, in particular European Union countries. Secondly,net direct taxes (incorporated into disposable income) are always equalizing, but net indirect taxes (incorporated into consumable income) are unequalizing in both the benchmark and the sensitivity analysis scenarios. Thirdly, under the benchmark scenario, the net effect of the fiscal system is actually poverty increasing. Finally, it appears that all households of working-age people with and without children are net payers under the Russian fiscal system, while only pensioners’ households benefit from the fiscal redistribution in Russia under both scenarios. The main conclusion that emerges from this analysis is that there are both equity and efficiency reasons to review the tax and social spending structure. Such an exercise may require, however, a good understanding of the political economy of a potential reform.
H22|The Distributional Impact of Fiscal Policy in Indonesia|In recent years, income inequality has become a pressing issue in Indonesian politics. From 2000-2014, a rise in GDP per capita coincided with a 10% rise in the country’s Gini coefficient. This paper uses the 2012 National Socioeconomic Survey (SUSENAS) collected by the Central Statistical Agency in Indonesia and 2012 public expenditure and revenue data from the Audit Board of the Republic of Indonesia (BPK), to generate an empirical framework that assesses the redistributive impact of several fiscal measures undertaken by the Indonesian government. This paper finds that every income decile represented in SUSENAS is a net receiver from fiscal policy after taxes, transfers, in-kind transfers and subsidies are all added to “market income” to create “final income.” Gains amongst the poorest household are made much greater by the inclusion of in-kind transfers for health and education. However, SUSENAS included very few of the richest 0.5% of Indonesians, who account for the majority of personal income tax (PIT) collections, so it was assumed that Indonesians do not pay income tax. Interestingly, this study finds that 40% of the poor, measured at “consumable income,” are impoverished by taxes and transfers. This percentage drops considerably with the addition of in-kind transfers. Overall, it was found that fiscal policy does reduce inequality and poverty by a modest amount. The Gini index is lowered from 0.394 to 0.370 under the study’sbaseline scenario, which differs only slightly from scenarios utilizing different underlying assumptions. The poverty headcount (measured at $1.25 UDS per day) is reduced from 12.1% to 10.5%.
H22|A Fiscal Incidence Analysis for Ethiopia|This paper uses the 2010/11 Household Consumption Expenditure Survey (HCES) and the Welfare Monitoring Survey (WMS) collected by the Central Statistical Agency (CSA) of Ethiopia, as well as 2011 data from national income and public finance accounts from the Ministry of Finance and Development to assess the effects of government taxes, transfers and social spending on the distribution of income in Ethiopia, and examines whether policy can be modified to improve the well-being of the poor. This study finds that fiscal policy in Ethiopia is progressive and equalizing, and poor populations are net beneficiaries of the fiscal system. Though the depth and severity of poverty is ameliorated, the poverty headcount is higher after taxes, transfers, and subsidies. Though Ethiopia’s Gini coefficient was lowered by 2 points, the poverty headcount (under $1.25 USD per day in 2005 PPP) is increased from 31.9% to 32.4% as a result of fiscal policy. Direct taxes, such as PIT, were progressive and equalizing, but aggregately poverty-increasing due to a low cutoff income for PIT and a regressive land use fee. Direct transfers, especially the Productive Safety Net Program (PSNP), were progressive, equalizing, and poverty-reducing. Indirect taxes were progressive and equalizing, but poverty-increasing. Subsidies for goods like kerosene were relatively equalizing, while electricity subsidies were regressive because poor households often do not use electricity. Expenditures on primary education and health were progressive and equalizing, but spending on tertiary education was not. Due to low completion rates of primary education amongst the poor, access to tertiary education by the poor is almost nil.
H22|The Distributional Impact of Fiscal Policy in Georgia|This paper uses the 2013 Integrated Household Survey, collected by the Central Statistical Agency of Georgia (GeoStat), and data concerning government revenues and expenditures collected by the Ministry of Finance (MoF) along with other administrative agencies, and applies the CEQ methodology to analyze the progressivity of Georgia’s tax and transfer systems. The effects of a variety of policies are individually described, including personal income tax (PIT), value added tax (VAT) and excise tax. In addition, this paper assesses direct and in-kind transfers made by the Georgian government. The distributional effect of indirect subsidies, which are confined to the capital city, Tbilisi, are also considered, as well as the Agricultural Card program. The results show a stark difference between direct and indirect taxation. Direct taxes are progressive, and income tax is largely borne by high-income deciles. Meanwhile, the burden of indirect taxation is more evenly distributed, with the poor losing a higher percentage of income. Thus, the tax system is regressive. Overall, fiscal policy is progressive and equalizing, even before in-kind transfers for early education, and the Medical Insurance for the Poor (MIP), and Universal Health Care (UHC) programs are taken into account. The Targeted Social Assistance Program (TSA) and old-age pensions play a significantly pro-poor role. Fiscal incidence reduces poverty (under $2.50 USD’s per day) over 9 percentage points, the largest drop in poverty amongst the countries where CEQ analysis was performed. This paper concludes that excise taxes should be reassigned or eliminated to reduce regressivity, while PIT and the property tax could be broadened, which would expand the tax base.
H22|Fiscal Incidence in Armenia|We use methods developed by the Commitment to Equity Institute and data from the 2011 Integrated Living Conditions Survey (ILCS) to assess the effects of government taxation and social spending on poverty and inequality in Armenia. We find that Armenia achieves considerable redistribution despite a relatively small budget. More than half of this redistribution is due to old-age pensions. Results for poverty reduction are less encouraging. At a poverty line of US$2.50 per day, which is similar to Armenia’s national poverty line, the fisc lowers the headcount by 0.084, but at the US$4.00 poverty line, the fisc actually increases the headcount slightly (0.019). Even though transfers are reasonably well-targeted in Armenia, taxes, especially indirect taxes, do fall on poorer households, thus offsetting the poverty-reducing effect of public expenditures. Expenditure targeting in Armenia is very good. Expenditures that are supposed to help the poor and vulnerable go disproportionately to the poor, as they should. At the same time, expenditures on services that should be universal – education and health care – are spread fairly evenly across the population, as they should be. Given already good targeting, Armenia’s only option for greater redistribution is larger budgets for the besttargeted expenditures such as the Family Benefit.
H22|The Distributional Impact of Fiscal Policy in Jordan|This paper analyzes the impact of Jordanian government’s fiscal policies on poverty and inequality in the country. The CEQ methodology is applied o analize all the key fiscal policies employed by the government, such as direct taxes (personal income taxes); indirect taxes (sales taxes); direct transfers; indirect subsidies (subsidies for food, oil, electricity, and water); and in-kind benefits (benefits for education and health). The results indicate that the Jordan’s policies are mostly progressive and equalizing, primarily through direct taxes, direct transfers, indirect subsidies, and in-kind benefits. Moreover, the results show that the combination of tax and expenditure policies is poverty-reducing. However, the indirect tax system, in its current form, is slightly regressive and inequality-increasing, as the poor are paying a greater fraction of their income than the rich as sales tax.
H22|Incidencia de la Política Fiscal en la Desigualdad y la Pobreza en El Salvador|La pobreza y la desigualdad son problemáticas que afectan a la población centroamericana, especialmente la que reside en el área rural. La política fiscal es la herramienta principal con la que cuentan los Estados para reducir la desigualdad. La reducción de la desigualdad a su vez incide en la disminución de los niveles de pobreza. Para determinar la incidencia de la política fiscal en la reducción de la pobreza y la desigualdad en Centroamérica se utilizó la metodología de «Compromiso por la Equidad» (CEQ por sus siglas en inglés). En términos generales, las intervenciones fiscales (impuestos y transferencias directas) aumentan la pobreza en la región centroamericana. El incremento de la pobreza en los países centroamericanos se da cuando se transita del ingreso disponible al posfiscal; es decir, después del pago de los impuestos indirectos; esto se debe a la naturaleza regresiva de este tipo de impuestos. En El Salvador la política fiscal tiene una leve incidencia en la reducción de la desigualdad, a través del gasto público y no por los impuestos. Las erogaciones en educación y salud y las transferencias, son los elementos que tienen mayor incidencia en la reducción de la desigualdad. La política fiscal salvadoreña no es capaz de reducir la pobreza total, especialmente de aquellos que habitan en las zonas rurales del país
H22|Incidencia de la Política Fiscal en la Desigualdad y la Pobreza en Guatemala|La pobreza y la desigualdad son problemáticas que afectan a la población centroamericana, especialmente la que reside en el área rural. La política fiscal es la herramienta principal con la que cuentan los Estados para reducir la desigualdad. La reducción de la desigualdad incide, a su vez, en la disminución de los niveles de pobreza. Para determinar la incidencia de la política fiscal en la reducción de la pobreza y la desigualdad en Centroamérica se utilizó la metodología de «Compromiso por la Equidad» (CEQ, por sus siglas en inglés). En términos generales, las intervenciones fiscales (impuestos y transferencias directas) aumentan la pobreza en la región centroamericana, en cuyos países el incremento de la pobreza se da cuando se transita del ingreso disponible al posfiscal; es decir, después del pago de los impuestos indirectos, lo cual obedece a la naturaleza regresiva de este tipo de tributos. En Guatemala, la política fiscal tiene una leve incidencia en la reducción de la desigualdad a través del gasto público, no mediante los impuestos. Las erogaciones en educación y salud, así como las transferencias, constituyen los elementos que más inciden en la reducción de la desigualdad. La política fiscal guatemalteca aumenta la pobreza
H22|Incidencia de la Política Fiscal en la Desigualdad y la Pobreza en Honduras|La pobreza y la desigualdad son problemáticas que afectan a la población centroamericana, especialmente la que reside en el área rural. La política fiscal es la herramienta principal con la que cuentan los Estados para reducir la desigualdad. La reducción de la desigualdad incide, a su vez, en la disminución de los niveles de pobreza. Para determinar la incidencia de la política fiscal en la reducción de la pobreza y la desigualdad en Centroamérica se utilizó la metodología de «Compromiso por la Equidad» (CEQ, por sus siglas en inglés). En términos generales, las intervenciones fiscales (impuestos y transferencias directas) aumentan la pobreza en la región centroamericana, en cuyos países el incremento de la pobreza se da cuando se transita del ingreso disponible al posfiscal; es decir, después del pago de los impuestos indirectos, lo cual obedece a la naturaleza regresiva de este tipo de tributos. En Honduras, la política fiscal tiene una leve incidencia en la reducción de la desigualdad a través del gasto público, no mediante los impuestos. Las erogaciones en educación y salud, así como las transferencias, constituyen los elementos que más inciden en la reducción de la desigualdad. La política fiscal hondureña aumenta la pobreza
H22|Incidencia de la Política Fiscal en la Desigualdad y la Pobreza en Nicaragua|La pobreza y la desigualdad son problemáticas que afectan a la población centroamericana, especialmente la que reside en el área rural. La política fiscal es la herramienta principal con la que cuentan los Estados para reducir la desigualdad. La reducción de la desigualdad incide, a su vez, en la disminución de los niveles de pobreza. Para determinar la incidencia de la política fiscal en la reducción de la pobreza y la desigualdad en Centroamérica se utilizó la metodología de «Compromiso por la Equidad» (CEQ, por sus siglas en inglés). En términos generales, las intervenciones fiscales (impuestos y transferencias directas) aumentan la pobreza en la región centroamericana, en cuyos países el incremento de la pobreza se da cuando se transita del ingreso disponible al posfiscal; es decir, después del pago de los impuestos indirectos, lo cual obedece a la naturaleza regresiva de este tipo de tributos. En Nicaragua, la política fiscal tiene una leve incidencia en la reducción de la desigualdad a través del gasto público, no mediante los impuestos. Las erogaciones en educación y salud, así como las transferencias, constituyen los elementos que más inciden en la reducción de la desigualdad. La política fiscal nicaragüense aumenta la pobreza
H22|Fiscal Policy, Income Redistribution and Poverty Reduction in Low and Middle Income Countries|Using comparable fiscal incidence analysis, this paper examines the impact of fiscal policy on inequality and poverty in twenty-nine low and middle income countries for around 2010. Success in fiscal redistribution is driven primarily by redistributive efforts (share of social spending to GDP in each country) and the extent to which transfers are targeted to the poor and direct taxes targeted to the rich. While fiscal policy always reduces inequality, this is not the case with poverty. While spending on pre-school and primary school is pro-poor (the per capita transfer declines with income) in almost all countries, pro-poor secondary school spending is less prevalent, and tertiary education spending tends to be progressive only in relative terms (equalizing, but not pro-poor). Health spending is always equalizing except for in Jordan.
H22|El impacto del sistema tributario y el gasto social en la distribución del ingreso y la pobreza en América Latina. Una aplicación del marco metodológico del proyecto Compromiso con la Equidad (CEQ)|Using standard fiscal incidence analysis and the new methodological developments by the Commitment to Equity (CEQ) Institute, this paper estimates the impact of fiscal policy on inequality and poverty in sixteen countries in Latin America around 2010. Methods: With information on incomes, consumption, and other dimensions available in household surveys, and knowledge about the characteristics of the fiscal system, the CEQ method consists in allocating to each individual the burden of personal income and consumption taxes, and the benefits from cash transfers, consumption subsidies, and government spending on education and health. This process yields the pre-fiscal and post-fiscal income concepts of interest. These income concepts, in turn, are used to calculate the corresponding indicators of inequality and poverty. Thus, one can estimate, for each country, the impact of the fiscal system and each of its components on inequality and poverty. Since the methodology that was applied is the same, results are comparable across countries. The countries that redistribute the most are Argentina, Brazil, Costa Rica, and Uruguay. Guatemala, Honduras, and Peru are the countries that redistribute the least. Fiscal policy reduces extreme (income) poverty in twelve out of the sixteen countries. The incidence of poverty after taxes, subsidies, and cash transfers, however, is higher than market income poverty in Bolivia, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua, even though fiscal policy reduces inequality in these four countries. Contributory pensions have a heterogeneous effect on inequality and, contrary to some expectations, their impact is equalizing in nine of the countries. In the sixteen countries, spending on pre-school and primary education is equalizing and pro-poor (per capita benefits decline with income per capita). Spending on secondary education is always equalizing; it is also pro-poor in some of the countries. Spending on tertiary education is never pro-poor but it is equalizing in all the countries except for Guatemala. Spending on health is always equalizing but pro-poor only in some countries. Conclusions: Latin America presents a great deal of heterogeneity in the size of the state and the countries’ capacity to use their fiscal power to reduce inequality and poverty. A higher share of social spending (to GDP) is associated with a larger redistributive effect but countries with similar, or even lower, shares of social spending show heterogeneous redistributive effects implying that other factors beyond size such as the composition and targeting of social spending (and taxes) are at play. It is important to emphasize that a higher redistributive effect is not necessarily a desirable outcome since in this article there is no estimation of the impact of redistributive policy on fiscal sustainability and efficiency. In some countries, the burden of consumption taxes is such that a portion of the poor are net payers into the fiscal system (before receiving “in kind” transfers in education and health). Governments should examine whether this undesirable effect could be avoided, or at least reduced, through an expansion of targeted cash transfers and/or reduction in the consumption taxes that are particularly burdensome for the poor.// Este artículo aplica el método de incidencia fiscal tradicional y los nuevos desarrollos del Instituto Compromiso con la Equidad (CEQ) para estimar el impacto de la política fiscal en la desigualdad y la pobreza en 16 países de América Latina alrededor del año 2010. A partir de la información disponible sobre ingresos y gastos y otras dimensiones en las encuestas de hogares y del conocimiento de las características del sistema fiscal, el método del CEQ consiste en asignar a cada individuo según corresponda la carga de los impuestos a la renta y al consumo, y los beneficios de las transferencias monetarias, los subsidios al consumo y el gasto en educación y salud. De esta manera, se construyen los diferentes conceptos de ingreso prefiscal y posfiscal, mismos que se utilizan para generar los correspondientes indicadores de desigualdad y pobreza. Esto permite estimar, para cada país, el impacto sobre la distribución del ingreso y la pobreza de cada componente del sistema fiscal, así como el del sistema en su conjunto. Como la metodología es común, los resultados se pueden comparar entre países. Los países que más redistribuyen son Argentina, Brasil, Costa Rica y Uruguay, y los que menos, Guatemala, Honduras y Perú. La política fiscal reduce la pobreza extrema (monetaria) en 12 de los 16 países. Sin embargo, la incidencia de la pobreza después de impuestos, subsidios y transferencias monetarias es mayor que la incidencia para el ingreso de mercado en Bolivia, Guatemala, Honduras y Nicaragua, aun cuando en estos cuatro países la política fiscal sí reduce la desigualdad. El efecto de las pensiones contributivas sobre la desigualdad es heterogéneo y, contrariamente a lo que a veces se arguye, igualador en nueve países de la región. El gasto en educación preescolar y primaria es igualador y propobre (el beneficio por persona baja con el ingreso por persona) en todos los países. El gasto en educación secundaria es igualador en todos los países y también propobre en algunos. El gasto en educación terciaria nunca es propobre, pero es igualador en todos los países a excepción de Guatemala. El gasto en salud siempre es igualador pero es propobre solamente en algunos países. La región latinoamericana presenta una gran heterogeneidad en el tamaño del estado y en la capacidad de utilizar al fisco para reducir la desigualdad y la pobreza. A mayor gasto social (como proporción del PIB), mayor redistribución; pero países con un nivel de gasto social similar, o incluso menor, muestran diferentes niveles de redistribución lo cual sugiere que otros factores tales como la composición y focalización del gasto intervienen en determinar el efecto redistributivo más allá del tamaño del gasto. Es importante recalcar que mayor redistribución no necesariamente es siempre un resultado deseable, ya que en este trabajo no se estiman los efectos sobre la sostenibilidad fiscal y la eficiencia. En algunos países, el peso de los impuestos al consumo es tal que una proporción de la población pobre es pagadora neta al sistema fiscal (antes de recibir las transferencias ‘en especie’ en educación y salud). Los gobiernos deberían examinar si este efecto no deseable podría ser evitado, o por lo menos disminuido, mediante incrementos en las transferencias monetarias focalizadas o reducción de los impuestos al consumo que son particularmente onerosos para la población pobre.
H22|The Incidence of Taxes and Spending in Sri Lanka|Sri Lanka has made substantial progress in reducing poverty over the past decade. However, important social and economic development needs persist at a time when revenue collections have been disappointing, reducing the government’s ability to expand spending. In this context, this paper has sought to evaluate the effectiveness of fiscal policy in addressing inequality and accelerating poverty reduction. The exercise consisted of undertaking incidence analysis of the major tax and transfer programs individually, and then combining them to evaluate the incidence of fiscal policy as a whole. Although we could not carry out incidence analysis of all budget items, we have analyzed the major tax and spending items for which individual tax and benefits can be assigned to households using microdata. The analysis finds that taxes and social spending were redistributive and poverty-reducing overall. However, given the country’s relatively low revenue and the limited fiscal space, overall social spending was small, leading to very limited impacts. On the spending side, direct transfers are absolutely progressive, so that their marginal contribution is both equalizing and poverty-reducing. In contrast, spending on indirect subsidies increased with a large part of the resources benefiting nonpoor households. Finally, the analysis found that in kind transfers in the form of education and health are equalizing. Going forward, any efforts to reform taxes could usefully include distributional analysis to assess their impact.
H22|Measuring the Effectiveness of Taxes and Transfers in Fighting Inequality and Poverty|This chapter introduces new indicators that measure the effectiveness of the elements of a fiscal system in reducing inequality and poverty. The new indices are generally divided into two families of Impact Effectiveness (IE) and Spending Effectiveness (SE) indicators and are applicable in any context (i.e. inequality and poverty). Moreover, a variation of the former, known as the Fiscal Impoverishment and Gains Effectiveness indicator (FI/FGP), is separately introduced that is only applicable in the context of poverty. IE and SE indicators are similar in the sense that they both compare the performance of a tax or transfer in reducing inequality or poverty with respect to its theoretically maximum potential. For IE indicators, we keep the amount of money raised (or spent) constant and compare the actual and potential performance of a tax (or transfer) to each other. For SE indicators, we keep the impact of a tax (or transfer) on inequality or poverty constant and compare the actual size of a tax (or transfer) with the theoretically minimum amount of tax (or transfer) that would create the same impact.
H22|Inequality and Fiscal Redistribution in Mexico|This paper uses income and expenditure surveys from 1992 to 2014 and public tax and spending accounts to estimate the redistributive impact of Mexico’s fiscal system over this period. It presents standard and marginal benefit incidence analysis for the principal public transfers (education, health, social security, direct cash transfers) in 1992-2014, and for the full fiscal system for 2008–14. The paper also estimates the effects of a major recent fiscal reform for the years 2015–18: the transition from large subsidies to taxes on petrol. The analysis shows a continuous improvement in the redistributive effects of the fiscal system through the 1990s and 2000s associated with an increase in social spending and in the progressivity of this spending over this period. This trend stagnated and reversed after 2008/2010, reflecting in part an interruption of the expansive and progressive trend of social transfers, but especially a sharp decline of net indirect subsidies.
H22|On the middle 70%. The impact of fiscal policy on the emerging middle class in Latin America using Commitment to Equity|This paper analyzes the effects of indirect and direct taxes, as well as monetary and in-kind transfers on the income distribution in nine Latin American countries applying the CEQ methodology and using household and expenditure microdata around 2010. In particular, we focus on the effect of fiscal policies on two groups of the emerging middle class: the vulnerable and the middle class. We find that while the vulnerable tend to be net receivers in fiscal terms, especially when including in-kind transfers, the middle class seems to be mainly a net payer. This might be aggravated by the perception of a relatively low quality of in-kind transfers, notably in education and health-care services. We provide some evidence based on subjective surveys pointing in this direction.
H22|The Rise and Future of Progressive Redistribution|Starting from today's collection of estimates of fiscal distribution within each of 53 countries, we can begin mapping a history of how redistribution has evolved historically, and to project some influences on its trends in the next few decades. There appears to have been a global shift toward progressive redistribution over the last hundred years in all prosperous countries. The retreats toward regressive redistribution have been rare and have been reversed. As a corollary, the rise in income inequality since the 1970s owes nothing to any retreat from progressive government spending. Adding the effects of rising subsidy for public education on the later inequality of adult earning power strongly suggests that a fuller, longer-run measure of fiscal incidence would reveal a history of still greater shift toward progressivity, most notably in Japan, Korea, andTaiwan. The key determinant of progressivity in the decades ahead is population aging, not inequality itself or immigration backlash.
H22|Paraguay: Analisis del sistema fiscal y su impacto en la pobreza y la equidad|A pesar de los importantes avances experimentados en Paraguay en los ultimos anos en lo que respecta a crecimiento economico y mejoras en la calidad de vida, reducir la pobreza y la desigualdad continuan siendo objetivos centrales de la politica del Gobierno Nacional. En esta linea, el presente documento realiza un diagnostico del impacto de la politica fiscal en la desigualdad y pobreza de Paraguay para el ano 2014. Los resultados indican que el sistema fiscal es igualador y reductor de pobreza, pero que ambos efectos son pequenos a pesar de existir una buena focalizacion tanto en impuestos como en transferencias. El efecto redistributivo se encuentra significativamente por debajo del promedio regional, y mas aun, al promedio de America del Sur, mientras el impacto sobre la pobreza se encuentra en el promedio regional, aunque se mantiene por debajo del promedio de America del Sur. El analisis sugiere que el bajo nivel de impuestos directos y transferencias directas, si bien progresivo y relativamente bien focalizado, es un factor importante a la hora de explicar el limitado efecto de la politica fiscal en reducir la pobreza y la desigualdad.
H22|The Impact of Taxes and Social Spending on Inequality and Poverty in El Salvador|We conducted a fiscal impact study to estimate the effect of taxes, social spending, and subsidies on inequality and poverty in El Salvador, using the methodology of the Commitment to Equity project. Taxes are progressive, but given their volume, their impact is limited. Direct transfers are concentrated on poor households, but their budget is small so their effect is limited; a significant portion of the subsidies goes to households in the upper income deciles, so although their budget is greater, their impact is low. The component that has the greatest effect on inequality is spending on education and health. Therefore, the impact of fiscal policy is limited and low when compared with other countries with a similar level of per capita income. There is room for improvement using current resources.
H22|Fiscal Incidence and Poverty Reduction: Evidence from Tunisia|Using the National Survey of Consumption and Household Living Standards for 2010,this paper estimates the incidence of the government’s taxation and spending in Tunisia. Taking into account the impact of direct taxes and transfers, indirect taxes and subsidies and the monetized value of in- kind transfers in education and health services, the Gini coefficient falls from 0.43 (before taxes and transfers) to 0.35 (after taxes and transfers), mainly due to taxes (30% of the decrease) and in-kind services (30% of the decrease). Most of the equalization is produced by personal income taxes and contributions to social security. Direct taxes are progressive and the VAT is regressive. Cash transfers contribute little to redistribution. While direct transfers are strongly progressive and equalizing, their share in the budget remains very limited (only 0.2%). Subsidies are equalizing, though much less so than cash transfers as benefits to the non-poor are higher than their population share (i.e., subsidies are progressive but only in relative terms). Primary and secondary education are strongly redistributive and equalizing while tertiary education is progressive only in relative terms since the poor still have limited access. Health spending is progressive.
H22|Measuring the Effectiveness of Taxes and Transfers in Fighting Inequality and Poverty|This chapter introduces new indicators that measure the effectiveness of the elements of a fiscal system in reducing inequality and poverty. The new indices are generally divided into two families of Impact Effectiveness (IE) and Spending Effectiveness (SE) indicators and are applicable in any context (i.e. inequality and poverty). Moreover, a variation of the former, known as the Fiscal Impoverishment and Gains Effectiveness indicator (FI/FGP), is separately introduced that is only applicable in the context of poverty. IE and SE indicators are similar in the sense that they both compare the performance of a tax or transfer in reducing inequality or poverty with respect to its theoretically maximum potential. For IE indicators, we keep the amount of money raised (or spent) constant and compare the actual and potential performance of a tax (or transfer) to each other. For SE indicators, we keep the impact of a tax (or transfer) on inequality or poverty constant and compare the actual size of a tax (or transfer) with the theoretically minimum amount of tax (or transfer) that would create the same impact.
H22|An Application of the CEQ Effectiveness Indicators: The Case of Iran|This paper introduces two new Commitment to Equity (CEQ) indexes to assess the effectiveness of taxes and transfers in reducing inequality and poverty: the Impact and Spending Effectiveness indicators. The Spending Effectiveness indicator has an additional interpretation as a measure of efficiency. These effectiveness indicators are used in this paper to rank taxes and transfers in Iran. In addition, I estimate the Fiscal Impoverishment and Fiscal Gains to the Poor Effectiveness indicators, which have also been developed by the CEQ Institute. The results show that in this case study, taxes and transfers are similarly effective in achieving their inequality-reducing potential. The income tax is the most effective intervention on the revenue side, achieving 40 percent of its inequality-reducing potential. On the spending side, social assistance transfers are the most effective, achieving 45 percent of their potential. Taxes are especially effective in raising revenue without causing poverty to rise, indicating that the poor are largely spared from taxation. In contrast, transfers are not very effective because the majority of them are not targeted to the poor: the most effective transfers achieve 21 percent of their poverty reduction potential.
H22|The Sustainable Development Goals, Domestic Resource Mobilization and the Poor|Achieving the Sustainable Development Goals will require fiscal resources to deliver the floors in social protection, social services and infrastructure embedded in them. A significant portion of these resources is expected to come from tax collection in developing countries. Raising additional revenues domestically, however, may leave a significant portion of the poor with less cash to buy food and other essential goods. The demand for additional resources must be balanced against the competing need to protect poor households from becoming poorer as a result of taxes.
H22|The Impact of Taxes and Social Spending on Income Distribution and Poverty in Latin America. An Application of the Commitment to Equity (CEQ) Methodology|"Using standard fiscal incidence analysis and the new methodological developments by the Commitment to Equity (CEQ) Institute, this paper estimates the impact of fiscal policy on inequality and poverty in sixteen countries in Latin America around 2010. With information on incomes, consumption, and other dimensions available in household surveys, and knowledge about the characteristics of the fiscal system, the CEQ method consists in allocating to each individual the burden of personal income and consumption taxes, and the benefits from cash transfers, consumption subsidies, and government spending on education and health. This process yields the pre-fiscal and post-fiscal income concepts of interest. These income concepts, in turn, are used to calculate the corresponding indicators of inequality and poverty. Thus, one can estimate, for each country, the impact of the fiscal system and each of its components on inequality and poverty. Since the methodology that was applied is the same, results are comparable across countries. The countries that redistribute the most are Argentina, Brazil, Costa Rica, and Uruguay. Guatemala, Honduras, and Peru are the countries that redistribute the least. Fiscal policy reduces extreme (income) poverty in twelve out of the sixteen countries. The incidence of poverty after taxes, subsidies, and cash transfers, however, is higher than market income poverty in Bolivia, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua, even though fiscal policy reduces inequality in these four countries. Contributory pensions have a heterogeneous effect on inequality and, contrary to some expectations, their impact is equalizing in nine of the countries. In the sixteen countries, spending on pre-school and primary education is equalizing and pro-poor (per capita benefits decline with income per capita). Spending on secondary education is always equalizing; it is also pro-poor in some of the countries. Spending on tertiary education is never pro-poor but it is equalizing in all the countries except for Guatemala. Spending on health is always equalizing but pro-poor only in some countries. Latin America presents a great deal of heterogeneity in the size of the state and the countriesâ€™ capacity to use their fiscal power to reduce inequality and poverty. A higher share of social spending (to GDP) is associated with a larger redistributive effect but countries with similar, or even lower, shares of social spending show heterogeneous redistributive effects implying that other factors beyond size such as the composition and targeting of social spending (and taxes) are at play. It is important to emphasize that a higher redistributive effect is not necessarily a desirable outcome since in this article there is no estimation of the impact of redistributive policy on fiscal sustainability and efficiency. In some countries, the burden of consumption taxes is such that a portion of the poor are net payers into the fiscal system (before receiving ""in kind"" transfers in education and health). Governments should examine whether this undesirable effect could be avoided, or at least reduced, through an expansion of targeted cash transfers and/or reduction in the consumption taxes that are particularly burdensome for the poor."
H22|On the middle 70%. The impact of fiscal policy on the emerging middle class in Latin America using Commitment to Equity| This paper analyzes the effects of indirect and direct taxes, as well as monetary and in-kind transfers on the income distribution in nine Latin American countries applying the CEQ methodology and using household and expenditure microdata around 2010. In particular, we focus on the effect of fiscal policies on two groups of the emerging middle class: the vulnerable and the middle class. We find that while the vulnerable tend to be net receivers in fiscal terms, especially when including in-kind transfers, the middle class seems to be mainly a net payer. This might be aggravated by the perception of a relatively low quality of in-kind transfers, notably in education and health-care services. We provide some evidence based on subjective surveys pointing in this direction.
H22|Gendered Effects of the Personal Income Tax: Evidence from a Schedular System with Individual Filing in a Developing Country|This article analyzes the gender differences in the Personal Income Tax (PIT)-to-income ratio in Uruguay. Although the tax code does not explicitly specify gender differences, the tax burden varies among households types. When analyzing these differences, our findings suggest that the PIT serves as somewhat of an incentive towards equal gender time allocation within the family, which is consistent with gender equity. In turn, this pattern is reinforced by non-desirable aspects such as higher levels of informality among women and a higher level of non-taxable sources of income among single female households. The above conclusion relies on the assumption of individual filing. Our analysis also observes that the strengths of the PIT system from the gender perspective are eroded by the possibility to opt for a (rarely used) joint filing. The empirical strategy was assessed through the estimation of a zero-one inflated beta model (ZOIB). This model properly addresses the fact that the PIT-to-income ratio includes many zero data points.
H22|Policy options for a socially balanced climate policy|Climate policies, including removing fossil fuel subsidies or imposing carbon prices, can be designed in a way that is both efficient in addressing climate change and results in a fair distribution of the associated costs.
H22|Towards a comprehensive approach to climate policy, sustainable infrastructure, and finance|The authors propose a policy package of low-carbon growth stimulation through a steep increase in sustainable infrastructure, mobilizing sustainable finance, and adoption of carbon pricing to simultaneously achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement and the Sustainable Development Goals.
H22|One vs. Two Instruments for Redistribution: The Case of Public Utility Pricing|We use data on 180,000 households in the Swiss Canton of Bern and the years 2008-2013 to analyse whether one instrument (the income tax) vs. two instruments (income tax and public utility pricing) are adequate for income redistribution. The results of our structural estimation show that under certai assumptions there is a role for redistribution through public good pricing markups and hence with two instruments being adequate for redistribution.
H22|Where the minimum wage bites workers. Factor substitutability and innovativeness at the workplace|Exploiting variation in the bite of the German minimum wage we estimate its impact on employment. We break down effect heterogeneity for different degrees of labor substitutability based on admin data on job content and survey data on the workplace. While the average effect is insignificant, interacting treatment with substitutability, we get significantly effects on the probability of remaining employed and the transition to unemployment for employees more easily substitutable by capital.
H22|On the Marginal Excess Burden of Taxation in an Overlapping Generations Model|We quantify marginal excess burden, defined as the change in deadweight loss for an additional dollar of tax revenue, for different taxes. We use a dynamic general equilibrium, overlapping generations model featured with heterogeneous agents and a realistic structure of corporate finance and taxes. Our main results, based on an economy calibrated to Australian data, indicate that company taxes are more distorting than personal income and consumption taxes. Specifically, the marginal excess burden for the company income tax is 83 cents per dollar of tax revenue raised, compared to 34 cents and 24 cents for the personal income and consumption taxes, respectively. A broader analysis of more tax instruments confrim that the relatively larger excess burden of company taxes ultimately falls on households. Importantly, the marginal excess burden is distributed unevenly across skill types, generations and ages. This highlights political challenges when obtaining popular support for raising taxes. Hence, our analysis demonstrates that marginal excess burden can be an useful tool for evaluating both eciency and distributional implications of a tax increase at the margin.
H22|BIMic: the Bank of Italy microsimulation model for the Italian tax and benefit system|The paper presents BIMic, a static and non-behavioural microsimulation model developed at the Bank of Italy. BIMic reproduces the main features of the Italian tax and benefit system, such as social security contributions, personal income tax, property taxes, family allowances and some other social benefits. It aims to evaluate the budgetary impact and distributive effects of tax-benefit programmes. Such programmes may be actually operating at a given point in time or may be a counterfactual set. To illustrate a potential use of BIMic, this paper discusses the distributive impact of a recently approved legislative innovation regarding the additional transfer to pensioners (known as the quattordicesima ai pensionati).
H22|Housing allowance and rents: evidence from a Stepwise Subsidy Scheme|This paper studies the effect of housing demand subsidies on rents using discontinuities in the Finnish housing allowance system as a quasi-experimental setting. The stepwise dependence of housing allowance on the floor area of the dwelling and the year of construction of the building causes economically and statistically significant discontinuities in the amount of housing allowances. However, our results show that there are no discontinuities in rents of the recipient households at these cut-offs. Instead, differences in the amount of the housing allowance are translated roughly one-to-one into differences in the rent net of housing allowance
H22|VAT and Agriculture: Lessons from Europe|Farmers are often exempted from VAT for administrative and political reasons. But this means that the VAT on their inputs cannot be ‘washed out’ through the tax deduction/credit mechanism. To compensate farmers for the uncompensated VAT on inputs, the EU has devised a flat-rate scheme that permits them to charge a presumptive rate (approximately equal to the effective VAT rate on sector-wide inputs) on their sales to taxable agro-processing firms. The flat-rate scheme is an arbitrary way of trying to achieve equal treatment. Full taxation, subject to the general threshold, appears to be the preferred choice.
H22|How to Use One Instrument to Identify Two Elasticities|We show that an insight from taxation theory allows identification of both the supply and demand elasticities with only one instrument. Ramsey (1928) and subsequent models of taxation assume that a tax levied on the demand side only affects demand through the price after taxation. Econometrically, we show that this assumption functions as an additional exclusion restriction. Under the Ramsey Exclusion Restriction (RER) a tax reform can serve to simultaneously identify elasticities of supply and demand. We develop a TSLS estimator for both elasticities, a test to assess instrument strength and a test for the RER. Our result extends to a supply-demand system with J goods, and a setting with supply-side or non-linear taxes. Further, we show that key results in the sufficient statistics literature rely on the RER. One example is Harberger’s formula for the excess burden of a tax. We apply our method to the Norwegian labor market.
H22|Using Spatial Distribution of Outlets to Estimate Gambling Incidence|The paper proposes a simple and innovative methodology for measuring the incidence of gambling expenditure in countries for which household survey data is unavailable or unreliable. A first application of this methodology is presented by merging data on the geographical location of gambling outlets, together with residents’ socio-economic and demographic characteristics around that location across all of the 1,600 statistical areas in Israel. It was found that the Israel National Lottery (Lotto) and Toto tend to set up significantly more sales points in disadvantaged neighborhoods after controlling for standard list of factors such as population size and composition. The Suit Index is calculated based on the spatial estimation results and yields a measure of -0.42, which implies that the implicit tax associated with gambling is highly regressive.
H22|Who Bears the Economic Costs of Environmental Regulations?|Public economics has a well-developed literature on tax incidence – the ultimate burdens from tax policy. This literature is used here to describe not only the distributional effects of environmental taxes or subsidies but also the likely incidence of non-tax regulations, energy efficiency standards, or other environmental mandates. Recent papers find that mandates can be more regressive than carbon taxes. We also describe how the distributional effects of such policies can be altered by various market conditions such as limited factor mobility, trade exposure, evasion, corruption, or imperfect competition. Finally, we review data on carbon-intensity of production and exports around the world in order to describe implications for effects of possible carbon taxation on countries with different levels of income per capita.
H22|Leveraging Wage Subsidies to Facilitate Fair Wages and Increase Social Welfare|Wage subsidies can be provided directly to the worker, as in the federal Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) program. They can also be provided indirectly by subsidizing the employer; by reducing the cost of labor, employers are induced to offer higher wages. The standard literature stipulates that the identity of the entity that is statutorily entitled for the subsidy bears no implications for the economic incidence. We propose and test a mechanism by which indirect subsidies can lead to higher social welfare. A substantial empirical literature establishes that workers reciprocate gifts in the form of higher wages with the gift of exerting higher effort. Thus, if a wage subsidy is implemented by indirectly subsidizing employers, employers face a lower cost of labor and increase their wages, leading workers to reciprocate with higher effort and productivity than achieved by providing the equivalent direct subsidy. A controlled laboratory experiment supports our behavioral hypotheses and confirms the behavioral and welfare implications
H22|Delivering affordable housing and neighborhood quality: A comparison of place- and tenant-based programs|This paper analyzes the relative merits of large place- and tenant-based housing programs in Finland in terms of housing affordability and neighborhood quality. Using hedonic regression methods and household micro data, we find that the rent savings to public housing tenants are considerable and comparable in size to the housing allowance. Furthermore, this public housing subsidy is less targeted towards low-income households than the housing allowance. At the same time, low-income public housing tenants live in poorer, less educated and lower quality neighborhoods than similar low-income households living in private rental housing. This suggests that place-based programs may lead to more segregation than tenant- based alternatives even when neighborhood mixing is an explicit aim of the program, as is the case in Finland.
H22|Indirect Taxation of Financial Services|An important question is whether VAT exemption of financial services is a desirable property or whether it is justified only due to practical and administrative necessity. This paper singles out a number of financial services for discussion of this issue in a context allowing for other taxes and other preexisting distortions. It discusses taxation of intermediation that facilitates savings and borrowing, payment services and currency exchange. It also elaborates on the distortionary effects of taxing intermediate goods due to VAT exemption with focus on exports and consumer prices.
H22|The Impact of Taxes and Social Spending on Inequality and Poverty in El Salvador - Working Paper 447|We conducted a fiscal impact study to estimate the effect of taxes, social spending, and subsidies on inequality and poverty in El Salvador, using the methodology of the Commitment to Equity project. Taxes are progressive, but given their volume, their impact is limited. Direct transfers are concentrated on poor households, but their budget is small so their effect is limited; a significant portion of the subsidies goes to households in the upper income deciles, so although their budget is greater, their impact is low. The component that has the greatest effect on inequality is spending on education and health. Therefore, the impact of fiscal policy is limited and low when compared with other countries with a similar level of per capita income. There is room for improvement using current resources.
H22|Fiscal Policy, Income Redistribution and Poverty Reduction in Low and Middle Income Countries - Working Paper 448|Current policy discussion focuses primarily on the power of fiscal policy to reduce inequality. Yet, comparable fiscal incidence analysis for 28 low and middle income countries reveals that, although fiscal systems are always equalizing, that is not always true for poverty. In Ethiopia, Tanzania, Ghana, Nicaragua, and Guatemala the extreme poverty headcount ratio is higher after taxes and transfers (excluding in-kind transfers) than before. In addition, to varying degrees, in all countries a portion of the poor are net payers into the fiscal system and are thus impoverished by the fiscal system. Consumption taxes are the main culprits of fiscally-induced impoverishment. Net direct taxes are always equalizing and indirect taxes net of subsidies are equalizing in nineteen countries of the 28. While spending on pre-school and primary school is pro-poor (i.e., the per capita transfer declines with income) in almost all countries, pro-poor secondary school spending is less prevalent, and tertiary education spending tends to be progressive only in relative terms (i.e., equalizing but not pro-poor). Health spending is always equalizing but not always pro-poor. More unequal countries devote more resources to redistributive spending and appear to redistribute more. The latter, however, is not a robust result across specifications.
H22|The Impact of the Tax System and Social Expenditure on the Distribution of Income and Poverty in Latin America (Spanish) - Working Paper 450|This paper presents results on the impact of fiscal policy on inequality and poverty in sixteen Latin American countries around 2010. The countries that redistribute the most are Argentina, Brazil, Costa Rica and Uruguay, and the least, Guatemala, Honduras and Peru. At higher social spending, greater redistribution is achieved, but countries with a similar level of social spending show different levels of redistribution which suggests that other factors such as the composition and targeting of the expenditures are involved in determining the redistributive effect beyond its size. Fiscal policy reduces extreme poverty in twelve countries. However, the incidence of poverty after taxes, subsidies and monetary transfers is higher than the pre-fisc poverty rate in Bolivia, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua, even when fiscal policy does reduce inequality. Expenditure on pre-school and primary education is equalizing and pro-poor in all countries. Spending on secondary education is equalizing in all countries and also pro-poor in some countries but not all. Expenditure on tertiary education is never pro-poor, but it is equalizing, with the exception of Guatemala, where it is regressive and unequalizing and in Venezuela, where its redistributive effect is zero. Health spending is always equalizing but it is pro-poor only in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Costa Rica, Ecuador, the Dominican Republic, Uruguay and Venezuela.
H22|Banks Defy Gravity in Tax Havens|This paper provides the first quantitative assessment of the contribution of global banks in intermediating tax evasion. Applying gravity equations on a unique regulatory dataset based on comprehensive individual country-by-country reporting from all the Systemically Important Banks the European Union, we find that: 1) Tax havens generate a threefold extra presence of foreign banks; 2) The favorite destinations of tax evasion intermediated by European banks are Luxembourg and Monaco 3) British and German banks display the most aggressive strategies in tax havens; 4) New transparency requirements imposed in 2015 have not changed European banks commercial presence in tax havens; 5) Banks intermediate EUROS 550 billion of offshore deposits, that is 5% of their origin countries' GDP.
H22|VAT and Agriculture: Lessons from Europe|Little has been written about the treatment of agriculture under the value added tax (VAT). This article attempts to fill the void by surveying and evaluating the situation in the Member States of the European Union (EU) and some other countries. Farmers are often exempted from VAT for administrative and political reasons. But this means that the VAT on their inputs cannot be â€˜washed outâ€™ through the tax deduction/credit mechanism. It then has to be borne by the farmers themselves or becomes an indeterminate and capricious element in consumer prices. To compensate farmers for the uncompensated VAT on inputs, the EU has devised a flat-rate scheme that permits them to charge a presumptive rate (approximately equal to the effective VAT rate on sector-wide inputs) on their sales to taxable agro-processing firms which, in turn, are permitted to take a deduction for this flat-rate addition from the VAT on their sales. Obviously, the flat-rate scheme is an arbitrary way of trying to achieve equal treatment between exempt and taxable farmers and between exempt farm products and other taxable goods and services. Full taxation, subject to the general threshold, appears to be the preferred choice.
H22|Cheaper and More Haircuts After VAT Cut? Evidence from the Netherlands|Abstract We study the effect of the reduction in the VAT rate on hairdresser services from 17.5 to 6% in the Netherlands in January 2000. Following Kosonen (J Public Econ 131:87–100, 2015), we use differences-in-differences to estimate the effects of this reform, with beauty salons as the main control group. In our preferred specification, we find close to full pass-through of the VAT cut into lower prices. However, we find no statistically or economically significant effect on the volume of sales or employment.
H22|The Surprising Pass-Through of Solar Subsidies|We estimate the pass-through of solar energy subsidies to solar system prices. Rich micro-level transaction and subsidy data from California indicate that pass-through is remarkably high and differs substantially for consumers who buy versus lease solar systems. Buyers capture nearly the full subsidy, while there is more-than-complete pass-through to lessees. We formalize pass-through over-shifting as an under-utilized test for market power that can also be applied in other contexts. We rule out alternative explanations for over-shifting and conclude that our estimates provide evidence for imperfectly competitive solar markets. Our findings have implications for the distributional effects of energy subsidies.
H22|Banks in Tax Havens: First Evidence based on Country-by-Country Reporting|Since the Great Financial Crisis, several scandals have exposed a pervasive light on banks' presence in tax havens. Taking advantage of a new database, this paper provides a quantitative assessment of the importance of tax havens in international banking activity. Using comprehensive individual country-by-country reporting from the largest banks in the European Union, we provide several new insights: 1) Tax havens attract large extra banking activity beyond the standard factors based on gravity equations; 2) For EU banks, the main tax havens are located within Europe: Luxembourg, Isle of Man and Guernsey rank at the top of the foreign affiliates; 3) Attractive low tax rates are not sufficient to drive extra activity; 4) High quality of governance is not a driver, but banks avoid countries with weakest governance; 5) Banks also avoid the most opaque countries; 6) The tax savings for EU banks is estimated between EUR 1 billion and EUR 3.6 billion.
H22|Steuer- und Abgabenreformen für die neue Legislatur: untere und mittlere Einkommen gezielt entlasten|Low- and middle-income households barely benefit from cuts in personal income tax rates, or from the reduction in the solidarity surcharge. At the same time, even moderate reductions concentrated on low incomes or in the belly-shaped tax curve (Mittelstandsbauch) lead to considerable tax losses and also relieve high incomes, provided the top tax rates are not increased.If the tax policy aims to effectively relieve the tax burden of low- and middle-income households lower, it must reduce indirect taxes or social contributions. For VAT, the reduced rate on food and public transport could be reduced to 5 per cent. Furthermore, low and middle income households could be relieved from social security contributions, either directly through an allowance or indirectly through a partial income tax credit. Haushalte mit unteren und mittleren Einkommen profitieren kaum von Senkungen des Einkommensteuertarifs oder vom Abbau des Solidaritätszuschlags. Zugleich führen schon moderate Entlastungen im Eingangsbereich des Steuertarifs oder beim „Mittelstandsbauch“ zu beträchtlichen Steuerausfällen und entlasten auch hohe Einkommen, soweit die Spitzensteuersätze nicht angehoben werden. Wenn die Steuerpolitik untere und mittlere Einkommen bei den Steuer- und Abgabenbelastungen wirksam entlasten will, muss sie die indirekten Steuern oder die Sozialbeiträge senken. Bei der Mehrwertsteuer könnte der ermäßigte Steuersatz auf Nahrungsmittel und öffentlichen Nahverkehr auf 5 Prozent reduziert werden. Ferner könnten Haushalte mit unteren und mittleren Einkommen bei den Sozialbeiträgen entlastet werden, entweder direkt durch einen Freibetrag oder indirekt durch einen teilweisen Abzug von der Einkommensteuer.
H22|Does enhanced mobility of young people improve employment and housing outcomes? Evidence from a large and controlled experiment in France|For disadvantaged young people, access to a means of transportation, whether in the form of a personal vehicle or reliable public transportation, can play an important role in determining school-to-work transitions. In order to find a clean source of identification to assess the impact of reducing commuting costs for such individuals, we conducted a large and controlled experiment to study the impact of the intervention of subsidizing driving lessons in France by randomly assigning young candidates to one of two groups made up of treated and untreated individuals. We assessed the impact of improving their degree of mobility through this intervention on several outcomes, including drivers’ testing results, housing, and employment status. We found that young people are less mobile during their training period, and therefore less involved in actively seeking employment or improving on their current position. Once they have passed the driving test, however, these findings are reversed. Finally, we do not discern any significant impact on the important outcome of access to permanent jobs, but we do find a positive yet weak effect on access to temporary jobs.
H22|Progressive taxation and (in)stability in an exogenous growth model with an informal sector|We show that in an exogenous growth model with informal economy calibrated to Bulgarian data under the progressive taxation regime (1993-2007), the economy exhibits equilibrium indeterminacy due to the presence of an unofficial production. These results are in line with the findings in Benhabib and Farmer (1994, 1996) and Farmer (1999). Also, the findings in this paper are in contrast to Guo and Lansing (1988) who argue that progressive taxation works as an automatic stabilizer. Un- der the flat tax regime (2008-14), the economy calibrated to Bulgarian data displays saddle-path stability. The decrease in the average effective tax rate addresses the indeterminacy issue and eliminates the ”sink” dynamics.
H22|Housing Allowance and Rents: Evidence from a Stepwise Subsidy Scheme|This paper studies the effect of housing demand subsidies on rents using discontinuities in the Finnish housing allowance system as a quasi-experimental setting. The stepwise dependence of housing allowance on the floor area of the dwelling and the year of construction of the building causes economically and statistically significant discontinuities in the amount of housing allowances. However, our results show that there are no discontinuities in rents of the recipient households at these cut-offs. Instead, differences in the amount of the housing allowance are translated roughly one-to-one into differences in the rent net of housing allowance.
H22|Measuring income redistribution: beyond the proportionality standard|Traditional analyses of redistributive effects of the tax-benefit system are rooted in the concepts of relative income inequality and proportionality. This observation also applies to decompositions proposed by Kakwani (1977, 1984) and Lambert (1985) that reveal the vertical and horizontal effects of tax-benefit instruments. This paper generalises those decompositions within the frameworks of the alternative inequality concepts suggested by Ebert (2004) and Bosmans et al. (2014). As expected, the results of the empirical analysis indicate that for different views of inequality, different taxes and benefits play significantly different roles in reducing inequality.
H22|Banks in Tax Havens: First Evidence based on Country-by-Country Reporting|Since the Great Financial Crisis, several scandals have exposed a pervasive light on banks' presence in tax havens. Taking advantage of a new database, this paper provides a quantitative assessment of the importance of tax havens in international banking activity. Using comprehensive individual country-by-country reporting from the largest banks in the European Union, we provide several new insights: 1) The average effect of being a tax haven is an extra presence of foreign affiliates by 168%; 2) For EU banks, the main tax havens are located within Europe: Luxembourg, Isle of Man and Guernsey rank at the top; 3) Attractive tax rates are not sufficient to drive extra activity; 4) But lenient regulatory environment attract extra commercial presence; 4) Banks avoid the most opaque countries with weak governance; 5) The tax savings for EU banks is estimated between Euro 1 billion and Euro 3.6 billion.
H22|Heterogeneous Workers and Federal Income Taxes in a Spatial Equilibrium|This paper studies the incidence and efficiency of a progressive income tax in a spatial equilibrium. We use US census data to estimate an empirical spatial equilibrium with heterogeneous workers, landowners, and firms. The US income tax shifts skilled workers out of high-productivity cities, leading to a deadweight loss of 2% of tax revenue. Flattening the tax schedule significantly increases welfare inequality between skilled and unskilled workers and does not increase overall worker welfare, as the efficiency gains are captured by landowners. This suggests that progressive income taxes reduce welfare inequality without reducing total worker welfare.
H22|Asymmetric incidence of sales taxes: A short-run investigation of gasoline prices|This paper investigates the shifting of sales taxes to consumers through retail prices in the short run. Retail data on gasoline prices are used at the station level within the U.S., including observations from all fifty states and the District of Columbia. A difference-in-differences approach is employed to identify the short-run effects of the changes in state taxes as of January 1st, 2015, when five states have increased their gasoline sales taxes, while five other states have decreased theirs. States experiencing such changes in sales taxes (between December 31st, 2014 and January 1st, 2015) are analyzed as the treatment group of a natural policy experiment, where the control group consists of states with no changes in their sales taxes. The results show that both sales-tax increases and decreases are under-shifted to consumer prices, although the under-shifting of sales-tax decreases is much higher (i.e., the asymmetric incidence of sales taxes). The pass-through measures also differ significantly across states, showing the importance of having a nationwide analysis. The results are robust to the consideration of retailer characteristics, wholesale prices, retail brand effects and hourly price changes within each day.
H22|Trade and economic impacts of destination-based corporate taxes| Current US proposals for destination-based corporate taxes that effectively combine a value-added tax (VAT) and a wage subsidy raise important policy questions for countries considering them, and for their trading partners. This tax/subsidy package would not create trade barriers or export subsidies, and any changes in trade would result from the measuresâ€™ distributional consequences or short-run impacts on output. The package would leave business profits and rents untaxed, placing the burden of the tax entirely on consumers, with no offset from exchange rate appreciation. If anything, its introduction could cause a short-run real exchange rate depreciation. A key concern regarding this package is its small, volatile, and vulnerable revenue yield. At current US consumption and labor shares of gross domestic product (GDP), a 20 percent corporate cash-flow tax with a wage subsidy would generate only around 2 percent of GDP in revenues, a result that could be obtained with much less volatility from a 2.8 percent tax without the wage subsidy. Under the tax/subsidy regime, revenues would become negative if consumption and labor shares returned to their historical norms, requiring increases in other taxes. A 20 percent tax would raise consumer prices by up to 27 percent, taking into account state sales taxes, sharply cutting the living standards of people on fixed incomes. The average combined consumption tax rate of 33 percent would be the highest in the world and more than double the world-average VAT rate, creating incentives for avoidance and evasion.
H22|Incidence of value added taxation on inequality: Evidence from Sri Lanka|No abstract is available for this item.
H22|Incidence of Bank Levy and Bank Market Power|We study the impact of banks’ market power on the incidence of a bank levy that is imposed on balance sheets. Within the framework of an oligopolistic version of the Monti-Klein model, the pass-through of a bank tax levied on loans is stronger when elasticity of credit demand is low. To test this hypothesis, we investigate the incidence of the Hungarian bank tax that was introduced in 2010 on banks’ assets. This case is well suited for our analysis because the tax rate is much higher for large banks than for small banks, which allows relying on difference-in-difference methodology. In line with model predictions, our estimations show that the tax is likely to be shifted to customers with the smallest demand elasticity, such as households. This result depends on the common trends assumption that is discussed at length.
H22|Incidence of Bank Levy and Bank Market Power|This is the first analysis of the incidence of a bank tax that is imposed on banks’ balance sheets. Within the framework of an oligopolistic version of the Monti-Klein model, the pass-through of a bank tax levied on loans is stronger when elasticity of credit demand is low. To test this hypothesis, we investigate the incidence of the Hungarian bank tax that was introduced in 2010 on banks’ assets. This case is well suited for our analysis because the tax rate is much higher for large banks than for small banks, which allows relying on difference-in-difference methodology to disentangle the impact of the tax from any other shock that might have occurred simultaneously. In line with model predictions, our estimations show that the tax is shifted to customers with the smallest demand elasticity, such as households. In terms of economic policy implications, our results suggest that enhanced borrower mobility could reduce the ability of banks to shift taxes to customers.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
H22|Incidence and Behavioural Response to Social Security Contributions: An Analysis of Kink Points in France|Abstract We study the incidence of social security contributions (SSCs) in France relying on the strategy developed by Alvaredo et al. (De Econ, 2017. doi: 10.1007/s10645-017-9294-7 ). This strategy infers the incidence of SSCSs from the discontinuities in earnings distributions created by kink points in the SSC schedule. Using administrative data on earnings for the period 1976–2010, we study approximately 200 such kink points and do not find that they systematically induce a discontinuity in the distribution of gross earnings. This allows us to reject the hypothesis that SSCs are incident on workers, at least locally around kinks. Additionally, we exploit the large variations in SSC rates across kinks and years to estimate the local incidence of both employer and employee SSCs around these thresholds. We find that employer SSCs are shifted to employers while employee SSCs are shifted to employees. These findings are consistent with the economic incidence of SSCs being aligned with their statutory incidence, locally around kink points.
H22|Contribution Ceilings and the Incidence of Payroll Taxes|Abstract Social security contributions (SSCs) are typically formally split between employers and employees as payroll taxes, levied on earnings at a constant tax rate that applies only up to a ceiling, above which the marginal tax rate falls to a reduced rate, often 0. Such contribution ceilings create a concave kink point in the budget set of workers and hence should generate a dip in the distribution of earnings around the ceiling through labour supply responses (the reverse of bunching expected at convex kink points) but such a dip is not observed empirically. This paper sets out a new approach to infer the incidence of SSCs that exploits the absence of this dip and the fact that (mechanically) the distributions of labour cost (earnings inclusive of all payroll taxes), gross earnings (net of employer payroll taxes) and net earnings (net of both employer and employee payroll taxes) cannot all be smooth around a kink. The other papers in this special issue apply the method to data for Germany, France, the Netherlands and the UK and all find that distribution of gross earnings is smooth around kinks (implying that the distributions of labour costs and net-of-tax earnings are not) even though the concept of gross earnings is irrelevant in the standard static model of labour supply and demand that dominates the public economics literature. This suggests that other features of the labour market, such as wage bargaining based on the gross earnings concept, are relevant for determining the incidence of SSCs.
H22|Payroll Taxes and Firm Performance|The Swedish employer paid payroll tax was reduced substantially for young workers in 2007, causing firms’ average social fees to depend on the age structure of their employees. Using pre-reform conditions to define treated and control firms, we show that the lower costs induced by the reduced taxes have no impact on exit rates or profitability. We find negligible effects on gross investments, and negative, but not statistically significant, effects on labor productivity.
H22|"Revenue and Incentive Effects of Basis Step-Up at Death: Lessons from the 2010 ""Voluntary"" Estate Tax Regime"|In 2010, the U.S. estate tax expired and executors of wealthy decedents were not required to file estate tax returns. In the absence of the estate tax, beneficiaries received assets with carryover rather than stepped-up basis. Unrealized capital gains accounted for 44 percent of the fair market value of non-cash assets in estates that chose the carryover basis regime, and an even higher percentage for some asset categories. Many of the largest gains were on assets that had been held for at least two decades.
H22|Who Benefits from State Corporate Tax Cuts? A Local Labor Markets Approach with Heterogeneous Firms|This paper estimates the incidence of state corporate taxes on the welfare of workers, landowners, and firm owners using variation in state corporate tax rates and apportionment rules. We develop a spatial equilibrium model with imperfectly mobile firms and workers. Firm owners may earn profits and be inframarginal in their location choices due to differences in location-specific productivities. We use the reduced-form effects of tax changes to identify and estimate incidence as well as the structural parameters governing these impacts. In contrast to standard open economy models, firm owners bear roughly 40 percent of the incidence, while workers and landowners bear 30-35 percent and 25-30 percent, respectively.
H22|Does Tax-Collection Invariance Hold? Evasion and the Pass-Through of State Diesel Taxes|In simple models, the incidence of a tax is independent of the identity of the remitting party. We illustrate that this prediction fails to hold if opportunities for evasion differ across economic agents. Second, we estimate how the incidence of state diesel taxes varies with the point of collection, where the remitting party varies across states and over time. Moving tax collection upstream from retailers substantially raises the pass-through of diesel taxes to consumers. Furthermore, tax revenues increase when collecting taxes from wholesalers rather than from retailers, suggesting that evasion is the likely explanation for the incidence result. (JEL H22, H25, H26, H71, L71)
H22|Distributional and Welfare Impacts of Renewable Subsidies in Italy|We empirically assess the distributional impacts and welfare effects of policies to incentivize renewable electricity production for the case of Italy. We use data from the Household Budget Survey between 2000 and 2010 to estimate a demand system in which energy goods' shares of expenditure are modelled using different empirical approaches. We show that the general Exact Affine Stone Index (EASI) demand system provides more robust estimates of price elasticities of each composite good than the commonly used Almost Ideal Demand System (AIDS). The estimated coefficients are used to perform a welfare analysis of the Italian renewable electricity production incentive policy. We show that different empirical approaches give rise to significantly different estimates of price elasticities and that methodological choices are the reasons for the very high elasticities of substitutions estimated using similar data by previous contributions. We find no evidence of regressivity of the incidence of the Italian renewable incentive scheme in the period under consideration. The renewable subsidies act as a middle-class tax, with the higher welfare losses experienced by households in the second to fourth quintiles of the expenditure distribution.
H22|This paper provides an empirical evaluation of the effects of income taxation on personal savings in Serbia, by taking into account both transmitting channels: the direct impact of capital income tax on the rate-of-return and the indirect impact of labour income tax on disposable income. The estimated elasticity of bank deposits to the rate of return of 0.3 and the estimated elasticity of employment income to a labour tax wedge of –0.38 suggest that income tax function aimed at minimising the efficiency losses should not considerably differentiate the tax burden on labour and capital income. We show that in the case of the introduction of a revenue-neutral income tax, with a single marginal tax rate of 15% and considerably largerlabour income exemption, households’ savings in Serbia would decline by 0.27%. This means that the negative impact of a rise in the capital income tax wedge on savings would prevail over the positive effects of a labour tax wedge cut. The results imply that the overall possibility to boost savings using tax policy is modest|No abstract is available for this item.
H22|Incidence, Optimal Use and Rationale of Place-Based Job Creation Programs|First, this paper empirically evaluates the incidence of the Japanese place-based job creation program, which has been rarely studied in Japan. The program increases employment, especially in the agricultural, retail trade and service sectors that most treated cities promote. Second, this paper explores the cities that the program most affects. Those with large aging populations and those with small working age population decrease the effects of the program. Third, this paper assesses the rationale of this program and does not observe a strong reduction in sales, workers or establishments in the neighboring cities of the treated city.
H22|Income Instability and Fiscal Progression|We construct the ratio of the post-fisc transitory income variance to the pre-fisc transitory income variance of family incomes as a measure of fiscal progressivity in Canada between 1993 and 2008. This ratio can be interpreted as measuring the extent to which the fiscal system attenuates personal income instability. We find that the tax and transfer system has been less effective in stabilizing market incomes after 1998 compared to the previous years. This is attributable to the provincial and federal tax reforms from 1999-2001, which particularly affected families headed by individuals with less than high school education. While the reforms reduced the effective marginal tax rates faced across all educational groups, the reduction is relatively larger among families with highly educated main earners. Moreover, the group with less than high school education is distinct in that the average effective tax burden in this group increased. Changes to Social Assistance also appear to have played a role.
H22|The (Aggregate) Demand For State-Lottery Tickets: What Have We Really Learned?|" type=""main"" xml:id=""coep12155-abs-0001""> Lottery-demand models using aggregate data are often used to make inferences regarding individual behavior, the most important being the distributional burden of lottery-ticket expenditures. It is shown here that estimates for the income elasticity and the cross-price elasticity will only be representative of individual behavior under extremely restrictive assumptions. In fact, estimation of aggregate-demand models presupposes that the income elasticity is equal to one. Cross-sectional analyses using microlevel data face similar restrictions on consumer behavior. Remedies are discussed, but more conclusive evidence on the distributional burden of lotteries will remain elusive until better individual-level data become available. (JEL D11, H71, H22)"
H22|Comparing the Incidence of Taxes and Social Spending in Brazil and the United States|We perform the first comprehensive fiscal incidence analyses in Brazil and the U.S., including direct cash and food transfers, targeted housing and heating subsidies, public spending on health and education, and taxes on personal income, payroll, corporate income, property, and expenditures. The countries share a number of similarities that make the comparison interesting, including high levels of inequality given their levels of development, high inequality of opportunity, large and racially diverse populations, and similar sizes of government. The U.S. achieves higher redistribution through direct taxes and transfers, primarily because Brazil underutilizes personal income taxes and keeps its progressive cash and food transfer programs small, while its larger transfer programs are less progressive. When public spending on health and non‐tertiary education is added to income using the government cost approach, however, the two countries achieve similar levels of redistribution.
H22|Comparing the Incidence of Taxes and Social Spending in Brazil and the United States|We perform the first comprehensive fiscal incidence analyses in Brazil and the U.S., including direct cash and food transfers, targeted housing and heating subsidies, public spending on health and education, and taxes on personal income, payroll, corporate income, property, and expenditures. The countries share a number of similarities that make the comparison interesting, including high levels of inequality given their levels of development, high inequality of opportunity, large and racially diverse populations, and similar sizes of government. The U.S. achieves higher redistribution through direct taxes and transfers, primarily because Brazil underutilizes personal income taxes and keeps its progressive cash and food transfer programs small, while its larger transfer programs are less progressive. When public spending on health and non‐tertiary education is added to income using the government cost approach, however, the two countries achieve similar levels of redistribution.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
H22|Gasoline and Diesel Tax Incidence: The 2003 Washington State Nickel Funding Package|This paper considers a previously unexamined increase in excise taxes on gasoline and diesel fuel that were part of Washington State’s Nickel Funding Package of 2003. We fail to reject full pass-through of the amount of the tax increase to retail prices in both products. We find no significant sensitivity of retail pass-through to station locations relative to state borders or to retail competitive conditions as measured by local station density. The expansion of hypermarkets in Washington State during the period was a confounding factor in estimating tax pass-through effects.
H22|Inequality and Fiscal Redistribution in Middle Income Countries: Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Indonesia, Mexico, Peru and South Africa|This paper examines the redistributive impact of fiscal policy for Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Indonesia, Mexico, Peru and South Africa using comparable fiscal incidence analysis with data from around 2010. The largest redistributive effect is in South Africa and the smallest in Indonesia. Success in fiscal redistribution is driven primarily by redistributive effort (share of social spending to GDP in each country) and the extent to which transfers/subsidies are targeted to the poor and direct taxes targeted to the rich. While fiscal policy always reduces inequality, this is not the case with poverty. When pensions are not considered a transfer, fiscal policy increases poverty in Brazil (over and above market income poverty) due to high consumption taxes on basic goods. Total spending on education is pro-poor except for Indonesia, where it is neutral in absolute terms. Health spending is pro-poor in Brazil, Chile and South Africa, roughly neutral in absolute terms in Mexico, and not pro-poor in Indonesia and Peru.
H22|Migration and Tax Yields in a Devolved Economy|Households may migrate between jurisdictions to secure preferred mixes of collectively sup-plied services and taxation. But devolution of taxes to sub-national jurisdictions could reduce expected tax revenue if some move to lower tax regimes, constraining devolved government policy. This paper develops an indirect approach to establish lower bound tax revenue impacts of possible tax changes by devolved governments. We estimate and aggregate migration responses to existing tax differentials between smaller, component administrative areas of the devolved jurisdictions. Because such existing taxes may have different bases from proposed devolved taxes, appropriate corrections are made in a model of the devolved economy. This model also establishes how the tax base and therefore the tax yield of the devolved economy, as well as the output per capita, would be changed by implementing different tax rates, given the migration responses estimated. The model is used to assess the fiscal possibilities for Wales created by the UK Government of Wales Act 2014.
H22|Liquidity and credit risks in the UK’s financial crisis: how ‘quantitative easing’ changed the relationship| This article investigates the relationship between credit and liquidity risk components in the UK interbank spread during the recent financial crisis and sheds light on the transmission mechanism of the quantitative easing (QE) carried out by the Bank of England (BoE) on short-term interest rates. Specifically, we find that prior to the bank’s intervention counterparty risk was a major factor in the widening of the spread and also caused a rise in liquidity risk. However, this relationship was reversed during the period when QE was implemented. Using the accumulated value of asset purchases as a proxy for the central bank’s liquidity provisions, we provide evidence that the QE operations were successful in reducing liquidity premia and ultimately, and indirectly, credit risk. We also find evidence that suggests liquidity schemes provided by other central banks and international market sentiment contributed to the reduction of interbank spread.
H22|Energy Prices, Pass-Through, and Incidence in U.S. Manufacturing|This paper studies how increases in energy input costs for production are split between consumers and producers via changes in product prices (i.e., pass-through). We show that in markets characterized by imperfect competition, marginal cost pass-through, a demand elasticity, and a price-cost markup are sucient to characterize the relative change in welfare between producers and consumers due to a change in input costs. We find that increases in energy prices lead to higher plant-level marginal costs and output prices but lower markups. This suggests that marginal cost pass-through is incomplete, with estimates centered around 0.7. Our confidence intervals reject both zero pass-through and complete pass-through. We find heterogeneous incidence of changes in input prices across industries, with consumers bearing a smaller share of the burden than standards methods suggest.
H22|Nonlinear Tax Incidence and Optimal Taxation in General Equilibrium|We study the incidence and the optimal design of nonlinear income taxes in a Mirrleesian economy with a continuum of endogenous wages. We characterize analytically the incidence of any tax reform by showing that one can mathematically formalize this problem as an integral equation. For a CES production function, we show theoretically and numerically that the general equilibrium forces raise the revenue gains from increasing the progressivity of the U.S. tax schedule. This result is reinforced in the case of a Translog technology where closer skill types are stronger substitutes. We then characterize the optimum tax schedule, and derive a simple closed-form expression for the top tax rate. The U-shape of optimal marginal tax rates is more pronounced than in partial equilibrium. The joint analysis of tax incidence and optimal taxation reveals that the economic insights obtained for the optimum may be reversed when considering reforms of a suboptimal tax code.
H22|Taxation in digital media markets|Digital media goods and digital media platforms exhibit cost structures and network effects that might imply that price and quantity effects of consumption taxes are qualitatively different compared to what we typically find for physical goods. For instance, in most European countries and U.S. states, printed newspapers and books face favorable value added taxes (VATs) or sales taxes. This has probably increased their circulation. In contrast, reducing the VAT rate on digital newspapers has the opposite effects; it increases prices and leads to lower sales. This is not true for ebooks, but a low‐tax policy is still ineffective if the aim is to reduce prices. The primary effect of exempting ebooks from VATs is to increase profits for publishers.
H22|Zur künftigen Steuerbelastung in Deutschland|Die derzeit gute Einnahmesituation für Bund und Länder bietet nach Ansicht von Dieter Dziadkowski Möglichkeiten, die Steuerbelastung des Faktors Arbeit zu verringern. Notwendig dafür wäre eine völlig veränderte Tarifarchitektur. Denn die derzeitige Gestaltung, die im unteren und mittleren Einkommensbereich durch eine »schnelle« Progression geprägt ist, bewirkt eine merkliche Belastungserhöhung selbst bei moderaten Lohnerhöhungen.
H22|Steuermehreinnahmen und heimliche Steuererhöhungen – Zu den Ergebnissen der Steuerschätzung vom Mai 2016|Der Arbeitskreis »Steuerschätzungen« hat die Steueraufkommensprognosen für die Jahre ab 2016 erneut angehoben. Bereits im Jahr 2015 war das Steueraufkommen höher ausgefallen, als vorher erwartet wurde. Die Änderungen in den Folgejahren sind auch auf geänderte Einschätzungen über die makroökonomischen Rahmendaten zurückzuführen. So wird die Summe der Bruttolöhne und -gehälter nun höher eingeschätzt als im Herbst. Die steigende Steuerquote und die steigende Belastung der Bruttolöhne und -gehälter deuten auf finanzpolitische Spielräume hin, die zur Rückgabe progressionsbedingter Mehreinnahmen genutzt werden könnten.
H22|The Impact of Taxes and Social Spending on Inequality and Poverty in Latin America: Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Peru, and Uruguay (Spanish) - Working Paper 427|Using standard fiscal incidence analysis, this paper estimates the impact of fiscal policy on inequality and poverty in thirteen countries in Latin America around 2010. Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Costa Rica and Uruguay are the countries which redistribute the most and El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras redistribute the least. Contributory pensions are significantly equalizing in Argentina, Brazil and Uruguay and also in Chile, Costa Rica and Ecuador but, in the latter, their effect is small. In the rest of the countries, contributory pensions are unequalizing but their effect is also small. More unequal countries tend to redistribute more. Bolivia, Colombia, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Peru redistribute below the trend; Chile, Ecuador and Mexico are on trend; and, Argentina, Brazil, Costa Rica and Uruguay redistribute above the trend. Fiscal policy reduces poverty in nine countries. However, in Brazil, Bolivia, Guatemala and Honduras, the incidence of poverty after taxes, subsidies and transfers (excluding spending on education and health) is higher than market income poverty, even though fiscal policy is equalizing. In Brazil and Mexico, a third of the post-fiscal poor were impoverished by fiscal policy and, in Bolivia and Guatemala, two thirds were. Public spending on pre-school and primary education is always equalizing and also pro-poor (i.e., per capita spending falls with per capita income). Spending on secondary education is always equalizing but pro-poor only in some countries. Spending on tertiary education is never pro-poor; however, it is always equalizing except for Guatemala. Government spending on public health is always progressive in relative terms and equalizing.
H22|Fiscal Policy, Inequality and the Poor in the Developing World - Working Paper 441| Using comparable fiscal incidence analysis, this paper examines the impact of fiscal policy on inequality and poverty in twenty-five countries for around 2010. Success in fiscal redistribution is driven primarily by redistributive effort (share of social spending to GDP in each country) and the extent to which transfers/subsidies are targeted to the poor and direct taxes targeted to the rich. While fiscal policy always reduces inequality, this is not the case with poverty. Fiscal policy increases poverty in four countries using US$1.25/day PPP poverty line, in 8 countries using US$2.50/day line, and 15 countries using the US$4/day line (over and above market income poverty). While spending on pre-school and primary school is pro-poor (i.e., the per capita transfer declines with income) in almost all countries, pro-poor secondary school spending is less prevalent, and tertiary education spending tends to be progressive only in relative terms (i.e., equalizing but not pro-poor). Health spending is always equalizing except for Jordan.
H22|Fiscal Policy, Inequality and Poverty in Iran: Assessing the Impact and Effectiveness of Taxes and Transfers the Poor in the Developing World - Working Paper 442| Using the Iranian Household Expenditure and Income Survey (HEIS) for 2011/12, we apply the marginal contribution approach to determine the impact and effectiveness of each fiscal intervention, and the fiscal system as a whole, on inequality and poverty. Net direct and indirect taxes combined reduce the Gini coefficient by 0.0644 points and the headcount ratio by 61 percent. When the monetized value of in-kind benefits in education and health are included, the reduction in inequality is 0.0919 Gini points. Based on the magnitudes of the marginal contributions, we find that the main driver of these reductions is the Targeted Subsidy Program, a universal cash transfer program implemented in 2010 to compensate individuals for the elimination of energy subsidies. The main reduction in poverty occurs in rural areas, where the headcount ratio declines from 44 to 23 percent. In urban areas, fiscally-induced poverty reduction is more modest: the headcount ratio declines from 13 to 5 percent. Taxes and transfers are similar in their effectiveness in achieving their inequality-reducing potential. By achieving 40 percent of its inequality-reducing potential, the income tax is the most effective intervention on the revenue side. On the spending side, Social Assistance transfers are the most effective and they achieve 45 percent of their potential. Taxes are especially effective in raising revenue without causing poverty to rise, indicating that the poor are largely spared from being taxed. In contrast, since the bulk of transfers are not targeted to the poor, they are not very effective: the most effective ones achieve 20 percent of their poverty reduction potential. The effectiveness of the Targeted Subsidy Program could be improved by eliminating the transfer to top deciles and re-allocating the freed funds to the poor.
H22|The Impact of Taxes, Transfers, and Subsidies on Inequality and Poverty in Uganda - Working Paper 443|This paper uses the 2012/13 Uganda National Household Survey to analyze the redistributive effectiveness and impact on poverty and inequality of Uganda’s revenue collection instruments and social spending programs. Fiscal policy – including many of its constituent tax and spending elements – is inequality-reducing in Uganda, but the reduction of inequality due to fiscal policy in Uganda is lower than other countries with similar levels of initial inequality, a result tied to low levels of spending in Uganda generally. The impact of fiscal policy on poverty is negligible, while the combination of very sparse coverage of direct transfer programs and nearly complete coverage of indirect tax instruments means that many poor households are net payers into, rather than net recipients from, the fiscal system. As Uganda looks ahead to increased revenues from taxation and concurrent investments in productive infrastructure, it should take care to protect the poorest households from further impoverishment from the fiscal system.
H22|The Effect of Local Taxes on Firm Performance: Evidence from Geo-referenced Data|This paper investigates the impact of business property taxation on firms' performance using a panel of italian manufacturing firms. To account for endogeneity in local taxation, we exploit a pairwise spatial differenced generalized method of moments estimator. As well as providing robust inference, we also improve on existing work by exploiting the exogenous variation in local taxes generated by the political alignment of each local government with the central one. We find that property taxation exerts a negative impact on firms' employment, capital and sales to such an extent as to significantly affect total factor productivity.
H22|La carga tributaria sobre los ingresos laborales y de capital en Colombia: el caso del impuesto sobre la renta y el IVA|En este artículo se estima el tamaño y la incidencia de la carga tributaria sobre los trabajadores y los propietarios de capital en Colombia durante el periodo 2000-2014. La carga tributaria se determina mediante tarifas efectivas agregadas, que relacionan el recaudo, en este caso del impuesto sobre la renta y el IVA, con la capacidad de pago de trabajadores y propietarios. Los resultados indican que durante casi todo el periodo de análisis los ingresos laborales soportaron una tarifa efectiva superior a la que recayó sobre los ingresos de capital, aunque la brecha ha tendido a cerrarse. Por lo general, el efecto redistributivo habría sido contraproducente para propósitos de equidad (en una ocasión, nimio). El ejercicio sugiere que para mejorar la distribución de la carga tributaria es más importante prestar atención a la capacidad gravable de los contribuyentes, antes que dar trato desigual a las fuentes factoriales de ingreso. ****** This paper estimates the size and incidence of the tax burden on workers and owners of capital in Colombia during the period 2000-2014. The tax burden is measured by aggregate effective rates, which relate tax revenue, in this case from the income tax and the VAT, to the workers’ and owners’ ability to pay. The results indicate that, for most of the period of analysis, labor income bore a higher effective rate than capital income, although the gap has tended to close. Generally, the redistributive effect would have been counterproductive for equity purposes (on one occasion, insignificant). The exercise suggests that in order to improve the distribution of the tax burden, it is more important to pay attention to the taxpayers’ ability to pay, rather than giving unequal treatment to the factorial sources of income.
H22|Impuestos al tabaco|Resumen: La tributación al tabaco es considerada como una medida excepcionalmente efectiva para reducir los efectos negativos generados por el consumo del tabaco. De acuerdo con la OMS (2015), el aumento de los impuestos al tabaco a más del 75% del precio de venta es la medida más efectiva para controlar la epidemia, especialmente entre los más jóvenes y los más pobres. Pese a la evidencia disponible, en Colombia el impuesto al tabaco equivale a un 49,4% del precio de referencia promedio. La carga -relativamente baja- de los impuestos sobre estos productos explica el bajo precio de los cigarrillos en el país. El presente trabajo estudia las consecuencias sobre la salud en la eventualidad de no incrementar la tributación al cigarrillo, así como una propuesta para incrementar el impuesto al mismo. Con base en razones de salud pública y teniendo en cuenta los compromisos que ha adquirido Colombia como Estado Parte del Convenio Marco para el Control del Tabaco de la Organización Mundial de la Salud, se propone un incremento del 57% en el precio final del tabaco, a partir de un incremento en la tarifa del impuesto al consumo. Adicionalmente, se propone actualizar la tarifa anualmente, en un porcentaje equivalente al del crecimiento del IPC, más un 5% adicional hasta alcanzar el precio promedio que se registra en la región.
H22|Energy Prices, Pass-Through, and Incidence in U.S. Manufacturing|This paper studies how increases in energy input costs for production are split between consumers and producers via changes in product prices (i.e., pass-through). We show that in markets characterized by imperfect competition, marginal cost pass-through, a demand elasticity, and a price-cost markup are suffcient to characterize the relative change in welfare between producers and consumers due to a change in input costs. We and that increases in energy prices lead to higher plant-level marginal costs and output prices but lower markups. This suggests that marginal cost pass-through is incomplete, with estimates centered around 0.7. Our confidence intervals reject both zero pass-through and complete pass-through. We and heterogeneous incidence of changes in input prices across industries, with consumers bearing a smaller share of the burden than standards methods suggest.
H22|The Incidence of Carbon Taxes in U.S. Manufacturing: Lessons from Energy Cost Pass-through|This paper studies how changes in energy input costs for U.S. manufacturers affect the relative welfare of manufacturing producers and consumers (i.e., incidence). In doing so, we develop a novel partial equilibrium methodology designed to estimate the incidence of input taxes. This method simultaneously accounts for three determinants of incidence that are typically studied in isolation: incomplete pass-through of input costs, differences in industry competitiveness, and substitution amongst inputs used for production. We apply this methodology to a set of U.S. manufacturing industries for which we observe plant-level unit prices and input choices. We find that about 70 percent of energy price-driven changes in input costs are passed through to consumers. We combine industry-specific pass-through rates with estimates of industry competitiveness to show that the share of welfare cost borne by consumers is 25-75 percent smaller (and the share borne by producers is correspondingly larger) than models featuring complete pass-through and perfect competition would suggest.
H22|The Incidence of Carbon Taxes in U.S. Manufacturing: Lessons from Energy Cost Pass-through|This paper estimates how increases in production costs due to energy inputs affect consumer versus producer surplus (i.e., incidence). In doing so, we develop a general methodology to measure the incidence of changes in input costs that can account for three first-order issues: factor substitution amongst inputs used for production, incomplete pass-through of input costs, and industry competitiveness. We apply this methodology to a set of U.S. manufacturing industries for which we observe plant-level output prices and input costs. We find that about 70 percent of energy price-driven changes in input costs are passed through to consumers. This implies that the share of welfare cost borne by consumers is 25-75 percent smaller (and the share borne by producers is correspondingly larger) than most existing work assumes.
H22|Who Bears the Tax Burden in Germany? Tax Structure Slightly Progressive|A comprehensive, microdata-based analysis of the German tax system's distributional effects in 2015 shows that the total tax burden from direct and indirect taxes is slightly progressive on higher income, but regressive in the lower deciles. Income and corporate taxes are distinctly progressive. They impose hardly any burden on lower- and middle-income households, but the average burden significantly increases for higher incomes. On the other hand, the indirect taxes that generate almost half of Germany’s tax revenues have a highly regressive effect. In relation to income, they burden low earners more heavily than high-income households. When some of the social security contribution is assigned to the tax system, the total tax burden on middle income groups is not much lower than that on the very wealthy, whose corporate and investment income are not subject to a progressive income tax.
H22|Wer trägt die Steuerlast in Deutschland? Steuerbelastung nur schwach progressiv|A comprehensive, microdata-based analysis of the German tax system’s distributional effects in 2015 shows that the total tax burden from direct and indirect taxes is slightly progressive on higher income, but regressive in the lower deciles. Income and corporate taxes are distinctly progressive. They impose hardly any burden on lower- and middle-income households, but the average burden significantly increases for higher incomes. On the other hand, the indirect taxes that generate almost half of Germany’s tax revenues have a highly regressive effect. In relation to income, they burden low earners more heavily than high-income households. When some of the social security contribution is assigned to the tax system, the total tax burden on middle income groups is not much lower than that on the very wealthy, whose corporate and investment income are not subject to a progressive income tax. Eine umfassende mikrodatenbasierte Analyse zu den Verteilungswirkungen des deutschen Steuersystems im Jahr 2015 zeigt, dass die gesamte Steuerbelastung aus direkten und indirekten Steuern bei steigenden Einkommen nur moderat progressiv verläuft und in den unteren Dezilen regressiv wirkt. Zwar sind die Einkommen- und Unternehmensteuern stark progressiv. Sie belasten Haushalte mit niedrigen und mittleren Einkommen kaum, während die Durchschnittsbelastung bei höheren Einkommen deutlich steigt. Die indirekten Steuern, auf die knapp die Hälfte des Steueraufkommens entfällt, wirken dagegen deutlich regressiv, das heißt, sie belasten Haushalte mit niedrigen Einkommen in Relation zum Einkommen erheblich stärker als Haushalte mit hohen Einkommen. Sofern man die Sozialbeiträge teilweise dem Steuersystem zurechnet, ist die Gesamtsteuerbelastung der mittleren Einkommen nicht viel niedriger als bei den sehr Wohlhabenden, deren Unternehmens- und Kapitaleinkommen nicht progressiv mit Einkommensteuer belastet werden.
H22|Wind Electricity Subsidies = Windfall Gains for Land Owners? Evidence from Feed-In Tariff in Germany|In 2013, around 121 billion US-Dollar were spend worldwide to promote the investment into renewable energy sources. The most prominent support scheme employed is a feed-in tariff, which guarantees a fixed price for electricity produced by renewable energies sources, usually for around 15 years after the installation of the plant. We study the incidence of wind turbine subsidies, due to a feed-in tariff in Germany, into land prices to shed light on who benefits from the subsidies. In order to identify the incidence share we exploit quasi-experimental variation in wind strength across 270 non-urban counties combined with an institutional reform and use an Instrumental Variable estimator based on administrative transactionprices. We find that between 15 and 20% of expected wind turbine profits are capitalized into land prices. Using the estimated incidence share of 15%, we find that wind turbine subsidies account for roughly 4% of overall agricultural income of land owners in 2007.
H22|The Economic Incidence of Social Security Contributions: A Discontinuity Approach with Linked Employer-Employee Data|We estimate economic incidence of social security contributions (SSC) on the basis of cross-sectional earnings distributions. The approach exploits discontinuities in earnings distributions at kinks in the budget set which are informative about tax incidence. Contrary to most research on SSC incidence, it does not rely on policy reforms, panel data, or hours information. When the location of kinks does not change significantly, estimates represent equilibrium incidence and are less affected by short-run adjustment frictions than results based on policy reforms. We refine the framework proposed by Alvaredo and Saez (2007), discuss identifying assumptions and related problems in empirical applications. We also suggest parametric and non- parametric estimators. The approach is applied to earnings caps of SSC in Germany where the marginal SSC rate drops to zero. The linked employer-employee data used provide precise measures of gross and net earnings. Utilizing two separate earnings distributions improves identification in the presence of measurement error. We find substantial negative discontinuities at most earnings caps of SSC in the distribution of observed net earnings. Together with smooth gross earnings distributions around the caps this provides consistent empirical evidence that legal and economic incidence of SSC coincide.
H22|Distributional Effects of Taxing Financial Transactions and the Low Interest Rate Environment|The study aims to assess the distributional effects of taxing financial transactions including a focus on gender. It specifically investigates the impact of the low interest rate environment on tax revenues and distribution. The first part of the study is explorative, aiming to develop a concept for the assessment. This is because the role of low or even negative interest rates is not yet specifically considered in the context of FTT. In the second part, the challenge is to find appropriate data for European countries in order to assess distributional effects. The study also highlights the existing data gaps that prevent a long-term evaluation of FTT with regard to tax revenues, impact, and distributional consequences.
H22|Who Bears the Burden of Social Security Contributions in Germany? Evidence from 35 Years of Administrative Data|Abstract This paper provides evidence on the question of who bears the burden of social security contributions (SSC) in Germany over a long-term horizon. Following Alvaredo et al. (De Econ, 2017) we exploit kinks in the budget set generated by a drop in the marginal SSC rate at earnings caps for health and long-term care insurance. These concave kinks lead to discontinuities in the distributions of gross earnings, net earnings, or labor costs which—in the absence of labor supply responses—are informative about economic incidence. Administrative data for West Germany from 1975 to 2010 facilitate a comprehensive incidence analysis. Finding no evidence for labor supply responses and no significant discontinuities in gross earnings distributions, we conclude that neither employers nor employees shift a substantial part of their SSC burden. These results are consistent over the whole time period and hold for several robustness checks corroborating previous findings for Germany. A small trend towards a slight increase in the SSC burden for employees is not statistically significant.
H22|Consolidated Group of Taxpayers: Infusion into the Russian Economic Practice|The article analyses the process of introduction of the consolidated taxation mechanism in Russia. The main purpose of the study is to conduct an assessment of the impact of consolidated groups of taxpayers on the national economy, including intergovernmental relations. Author further identifies the features and areas of further development of the consolidated taxation mechanism in the country. A 4-year period of activity of consolidated groups in Russia is taken for analysis, giving the opportunity to evaluate the results, to draw first conclusions, and allocate the problems associated with the subsequent planning and forecasting of these activities. Certain trends in application of new economic tools of the tax regulation are identified.
