H24|High Marginal Tax Rates on the Top 1%? Lessons from a Life Cycle Model with Idiosyncratic Income Risk|In this paper we argue that very high marginal labor income tax rates are an effective tool for social insurance even when households have preferences with high labor supply elasticity, make dynamic savings decisions, and policies have general equilibrium effects. To make this point we construct a large scale Overlapping Generations Model with uninsurable labor productivity risk, show that it has a wealth distribution that matches the data well, and then use it to characterize fiscal policies that achieve a desired degree of redistribution in society. We find that marginal tax rates on the top 1% of the earnings distribution of close to 90% are optimal. We document that this result is robust to plausible variation in the labor supply elasticity and holds regardless of whether social welfare is measured at the steady state only or includes transitional generations.
H24|Shadow wages in cost-benefit rules for project and policy analyses: estimates for OECD countries|This paper extends the theory and empirics of shadow wages by explicitly distinguishing between an hours-of-work response and a labor-force participation response – a distinction relevant for projects and policies expected to create jobs – and both responses are considered for different types of labor. Our analysis rests on a general equilibrium model of a tax-distorted but otherwise perfectly competitive economy. The model establishes an unambiguous link between shadow wages, market wages, and parameters of a country´s fiscal regime. Using data on market wages and countries´ fiscal regimes, we quantify this link for 33 OECD countries. We find that even with perfect competition shadow wages are considerably lower than market wages. We conjecture that imperfect competition does not necessarily widen this gap.
H24|Employment Structure and the Rise of the Modern Tax System|This paper studies how the transition from self-employment to employee-jobs over the long run of development explains growth in income tax capacity. I construct a new database which covers 100 household surveys across countries at different income levels and 140 years of historical data within the US (1870-2010). Using these data, I first establish four new stylized facts: 1) within country, the share of employees increases over the income distribution, and increases at all levels of income as a country develops; 2) the income tax exemption threshold moves down the income distribution as a country develops, tracking employee growth; 3) the employee share above the tax exemption threshold is maximized and remains constantly high; 4) movements in the tax exemption threshold account for the observed variation in tax collection across development. These findings are consistent with a model where a high employee share is a necessary condition for effective taxation and where the rise in income covered by information trails through increases in employee shares drives expansion of the income tax base. To provide a causal estimate of the impact of employee share on the exemption threshold, I study a state-led US development program implemented in the 1950s-60s which shifted up the level of employee share. The identification strategy exploits within-state changes in court-litigation status which generates quasi-experimental variation in the effective implementation date of the program. I find that the exogenous increase in employee share is associated with an expansion of the state income tax base and an increase in state income tax revenue.
H24|Universal Basic Income in the US and Advanced Countries|We discuss the potential role of Universal Basic Incomes (UBIs) in advanced countries. A feature of advanced economies that distinguishes them from developing countries is the existence of well developed, if often incomplete, safety nets. We develop a framework for describing transfer programs, flexible enough to encompass most existing programs as well as UBIs, and use this framework to compare various UBIs to the existing constellation of programs in the United States. A UBI would direct much larger shares of transfers to childless, non-elderly, non-disabled households than existing programs, and much more to middle-income rather than poor households. A UBI large enough to increase transfers to low-income families would be enormously expensive. We review the labor supply literature for evidence on the likely impacts of a UBI. We argue that the ongoing UBI pilot studies will do little to resolve the major outstanding questions.
H24|Pecuniary and Non-Pecuniary Motivations for Tax Compliance: Evidence from Pakistan|We examine two Pakistani programs to explore the role of deterrence as well as social and psychological factors in the tax compliance behavior of agents. In the first of these programs, the government began revealing income tax paid by every taxpayer in the country. The second program publicly recognizes and rewards the top 100 tax paying corporations, partnerships, self-employed individuals, and wage-earners. We find that both public disclosure and social recognition of top taxpayers caused a substantial increase in tax payments. We explore the drivers of this behavior, including the shift of social norms toward compliance.
H24|Taxation and Migration: Evidence and Policy Implications|In this article, we review a growing empirical literature on the effects of personal taxation on the geographic mobility of people and discuss its policy implications. We start by laying out the empirical challenges that prevented progress in this area until recently, and then discuss how recent work have made use of new data sources and quasi-experimental approaches to credibly estimate migration responses. This body of work has shown that certain segments of the labor market, especially high-income workers and professions with little location-specific human capital, may be quite responsive to taxes in their location decisions. When considering the implications for tax policy design, we distinguish between uncoordinated and coordinated tax policy. We highlight the importance of recognizing that mobility elasticities are not exogenous, structural parameters. They can vary greatly depending on the population being analyzed, the size of the tax jurisdiction, the extent of tax policy coordination, and a range of non-tax policies. While migration responses add to the efficiency costs of redistributing income, we caution against over-using the recent evidence of (sizeable) mobility responses to taxes as an argument for less redistribution in a globalized world.
H24|Rational Illiquidity and Excess Sensitivity: Theory and Evidence from Income Tax Withholding and Refunds|Nearly a third of all personal income tax collected by the US, government is later returned in the form of tax refunds; and households tend to spend disproportionately from those refunds. This paper develops a theory of liquid assets management that explains why households voluntarily reduce liquidity by overwitholding, but then spend in response to the liquidity provided by tax refunds. Liquidity constraints that arise endogenously when income is uncertain and when adjusting tax payments is not frictionless explain these behaviors. Tax refunds tend to arrive in circumstances where income is lower than expected, so liquidity is low and the MPC is endogenously high. The average amount of income not subject to withholding and the average annual fluctuations in that income are more than sufficient to explain the size of tax refunds, and microevidence supports central mechanisms of the model.
H24|Strategic Sorting: The Role of Ordeals in Health Care|Ordeals are burdens placed on individuals that yield no direct benefits to others. They represent a dead-weight loss. Ordeals--the most common being waiting time--play a prominent role in health care. Their goal is to direct scarce resources to recipients receiving greater value from them, hence presumed to be more willing to bear an ordealâ€™s burden. Ordeals are intended to prevent wasteful expenditures given that health care is heavily subsidized, yet avoid other forms of rationing, such as quotas or pricing. This analysis diagnoses the economic underpinnings of ordeals. Subsidies to nursing home versus home care illustrate.
H24|Taxation and the future of work: How tax systems influence choice of employment form|Recent policy discussion has highlighted the variety of ways in which the world of work is changing. One development prevalent in some countries has been an increase certain forms of non-standard work. Is this beneficial, representing increased flexibility in the workforce, or detrimental, representing a deterioration in job quality driven by automation, globalisation and the market power of large employers? These changes also raise crucial issues for tax systems. Differences in tax treatment across employment forms may create tax arbitrage opportunities. This paper investigates the potential for such opportunities for eight countries. It models the labour income taxation, inclusive of social contributions, of standard employees and then of self-employed workers (with applicable tax rules detailed in the paper’s annex). The aim is to understand whether countries’ tax systems treat different employment forms differently, before approaching the broader question of whether differential treatment has merit when evaluated against tax design principles.
H24|Annex - Taxation and the Future of Work: How Tax Systems Influence Choice of Employment Form|This annex details the tax treatment of standard employees and self-employed workers in eight countries: Argentina, Australia, Hungary, Italy, the Netherlands, Sweden, the United Kingdom and the United States. The accompanying paper models and discusses the labour income taxation, inclusive of social contributions, of standard employees and then of self-employed workers. The aim is to understand whether countries’ tax systems treat different employment forms differently, before approaching the broader question of whether differential treatment has merit when evaluated against tax design principles.
H24|The potential of tax microdata for tax policy|This paper explores one distinctive form of the ‘big data’ of economics – individual tax record microdata – and its potential for tax policy analysis. The paper draws on OECD collaborations with Slovenia and Ireland in 2018 where tax microdata was used.Most empirical economics is based on survey data. However, the current trend of low and falling response rates has placed a question mark over the future value of survey practice generally. By contrast, this paper discusses the increasing use of tax microdata in economic research and the new types of policy analysis made possible by it. In the future, best-practice tax policy analysis is likely to combine tax microdata with survey and national account data. The advantages of these combined data will be important for policymakers to understand and address future policy challenges including protecting tax revenues in an era of population ageing and supporting fairness given the changing nature of economic mobility.
H24|Raising more public revenue in Indonesia in a growth - and equity-friendly way|Indonesia’s government needs more revenue to fund spending that can boost GDP growth, raise well-being and reduce poverty. The tax-to-GDP ratio is low relative to other emerging market economies. The difficulty is to raise revenues without denting growth or worsening inequality. Successive reforms have modernised the tax administration and increased the number of taxpayers. Nonetheless, raising compliance is an ongoing challenge and investing in the tax administration rightly remains a government priority. There is also scope to improve the design of various taxes. Broadening the bases of income and consumption taxes would raise more revenue and reduce distortions. Expanding property taxation, if appropriately implemented, could provide additional funds for local governments. Taxes can also be used more extensively to discourage activities and behaviours with negative health and environmental externalities. Strengthening property rights and fighting illegal extraction would increase revenues from Indonesia’s natural resource wealth.This Working Paper relates to the 2018 OECD Economic Survey of Indonesia (www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/economic-survey-indonesia.htm).
H24|Tax Progressivity in Australia: Facts, Measurements and Estimates|We study the progressivity of Australia's personal income tax system after the introduction of a New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999. We use two data sets: administrative data from Australian Tax Office (ATO) 2004-16 and survey data from the Household Income and Labour Dynamics in Australia (HILDA) survey 2001-16. We first document the distributions of income and tax liabilities, properties of the joint distributions of taxes paid and income, and discuss how taxes are varied across households and over time. We next provide estimates of tax progressivity using two approaches: one based on tax liability progression and one based on tax liability distribution relative to income distribution. The result obtained from the tax progression approach implies a significant decline in the average level of tax progressivity since 2004. Meanwhile, the result obtained from the tax distribution approach indicates a tax progressivity cycle with a modest decline up to 2006, then a sharp increase until 2010, and a slight decline thereafter. The personal income tax cuts for all taxpayers in early 2000s and the introduction of tax offset for low income earners (LITO) are main driving forces. Moreover, the evolution of income distribution and its interactions with bracket creep strongly affect the overall progressivity level of Australia's income tax system. Hence, our findings provide new insights into the dynamics of income growth and tax progressivity, which has implications for tax policy debates in Australia.
H24|Top Income Tax Evasion and Redistribution Preferences: Evidence from the Panama Papers|This paper provides empirical evidence that, after fiscal scandals, individuals substantially revise their views on redistribution. I exploit as a quasi-natural experiment the 2016 Panama Papers scandal which revealed top-income tax evasion behaviour simultaneously worldwide. The empirical investigation relies on two original sources of data: a longitudinal dataset on United Kingdom households and a survey conducted in twenty-two European countries. Using a difference-in-differences strategy, I find an increase in pro-redistribution statements post-scandal ranging between 2% and 3.3%. Responses are heterogeneous on income levels and on political affiliations, with larger responses from right-wing individuals. The change in redistribution preferences is moderately translated into votes: I find an increase in voting intentions for the left and negative for the right-wing parties. Complementary estimations at the European-level indicate that pro-redistribution responses increase with media coverage and shock intensity (i.e., number of individuals involved).
H24|The Spanish personal income tax: facts and parametric estimates|In this paper, we use administrative data on tax returns to characterize the distributions of before and after-tax income, tax liabilities, and tax credits in Spain for individuals and households. We use the most recent available data, 2015 for individuals and 2013 for households, but also discuss how the income distribution and taxes have changed since 2002. We also estimate effective tax functions that capture the underlying heterogeneity of the data in a parsimonious way. These parametric functions can be used to calculate after-tax incomes in surveys where this information is not directly available, and can also be used in quantitative work in macroeconomics and public finance.
H24|The Elasticity of Taxable Income in Spain: 1999-2014|We study how taxable income responds to changes in marginal tax rates, using as a main source of identifying variation three large reforms to the Spanish personal income tax implemented in the period 1999-2014. The most reliable estimates of the elasticity of taxable income (ETI) with respect to the net-of-tax rate for this period are between 0.45 and 0.64. The ETI is about three times larger for self-employed taxpayers than for employees, and larger for business income than for labor and capital income. The elasticity of broad income (EBI) is smaller, between 0.10 and 0.24, while the elasticity of some tax deductions such as the one for private pension contributions exceeds one. Our estimates are similar across a variety of estimation methods and sample restrictions, and also robust to potential biases created by mean reversion and heterogeneous income trends.
H24|School Vouchers, Labor Markets and Vocational Education|We provide evidence on the long-run impact of vouchers for private secondary schools, evidence collected twenty years after students applied for the vouchers. Prior to the voucher lottery, students applied to either an academic or vocational secondary school, an important mediating factor in the vouchers’ impacts. We find strong tertiary education and labor market effects for those students who applied to vocational schools with almost no impact on those who applied to academic schools. The labor market gains for vocational students are strongest at the top of the distribution and null at the bottom of the distribution. We find additional long-run impacts on consumption, and teen-age fertility. The expected net present value of benefits to participants and to taxpayers was large and positive implying that the program was welfare improving unless net externalities were large and negative.
H24|Taxing Families: The Impact of Child-related Transfers on Maternal Labor Supply| The employment rate of married women with and without pre-school children varies substantially across countries. To what extent can child-related transfers account for this variation? I develop a life-cycle model in which married couples jointly decide their labor supply, female human capital evolves endogenously, and some couples have access to grandparental childcare. I show that child-related transfers can explain most of the variation in the employment rates of married women, even after taking the labor income tax treatment and cross-country variation in childcare fees into account.
H24|Marginal Federal Tax Rates on Labor Income: 1962 to 2028|The marginal federal tax rate on labor income is the percentage of additional income an individual earns that is paid in payroll taxes and federal income taxes. For payroll taxes, CBO estimates that the economywide marginal rate on labor income grew rapidly between the early 1960s and the early 1980s and has remained fairly stable thereafter. The rate on individual income taxes has fluctuated greatly over the past five decades. Marginal tax rates vary widely among families.
H24|The Distribution of Household Income, 2016|In 2016, average income before accounting for means-tested transfers and federal taxes was $21,000 for the lowest income quintile (fifth) of U.S. households and $291,000 for the highest quintile. Those transfers and taxes increased average household income toward the bottom of the income distribution and reduced income toward the top of the distribution. After accounting for the effects of transfers and taxes, CBO estimates that average household income for the lowest and highest quintiles was $35,000 and $214,000, respectively.
H24|Economic Incentives, Home Production and Gender Identity Norms|We infer the role of gender identity norms from the reallocation of childcare across parents, following changes in their relative wages. By exploiting variation from a Swedish tax reform, we estimate the elasticity of substitution in parental childcare for the whole population and for demographic groups potentially adhering to differently binding norms. We find that immigrant, married and male breadwinner couples, as well as couples with a male first-born, react more strongly to tax changes that induce a more traditional allocation of spouses' time, while the respective counterpart couples react more strongly to tax changes that induce a more egalitarian division of labor.
H24|Ethnicity and tax filing behavior|We analyze differences in tax filing behavior between natives and immigrants using population-wide Swedish administrative data, focusing on two empirical examples. First, controlling for a rich set of variables, we compare deduction behavior of immigrants and natives with the same commuting patterns within Sweden’s largest commuting zone. We find that newly arrived immigrants file fewer deductions than natives, that immigrants with a longer duration of stay in the host country behave more like natives, and that immigrants with the longest stay file the most, even more than natives. Second, we analyze bunching behavior among the self-employed at the salient first kink point of the Swedish central government income tax schedule, located in the upper middle part of the income distribution. We find that self-employed immigrants exhibit significantly less bunching behavior than natives, even after a long time in the host country. We highlight residential segregation as a main driver of the observed behavioral differences.
H24|Pecuniary and Non-Pecuniary Motivations for Tax Compliance: Evidence from Pakistan|We examine two Pakistani programs to explore the role of deterrence as well as social and psychological factors in the tax compliance behavior of agents. In the first of these programs, the government began revealing income tax paid by every taxpayer in the country. The second program publicly recognizes and rewards the top 100 tax paying corporations, partnerships, self-employed individuals, and wage-earners. We find that both public disclosure and social recognition of top taxpayers caused a substantial increase in tax payments. We explore the drivers of this behavior, including the shift of social norms toward compliance.
H24|More Giving or More Givers? The Effects of Tax Incentives on Charitable Donations in the UK|This paper estimates the intensive and extensive-margin tax-price elasticities of giving using UK administrative tax return data, exploiting variation from a large tax reform. Using a variety of estimation methods and new instruments for the tax-price of giving, we find an intensive-margin elasticity of about -0.25 and an extensive-margin elasticity of -0.1, yielding a total elasticity of about -0.35. These estimates mask considerable heterogeneity: high-income individuals respond more on the intensive margin, while the extensive-margin response is stronger for low-income taxpayers. We then derive new conditions to evaluate the welfare consequences of changes in the subsidy to donations. This analysis shows that these elasticities can only be rationalized as being optimal if the UK government places a large enough value on providing warm-glow opportunities for UK donors.
H24|Redistributive politics with target-specific beliefs|Forty-two percent of Americans give different answers when asked, respectively, about the reasons for being rich and the reasons for being poor. We develop and test a theo-ry about support for redistribution in the presence of target-specific beliefs about the causes of low and high incomes. Our theory predicts that target-specific beliefs about the poor matter most for preferences about transfers to the poor, and target-specific beliefs about the rich matter most for preferences about taxation of the rich. Survey evidence from the United States and Germany and experimental evidence on giving money to real welfare recipients supports our theory. We also find, in theory, the ex-istence of a moral release equilibrium in which the rich choose high taxes on lower income classes to discourage effort and create an unworthy poor class, thereby escap-ing moral pressure to support the poor.
H24|Consumption Taxes and Corporate Investment|While consumers nominally pay the consumption tax, theoretical and empirical evidence is mixed on whether corporations partly shoulder this burden, thereby, affecting corporate investment. Using a quasi-natural experiment, we show that consumption taxes decrease investment. Firms facing more elastic demand decrease investment more strongly because they bear more of the consumption tax. We corroborate the validity of our findings using 86 consumption tax changes in a cross-country panel. We document two mechanisms underlying the investment response: reduced firms’ profitability and lower aggregate consumption. Importantly, the magnitude of the investment response to consumption taxes is similar to that of corporate taxes.
H24|The Spanish Personal Income Tax: Facts and Parametric Estimates|In this paper, we use administrative data on tax returns to characterize the distributions of before and after-tax income, tax liabilities, and tax credits in Spain for individuals and households. We use the most recent available data, 2015 for individuals and 2013 for households, but also discuss how the income distribution and taxes have changed since 2002. We also estimate effective tax functions that capture the underlying heterogeneity of the data in a parsimonious way. These parametric functions can be used to calculate after-tax incomes in surveys where this information is not directly available, and can also be used in quantitative work in macroeconomics and public finance.
H24|El bicentenario: una mirada entre la historia económica y la economía política|En el marco del Bicentenario de la independencia de Colombia, el Centro de Investigaciones para el Desarrollo (CID), en alianza con el periódico Portafolio, ha presentado una serie de reflexiones sobre la trayectoria económica que ha atravesado el país, en aras de entender los retos del futuro y las lecciones aprendidas del pasado. El contenido es muy amplio incluyendo temas que han jugado un rol clave en la historia del país, como el café, la violencia, la tierra, hasta temas que son menos conocidos pero deberían formar parte de la reflexión colectiva, como el papel de la mujer, los estudios sectoriales, o el desarrollo de largo plazo. El lector no tiene que esperarse una narración univoca, ni un recorrido lineal: estos escritos son reflexiones que vienen de investigadores con enfoques teóricos y metodológicos muy diferentes, como tradición en la Universidad Nacional. Así, ensayos de análisis económico de las instituciones son acompañados por reflexiones de análisis marxiano aplicado, y la cliometría se entrelaza a la finanza pública. Por la misma razón, decidimos no proponer una estructura interpretativa o una organización del contenido, prefiriendo reportar los escritos en el orden cronológico en el cual aparecieron en el portal del periódico. *** In the framework of the Bicentennial of the independence of Colombia, the Centro de Investigaciones para el Desarrollo (CID), in alliance with the newpaper Portafolio, has gathered a series of reflections about the economic trajectory that the country has gone through, for the sake of understanding the challenges of the future and the lessons learned from the past. The content is very broad including issues that have played a key role in the history of the country, such as coffee, violence, land, and issues that are less known but should be part of collective reflection, such as the role of women, sectoral studies, or long-term development. The reader should not expect a univocal narrative, nor a linear perspective: these texts are reflections that come from researchers with very different theoretical and methodological approaches, as a tradition at the Universidad Nacional. As a result, economic analysis of the institutions goes hand by hand with applied Marxian analysis, and the cliometry is intertwined with public finance. For the same reason, we decided not to propose an interpretative structure or an organization of the content, opting for an order of presentation that follows the chronological order in which they appeared in the newspaper's portal.
H24|Universal Basic Income: Some Theoretical Aspects|In this paper, we review possible theoretical justifications of a universal basic income (UBI) scheme and also examine the determinants of its feasibility and scope. We begin by contrasting the unconditionality of UBI with the many conditions that typically accompany other welfare policies. Possible justifications for an unconditional UBI range from pure normative reasons to practical reasons due to the problem of screening beneficiaries and imperfections in institutions in charge of implementing tax and welfare policies. We also explore theoretically the conditions that determine the feasibility and size of a UBI. The broad picture that emerges from our review is that both normative and practical considerations make UBI easier to defend as a tool of poverty alleviation in poor economies than a tool to achieve social justice in rich ones.
H24|The elasticity of taxable income in Spain: 1999-2014|We study how taxable income responds to changes in marginal tax rates, using as a main source of identifying variation three large reforms to the Spanish personal income tax implemented in the period 1999-2014. The most reliable estimates of the elasticity of taxable income (ETI) with respect to the net-of-tax rate for this period are between 0.45 and 0.64. The ETI is about three times larger for selfemployed taxpayers than for employees, and larger for business income than for labor and capital income. The elasticity of broad income (EBI) is smaller, between 0.10 and 0.24, while the elasticity of some tax deductions such as the one for private pension contributions exceeds one. Our estimates are similar across a variety of estimation methods and sample restrictions, and also robust to potential biases created by mean reversion and heterogeneous income trends.
H24|Wages, Experience and Training of Women|We investigate the role of training in reducing the gender wage gap using the UK- BHPS which contains detailed records of training. Using policy changes over an 18 year period we identify the impact of training and work experience on wages, earnings and employment. Based on a lifecycle model and using reforms as a source of exogenous variation we evaluate the role of formal training and experience in defining the evolution of wages and employment careers, conditional on education. Training is potentially important in compensating for the effects of children, especially for women who left education after completing high school.
H24|Strategic Sorting: The Role of Ordeals in Health Care|Ordeals are burdens placed on individuals that yield no direct benefits to others. They represent a dead-weight loss. Ordeals – the most common being waiting time – play a prominent role in health care. Their goal is to direct scarce resources to recipients receiving greater value from them, hence presumed to be more willing to bear an ordeal’s burden. Ordeals are intended to prevent wasteful expenditures given that health care is heavily subsidized, yet avoid other forms of rationing, such as quotas or pricing. This analysis diagnoses the economic underpinnings of ordeals. Subsidies to nursing home versus home care illustrate.
H24|Income underreporting by the self-employed in Europe: a cross-country comparative study|This study is the first to provide comparative estimates of the extent of income underreporting by the self-employed across countries in Europe. The estimates are derived using the consumption method developed by Pissarides & Weber (1989) and the data from the 2010 wave of the harmonised EU Household Budget Survey. The estimations show that the share of income not reported by the selfemployed is relatively large in many European countries, although with substantial variation across the countries. There is some regional clustering, but the shares of underreporting appear not to be related to the development level of the countries. The results are robust to changes in the model specification, the estimation method, and the choice of instruments, but are somewhat sensitive to sample restrictions and the criterion used to define self-employed households
H24|Progressive tax reforms in flat tax countries|Much of the literature on flat tax reforms has highlighted the benefits of introducing flat personal income tax systems in transition economies. The advocated benefits of flat tax systems range from their simplicity, higher compliance and lower distortionary effects on growth and employment. These arguments have often been cited to support policy recommendations favouring the adoption of flat tax systems in Central and Eastern European (CEE) countries in the 1990s and the 2000s. However since income inequality is notoriously high in these countries, the question of introducing some progressivity in the tax system has come to the fore in both policy and academic circles. In this paper, we analyse the fiscal, redistributive and macroeconomic impact of (re-) introducing progressivity in a number of CEE countries with flat tax systems. Combining microsimulation and macro models, we find that a significant reduction in income inequality can be achieved by moving from a flat to a progressive tax system with positive, albeit negligible, macroeconomic and employment impact. The magnitude of these effects depends on country-specificities and tax system characteristics, due in particular to the existence of tax allowances and tax credits.
H24|Imposition des couples en France et statut marital : simulation de trois réformes du quotient conjugal|Le quotient conjugal exige des couples mariés et pacsés qu’ils déclarent conjointement leurs revenus et leur attribue deux parts fiscales. Ce dispositif soulève des enjeux en termes de justice fiscale, d’efficacité ou encore de choix redistributif qui sont peu discutés dans le débat démocratique. Pourtant il fait l’objet de nombreuses controverses parmi les économistes : il n’est pas adapté aux nouvelles configurations familiales ; il désincite potentiellement à l’activité des femmes mariées ; il n’est pas conforme au principe de capacité contributive des ménages ; enfin il procure un avantage d’autant plus important que les revenus sont élevés. A l’aide du modèle de microsimulation Ines, nous simulons trois réformes : une individualisation de l’impôt, la réduction à 1,5 part du quotient conjugal en ouvrant la possibilité pour les couples mariés/pacsés d’opter pour une imposition individuelle, enfin le plafonnement du quotient conjugal au même niveau que le quotient familial. L’individualisation conduit au gain fiscal le plus élevé (environ 7 milliards) contre 5 milliards pour le quotient conjugal à 1,5 part et 3 milliards pour le plafonnement. Avec l’individualisation, 46% des ménages sont perdants et la perte est inférieure à 1.5% du revenu disponible pour la moitié des perdants ; 60% des perdants se situent dans les 3 derniers déciles contre 6% dans les trois premiers. Avec un quotient conjugal à 1,5 part, 45% des couples sont perdants (soit environ 5,8 millions) pour une perte médiane de 680 euros, correspondant à 1.3% du revenu disponible ; 64% des perdants se situent dans les 3 derniers déciles. Enfin avec le plafonnement 7% des couples sont perdants (soit environ 895 000) pour une perte moyenne de 3200 euros par an, et une perte médiane de 1800 euros, soit 2.6% du revenu disponible ; 83% des perdants se situent dans les 3 derniers déciles.
H24|Income Taxation and the Diversity of Consumer Goods: A Political Economy Approach|After‐tax income inequality has risen since the mid‐1990s, as increases in market income inequality have not been offset by greater fiscal redistribution. We argue that the substantial increase in the diversity of consumer goods has mitigated mounting political pressures for redistribution. Within a probabilistic voting framework, we demonstrate that if the share of diversified goods in the consumption bundle increases sufficiently with income, then an increase in goods diversity can reduce the political equilibrium tax rate. Focusing on OECD countries, we find empirical support for both the model's micro‐political foundations and the implied relation between goods diversity and fiscal policy outcomes.
H24|Tax Policies and Informality in South Africa|We use a micro-macro simulation model to evaluate the effects of labor income tax policies in South Africa. The country is characterized by a high unemployment rate while employment in the informal sector is relatively low. Our approach is based on the aggregation of the preferences of individuals who choose among (i) working in the formal sector,(ii) working in the informal sector, and (iii) not working. We quantify the effects of different tax policies on the individual's labor supply choices (formal/informal employment, work/leisure) and at the macro level (GDP, equilibrium wages, size of the informal sector, and unemployment rate). We further analyze the effects in terms of income distribution, poverty and inequality. We find that the introduction of a negative income tax system reduces inequality and poverty but, at the same time, discourages people from participating in the labor market and working in the formal sector and, consequently worsens the equitye efficiency trade-off. We find however that the equity-efficiency trade-off can be improved by introducing (i) a (revenue-neutral) tax system which combines a sufficiently high at rate (25%) and lump-sum transfer paid only to formal workers; (ii) an expansionary policy (a reduction in total taxes or an increase in public expenditures). Interestingly, even though they increase the informal sector, these reforms reduce inequality and poverty through a reduction in the level of unemployment.
H24|Reform of the Personal Income Tax in Spain: Effects on internal mobility of the unemployed|This paper examines whether, and to what extent, the internal mobility of the unemployed in Spain was affected by a reform of the personal income tax that introduced a mobility incentive targeted at this group. The reform introduced a distinct change in the incentives to move for work for unemployed workers living in certain regions of Spain. The reform’s effectiveness is assessed by means of a difference-in-differences econometric approach, combined with nationally representative administrative data. Results suggest that the reform led, at most, to relatively few new migration flows, and account for the existence of differential migration trends between the regions that adopted the reform and those that did not.
H24|Optimal Paternalistic Savings Policies|We study optimal savings policies when there is a dual concern about undersaving for retirement and income inequality. Agents differ in present bias and earnings ability, both unobservable to a planner with paternalistic and redistributive motives. We characterize the solution to this two-dimensional screening problem and provide a decentralization using realistic policy instruments: mandatory savings at low incomes but a choice between subsidized savings vehicles at high incomes—resembling Social Security, 401(k), and IRA accounts in the US. Offering more savings choice at higher incomes facilitates redistribution. To solve large-scale versions of this problem numerically, we propose a general, computationally stable, and efficient active-set algorithm. Relative to the current US retirement system, we find significant welfare gains from increasing mandatory savings and limiting savings choice at low incomes.
H24|The Demand for Status and Optimal Capital Taxation|The paper examines the famous Chamley-Judd zero capital tax theorem in model economies where agents care about their social status. We show that the limiting capital income tax is not zero in general and its sign depends only on the utility specifications. Our conclusion is robust to several important extensions: the model with multiple physical capitals, the model with both human and physical capitals, and the one with heterogeneous agents.
H24|The Political Economy of the Taxation of Individuals in North Cyprus|The objective of this study is to undertake a diagnostic of the personal direct tax system and the charges that are levied for the funding of the social security and the provident fund in North Cyprus. This analysis was conducted using a data base that included 100% of the individual tax payers. Particular attention was given to the assessment of the marginal tax rates on labor income and how they might affect fiscal compliance. It was found that the design of the tax system and its interaction with the systems of social security and provident fund contributions have created a powerful set of incentives for non-compliance. Top income earning employees in the private sector face a very high combined marginal fiscal burden. As a consequence, massive tax avoidance takes place so that most private employees pay no marginal income tax, social security or provident fund contributions on income above the minimum wage. In addition, the private self-employed allocate their wage incomes so as to minimize the total burden of social security, provident fund contributions plus individual and corporate income tax payments of their businesses. These very high marginal rates at levels of income that are low (by developed country standards) have created informal administrative measures to alleviate the fiscal burden on individuals. The end result however, is neither equitable nor economically neutral.
H24|The Political Economy of the Taxation of Individuals in North Cyprus|The objective of this study is to undertake a diagnostic of the system of personal direct taxation and charges levied to fund social security and the provident fund in Northern Cyprus, using a database of all individual taxpayers. Particular attention was given to the assessment of marginal tax rates on labor income and their possible effect on fiscal compliance. It was found that the tax system itself, and its interaction with the social security and provident fund systems, has created a powerful set of incentives for non-compliance. Top-income earning private-sector employees face a very high combined marginal fiscal burden. This has resulted in massive tax avoidance, such that most private employees pay no marginal income tax or social security/provident fund contributions on income above the minimum wage. In addition, the private self-employed allocate their wage incomes so as to minimize the total burden of social security payments and provident fund contributions, and individual and corporate income tax dues. Very high marginal tax rates at low (by developed-country standards) levels of income have created informal administrative measures to alleviate the fiscal burden on individuals. The end result however, is neither equitable nor economically neutral.
H24|Economic Incentives, Home Production and Gender Identity Norms|We infer the role of gender identity norms from the reallocation of childcare across parents, following changes in their relative wages. By exploiting variation from a Swedish tax reform, we estimate the elasticity of substitution in parental childcare for the whole population and for demographic groups potentially adhering to differently binding norms. We find that immigrant, married and male breadwinner couples, as well as couples with a male first-born, react more strongly to tax changes that induce a more traditional allocation of spouses' time, while the respective counterpart couples react more strongly to tax changes that induce a more egalitarian division of labor.
H24|Rational Illiquidity and Excess Sensitivity: Theory and Evidence from Income Tax Withholding and Refunds|There is a tight relationship between having low liquidity and a high marginal propensity to consume both in theoretical models and in econometric evidence about behavior. This paper analyzes the theory and behavior surrounding income tax withholding and refunds. It develops a model where rational cash management with asymmetric cost of increasing or decreasing liquidity endogenizes the relationship between illiquidity and excess sensitivity. The analysis accounts for the finding that households tend to spend tax refunds as if they were liquidity constrained despite the fact that they could increase liquidity by reducing withholding. The model’s predictions are supported by evidence from a large panel of individuals.
H24|School Vouchers, Labor Markets and Vocational Education|We provide evidence on the long-run impact of vouchers for private secondary schools, evidence collected twenty years after students applied for the vouchers. Prior to the voucher lottery, students applied to either an academic or vocational secondary school, an important mediating factor in the vouchers’ impacts. We find strong tertiary education and labor market effects for those students who applied to vocational schools with almost no impact on those who applied to academic schools. The labor market gains for vocational students are strongest at the top of the distribution and null at the bottom of the distribution. We find additional longrun impacts on consumption, and teen-age fertility. The expected net present value of benefits to participants and to taxpayers was large and positive implying that the program was welfare improving unless net externalities were large and negative. **** RESUMEN: En este trabajo estudiamos los impactos de largo plazo del programa de becas PACES para educación secundaria privada, para alumnos de bajos recursos, utilizando información recolectada veinte años después de que los estudiantes aplicaran a la beca. Previo a la asignación aleatoria, los estudiantes debían escoger entre un colegio académico o vocacional, factor importante en el impacto de las becas. Encontramos fuertes efectos sobre la educación superior y el mercado laboral para aquellos estudiantes que aplicaron a colegios vocacionales y casi ningún impacto sobre aquellos que aplicaron a un colegio académico. Las ganancias laborales de los estudiantes vocacionales son más fuertes en la parte superior de la distribución y nulas en la parte inferior. Se encuentran impactos adicionales de largo plazo sobre consumo y embarazo adolescente. El valor presente neto esperado de los beneficios de los participantes y los contribuyentes fue positivo y de gran magnitud, lo que significaría mejoras sustancialmente en el bienestar social, a menos de que existieran externalidades netas grandes y negativas.
H24|Imposition des couples en France et statut marital : simulation de trois réformes du quotient conjugal|Le quotient conjugal exige des couples mariés et pacsés qu’ils déclarent conjointement leurs revenus et leur attribue deux parts fiscales. Ce dispositif soulève des enjeux en termes de justice fiscale, d’efficacité ou encore de choix redistributif qui sont peu discutés dans le débat démocratique. Pourtant il fait l’objet de nombreuses controverses parmi les économistes : il n’est pas adapté aux nouvelles configurations familiales ; il désincite potentiellement à l’activité des femmes mariées ; il n’est pas conforme au principe de capacité contributive des ménages ; enfin il procure un avantage d’autant plus important que les revenus sont élevés. A l’aide du modèle de microsimulation Ines, nous simulons trois réformes : une individualisation de l’impôt, la réduction à 1,5 part du quotient conjugal en ouvrant la possibilité pour les couples mariés/pacsés d’opter pour une imposition individuelle, enfin le plafonnement du quotient conjugal au même niveau que le quotient familial. L’individualisation conduit au gain fiscal le plus élevé (environ 7 milliards) contre 5 milliards pour le quotient conjugal à 1,5 part et 3 milliards pour le plafonnement. Avec l’individualisation, 46% des ménages sont perdants et la perte est inférieure à 1.5% du revenu disponible pour la moitié des perdants ; 60% des perdants se situent dans les 3 derniers déciles contre 6% dans les trois premiers. Avec un quotient conjugal à 1,5 part, 45% des couples sont perdants (soit environ 5,8 millions) pour une perte médiane de 680 euros, correspondant à 1.3% du revenu disponible ; 64% des perdants se situent dans les 3 derniers déciles. Enfin avec le plafonnement 7% des couples sont perdants (soit environ 895 000) pour une perte moyenne de 3200 euros par an, et une perte médiane de 1800 euros, soit 2.6% du revenu disponible ; 83% des perdants se situent dans les 3 derniers déciles.
H24|Imposition des couples en Frnace et statut marital Simulation de trois réformes du quotient familial|A l’aide du modèle de microsimulation Ines (Insee-Drees-Cnaf), nous simulons trois réformes du quotient conjugal : une individualisation l’impôt, la réduction à 1,5 part du quotient conjugal en ouvrant la possibilité pour les couples mariés/pacsés d’opter pour une imposition individuelle, enfin le plafonnement du quotient conjugal au même niveau que le quotient familial. L’individualisation conduit au gain fiscal le plus élevé (environ 7 milliards) contre 5 milliards pour le quotient conjugal à 1,5 part et 3 milliards pour le plafonnement du quotient conjugal. Avec l’individualisation, 46% des ménages sont perdants et la perte est inférieure à 1.5% du revenu disponible pour la moitié des perdants ; 60% des perdants se situent dans les 3 derniers déciles de niveau de vie contre 6% dans les trois premiers. Avec un quotient conjugal à 1,5 part, 45% des couples sont perdants (soit environ 5,8 millions) pour une perte médiane de 680 euros, correspondant à 1.3% du revenu disponible ; 64% des perdants se situent dans les 3 derniers déciles. Enfin avec le plafonnement 7% des couples sont perdants (soit environ 895 000) pour une perte moyenne de 3200 euros par an, et une perte médiane de 1800 euros, soit 2.6% du revenu disponible ; 83% des perdants se situent dans les 3 derniers déciles.
H24|Tax bunching at the Kink in the Presence of Low Capacity of Enforcement: Evidence From Uruguay|A first-order policy issue in low and middle income countries is how to design optimal tax systems in order to improve the state’s potential of supporting economic development. Although information regarding behavioral responses to taxation is a key input for tax design, the evidence in developing contexts is still scarce. In this paper we contribute to fill this gap by exploring in detail how individual taxpayers respond to personal income taxation in Uruguay. To do this, we rely on rich administrative tax records covering the universe of Uruguayan taxpayers and implement a bunching design. First, we find a moderate implied elasticity of taxable income (0.16) in the first kink point of the tax schedule. Second, we investigate the mechanisms driving these responses extensively. We find that the observed responses are a combination of both gross labor income and deductions responses. In particular, we document a more intensive use of personal deductions for taxpayers close to the kink point, and suggestive evidence of evasion responses through unilateral and employer-employee collusion labor income misreporting. Our results suggest that policy efforts should be directed at broadening the tax base and improving the enforcement capacities of tax authorities rather than eroding tax progressivity.
H24|Building on pension: Second pillar wealth as a way to finance real estate?|Home ownership is not only an important asset, but also provides an in-kind income stream. If individuals use pension savings to purchase real estate they face a trade-off between alleviating borrowing constraints when young and lower liquid retirement means when old. We study the decision to withdraw retirement assets in advance for home purchase by analyzing a recent reform. A change in regulations made such withdrawals more difficult, as it increased the amount of non-pension equity a borrower has to provide for a home purchase. Using individual-level data from a large Swiss occupational pension provider, we find fewer advanced withdrawals after the reform, mainly driven by individuals with lower income and of older age. For the withdrawers, the average share of pension assets withdrawn decreased. Nonetheless, the reform did not jeopardize the policy to facilitate home ownership via anticipated second pillar withdrawals.
H24|Taxes, frictions and asset shifting: when Swedes disinherited themselves|We study tax-driven intergenerational asset shifting using a salient tax discontinuity and rich data on both donors and recipients. When the Swedish inheritance tax was in place, heirs could lower their inheritance tax bills by passing on part of the inheritance to their children. We present evidence on strong and precise responses to this incentive. We quantify optimization frictions, and we show that they are small in this setting. Both intensive and extensive margin policy responses can be rationalized by a simple model in which agents face small frictions at the extensive margin. Descriptive evidence suggests that the policy response is associated with the abundant supply of cheap legal advice on tax planning.
H24|In-work benefits across Europe|In-work benefits, often in the form of earned income tax credits (EITCs), have become increasingly popular over the last decades. Early versions of in-work benefits in the US, the UK and Ireland, primarily motivated as a poverty alleviation measure, have been followed by a large expansion of in-work benefits in other European countries, stressing employment goals rather than redistributive concerns. This review describes the in-work benefit schemes in a selection of countries across Europe and summarizes the evidence of these schemes. The selected countries are France, the Netherlands, Germany, Belgium, Denmark, Finland and Sweden.
H24|Why the Norwegian Shareholder Income Tax is Neutral|This note extends the work by Sørensen (2005) and others by demonstrating why the Norwegian Shareholder Income Tax may be neutral between the two sources of equity funds, i.e. new share issues and retained earnings, despite the fact that the retention of earnings to finance new investment does not add to the tax benefits. The analysis crucially relies on the assumption that the deduction for the imputed rate of return is capitalized into the market prices of corporate shares. Absent capitalization, the shareholder tax is rather likely to leave the distortions caused by the double taxation of corporate source income unaffected.
H24|The Labor Market Impacts of Universal and Permanent Cash Transfers: Evidence from the Alaska Permanent Fund|What are the effects of universal and permanent cash transfers on the labor market? Since 1982, all Alaskan residents have been entitled to a yearly cash dividend from the Alaska Permanent Fund. Using data from the Current Population Survey and a synthetic control method, we show that the dividend had no effect on employment, and increased part-time work by 1.8 percentage points (17 percent). Although theory and prior empirical research suggests that individual cash transfers decrease household labor supply, we interpret our results as evidence that general equilibrium effects of widespread and permanent transfers tend to offset this effect, at least on the extensive margin. Consistent with this story, we show suggestive evidence that tradable sectors experience employment reductions, while non-tradable sectors do not. Overall, our results suggest that a universal and permanent cash transfer does not significantly decrease aggregate employment.
H24|Behavioural responses to the (re)introduction of wealth taxes. Evidence from Spain|In the throes of economic crisis, the Spanish government decided to reintroduce the Wealth Tax, appealing to redistributive motives and its need for greater revenues. This paper studies how individuals reacted to the reintroduction of this tax by drawing on the universe of wealth tax returns submitted to the Catalan Tax Agency between 2011 and 2015. Thus, we exploit the variation in treatment exposure to analyse taxpayers' responses, in terms not only of wealth accumulation, but also of the potential avoidance strategies adopted. Indeed, our results reflect avoidance rather than real responses. They show that while facing higher wealth taxes did not have a negative effect on taxpayers' savings, it did encourage them to change their asset and income composition to take advantage of wealth tax exemptions (mostly business-related) and the existence of a limit on wealth tax liability. This translates into an elasticity of taxable wealth with respect to the net-of-tax rate of return of 0.64, or, put differently, a 0.1 percentage point increase in the average wealth tax rate leads to a reduction in taxable wealth of 3.24% over 4 years. Overall, these avoidance responses are quite marked in terms of tax revenues: they represent a 4-year accumulated revenue loss of 2.6 times the 2011 estimated wealth tax revenues. The existence of such responses mostly related to the design of the wealth tax has relevant policy implications not only in terms of revenues but also insofar as it undermines the tax's redistributive role.
H24|Micro-founded tax policy effects in a heterogenenous-agent macro-model|Microsimulation models are increasingly used to calibrate macro models for tax policy analysis. Yet, their potential remains underexploited, especially in order to represent the non-linearity of the tax and social benefit system and interactions between capital and labour incomes which play a key role to understand behavioural effects. Following DeBacker et al. (2018b) we use a microsimulation model to provide the output with which to estimate the parameters of bivariate non-linear tax functions in a macro model. In doing so we make marginal and average tax rates bivariate functions of capital income and labour income. We estimate the parameters of tax functions in order to capture the most important non-linearities of the actual tax schedule, together with interaction effects between labour and capital incomes. To illustrate the methodology, we simulate a reduction in marginal personal income tax rates in Italy with a microsimulation model, translating the microsimulation results into the shock for a dynamic overlapping generations model. Our results show that this policy change affects differently households distinguished by age and ability type.
H24|The Flat Tax: What Degree of Simplification Does It Imply?|According to its creators, the principal purpose of the original Flat Tax (FT: HALL AND RABUSHKA, 1985-1995) was to simplify the graduated PIT. This claim was broadly accepted, and the debate has since focused on other aspects of the proposal (single rate, redistribution effects, the tax treatment of corporations, and so on). The aim of this paper is therefore simply to analyse the simplification effects of the Flat Tax (FT). We shall be examining the criticisms made by the FT’s supporters in regard to the complications of a standard graduated PIT, the alleged simplifications ascribed to the introduction of the FT, and the robustness of such claims. We conclude that several reservations may be raised with regard to the claimed simplification that would result from the introduction of a FT. Such reservations, together with other weaknesses of the FT, may help explain why to date its diffusion has been limited to a small, specific group of countries (mainly former communist countries in Eastern Europe).
H24|The Elasticity of Taxable Labour Income in the Netherlands|We study the elasticity of taxable labour income in the Netherlands. We use a large and rich data set, including both financial and demographic variables, for the period 1999–2005. The 2001 tax reform generates large exogenous variation in marginal tax rates at different segments of the income distribution. For all workers, we find an elasticity of 0.10 in the short run, 1 year after the reform, rising to 0.24 in the medium to longer run, 5 years after the reform. Furthermore, we find that the elasticity is higher for higher incomes and women. Also, we find that the elasticity of taxable labour income is higher than the elasticity of (contractual) annual hours worked.
H24|Credit Where It's Due: Investigating Pathways from EITC Expansion to Maternal Mental Health|While Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) expansions are typically associated with improvements in maternal mental health, little is known about the mechanisms through which the program affects this outcome. The EITC could affect mental health through direct tax credit, changes in labor supply and changes in health insurance coverage of participants. To disentangle these mechanisms, we assess the effects of state and federal EITC expansion on mental health, employment and health insurance by maternal marital status. We find that federal EITC expansions are associated with 1) large positive effects on employment for unmarried mothers and 2) improved self-reported mental health for all mothers. State EITC expansion, which generate smaller changes in the effective wage rate, are associated with improvements in mental health for married mothers only and have no effect on employment for married or unmarried mothers. We find no impact of EITC expansions on health insurance coverage for married or unmarried mothers. These findings suggest that while EITC expansions improved mental health for unmarried mothers through a combination of the credit and employment, for married mothers, improved mental health is driven through the direct credit alone.
H24|The Long-Term Effects of Childhood Exposure to the Earned Income Tax Credit on Health Outcomes|The Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) is a central component of the U.S. safety net, benefiting about 27 million families. Using variation in the federal and state EITC, this paper evaluates the long-term impact of EITC exposure during childhood on the health of young adults. We find that an additional $100 in the average annual EITC exposure between ages 0 and 18 increases the likelihood of reporting very good or excellent health by 2.7 percentage points and decreases the likelihood of being obese by 1.0 percentage point between ages 22 and 27. Direct program transfers, increases in pre-tax family earnings, and increases in health insurance coverage are channels through which the EITC improves health.
H24|Higher Tax and Less Work: An Optimal Response to Relative Income Concern|There is much evidence that relative income concern reduces subjective wellbeing and raises labour supply – 'keeping up with the Joneses' (KUJ), while increasing use of social media and growing inequality encourage comparison. Models with one or two agent –types generally miss the policy relevant dimension of labour force participation, so we include a distribution of wages with intensive and extensive margins of labour supply, both of which are increased by comparison. The optimal tax response increases with comparison, but, surprisingly, dominates the comparison effect and reduces individual labour supply, thus reversing KUJ, and maintains constant employment, independent of comparison.
H24|The middle class in Japan, 1994-2009: Trends and characteristics|In this study, we estimate the population shares of the Japanese middle class during 1994-2009 and discuss its characteristics. The middle class hovered around 65% (from 67.29% in 1994 to 65.21% in 2009) of the population, having 75-200% of each year's median income. However, if we fix the income ranges of the middle class to the 1994 level, the middle class declined considerably to 59.47% in 2009, the upper class also declined, and the lower class and the poor increased. Thus, the stability of the middle class seems due to the overall decline in Japan's income distribution. In addition, the population share of the middle class among the working population (18-64 years) is larger than that among the elderly population (65 years and over). Therefore, the middle class is in danger of shrinking further as the population continues ageing. Meanwhile, population ageing also affects redistributive policies: the share of social transfers of gross income is increasing and the redistributive effect of social security is growing. Additionally, despite declining income levels, there were no major changes in the share of income tax (including social insurance premiums) on gross income. This is, in fact, assumed to be due to factors such as increased social insurance rates.
H24|Arbeiten Frauen aufgrund des Ehegattensplittings weniger? Eine empirische Untersuchung für Deutschland|Die vorliegende Arbeit soll einen Beitrag zur Klärung der Frage leisten, ob das Ehegattensplitting, wie in vielen Arbeiten behauptet, einen negativen Einfluss auf das Arbeitsverhalten verheirateter Frauen hat. Hierzu kommt für Deutschland erstmals ein von Quasi-Experimenten inspirierter Ansatz zum Einsatz, bei dem anhand des allgemeinen Effekts der Heirat auf das Erwerbsverhalten der heiratenden Frauen die Wirkung des Ehegattensplittings geschätzt wird. Die Veränderung des Arbeitsverhaltens heiratender Frauen wird dabei der Veränderung bei jenen Frauen gegenübergestellt, die im gleichen Zeitraum weiterhin mit ihrem festen Partner zusammenleben, ohne zu heiraten (Kontrollgruppe). Die Ergebnisse sprechen eindeutig gegen einen unmittelbaren negativen Effekt des Ehegattensplittings auf das Erwerbsverhalten von Frauen. Jedoch reduzieren heiratende und zeitgleich ein Kind bekommende Frauen ihre Erwerbstätigkeit stärker als gebärende Frauen in der Kontrollgruppe.
H24|Stated preferences for capital taxation - tax design, misinformation and the role of partisanship|Although theoretical research on optimal capital taxation suggest to incorporate public opinions, the empirical literature on preferences regarding capital taxation almost exclusively focusses on the emotionally loaded estate tax. This paper presents a more comprehensive investigation of preferences towards different, tangible instruments of capital taxation beyond the estate tax. In particular, we focus on the effects of tax-specific design features and personal as well as asset-related characteristics. For this, we conducted a factorial survey experiment with over 3,200 respondents on Amazon's Mechanical Turk (MTurk). By using different tax instruments as reference points for each other we strengthen the robustness of our findings. While our results confirm well-established findings of previous literature, we show that the specific design of tax instruments is indeed decisive for preferences over capital taxation. Whereas proposed effective tax rates of the estate tax and the one-time wealth tax show a significant progressivity, there is no clear pattern for both periodical taxes. Furthermore, preferences depend on the respondents' characteristics, especially their partisanship. Democrats clearly prefer concentrated over periodical capital taxes, Republicans' only articulated preference refers to the particular rejection of the estate tax. Remarkably, this opposition does not hold for a perfectly congruent one-time wealth tax. This result provides novel empirical evidence for drivers of the opposition towards the estate tax beyond mere misinformation discussed by previous literature: emotional charge potentially triggered by political framing.
H24|Do couples pool their income? Evidence from demand system estimation for Germany|Whether couples pool their resources and behave like a unit or spend their income individually is crucial for social and tax policy. In this paper, I provide a test of the income pooling hypothesis using administrative cross-sectional survey data on expenditures and individual incomes of couple households in Germany. The test is performed within the Quadratic Almost Ideal Demand System (QUAIDS) framework, which allows for an endogenous expenditure budget and endogenous individual income contribution shares in an instrumental variables approach. Although the hypothesis is broadly rejected, there are significant differences regarding the marital status, the presence of at least one child in the household and whether the household is located in a former West or East German federal state. Married couples and couples with children are closer to the acceptance of the hypothesis than unmarried couples without children.
H24|Shifting tax burden to top income earners: What is the best way to reduce inequality?|The authors analyze to what extent and how the tax burden should be shifted towards top income earners in order to reduce income inequality. Starting from Lambert and Aronson (Inequality decomposition analysis and the Gini coefficient revisited 1993) and Alvaredo (A note on the relationship between top income shares and the Gini coefficient 2011) decomposition by income groups, they prove that for three types of revenue-neutral linear personal income tax reforms based on Pfähler (1984) the redistributive effect is always higher than before the reform; and when the size of the rich group is sufficiently small (e.g. 1%), the best option is allocating tax changes proportionally to net income, and the worst doing it proportionally to tax liabilities. An empirical illustration of the theoretical results is provided using micro data from the Spanish PIT.
H24|Arbeitsanreize beim Bezug von Arbeitslosengeld II: Ein Reformvorschlag|Die Empfänger von Arbeitslosengeld II werden bei Arbeitsaufnahme oder bei einer Ausweitung ihres Arbeitseinsatzes hoch besteuert. Die marginale Belastung erreicht bis zu 100 Prozent. Zum einen werden ab bestimmten Lohnhöhen Lohnsteuer, Solidaritätszuschlag und Sozialversicherungsbeiträge fällig, zum anderen wird das Arbeitslosengeld II gekürzt. In dem Papier wird dargelegt, wie man die Belastung senken und die Arbeitsanreize stärken könnte.
H24|Die Grenzbelastung der Lohneinkommen im zeitlichen Vergleich: Berechnungen für verschiedene Einkommensgruppen|Die Grenzabgabenbelastung ist eine relevante Größe für die Einkommenserzielung und die Entscheidung, ob und in welchem zeitlichen Umfang die eigene Arbeitskraft auf dem Arbeits-markt angeboten wird. Bei Beschäftigten, die keine Sozialtransfers beziehen, hängt die margi-nale Belastung sowohl von der Einkommensteuer und dem Solidaritätszuschlag als auch von den Beiträgen zur gesetzlichen Sozialversicherung ab. Je höher die Grenzbelastung ausfällt, desto weniger bleibt vom zusätzlichen Bruttoeinkommen netto übrig. Daher reduzieren hohe Grenzbelastungen nicht nur die Bereitschaft Arbeit aufzunehmen, sondern verhindern tenden-ziell auch eine Ausdehnung der Arbeitszeit. Ein historischer Vergleich der Grenzabgabenkurven der Jahre 2000, 2005, 2010, 2015 und 2019 zeigt, dass mit der Steuerreform 2000 der damaligen rot-grünen Regierung die Grenzbe-lastungen über fast den gesamten Einkommensbereich deutlich gesenkt wurden. Hinzu kamen Reformen zur nachgelagerten Besteuerung der Alterseinkünfte und zur Absetzbarkeit der Krankenversicherungsbeiträge, was einer weiteren signifikanten Senkung der Grenzsteuer-sätze entsprach. Auffällig ist im betrachteten Zeitraum allerdings eine unzureichende Korrek-tur der kalten Progression - sowohl im engeren Sinne ('nur' Inflation) als auch im weiteren Sinne (nominales Lohnwachstum). Dies hat dazu geführt, dass im Jahr 2019 vor allem im unte-ren Einkommensbereich die Grenzsteuerbelastung für Singles früher beginnt und steiler an-steigt. Bei Lohneinkommen oberhalb der Midi-Job-Grenze steigt die Grenzbelastung rasant an und erreicht bereits bei einem Einkommen von etwas über 20.000 Euro - das entspricht an-nähernd dem Bruttoverdienst eines zum Mindestlohn angestellten Vollzeitbeschäftigten - ein vorläufiges Maximum von fast 48 Prozent. Auffällig bei der Betrachtung der Grenzbelastungskurven sind verschiedene Sprungstellen oder Knicke. Im unteren Lohnbereich resultiert der Knick aus dem Übergang vom Mini- zum Midi-Job oder zu einer regulären sozialversicherungspflichtigen Beschäftigung. Hinzu kommt die Freigrenze für den Solidaritätszuschlag im Bereich eines Mindestlohn-Empfängers. Im weiteren Verlauf ist die Sozialversicherung für die Sprungstellen verantwortlich, die allerdings über die (Teilhabe-)Äquivalenz von Leistungsansprüchen grundsätzlich ihre Berechtigung haben, auch wenn dadurch ein linear-progressiver Verlauf der Grenzbelastung verhindert wird. Neben ei-ner allgemeinen Senkung der Grenzabgabenbelastung zur Stärkung von Arbeitsanreizen, die zu relativ hohen Einnahmeausfällen führen würde, wäre die Abmilderung der genannten Sprung-stellen eine mögliche Handlungsoption.
H24|Bodengebundene Einkommensteuern in einer strukturschwachen ländlichen Gemeinde|In diesem Bericht wird für eine ländliche Gemeinde im Landkreis Stendal (Sachsen-Anhalt) die Höhe der Steuern abgeschätzt, die auf Einkünfte aus der Verpachtung und Bewirtschaftung von Landwirtschaftsfläche im Gemeindegebiet zu entrichten sind. Zudem wird ermittelt, welcher Anteil dieser Steuern der Gemeinde selbst zukommt und welcher Anteil ihr dadurch entgeht, dass Teile der Landwirtschaftsfläche Eigentümern mit auswärtigem Wohnsitz gehören bzw. von auswärtigen Landwirten bewirtschaftet werden. Die Untersuchung beruht auf Daten aus den Liegenschafts- und Grundsteuersystemen der Gemeinde, die im Hinblick auf die Wohnsitze der Steuerpflichtigen ausgewertet wurden. Die Untersuchung zeigt, dass mehr als die Hälfte des privaten landwirtschaftlichen Flächeneigentums auf nicht Ortsansässige entfällt und mehr als die Hälft der Landwirtschaftsfläche von auswärtigen Landwirten bewirtschaftet wird. Die Steuereinnahmen, die der Gemeinde dadurch entgehen, sind aber relativ gering im Verhältnis zu anderen Finanzierungsquellen im Gemeindehaushalt. In agrarstruktureller Hinsicht zeigt diese Untersuchung erstmals an einem konkreten Beispiel eine Methode zur Ermittlung von Eigentums- und Bewirtschaftungskonzentration landwirtschaftlicher Flächen auf Gemeindeebene.
H24|Behavioral responses to subsidies in risky investment decisions and the effectiveness of tax credits and grants|"We provide evidence that subsidy types that are identical in monetary terms differ in their behavioral responses and consequently in their effectiveness. In particular, we observe that investments into a subsidized asset are higher under tax credit than under grant. Both subsidy types are essentially very similar, only the mechanism of the subsidy application is different. In case of a grant, an individual gains an amount of money. In case of a tax credit, no money is received directly, but the tax to be paid is decreased by the amount of the tax credit. Our results indicate that these mechanisms have a substantial impact on the effectiveness of subsidies. Applying our findings, governments can ""nudge"" the investors to support desired investment decisions by using a certain subsidy type. Particularly, our results suggest that when policymakers are indifferent froma budget perspective between providing a subsidy as a grant or as a tax credit, they should implement a tax credit."
H24|The impact of financial transaction taxes on stock markets: Short-run effects, long-run effects, and migration|We investigate the impact of the French 2012 financial transaction tax on trading volumes and volatility. We extend empirical research by analyzing announcement and short-run treatment effects, migration effects, and long-run volatility measures. We find a strong short-run impact on trading volume, but show that the long-run effect is small and only significant for low liquidity stocks. We also identify a reduction of long-term volatility measures after the effective date as evidence for a market-stabilizing effect, and an increase in the trading volume of substitute stocks as evidence for a migration of trading activity.
H24|How do taxable income responses to marginal tax rates differ by sex, marital status and age? Evidence from Spanish dual income tax|The aim of this paper is to analyse how Spanish taxpayers responded to the introduction of the dual personal income tax model in 2007. The authors estimate the elasticity of taxable income (ETI) with respect to the marginal net tax rate for different groups of taxpayers by sex, marital status and age, separating the substitution effect from the income effect. For the empirical analysis, the authors use microdata from the Spanish personal income tax return panel disseminated by the Spanish Institute of Fiscal Studies. The main results show that the 2007 tax reform resulted in a range of elasticity values from 0.41 to 0.43, while the estimated income effect yields a negative value of -0.18. The results for the different taxpayer groups are as follows: the removal of retired people from the sample significantly reduces the ETI; elasticity is higher for women than for men; single people have a considerably higher elasticity than married taxpayers; and the ETI decreases with age. Additionally, the authors find that the marginal cost of public funds increased after the reform, and the top marginal tax rate is above optimal.
H24|The Aggregate Consequences of Tax Evasion|There is a sizable overall tax gap in the U.S., albeit tax non-compliance differs sharply across income types. While only small percentages of wages and salaries are underreported, the estimated misreporting rate of self-employment business income is substantial. This paper studies how tax evasion in the self-employment sector affects aggregate outcomes and welfare. We develop a dynamic general equilibrium model with incomplete markets in which heterogeneous agents choose between being a worker or self-employed. Self-employed agents may hide a share of their business income but face the risk of being detected by the tax authority. Our model replicates important quantitative features of the U.S. economy in terms of income, wealth, self-employment, and tax evasion. Our quantitative ndings suggest that tax evasion leads to a larger self-employment sector but it depresses the average size and productivity of self-employed businesses. Tax evasion generates positive aggregate welfare effects because it acts as a subsidy for the self-employed. Workers, however, suffer from substantial welfare losses.
H24|On the relevance of income and behavioral factors for absolute and relative donations: A framed field experiment|Based on data from a computer-based survey among more than 500 German respondents, this paper empirically examines the effect of actual equivalent income and estimated income position as well as behavioral factors on absolute and relative donations. Donations were measured in an incentivized framed field experiment, i.e. the respondents could spend money for three prominent environmental and social organizations. The perceived relative income refers to the estimated percentage of German households with a lower equivalent income compared to the own equivalent income. Furthermore, the behavioral factors are based on experimentally validated survey questions. Our preliminary econometric analysis with Tobit models shows that both actual equivalent income and estimated income position have significantly positive effects on absolute donations, whereby the effect of actual equivalent income is more dominant. This suggests that income perceptions play a minor role for donations compared to actual income. Surprisingly and in contrast to previous studies, income has a solid significantly negative effect on relative donations for all income groups. In addition, negative reciprocity has a significantly negative effect on both absolute and relative donations, which underlines the relevance at least of this behavioral factor. The estimation results also reveal that life satisfaction is significantly positively related with absolute donations. This suggests that positive feelings play an important role for donation activities.
H24|Money vs. Time: Family Income, Maternal Labor Supply, and Child Development|We study the effect of family income and maternal hours worked on child development. Our instrumental variable analysis suggests different results for cognitive and behavioral development. An additional $1,000 in family income improves cognitive development by 4.4 percent of a standard deviation but has no effect on behavioral development. A yearly increase of 100 work hours negatively affects both outcomes by approximately 6 percent of a standard deviation. The quality of parental investment matters and the substitution effect (less parental time) dominates the income effect (higher earnings) when the after-tax hourly wage is below $13.50. Results call for consideration of child care and minimum wage policies that foster both maternal employment and child development.
H24|How Should Capital Be Taxed? Theory and Evidence from Sweden|This paper presents a comprehensive analysis of the role of capital taxation in advanced economies with a focus on the Swedish experience. We synthesize the existing theoretical literature, present facts about the capital stock and its distribution, review current capital tax practices and empirical findings regarding their effects on economic activity. The paper also examines the political feasibility of capital taxation by presenting results from a unique attitude survey targeted to a large representative sample of the Swedish population. Finally, we tie together our findings and discuss their implications for tax policy.
H24|Immigration and Redistribution|We design and conduct large-scale surveys and experiments in six countries to investigate how natives' perceptions of immigrants influence their preferences for redistribution. We find strikingly large biases in natives' perceptions of the number and characteristics of immigrants: in all countries, respondents greatly overestimate the total number of immigrants, think immigrants are culturally and religiously more distant from them, and are economically weaker -- less educated, more unemployed, poorer, and more reliant on government transfers -- than is the case. While all respondents have misperceptions, those with the largest ones are systematically the right-wing, the non college-educated, and the low-educated working in immigration-intensive sectors. Support for redistribution is strongly correlated with the perceived composition of immigrants -- their origin and economic contribution -- rather than with the perceived share of immigrants per se. Given the very negative baseline views that respondents have of immigrants, simply making them think about immigration in a randomized manner makes them support less redistribution, including actual donations to charities. We also experimentally show respondents information about the true i) number, ii) origin, and iii) ``hard work'' of immigrants in their country. On its own, information on the ``hard work'' of immigrants generates more support for redistribution. However, if people are also prompted to think in detail about immigrants' characteristics, then none of these favorable information treatments manages to counteract their negative priors that generate lower support for redistribution.
H24|Taxation and Innovation in the 20th Century|This paper studies the effect of corporate and personal taxes on innovation in the United States over the twentieth century. We use three new datasets: a panel of the universe of inventors who patent since 1920; a dataset of the employment, location and patents of firms active in R&D since 1921; and a historical state-level corporate tax database since 1900, which we link to an existing database on state-level personal income taxes. Our analysis focuses on the impact of taxes on individual inventors and firms (the micro level) and on states over time (the macro level). We propose several identification strategies, all of which yield consistent results: i) OLS with fixed effects, including inventor and state-times-year fixed effects, which make use of differences between tax brackets within a state-year cell and which absorb heterogeneity and contemporaneous changes in economic conditions; ii) an instrumental variable approach, which predicts changes in an individual or firm's total tax rate with changes in the federal tax rate only; iii) event studies, synthetic cohort case studies, and a border county strategy, which exploits tax variation across neighboring counties in different states. We find that taxes matter for innovation: higher personal and corporate income taxes negatively affect the quantity and quality of inventive activity and shift its location at the macro and micro levels. At the macro level, cross-state spillovers or business-stealing from one state to another are important, but do not account for all of the effect. Agglomeration effects from local innovation clusters tend to weaken responsiveness to taxation. Corporate inventors respond more strongly to taxes than their non-corporate counterparts.
H24|Long-term changes in married couples' labor supply and taxes: Evidence from the US and Europe since the 1980s|We document the time-series of employment rates and hours worked per employed by married couples in the US and seven European countries (Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal, and the UK) from the early 1980s through 2016. Relying on a model of joint household labor supply decisions, we quantitatively analyze the role of non-linear labor income taxes for explaining the evolution of hours worked of married couples over time, using as inputs the full country- and year-specific statutory labor income tax codes. We further evaluate the role of consumption taxes, gender and educational wage premia, and the educational composition. The model is quite successful in replicating the time series behavior of hours worked per employed married woman, with labor income taxes being the key driving force. It does however capture only part of the secular increase in married women's employment rates in the 1980s and early 1990s, suggesting an important role for factors not considered in this paper. An independent and important contribution of the paper is that we make the non-linear tax codes used as an input into the analysis available as a user-friendly and easily integrable set of Matlab codes.
H24|Long-Term Changes in Married Couples’ Labor Supply and Taxes: Evidence from the U.S. and Europe since the 1980s|We document the time-series of employment rates and hours worked per employed by married couples in the US and seven European countries (Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal, and the UK) from the early 1980s through 2016. Relying on a model of joint household labor supply decisions, we quantitatively analyze the role of non-linear labor income taxes for explaining the evolution of hours worked of married couples over time, using as inputs the full country- and year-specific statutory labor income tax codes. We further evaluate the role of consumption taxes, gender and educational wage premia, and the educational composition. The model is quite successful in replicating the time series behavior of hours worked per employed married woman, with labor income taxes being the key driving force. It does however capture only part of the secular increase in married women’s employment rates in the 1980s and early 1990s, suggesting an important role for factors not considered in this paper. We will make the non-linear tax codes used as an input into the analysis available as a user-friendly and easily integrable set of Matlab codes.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
H24|New Estimates of the Elasticity of Marginal Utility for the UK|Abstract This paper provides novel empirical evidence on the value of the elasticity of marginal utility, $$ \eta $$ η , for the United Kingdom. $$ \eta $$ η is a crucial component of the social discount rate (SDR), which determines the inter-temporal trade-offs that are acceptable to society. Using contemporaneous and historical data, new estimates are obtained using four revealed-preference techniques: the equal-sacrifice income tax approach, the Euler-equation approach, the Frisch additive-preferences approach and risk aversion in insurance markets. A meta-analysis indicates parameter homogeneity across approaches, and a central estimate of 1.5 for $$ \eta $$ η . The confidence interval excludes unity, the value used in official guidance by the UK government. The term structure of the SDR is then estimated. The result is a short-run SDR of 4.5% declining to 4.2% in the very long-run. This is higher and flatter than the UK official guidance. The difference stems from incorrect calibration of social welfare and estimation of the diffusion of growth. Other things equal, the results suggest that current UK guidance might need to be updated.
H24|Housing policy and the changing tenure mix|The paper discusses the many reasons why housing policy can appear to be both incoherent and ineffective - with too many Departments involved each with different objectives and a plethora of policies pulling in different directions. Drawing on earlier research findings the paper discusses three examples which have impacted on tenure mix – the growth in the private rented sector where policy initiatives – except for unintended side effects – have been limited and market and macroeconomic pressures have dominated; a range of tax anomalies which provide inconsistent incentives and generate considerable costs to the economy; and the impact of specific policies which concentrate on supporting owner-occupation through new build initiatives. The paper concludes by asking whether housing policy is inherently unable to withstand the pressures placed on it by both politics and macroeconomic realities.
H24|Inheritance taxation in a model with intergenerational time transfers| We consider a two-period overlapping generation model with rational altruism a la Barro, where time transfers and bequests are available to parents. Starting from a steady state where public spendings are nanced through taxation on capital income and labor income, we analyze a tax reform that consists in a shift of the tax burden from capital income tax towards inheritance tax. In the standard Barro model with no time transfer and inelastic labor supply, such a policy decreases steady-state welfare. In our setting, inheritance tax modi es parent's trade-o between time transfers and bequests. We identify situations where the tax reform increases welfare for all generations. Welfare improvement mainly depends on the magnitude of the e ect of higher time transfers on the labor supply of the young.
H24|Inheritance taxation with agents differing in altruism and productivity| We analyze a shift from capital income tax towards inheritance tax in a two-period overlapping generation model with rational altruism a la Barro, where the population consists of two types of dynasties that di er in altruism and productivity. The tax reform is implemented in a way that leaves the capital-labor ratio constant at steady state. It increases welfare of less altruistic dynasties, but decreases welfare of the most altruistic one. We then extend the model by considering time transfers from the old to the young generation and assuming that the young have elastic labor supply. We discuss the condition for the tax reform to be Pareto-improving in steady state.
H24|Inequality in EU Crisis Countries: How Effective Were Automatic Stabilisers?|The Great Recession and the widespread adoption of fiscal austerity policies have heightened concern about inequality and how well tax-benefit systems redistribute. We examine how the distribution of income in the EU countries which were hardest hit during the recession evolved over this time. Using and extending a recently developed framework (Savage et al., 2017), the overall change in income inequality is decomposed into parts attributable to the change in market income inequality, changes in discretionary tax-benefit policy and automatic stabilisation effects. We implement this approach using the microsimulation software, EUROMOD, linked to EU-SILC survey data. Automatic stabilisation effects, particularly through benefits, are found to play an important role in reducing inequality in all the crisis countries. Their role is less important if we focus on the working age population only, due to the relative importance of old-age benefits in southern European welfare systems. Discretionary policy changes also contributed to reductions in inequality, but to a much lesser extent.
H24|Smooth Income Tax Schedules: Derivation and Consequences|Existing tax schedules are often overly complex and characterized by discontinuities in the marginal tax burden. In this paper we propose a class of progressive smooth functions to replace personal income tax schedules. These functions depend only on three meaningful parameters, and avoid the drawbacks of defining tax schedules through various tax brackets. Based on representative micro data, we derive revenue-neutral parameters for four different types of tax regimes (Austria, Germany, Hungary and Spain). We then analyze possible implications from a hypothetical switch to smoother income tax tariffs. We find that smooth tax functions eliminate the most extreme cases of bracket creep, while the impact on income inequality is mostly negligible, but uniformly reducing.
H24|Drivers of Participation Elasticities across Europe: Gender or Earner Role within the Household?|We compute participation tax rates across the EU and find that work disincentives inherent in tax-benefit systems largely depend on household composition and the individual's earner role within the household. We then estimate participation elasticities using an IV Group estimator that enables us to investigate the responsiveness of individuals to work incentives. We contribute to the literature on heterogeneous elasticities by providing estimates for different socioeconomic groups by country, gender and earner role within the household. Our results show an average elasticity of 0.08 for men and of 0.14 for women as well as a high degree of heterogeneity across countries. The commonly cited difference in elasticities between men and women stems predominantly from the earner role of the individual within the household and nearly disappears once we control for this factor.
H24|The Impact of Monetary and Tax Policy on Income Inequality in Japan|We assess the effects of the most recent monetary policy behavior of the Bank of Japan (BOJ), in particular, zero interest rate policy and negative interest rate policy, and the Japanese tax policy on income inequality during the first quarter (Q1) of 2002 to Q3 2017. The vector error correction model developed in this research shows that increase in money stock through quantitative easing and the quantitative and qualitative easing policies of the BOJ significantly increases income inequality. On the contrary, Japanese tax policy was effective in reducing income inequality. Variance decomposition results show that after 10 periods almost 87.15% of the forecast error variance of the inequality is accounted for by its own innovations and 3.76% of the forecast error variance can be explained by exogenous shocks to monetary policy shock—the money stock. The short-term interest rate also accounts for the increase in inequality by 0.47%. On the other hand, the total tax and real gross domestic product contributed in reducing the inequality measure, respectively, by 6.65% and 1.96% after 10 periods.
H24|Prélèvement à la source de l’impôt sur le revenu et année de transition. Quel impact pour les finances publiques et l’équité intergénérationnelle ?|The transition towards a withholding income tax system in?2019?in France introduces two tax changes. First, since taxes paid in?2018?and?2019?are based on income earned respectively in?2017?and?2019, income in?2018?will not be taxed, thus giving rise to a ?lost year? for public finances. In addition, taxpayers will lose the benefit of a one-year postponement in the tax payment, which constitutes an implicit tax increase. In this article, we evaluate the specific impacts of these two effects and the resulting global effect. The ?lost year? results in an annual income tax reduction that is proportional to the difference between the interest rate and the growth rate. Compensating the ?lost year? by an implicit tax increase induces the income tax receipt to increase proportionally to the nominal economic growth rate. From the taxpayers? viewpoint, we show that, whatever its precise modalities, the reform will weight unevenly in favor of the older generations to the detriment of the younger, and possibly the future, ones.
H24|Acceptability of Urban Transport Pricing| Several studies all over the world have considered transport pricing measures as promising attempts to solve urgent traffic problems in urban areas. An important precondition for the successful implementation of pricing measures is public and political acceptability. However, empirical findings show that the acceptability of such measures is rather low. The general objectives of this report are to assess acceptability of various urban transport pricing measures and policy packages, to analyse the reasons for the lacking acceptability and how this may be improved where appropriate. The relevant policy packages were derived from AFFORD Deliverable 1 (Milne, Niskanen and Verhoef, 2000). A public acceptability questionnaire survey was carried out in Athens, Como, Dresden and Oslo. The political acceptability survey was carried out as a phone interview with politicians in Como and Dresden.
H24|Essays on public economics| This doctoral thesis is a collection of four essays in public economics that look at various public policies and their impacts on low-income and otherwise vulnerable individuals. The essays share the general aim of studying the effectiveness of public policies in achieving their stated goals. The first essay is single-authored by the candidate, and the latter three are collaborations with one or more co-authors. In the first essay, I use a unique dataset compiled from Finnish registers and surveys to provide a comprehensive characterisation of the take-up behavior of Finnish welfare benefits (housing allowance and social assistance) using descriptive methods. I provide various stylised facts on take-up and discuss how income dynamics matter for understanding take-up and benefit targeting. The second essay focuses on the impact of information on benefit takeup. We study the information campaign in the context of the introduction of the guarantee pension program in Finland in 2011 and find that receiving a mailed information letter and application form significantly increased take-up compared to non-recipients. In the the third essay, we analyse the impact of employersâ€™ disability insurance (DI) contributions on the incidence of disability pensions among their workers. Experience rating is used in DI in Finland in order to increase employersâ€™ incentives to prevent disabilities among their workers. We use detailed data and an empirical strategy that allows us to identify the causal effect of experience rating on disability inflow. Our analysis finds that the policy is not effective in reducing disabilities. The fourth essay uses a theoretical framework to provide optimal tax and transfer rules for poverty reduction in developing countries. We modify the standard optimal tax framework by restricting tax instruments to be linear, which are more feasibly implemented in countries with a lower administrative capacity. We show that when we change from the standard objective of welfare maximisation to that of poverty minimisation, which better depicts the concrete objectives of such countries, the optimal tax and transfer rules are changed.
H24|The Impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on Local Home Values|This paper simulates changes to neighborhood home prices resulting from reforms to tax preferences in the recently passed Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA). The simulation uses federal tax data summarized at a fine geography to impute homeowner rents at the zip code level across six income classes. Employing a user cost framework, I model rents as a function of prices under the old tax law and under the TCJA. While the average price impact of the TCJA is found to be −5.7 percent, local effects range from 0 to −23 percent across zip codes. Variation across income class is also large. Simulations by income class suggest that the most severe declines in price occur for upper middle-income households ($100,000–$200,000). The paper also simulates partial versions of the TCJA that omit different features of the law that affect housing preference. I find that the higher standard deductions in the new law are the largest driver of price declines.
H24|The Dynamic Effects of Personal and Corporate Income Tax Changes in the United States: Reply to Jentsch and Lunsford|In this reply to a comment by Jentsch and Lunsford, we show that, when focusing on the relevant impulse responses, the evidence for economic and statistically significant macroeconomic effects of tax changes in Mertens and Ravn (2013) remains present for a range of asymptotically valid inference methods.
H24|The Impact of Inheritance and Transfer Taxation on Economic Behaviors and Inequality: a Literature Review for France|No abstract is available for this item.
H24|Do retirement savings increase in response to information about retirement and expected pensions?|How can retirement savings be increased? We explore a unique policy change in the context of the German pension system to study this question. As of 2005 (with a phase-in period between 2002 and 2004), the German pension administration started to send out annual letters providing detailed and comprehensible information about the pension system and individual expected public pension payments. This reform did not change the level of pensions, but only provided information to individuals about their expected pension payments. Using German tax return data, we exploit an age discontinuity to identify the effect of these letters on the behavior of individuals. We find an increase in tax-deductible private retirement savings and provide evidence that this is not due to a crowding-out of other forms of savings. We also show that labor earnings, i.e. the most direct way to increase public pensions, increase after receiving the letter.
H24|Do Retirement Savings Increase in Response to Information about Retirement and Expected Pensions?|How can retirement savings be increased? We explore a unique policy change in the context of the German pension system to study this question. As of 2005 (with a phase-in period between 2002 and 2004), the German pension administration started to send out annual letters providing detailed and comprehensible information about the pension system and individual expected public pension payments. This reform did not change the level of pensions, but only provided information to individuals about their expected pension payments. Using German tax return data, we exploit an age discontinuity to identify the effect of these letters on the behavior of individuals. We find an increase in tax-deductible private retirement savings and provide evidence that this is not due to a crowding-out of other forms of savings. We also show that labor earnings, i.e. the most direct way to increase public pensions, increase after receiving the letter.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
H24|Tax refunds and income manipulation: evidence from the EITC|Abstract Welfare programs are important in terms of reducing poverty, although they create incentives for recipients to maximize their income by either reducing their labor supply or manipulating their taxable income. In this paper, we quantify the extent of such behavioral responses for the earned income tax credit (EITC) in the USA. We exploit the fact that US states can set top-up rates, which means that at a given point in time, workers with the same income receive different tax refunds in different states. Using event studies as well as a border pair design, we document that raising the state EITC leads to more bunching of self-employed tax filers at the first kink point of the tax schedule. While we document a strong relationship up until 2007, we find no effect during the Great Recession. These findings point to important behavioral responses to the largest welfare program in the USA.
H24|Who Benefits from Tax-Preferred Savings Accounts?|Many countries use tax-preferred saving accounts to incentivize individuals to save for retirement. The two main forms of tax-preferred saving accounts â€“ TEE and EET â€“ tax savings at the contribution and withdrawal years respectively. Thus the relative returns of the two savings vehicles depend on the effective marginal tax rates in these two years, which in turn depend on earning dynamics. This paper estimates a model of earning dynamics on a Canadian longitudinal administrative database containing millions of individuals, allowing for substantial heterogeneity in the evolution of income across income groups. The model is then used, together with a tax and credit calculator, to predict how the returns of EET and TEE vary across these groups. The results suggest that TEE accounts yield in general higher returns, especially for low-income groups. Comparing optimal saving choices predicted by the model with observed saving choices in the data suggests that EET are over-chosen, especially in the province of Quebec. These results have important implications for â€œnudgingâ€ policies that are currently being implemented in Quebec, forcing employers to automatically enrol their employees in savings accounts similar to EET. These could yield very low returns for low-income individuals, which are known to be the most sensitive to nudging.
H24|Are Interest Rates Really Low?|Contrary to common perception, many fixed-income investors have not suffered unusually low real interest rates in and after the Great Recession of 2008. This is because taxable investors must first pay taxes on nominal interest returns, before inflation further reduces their earned real interest rates. To obtain the same real after-tax yield, investors need more than one-to-one compensation for inflation. As a result, long-term Treasury bonds have been no less attractive for taxable investors in 2016 (with a 1.0% post-tax real yield) than they were in 2006 (0.5%), 1976 (–1.7%), 1966 (0.9%), and 1956 (0.8%), although they have been less attractive than they were in 1996 (2.4%) and 1986 (2.9%). Short-term Treasury bond yields have been on the low side but have also not been particularly unusual.
H24|Political Alignment, Attitudes Toward Government and Tax Evasion|We ask whether attitudes toward government play a causal role in the evasion of U.S. personal income taxes. We use individual-level survey data to demonstrate a link between sharing the party of the president and trust in the administration generally and opinions on taxation and spending policy, more specifically. Next, we move to the county level, and measure tax behavior as turnover elections push voters in partisan counties into and out of alignment with the party of the president. We provide three types of evidence that alignment reduces evasion. As a county moves into alignment we find 1) taxpayers report more easily-evaded forms of income; 2) suspect EITC claims decrease; and 3) audits triggered and audits found to owe additional tax decrease. Our results provide real-world evidence that a positive outlook on government lowers tax evasion.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
H24|No Strings Attached: The Behavioral Effects of U.S. Unconditional Cash Transfer Programs|The universal basic income has become a widely discussed measure in policy circles around the world. In this review, we cover the evidence relevant to its potential impact in the US, and in developed countries more generally. Many studies find no statistically significant effect of an unconditional cash transfer on the probability of working. In the studies that do find an effect on labor supply, the effect is small: a 10% income increase induced by an unconditional cash transfer decreases labor supply by about 1%. The evidence shows that an unconditional cash transfer can improve health and educational outcomes, and decrease criminality and drug & alcohol use, especially among the most disadvantaged youths.
H24|Taxing Hidden Wealth: The Consequences of U.S. Enforcement Initiatives on Evasive Foreign Accounts|In 2008, the IRS initiated efforts to curb the use of offshore accounts to evade taxes. This paper uses administrative microdata to examine the impact of the enforcement efforts on taxpayers’ reporting of offshore accounts and income. Enforcement caused approximately 60,000 individuals to disclose offshore accounts with a combined value of around $120 billion. Most disclosures happened outside offshore voluntary disclosure programs by individuals who never admitted prior noncompliance. The disclosed accounts were concentrated in countries whose institutions facilitate tax evasion. The enforcement-driven disclosures increased annual reported capital income by $2.5-$4 billion corresponding to $0.7-$1.0 billion in additional tax revenue.
H24|The Effects of EITC Correspondence Audits on Low-Income Earners|Each year, the United States Internal Revenue Service identifies taxpayers who may have erroneously claimed Earned Income Tax credit (EITC) benefits and requests additional documentation from these taxpayers to verify these claims. This paper exploits random variation inherent in audit selection processes to estimate the impacts of these EITC correspondence audits on taxpayer behaviors. Roughly 80% of EITC correspondence audits in the analysis sample have full disallowances due to undelivered mail, nonresponse or insufficient response. Cases of disallowances with confirmed ineligibility make up 15% of EITC correspondence audits in the analysis sample. In years after being audited, taxpayers have decreases in the likelihoods of claiming EITC benefits and filing tax returns so that they subsequently forego benefits from potentially legitimate EITC claims, other refundable credit claims and withholdings. For every $1 that is audited, roughly $0.63 to $0.73 of tax refunds is unclaimed in years after the audits. Additionally, spillovers from audited taxpayers to other taxpayers arise because qualifying children on audited returns are more likely to be subsequently claimed by other taxpayers after the audits. These spillovers indicate that net overpayments may be less than gross overpayments since ineligible qualifying children on audited returns could be potentially eligible qualifying children on other taxpayers’ returns. Lastly, EITC correspondence audits affect real economic activity as wage earners have changes in the likelihood of having wage employment in the years after being audited.
H24|The Elasticity of Taxable Income in the Presence of Intertemporal Income Shifting|Knowing the elasticity of taxable income (ETI) is crucial for understanding the effects of taxation on taxpayer behavior and consequently on tax revenues. Previous research finds that high-income individuals are the most sensitive to tax policy changes. However, these individuals have more opportunities to defer income to future tax bases by altering the composition of their compensation than lower-income individuals. This paper considers the taxable income elasticity when individuals can shift income across tax bases and thereby defer taxation. We decompose the elasticity of taxable income into a real response as well as an income shifting response. We measure the tax rate on deferred income by the expected tax gain from deferring income using stock options as developed by Hall and Liebman (2000). Our results demonstrate that income shifting is an important component of previous estimates of the ETI. Because shifted income is taxed at future dates, income shifting decreases the welfare loss from personal income taxation associated with previous estimates.
H24|Distributing the Green (Cards): Permanent residency and personal income taxes after the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986|We explore how permanent residency affects personal income tax participation and net personal income tax payments using variation from the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 (IRCA), which authorized the largest U.S. amnesty to date. We exploit the timing and geographic unevenness of IRCA's legalization programs alongside newly digitized data on personal income taxes in California, home to the majority of applicants. Green Cards induced the previously unauthorized to file state income tax returns at rates comparable to other California residents. While the new returns generated little additional revenue through the end of the 1990s, they did raise the incomes of families with children through new claims of the federal Earned Income Tax Credit.
H24|Taxation and Innovation in the 20th Century|This paper studies the effect of corporate and personal taxes on innovation in the United States over the twentieth century. We use three new datasets: a panel of the universe of inventors who patent since 1920; a dataset of the employment, location and patents of firms active in R&D since 1921; and a historical state-level corporate tax database since 1900, which we link to an existing database on state-level personal income taxes. Our analysis focuses on the impact of taxes on individual inventors and firms (the micro level) and on states over time (the macro level). We propose several identification strategies, all of which yield consistent results: i) OLS with fixed effects, including inventor and state-times-year fixed effects, which make use of differences between tax brackets within a state-year cell and which absorb heterogeneity and contemporaneous changes in economic conditions; ii) an instrumental variable approach, which predicts changes in an individual or firm's total tax rate with changes in the federal tax rate only; iii) event studies, synthetic cohort case studies, and a border county strategy, which exploits tax variation across neighboring counties in different states. We find that taxes matter for innovation: higher personal and corporate income taxes negatively affect the quantity and quality of inventive activity and shift its location at the macro and micro levels. At the macro level, cross-state spillovers or business-stealing from one state to another are important, but do not account for all of the effect. Agglomeration effects from local innovation clusters tend to weaken responsiveness to taxation. Corporate inventors respond more strongly to taxes than their non-corporate counterparts.
H24|Tax Reform Made Me Do It!|This paper examines corporations' actions, and statements about actions, following the tax law change known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA). Specifically, we examine four different outcomes: bonuses (or other actions that benefit workers), announcements of new investments, share repurchases, and dividend announcements. We find that 4% of public firms in our sample announced in the first quarter of 2018 they would pay some portion of their tax savings toward workers. In terms of investment, we find that 22% of the S&P 500 firms in our sample mentioned in earnings conference calls that they would increase investment because of the TCJA. We find a general increase in share repurchases following the passage of the TCJA, but the increase is extremely concentrated in a small number of firms. We find only nine firms that announced a new share repurchase plan explicitly attributed the new plan to the TCJA. In regression analysis, we find that both political and economic variables explain TCJA-linked announcements. The analysis suggests that firms with greater expected tax savings from the TCJA are those most likely to announce payments to workers and plans to increase investment. Firms with a political action committee that donates more to Republican candidates are also more likely to announce benefits to employees.
H24|Tax Reform Made Me Do It!|This paper examines corporations’ actions, and statements about actions, following the tax law change known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA). Specifically, we examine four different outcomes—bonuses (or other actions that benefit workers), announcements of new investments, share repurchases, and dividend announcements. We find that 4% of public firms in our sample announced in Q1 2018 they would pay some portion of their tax savings toward workers. In terms of investment, we find that 22% of the S&P 500 firms in our sample mentioned in earnings conference calls that they would increase investment because of the TCJA. We find a general increase in share repurchases following the passage of the TCJA, but the increase is extremely concentrated in a small number of firms. We find only nine firms that announced a new share repurchase plan explicitly attributed the new plan to the TCJA. In regression analysis, we find that both political and economic variables explain TCJA-linked announcements. The analysis suggests that firms with greater expected tax savings from the TCJA are those most likely to announce payments to workers and plans to increase investment. Firms with a Political Action Committee that donates more to Republican candidates are also more likely to announce benefits to employees.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
H24|Who Understands The French Income Tax? Bunching Where Tax Liabilities Start|Lack of tax transparency may strongly impact taxpayers' behavior. This paper disentangles responses to incentives from attention to taxes at the level where French income tax liabilities start. When reporting their earnings, tax filers may be confused between two potential thresholds: the true Tax Collection Threshold (TCT), a notch, and a wrong Taxation Threshold (TT), which is a kink. Using a comprehensive dataset on individual income tax returns from 2008 to 2015, I highlight significant bunching in the taxable income distribution at both thresholds. Within a model of tax misperception, I estimate that taxpayers are far from paying full attention to the income tax system, yet display strong reactions to the marginal tax rate they perceive. This framework can account for behavioral responses to a rise in the virtual marginal tax rate at the wrong threshold and may prove useful to detect policies improving attention to taxes. Contrasting hard-copy and online tax filers, the misperception model reveals a better understanding of the tax system by the latter.
H24|Tax policies for inclusive growth in a changing world|This paper, Tax policies for inclusive growth in a changing world, has been prepared in support of Argentina’s G20 Presidency. While this paper is focused on taxation policy, it forms part of a broader contribution that the OECD has made in support of Argentina’s G20 presidency.Against a backdrop of increased inequality and persistently low productivity growth, this paper considers the challenges and opportunities confronting policy makers in a rapidly changing world as a result of globalisation, technological change and the changing world of work. The paper focusses on:• The impact of the tax system on the market distribution of income, by supporting employment, skills investments, and labour market formality.• How shifting tax mixes towards growth-friendly taxes can be combined with measures to improve progressivity, particularly through base-broadening and through removing inefficient and regressive tax expenditures.• Ways in which personal income taxes and social transfers can foster inclusive growth by raising the efficiency and equity of labour and capital income tax systems.• How tax policy can foster business dynamism and productivity, including through support for investment and innovation, and can raise efficiency by continuing to combat BEPS.• How tax capacity can be raised, and how tax administration can be strengthened, including through international co-operationThe paper provides tax policy advice and recommendations to support governments in their pursuit of tax and transfer policies conducive to inclusive growth, while supporting innovation and increased productivity growth; preserving the revenue-raising capacity of the tax system; and ensuring the sustainability of public spending.
H24|Increasing social insurance coverage in Viet Nam’s SMEs|Viet Nam has made significant progress in expanding social insurance coverage in recent years. However, coverage amongst small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) remains very low and very few workers in this sector are expected to receive a pension in retirement. Drawing on two datasets for SMEs in Viet Nam, this paper seeks to explain this phenomenon by examining the characteristics of enterprises that are enrolled and those that opt out, and it identifies possible barriers to enrolment, such as high contribution rates. It also examines how enforcement mechanisms and formalisation policies might deter enterprises from enrolling. Drawing on lessons from international experience, the paper recommends a series of policy responses that seek both to address these barriers and to protect the livelihoods of those workers who are not yet covered.
H24|Tax reform to support growth and employment in Finland|Finland raises a large amount of taxes to finance high-quality public services and redistribute income. Public finances are currently relatively solid and taxes and transfers reduce income inequality significantly. However, a rapidly ageing population pushes up public spending, while globalisation creates challenges in raising revenue. Hence, ensuring long-term fiscal sustainability requires both containing spending through efficiency gains in the provision of public services and raising revenue in a way that minimises deadweight costs and distortions weighing on growth and employment. Reducing further the tax wedge on labour income would lift employment. More revenue could be raised through a reduction in the range of goods and services subject to reduced VAT rates, higher taxes on consumption that is harmful to the environment or health and higher property taxes. A competitive corporate taxation, combined with international cooperation to avoid base erosion and profit shifting, is needed to foster local production.
H24|Housing, Debt and the Economy: A Tale of Two Countries|In housing affordability levels and volatility, there could hardly be a greater contrast than between the UK and Germany. Differences in history, institutions and policies are explored in this paper. Residential housing supply has been far more expansionary in Germany and mortgage credit more tightly regulated. A sensibly regulated rental market and stable German house prices have combined to leave the rental sector with over half of tenures. Policy failures in the UK have resulted in widening intergenerational inequality, increased social exclusion, adversely affected productivity and growth and raised the risk of financial instability. Policy lessons are drawn for the UK, which go far beyond the remit of the immediately responsible Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local Government.
H24|Optimal Progressive Income Taxation in a Bewley-Grossman Framework|We study optimal income tax progressivity in an environment where individuals are exposed to idiosyncratic income and health risks over the lifecycle. Our results, based on a calibration for the US economy, indicate that the presence of health risk combined with incomplete insurance markets amplies the social insurance role of progressive income taxes. The government is required to set higher optimal levels of tax progressivity in order to provide more social insurance for unhealthy low income individuals who have limited access to health insurance. The optimal progressive income tax system includes a tax break for income below $36,400 and high marginal tax rates of over 50 percent for income above $200,000: The tax progressivity (Suits) index-a Gini coeffcient for income tax contributions by income-of the optimal tax system is around 0.53, compared to 0.17 in the benchmark tax system. Yet, the optimal tax system in our model is more progressive than the optimal tax systems in models abstracting from health risk (e.g., Conesa and Krueger (2006) and Heathcote, Storesletten and Violante (2017)). Importantly, the optimal level of tax progressivity is strongly affected by the design of the health insurance system. When health expenditure risk is reduced or removed from the model, the optimal tax system becomes less progressive and thus more similar to the optimal progressivity levels reported in the previous literature.
H24|The taxation of savings: the Italian system and international comparison|After a brief review of the economic literature, the paper offers a comparative analysis of the main features of capital income taxation in Italy, the EU and the US. The paper also analyses the recent evolution of capital taxation and portfolio allocation in Italy. The findings point to high heterogeneity in the choice of the type of tax system, taxation level and forms of preferential taxation, suggesting no convergence towards a single model of taxation among countries. However, a common feature of most systems is that capital income is taxed more lightly than labour income. The heterogeneity in the tax treatment of households’ savings is likely to persist in the future; recent developments at international level concerning the transparency of taxation are expected to increase governments’ degrees of freedom in choosing their preferred tax system. Empirical evidence for Italy suggests that the tax burden on financial assets has increased in recent years but the evolution of financial assets over time is not particularly sensitive to tax changes.
H24|¿Cuánto tributan efectivamente el consumo, el trabajo y el capital en Colombia?|Saber cuánto tributan efectivamente los consumidores, trabajadores y propietarios del capital es importante para entender el impacto de los impuestos sobre sus decisiones, los costos de producción, la inversión, el ciclo y el crecimiento económico y la distribución de la carga tributaria. A la vez, es crítico para el estudio de tributación óptima y la toma de decisiones de política tributaria. El objetivo del documento es calcular, para Colombia, las tasas efectivas promedio de tributación brutas y netas sobre el consumo y los ingresos de los factores de producción, trabajo y capital, en el período comprendido entre 1994 y 2016. Además, con el fin de obtener una medida completa de la carga tributaria efectiva total del país, también se estima la tasa sobre el resto de impuestos, técnicamente no clasificados en las anteriores categorías. La conclusión general es que los impuestos en Colombia no son tan altos como se afirma, pero tan poco tan bajos o bien repartidos como se desea. Las implicaciones de política que se derivan de los resultados indican que las autoridades fiscales deben, ser cuidadosas a la hora de tomar decisiones de política tributaria basadas en las tasas nominales, eliminar los beneficios tributarios que no tengan soporte técnico, fortalecer los instrumentos para evitar la elusión y eliminar la evasión, balancear las cargas tributarias y, por último, pero no por ello menos importante, si eliminaran las contribuciones sobre la nómina, la carga tributaria sobre el trabajo se reduciría 13%. Más aún, si se redujeran los aportes a la seguridad social el alivio sería aún mayor.
H24|Tax Simplicity and Heterogeneous Learning|We study how strongly individuals respond to tax simplicity and how they learn about the complexities of the tax system. We focus on the self-employed, who can more easily adjust to tax incentives and whose responses directly stem from their own understanding of the tax system. We use new French tax returns data from 1994 to 2012. France serves as a good quasi-laboratory: it has three fiscal regimes – or modes of taxation – for the self-employed, which differ in their monetary tax incentives and in their tax simplicity. Two key features are that, first, these regimes are subject to eligibility thresholds; we find large excess masses (bunching) right below the latter. Second, the regimes impact different agents heterogeneously and have changed extensively over time. Taken together, these two key elements give us measures of tax responses (the bunching) as well as the variation needed to jointly estimate a value of tax simplicity and taxable income elasticities. They also give us an opportunity to study how individuals learn about and respond over time to changing policy parameters. We estimate a large value for tax simplicity of up to 650 euros per year per individual depending on the regime and activity. We also find sizable costs of tax complexity; agents are not immediately able to understand what the right regime choice is, leave significant money on the table, and learn over time. The cost of complexity is “regressive” in that it affects mostly the uneducated, low income, and low skill agents. Agents who can be viewed as more informed and knowledgeable (e.g., the more educated or high-skilled) are more likely to make the correct regime choice and to learn faster.
H24|Evaluating the Aggregate Effects of Tax and Benefit Reforms|The paper introduces a new way of linking microsimulation models with dynamic general equilibrium frameworks to obtain an evaluation of the impact of detailed tax and benefit measures on the aggregate economy. The approach involving polynomial approximation to aggregated output from behavioural microsimulation permits the solution for the long-run steady state and the transition path in one numerical simulation of the dynamic aggregate economy. The practical usefulness of the approach is demonstrated by evaluating actual and hypothetical tax reforms in the context of Slovakia.
H24|The Distribution of Household Income, 2014|In 2014, average household income before accounting for means-tested transfers and federal taxes was $19,000 for the lowest income quintile (fifth) and $281,000 for the highest quintile. Those transfers and taxes increased average household incomes toward the bottom of the income distribution and reduced incomes toward the top of the distribution. After accounting for the effects of transfers and taxes, average household income for the lowest and highest quintiles was $31,000 and $207,000, respectively, CBO estimates.
H24|The Distribution of Household Income, 2015|In 2015, average household income before accounting for means-tested transfers and federal taxes was $20,000 for the lowest income quintile (fifth) and $292,000 for the highest quintile. Those transfers and taxes increased average household income toward the bottom of the income distribution and reduced income toward the top of the distribution. After accounting for the effects of transfers and taxes, average household income for the lowest and highest quintiles was $33,000 and $215,000, respectively, CBO estimates.
H24|How the Economics Profession Got It Wrong on Brexit|A wide range of reports from official bodies and academics have estimated the impact of Brexit. These influenced the outcome of the Brexit referendum and remain influential in informing views on the potential long-term consequences of a range of Brexit trade arrangements. This paper builds on a previous CBR working paper in examining the most influential of these reports, from HM Treasury, and the OECD. In this paper the work of the LSE’s Centre for Economic Performance is also included. Each of these reports base their analyses either on gravity models or a computable general equilibrium models. The addition in this paper a review of the link between trade and productivity, which plays an important role in these reports. We also examine three reports which take a direct approach to measuring the impact by assessing the likely prices increases across a large range of commodities due to the imposition of tariff and non-tariff barriers, and using elasticities to estimate the potential changes in the volume of trade. We find important flaws in both the application of gravity model results to a Brexit context, and in the knock-on impacts from trade to productivity. The flaws always have the result of exaggerating the negative impact of Brexit. The direct approaches involve partial rather than full equilibrium models but provide an important check on results from more complex models. However, the choice of elasticities can result in widely different results from ostensibly similar approaches. The paper starts by looking at the view, supported in the academic literature and widely repeated in the financial media, that accession to the EEC in 1973 improved the economic growth performance of the UK. The evidence suggests that this view is incorrect.
H24|Political Alignment, Attitudes Toward Government and Tax Evasion|We ask whether attitudes toward government play a causal role in the evasion of U.S. personal income taxes. We use individual-level survey data to demonstrate a link between sharing the party of the president and trust in the administration generally and opinions on taxation and spending policy, more specifically. Next, we move to the county level, and measure tax behavior as turnover elections push voters in partisan counties into and out of alignment with the party of the president. We provide three types of evidence that alignment reduces evasion. As a county moves into alignment we find 1) taxpayers report more easily-evaded forms of income; 2) suspect EITC claims decrease; and 3) audits triggered and audits found to owe additional tax decrease. Our results provide real-world evidence that a positive outlook on government lowers tax evasion.
H24|The end of the flat tax experiment in Slovakia: An evaluation using behavioural microsimulation linked with a dynamic macroeconomic framework|The paper introduces a new way of linking microsimulation models with dynamic general equilibrium frameworks to obtain an evaluation of the impact of detailed tax and benefit measures on the aggregate economy. In the approach presented in this paper, income heterogeneity interacts with the macro-economy via aggregated individual labour supply decisions which influence, and are influenced by, the dynamic evolution of the real wage rate. The method involves a reduced-form representation of the information flow between the macroeconomic and microeconomic blocks. The practical usefulness of the approach is demonstrated by evaluating actual and hypothetical tax reforms that involve abandoning the flat tax system in Slovakia. A hypothetical move to a highly progressive tax structure is shown to generate some employment gains but is associated with a drop in aggregate income and tax revenue.
H24|Optimal Taxation in a Unionised Economy|Unions appear to have an aversion to wage disparities among their members, leading to wage compression. This paper analyses the consequences of this for income tax policy. In a two-sector general equilibrium model we highlight the tradeoff between correcting the resource misallocation created by wage compression and the government’s distributional objectives. Where the union’s aversion to wage dispersion is strong, tax policy can do little to correct the distortion in the supply of trained labour, though it can come closer to achieving distributional aims. Where wage compression is less pronounced, tax policy can have significant effects on resource misallocation, at the expense of its distributional goals.
H24|Relocation of the Rich: Migration in Response to Top Tax Rate Changes from Spanish Reforms|A Spanish reform granted regions the authority to set income tax rates, resulting in substantial tax differentials. Using administrative data, we find that conditional on moving, taxes have a significant effect on location choice. A 1% increase in the net-of-tax rate for a region relative to others increases the probability of moving to that region by 1.7 percentage points. We estimate an elasticity of the number of top taxpayers with respect to net-of-tax rates of 0.85. The mechanical increase in tax revenue due to higher tax rates is larger than the loss in tax revenue from the net outflow of migration.
H24|Attitudes towards Euro Area Reforms: Evidence from a Randomized Survey Experiment|We present the first evidence on public attitudes towards two prominent euro area reform proposals (European Unemployment Benefit Scheme and Sovereign Insolvency Procedure) and assess potential impediments to their implementation by means of a randomized survey experiment in Germany. We find that there is a low willingness among German voters to accept fiscal risk-sharing through common unemployment insurance, while a sovereign insolvency procedure aimed at strengthening market discipline is supported by a majority of the electorate. Our randomized treatments confronting survey participants with potential adverse effects of the reforms lead to significant downward shifts in approval rates. Altruism, cosmopolitanism, political preference and income are important predictors of support for the reform proposals. We also show that there is a striking contrast between the low level of support for transfers to other euro area member states and a broad acceptance of inner German transfers.
H24|Redistribution through Income Taxation and Public Utility Pricing in the Presence of Energy Efficiency Considerations|Many OECD countries such as the USA, the UK or Switzerland are concerned with the affordability of utility services and the distributional consequences inherent in the pricing strategy of basic goods and services, such as electricity. However, the effectiveness of the electricity tariff as a redistribution device is questionable in the presence of a progressive income tax schedule. To shed light on this controversy, we structurally estimate a model that combines public utility pricing and income taxation. We employ a large panel data set on about 105,000 households in the Swiss Canton of Bern from 2008 to 2013, including detailed energy consumption and household income and tax payment characteristics. While the theoretical model predicts that electricity prices should be subsidised in the presence of purely income redistribution concerns, we find a positive mark-up of 49%, in our data. This suggests that, in practice, the government is concerned with energy conservation as well as income redistribution.
H24|Linking Tax Morale and Personal Income Tax in Spain|The paper presents a study of the relationship between the tax morale and the individual payments of personal income tax using the statistical matching of opinion polls with a representative sample of the personal income tax returns in Spain. As an initial step, the method selected to execute the match -imputations using Bayesian Networks- is described. The relationship between a proxy variable of the individual tax morale and other variables in the declared income tax file is later analyzed using the matched files. A first result is that tax morale increases with the level of declared wages, salaries and capital gains, while it has no link with declared business income.
H24|Jointly Optimal Taxes for Different Types of Income|We develop and estimate a model of jointly optimal income taxes for different types of income. Compared to standard optimal tax formulas, optimal schedular income tax rates additionally depend on cross-elasticities between tax bases capturing fiscal externalities. We discuss two applications: the taxation of different income sources such as labor or capital income and the taxation of couples. For these applications, we calculate income type-specific optimal tax rates for Germany using rich panel data from administrative tax records. We first estimate income-type specific elasticities with respect to the next-of-tax rate and show that responses to taxes differ substantially by income source and by gender. Second, we calculate social welfare weights implicit in the German personal income tax schedule which again differ between income sources and by gender. Using these estimates, we consider a tax simplification reform by calculating optimal schedular linear income tax rates. We find that optimal tax rates are significantly lower for labor income than for self-employment and capital income as well as for married women than men.
H24|Fiscal Equalization as a Driver of Tax Increases: Empirical Evidence from Germany|This paper exploits a recent devolution of tax setting powers in the German federation to study the effects of fiscal equalization on subnational governments’ tax policy. Based on an analysis of the system of fiscal equalization transfers, we argue that the redistribution of revenues provides incentives for states to raise rather than to lower their tax rates. The empirical analysis exploits differences in fiscal redistribution among the states and over time. Using a comprehensive simulation model, the paper computes the tax-policy incentives faced by each state over the years and explores their empirical effects on tax policy. The results support significant and substantial effects. Facing full equalization a state is predicted to set the tax rate from the real estate transfer tax about 1.3 percentage points higher than without. Our analysis also shows that the incentive to raise tax rates is proliferated by the equalization system because the states’ decisions to raise their tax rates have intensified fiscal redistribution over time.
H24|Short-time Work Subsidies in a Matching Model|We consider positive and normative aspects of subsidizing work arrangements where subsidies are paid in time of low demand and reduced working hours so as to stabilize workers’ income. In a matching framework such an arrangement increases labor demand. Tightening eligibility to short-time work benefits tends to reduce the wage while the impact on unemployment remains ambiguous. We develop a modified Hosios condition characterizing an efficient combination of labor market tightness and short-time benefit loss rate.
H24|Optimal Taxation of Robots|I study the optimal taxation of robots and labor income. In the model, robots substitute for routine labor and complement non-routine labor. I show that while it is optimal to distort robot adoption, robots may be either taxed or subsidized. The robot tax exploits general-equilibrium effects to compress the wage distribution. Wage compression reduces income-tax distortions of labor supply, thereby raising welfare. In the calibrated model, the optimal robot tax for the US is positive and generates small welfare gains. As the price of robots falls, inequality rises but the robot tax and its welfare impact become negligible.
H24|Frontloaded Income Taxation of Old-Age Pensions: For Efficiency and Fairness in a World of International Labor Mobility|Strong evidence shows that the existing pattern of cross-border pension taxation in OECD countries and beyond is extremely diverse and inconsistent, generating a double fairness dilemma for individuals and countries alike. This paper argues that this dilemma cannot be solved within the current network of double-taxation treaties. Instead, it proposes a new approach for the taxation of old-age pensions in a world of high and increasing cross-border mobility of workers and pensioners. The paper demonstrates that a coordinated move to frontloaded pension taxation and exclusive source taxation would pave the way for an international pension tax order that eliminates the double fairness dilemma. An additional innovative element of frontloaded pension taxation is presented: the decoupling of individual tax assessment and tax payment, which may help curb political opposition against frontloaded pension taxation and smooth transitional effects after its introduction.
H24|Attitudes towards Euro Area Reforms: Evidence from a Randomized Survey Experiment|We present the first evidence on public attitudes towards two prominent euro area reform proposals (European Unemployment Benefit Scheme and Sovereign Insolvency Procedure) and assess potential impediments to their implementation by means of a randomized survey experiment in Germany. We find that there is a low willingness among German voters to accept fiscal risk-sharing through common unemployment insurance, while a sovereign insolvency procedure aimed at strengthening market discipline is supported by a majority of the electorate. Our randomized treatments confronting survey participants with potential adverse effects of the reforms lead to significant downward shifts in approval rates. Altruism, cosmopolitanism, political preferences and income are important predictors of support for the reform proposals. We also show that there is a striking contrast between the low level of support for transfers to other euro area member states and a broad acceptance of inner German transfers.
H24|Payroll Taxes, Social Security and Informality. The 2012 Tax Reform in Colombia|I evaluate how the drastic reduction in payroll taxes in 2012 reduced informality in Colombia. By the end of 2012 the Colombian government implemented a tax reform that, among other things, substantially reduced payroll taxes. I evaluate the effect of this reform on informality both theoretically and empirically. Theoretically, I develop a labor market model incorporating the changes introduced by the reform. As the reduction in payroll taxes was accompanied by a change in social trans-fers' funding, which led to uncertain changes in profits and social benefits, straightforward predictions on informality are not possible. Empirically, I obtain difference-in-difference (DID) estimates from two household surveys- one composed by many repeated cross sections across many years and the other a much shorter panel dataset. Estimates from the repeated cross sections data indicate small, short-term effects and large long-term effects. Industry was the first sector to enjoy a reduction in informality, followed by services and agriculture. For workers earning around one minimum wage, I find large point estimates. Estimates from the household survey panel data are in line with these results.
H24|Multiple Misbehaving: Loss Averse and Inattentive to Monetary Incentives|We study what determines taxpayers’ deduction behavior when filing tax returns. Preliminary deficits might be viewed as losses assuming zero preliminary balance as reference point. Swedish taxpayers may escape these losses by claiming deductions after receiving information about the preliminary balance. Furthermore, the Swedish income tax system has a substantial kink (20 percentage points) where the central government tax applies. Taxpayers slightly above the governmental tax kink have substantially higher (standard economic) incentives to claim deductions than taxpayers slightly below the kink. Using a regression kink and discontinuity approach with individual fixed effects, we study a panel of 4.1 million Swedish taxpayers in 1999 to 2006. We find strong causal effects of preliminary deficits on the probability of claiming deductions. The initial empirical evidence for a kink in deduction probability at the central government threshold, anticipated by standard economic theory, is weaker but significant. However, a more detailed analysis reveals that the kink at the tax threshold is not likely due to the tax incentives per se. When controlling for the preliminary tax deficit, the kink at the tax threshold disappears. Taxpayers just above the tax kink are namely more likely to run a preliminary tax deficit than those just below it. Hence, the most plausible explanation also for the kink at the tax threshold is therefore loss aversion and not standard economic incentives. The Swedish taxpayers are thus “misbehaving”, in a Thaler (2015) sense, on two separate margins: they are highly loss averse but surprisingly inattentive to standard monetary incentives.
H24|Taxes, benefits and labour force participation: A survey of the quasi-experimental literature|We review the literature that uses quasi-experimental methods to estimate the elasticity of labour force participation with respect to the financial gain from work. We find a wide range of elasticities, with an average of 0.38. 26 out of 31 papers find elasticities larger than 0.1, providing strong evidence that individuals respond to incentives on the extensive margin of labour supply. Elasticities are larger for women and older workers, and have declined over time.
H24|Alternative parametric bunching estimators of the ETI|We propose a maximum likelihood (ML) based method to improve the bunching approach of measuring the elasticity of taxable income (ETI), and derive the estimator for several model settings that are prevalent in the literature, such as perfect bunching, bunching with optimization frictions, notches, and heterogeneity in the ETI. We show that the ML estimator is more precise and likely less biased than ad-hoc bunching estimators that are typically used in the literature. In the case of optimization frictions in the form of random shocks to earnings, the ML estimation requires a prior of the average size of such shocks. The results obtained in the presence of a notch can differ substantially from those obtained using ad-hoc approaches. If there is heterogeneity in the ETI, the elasticity of the individuals who bunch exceeds the average elasticity in the population.
H24|Taxes and Household Labor Supply: Estimating Distributional Effects of Nonlinear Prices on Multidimensional Choice|We develop a method for distributional regression of joint multidimensional choice on nonlinear prices departing from a household model of labor supply that focuses on tax policy effects. Our distribution functions are derived under minimal theoretical assumptions and have a simple structure. We allow distribution-free estimation, collective decisionmaking, and identification based on tax reforms. In our empirical application on U.S. panel data from 1980 to 2006, we provide a deepened understanding of how the configuration of the tax system affects the distribution of transitions between combinations of spouse labor supply. We also quantify biases from commonly imposed restrictions.
H24|The Kink and Notch Bunching Estimators Cannot Identify the Taxable Income Elasticity|Bunching estimators were developed and extended by Saez (2010), Chetty et al. (2011) and Kleven and Waseem (2013). Using this method one can get an estimate of the taxable income elasticity from the bunching pattern around a kink point. The bunching estimator has become popular, with a large number of papers applying the method. In this paper, we show that the bunching estimator cannot identify the taxable income elasticity when the functional form of the distribution of preference heterogeneity is unknown. We find that an observed distribution of taxable income around a kink point or over the whole budget set can be consistent with any positive taxable income elasticity if the distribution of heterogeneity is unrestricted. If one is willing to assume restrictions on the heterogeneity density some information about the taxable income elasticity can be obtained. We give bounds on the taxable income elasticity based on monotonicity of the heterogeneity density and apply these bounds in an example. We also consider identification from budget set variation. We find that kinks alone may not be informative even when budget sets vary. However, if the taxable income specification is restricted to be of the parametric isoelastic form assumed in Saez (2010) the taxable income elasticity can be well identified from variation among budget sets. The key condition is that the tax rates at chosen taxable income differ across budget sets for some individuals.
H24|Multiple Misbehaving:Loss Averse and Inattentive to Monetary Incentives|We study what determines taxpayers’ deduction behavior when filing tax returns. Pre-liminary deficits might be viewed as losses assuming zero preliminary balance as reference point. Swedish taxpayers may escape these losses by claiming deductions after receiving information about the preliminary balance. Furthermore, the Swedish income tax system has a substantial kink (20 percentage points) where the central government tax applies. Taxpayers slightly above the governmental tax kink have substantially higher (standard economic) incentives to claim deductions than taxpayers slightly below the kink. Using a regression kink and discontinuity approach with individual fixed eﬀects, we study a panel of 4.1 million Swedish taxpayers in 1999 to 2006. We find strong causal eﬀects of preliminary deficits on the probability of claiming deductions. The initial em-pirical evidence for a kink in deduction probability at the central government threshold, anticipated by standard economic theory, is weaker but significant. However, a more detailed analysis reveals that the kink at the tax threshold is not likely due to the tax incentives per se. When controlling for the preliminary tax deficit, the kink at the tax threshold disappears. Taxpayers just above the tax kink are namely more likely to run a preliminary tax deficit than those just below it. Hence, the most plausible explanation also for the kink at the tax threshold is therefore loss aversion and not standard economic incentives. The Swedish taxpayers are thus “misbehaving”, in a Thaler (2015) sense, on two separate margins: they are highly loss averse but surprisingly inattentive to standard monetary incentives.
H24|世代間資産移転と相続税|本稿では日本の世代間資産移転の実態とそれに関わる相続・贈与行動を概観し、それが少子高齢化社会のなかでどのような意味を持つのかを検討した。まず、Piketty(2011)の手法を援用し、日本における年間世代間資産移転額を推定した。それによると年間80兆円程度と推計された。次いで、相続税の考え方についてであるが、相続税は大別して、遺産を残す人（被相続人）が納税すると考える遺産税方式と遺産を受け取る人（相続人）が納税義務を負うとする取得税方式に分かれるが、日本では両方の折衷様式である法定相続分方式がとられている。ここではそれぞれの方式の優劣を比較検討し、さらに最近の相続税改革の実態について検討を加えた。その中で、世界の相続税に対する考え方が、相続税を廃止する国から相続税を強化する国までかなり分散していることを明らかにする。それを反映して相続税の理論研究でも、最適相続税率はマイナスから、ゼロ、そして50－60%の高率なものまでさまざまな提案がなされており、学界でも合意形成に至っていない。相続・贈与行動は極めて多様で、かつ長期にわたって観測されるべきものであり、政策立案に用いることのできる統計的エビデンスの蓄積が少なく、あったとしても非公開であることが、理論・実証研究に混乱をもたらしている。今後は、国税庁などの行政機関と協力して、相続行動の実態を解明し、現実に即した相続税制の構築を目指すべきであろう。, This paper explores the amount of intergenerational transfers in Japan, including bequests and gifts, and provides some implications for inheritance and gift taxes. Piketty’s (2011)’s methodology is employed to estimate annual intergenerational transfers. We found that annually, about 80 trillion yen are transferred, of which 48 trillion are inheritance transfers and 32 trillion yen are gift transfers. In addition, we investigate the inheritance and gift tax systems in Japan. In doing so, we estimate the elasticity of taxable bequest transfers with respect to the net-of-inheritance tax rate, which falls in the range of 0.077–0.114. Fairly low elasticity implies that the current top inheritance rate of 55% is justifiable. Nevertheless, that tax rate is based on macro (aggregate) time-series data. Hence, studying it requires the solid analysis using microdata from the National Tax Agency of Japan. Doing so forms the basis for future research.
H24|Money vs. time: family income, maternal labor supply, and child development|We study the effect of family income and maternal hours worked on child development. Our instrumental variable analysis suggests different results for cognitive and behavioral development. An additional $1,000 in family income improves cognitive development by 4.4 percent of a standard deviation but has no effect on behavioral development. A yearly increase of 100 work hours negatively affects both outcomes by approximately 6 percent of a standard deviation. The quality of parental investment matters and the substitution effect (less parental time) dominates the income effect (higher earnings) when the after-tax hourly wage is below $13.50. Results call for consideration of child care and minimum wage policies that foster both maternal employment and child development.
H24|The return to work and how it is taxed: a dynamic perspective| This paper provides an empirical account of the dynamic return to work, and how this is affected by taxes and benefits. In doing so we bring the insights from the literature on dynamic labour supply to the issue of estimating the financial return to work and how it is taxed, where the past literature has focused on the current period return. We do this with two new summary measures: the forward-looking replacement rate (FLRR), which measures the dynamic return to working at all, and the forward-looking participation tax rate (FLPTR), which measures the impact of personal taxes and transfers on the dynamic return to work, and implement these using simulated data from a sophisticated, structural dynamic model of education and labour supply. We find that the dynamic return to work is much higher than a static measure would imply: at the start of working life, the expected FLRR and static RR differ by at least 5 percentage points for more than two thirds of women, and by over 10 percentage points for over a third of women. These results are driven by returns to experience. In contrast, we find a dynamic perspective makes relatively little difference to the extent to which personal taxes and transfers reduce the return to work, with the expected FLPTR and static PTR differing little for most women in our data. This mainly reflects the fact that that the UK tax and benefit system tends to treat the future returns to working today similarly to how it treats the current-period return.
H24|On the volume of redistribution: Across income levels and across groups|The optimal income taxation literature focuses on the tradeoff between the equity gains of higher progressivity versus its greater incentive costs at the individual level. This paper highlights a neglected aspect of redistribution—greater progressivity requires a higher volume of gross redistributive flows, across income levels. If these flows are costly to manage, administratively or politically, then progressivity will be lower. Moreover if redistribution across income levels implies redistribution across socio-politically salient groups because of the way in which these groups line up relative to the income distribution, this can be an added cost in the objective function and progressivity is further disadvantaged. The paper develops a simple framework in which these questions can be addressed. Among the many interesting results is that when the capacity for the volume of redistributive flows, across income levels or across socio-political groups, is reached, an increase in market inequality can lead to a fall in progressivity in the tax-transfer regime without any change in the government’s preferences for equity. A focus on the volume of redistribution thus opens up an important set of theoretical and empirical questions for analysis and for policy.
H24|Globalization, income tax structure and the redistribution–progressivity tradeoff|We build a simple model in which (i) households select their country of residence depending on income taxation and on the cost of migrating and living abroad, and (ii) globalization comes with a decrease in the cost of migration. Globalization leads to (i) a maximum between-country income-tax gap which is lower for the high incomes, (ii) a decrease in income tax rates and (iii) a convergence in the taxation structures of the different countries. In addition, globalization generates changes in income tax schedules and redistribution which display three successive stages. In the first stage, the redistribution goal is consistent with tax progressivity. In the second stage, the tax schedule becomes regressive at the top. Thirdly, if the migration cost continues to decline, the government can typically not achieve its redistribution goal, even if redistribution is its first priority, and there is no equilibrium taxation schedule, the tax structure becoming volatile. These results are in line with observed facts. Finally, the model shows that globalization tends to generate and magnify a trade-off between less redistribution and less tax progressivity. This provides an explanation for the middle class curse and the social democrat curse experienced by a large majority of advanced countries over the last three decades.
H24|Sources of Inequality in Italy|In this article, we study the link between the functional and personal distribution of income, focusing on the case of Italy between 1989 and 2016. To this end, we rely on the novel concept of income composition inequality. Income composition inequality focuses on how unequally the composition of income is distributed across the population. The higher the overall degree of income composition inequality is, the stronger the link between the functional and personal distribution of income. We show that the strength of this link decreased steadily in Italy over the period considered. This result is robust to the use of different definitions of capital and labor and different estimation techniques of the degree of income composition inequality. The implications of this result are twofold. First, fluctuations in the total factor shares of income are having an increasingly weaker impact on income inequality in Italy. Second, Italy is moving towards becoming a multiple sources of income society. Finally, we conceptualize a simple rule of thumb for policy makers seeking to reduce income inequality in the long run: This rule relates fluctuations in the total factor shares and the level of income composition inequality to the specific income source to be redistributed.
H24|Superstars and mediocrities: A solution based on personal income taxation|The markets for talent often produce large income inequality and therefore raise political attention. While such inequality can be due to superstar dynamics or factor complementarities, Terviö (“Superstars and Mediocrities: Market Failure in The Discovery of Talent”, the Review of Economic Studies, 2009) first proposed a market failure that was previously unknown to the literature, pointing to long-term contracts as a solution. I extend the model in Terviö (2009) to include personal income tax policy reforms and demonstrate that tax design can be employed as a solution to the market failure when long-term contracts are unfeasible. With reasonably small enough entry payments that novice workers would sustain to compensate employers for the possibility to be discovered as high-talent types, both a progressive tax and a tax incentive on entry wages are found effective. The tax incentive on entry wages, though, can be used even with very large deductible entry payments and with overall negative net entry wages.
H24|L'opus di Mauro Fasiani|Scopo di questo lavoro non è quello di discutere il pensiero scientifico di Fasiani, ma solo di attirare l'attenzione degli studiosi facendo conoscere il contenuto dei suoi apporti scientifici, perché Mauro Fasiani non sembra occupare ancora il posto che merita nell'ambito scientifico. In questo lavoro viene quindi presentato un profilo biografico di Mauro Fasiani, seguito da una breve analisi dei suoi scritti scientifici disposta secondo i principali filoni delle sue ricerche. Segue una bibliografia delle sue opere e la bibliografia degli scritti riguardanti il suo apporto scientifico. Il lavoro si conclude con la presentazione di trentotto schede, ciascuna corrispondente ad un suo saggio; rispetto agli scritti elencati nella bibliografia, mancano le schede corrispondenti a otto scritti, considerati del tutto trascurabili.
H24|Sex working and taxation in European countries|The paper aims to give a picture of the present nature of taxation of sex working in a large number of European countries. Sex working is widespread, and yet it is only taxed in a few countries. There is a move to extend the taxation of sex working to other countries. Consequently, a number of different tax regimes are applied to this field of activity. Following an overview of such taxation, particularly in Europe (its origins, entity and social acceptance), the paper then discusses the classification of general countries’ “models” of sex working taxation. The corresponding regimes of each country are then examined in greater depth. Finally, the paper considers the main “sex industry taxes” applied in a number of countries, as well as the current proposals to enlarge that number.
H24|The Relationship Between Union Membership and Net Fiscal Impact|This paper develops the first evidence on how individuals’ union membership status affects their net fiscal impact, the difference between taxes they pay and cost of public benefits they receive, enriching our understanding of how labor relations interacts with public economics. Current Population Survey data between 1994 and 2015 in pooled cross‐sections and individual first‐difference models yield evidence that union membership has a positive net fiscal impact through the worker‐level channels studied.
H24|The Labor Market Impacts of Universal and Permanent Cash Transfers: Evidence from the Alaska Permanent Fund|What are the effects of universal and permanent cash transfers on the labor market? Since 1982, all Alaskan residents have been entitled to a yearly cash dividend from the Alaska Permanent Fund. Using data from the Current Population Survey and a synthetic control method, we show that the dividend had no effect on employment, and increased part-time work by 1.8 percentage points (17 percent). Although theory and prior empirical research suggests that individual cash transfers decrease household labor supply, we interpret our results as evidence that general equilibrium effects of widespread and permanent transfers tend to offset this effect, at least on the extensive margin. Consistent with this story, we show suggestive evidence that tradable sectors experience employment reductions, while non-tradable sectors do not. Overall, our results suggest that a universal and permanent cash transfer does not significantly decrease aggregate employment.
H24|Drivers of participation elasticities across Europe: gender or earner role within the household?|We compute participation tax rates across the EU and find that work disincentives inherent in tax-benefit systems largely depend on household composition and the individual's earner role within the household. We then estimate participation elasticities using an IV Group estimator that enables us to investigate the responsiveness of individuals to work incentives. We contribute to the literature on heterogeneous elasticities by providing estimates for different socioeconomic groups by country, gender and earner role within the household. Our results show an average elasticity of 0.08 for men and of 0.14 for women as well as a high degree of heterogeneity across countries. The commonly cited difference in elasticities between men and women stems predominantly from the earner role of the individual within the household and nearly disappears once we control for this factor.
H24|Inequality in EU crisis countries. How effective were automatic stabilisers?|The Great Recession and the widespread adoption of fiscal austerity policies have heightened concern about inequality and how well tax-benefit systems redistribute. We examine how the distribution of income in the EU countries which were hardest hit during the recession evolved over this time. Using and extending a recently developed framework (Savage et al., 2017), the overall change in income inequality is decomposed into parts attributable to the change in market income inequality, changes in discretionary tax-benefit policy and automatic stabilisation effects. We implement this approach using the microsimulation software, EUROMOD, linked to EU-SILC survey data. Automatic stabilisation effects, particularly through benefits, are found to play an important role in reducing inequality in all the crisis countries. Their role is less important if we focus on the working age population only, due to the relative importance of old-age benefits in southern European welfare systems. Discretionary policy changes also contributed to reductions in inequality, but to a much lesser extent.
H24|How Should Capital Be Taxed? Theory and Evidence from Sweden|This paper presents a comprehensive analysis of the role of capital taxation in advanced economies with a focus on the Swedish experience. We synthesize the existing theoretical literature, present facts about the capital stock and its distribution, review current capital tax practices and empirical findings regarding their effects on economic activity. The paper also examines the political feasibility of capital taxation by presenting results from a unique attitude survey targeted to a large representative sample of the Swedish population. Finally, we tie together our findings and discuss their implications for tax policy.
H24|Smooth income tax schedules: derivation and consequences|Existing tax schedules are often overly complex and characterized by discontinuities in the marginal tax burden. In this paper we propose a class of progressive smooth functions to replace personal income tax schedules. These functions depend only on three meaningful parameters, and avoid the drawbacks of defining tax schedules through various tax brackets. Based on representative micro data, we derive revenue-neutral parameters for four different types of tax regimes (Austria, Germany, Hungary and Spain). We then analyze possible implications from a hypothetical switch to smoother income tax tariffs. We find that smooth tax functions eliminate the most extreme cases of bracket creep, while the impact on income inequality is mostly negligible, but uniformly reducing.
H24|Information Frictions and Learning Dynamics: Evidence from Tax Avoidance in Ecuador|We show how experience and dynamic learning processes reduce the obstacles to optimization imposed by information frictions when individuals newly enter the formal sector economy. Most importantly, we provide causal evidence on the exact mechanisms through which individuals learn about the functioning of government programs. To this aim, we exploit novel and rich administrative data on the universe of taxpayers in Ecuador and the introduction of generous tax deduction policies. Key to the identification of information transmission is exogenous worker mobility between firms. We find that the spread of information is driven by mobility of managers and tax experts.
H24|Structural Labour Supply Models and Microsimulation|The purpose of the paper is to provide a discussion of the various approaches for accounting for labour supply responses in microsimulation models. The paper focus attention on two methodologies for modelling labour supply: (i) the discrete choice model and (ii) the random utility â€“ random opportunities model. The paper then describes approaches to utilising these models for policy simulation in terms of producing and interpreting simulation outcomes, outlining an extensive literature of policy analyses utilising these approaches. Labour supply models are not only central for analysing behavioural labour supply responses but also for identifying optimal tax-benefit systems, given some of the challenges of the theoretical approach. Combining labour supply results with individual and social welfare functions enables the social evaluation of policy simulations. Combining welfare functions and labour supply functions, the paper discusses how to model socially optimal income taxation
H24|Child Care, Parental Labor Supply and Tax Revenue|We study the impact of child care for toddlers on the labor supply of mothers and fathers in Norway. For identification, we exploit the staggered expansion across municipalities following a large reform from 2002. Our IV-estimates indicate that child care use causes an increase in the labor supply of mothers. Results suggest that cohabiting mothers move towards full time employment, while single mothers move to part time. Meanwhile, we find no impact for fathers or grandparents. We also find an increase in the taxes paid from cohabiting mothers, lending some support to the argument that parts of the cost of child care is offset by increased taxes.
H24|The Elasticity of Taxable Income: A Meta-Regression Analysis|The elasticities of taxable and broad income are key parameters in tax policy analysis. To examine the large variation in estimates found in the literature, I conduct a comprehensive meta-regression analysis using information from 51 studies containing 1,448 estimates. Heterogeneity in reported estimates is driven by regression techniques, sample restrictions and variations across countries and time. Moreover, I provide descriptive evidence of the correlation between contextual factors and the magnitude of an elasticity estimate. Selective reporting bias is prevalent in the literature and the direction of reporting bias depends on whether or not deductions are included in the tax base.
H24|The Aggregate Consequences of Tax Evasion|There is a sizeable overall tax gap in the U.S., albeit tax noncompliance differs sharply across income types. While only small percentages of wages and salaries are underreported, the estimated misreporting rate of self-employment business income is substantial. This paper studies how tax evasion in the self-employment sector affects aggregate outcomes and inequality. To this end, we develop a dynamic general equilibrium model with incomplete markets in which heterogeneous agents choose between being a worker and being self-employed. Self-employed agents may hide a share of their business income but are confronted with the probability of being detected by the tax authority. Our model replicates important quantitative features of U.S. data, in particular, the misreporting rate, wealth inequality, and the firm size distribution. Our quantitative findings suggest that tax evasion induces self-employed businesses to stay small. In the aggregate, tax evasion increases the size but decreases the productivity of the self-employment sector. Moreover, it increases aggregate savings and reduces wealth inequality. We show that tax revenues follow a Laffer curve in the size of the tax evasion penalty.
H24|Labor income taxation in open economies: current trends and options for reforms|We analyze both the theoretical framework of labor taxation in the open economy and important current reforms of labor taxation in countries worldwide including the introduction of “social VAT”. The current tax theory considers the reforms of labor income taxation related to the shifting of taxation from more mobile tax bases to the less mobile ones, taking into consideration the reduction of tax rates with simultaneous broadening of the tax base. Such a reform is intended to reduce the distortion effects of taxation, and, as a consequence, to reduce the tax burden on labor. The empirical section includes analysis of indicators of labor income taxation in OECD countries. We calculated the progressivity index of overall tax wedge and its components – personal income tax, employer’s and employee’s social security contributions. The results enabled cross-country comparisons: we found that in a most OECD members both employees’ and employers’ social security contributions systems are regressive or flat, while personal income tax systems are progressive in all countries except Hungary with flat tax schedule. Moreover, in OECD countries with highest GDP per capita the employees bear average labor tax burden with simultaneously low employers’ social security contributions rates.
H24|On the fairness and the redistributive effects of PIT in Central and Eastern European countries|The aim of this paper is to investigate the fairness and the redistributive effects of personal income tax (PIT) in seven Central and Eastern European countries, namely: Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania and Romania. Following Kakwani and Lambert (1998) methodology, we test tax equity and progressivity. We study the asymmetry of salary income distribution in order to examine the horizontal equity among individuals in the same group. We calculate the Gini coefficients in order to investigate the redistributive effects of PIT regulatory frameworks. We find that tax equity is fulfilled by all countries. However, PIT regulations does not allow for strong progressivity and for redistributive effects.
H24|Powering India at Household Level: State Effort, Issues and Concerns|Even after 70 years of independence, a significant proportion of households in India are not having access to electricity. To correct this situation, the Hon'ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has announced recently a new scheme, Pradhan Mantri Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana, also called ‘Saubhagya’ scheme with an estimated expenditure of Rs. 16,320 crore. This brief note attempts to review this scheme through SWOT analysis along with providing some background to the State Effort in powering India at the household level.
H24|Synthesizing Cash for Clunkers: Stabilizing the Car Market, Hurting the Environment|We examine the impact of European car scrappage programs on new vehicle registrations and respective CO2 emissions. To construct proper counterfactuals, we develop MSCM-T, the multivariate synthetic control method using time series of economic predictors. Applying MSCM-T to a rich data set covering two outcomes of interest, ten economic predictors, and 23 countries, we first analyze Germany which implemented the largest program. We find that the German subsidy had an immensely positive effect of 1.3 million program-induced new car registrations. Disentangling this effect reveals that almost one million purchases were not pulled forward from future periods, worth more than three times the program's 5 billion budget. However, stabilizing the car market came at the cost of 2.4 million tons of additional CO2 emissions. For other European countries with comparable car retirement schemes, we show further positive results regarding vehicle registrations. Finally, we demonstrate that all non-scrapping countries could have considerably backed their vehicle markets by adopting scrappage subsidies.
H24|Adóköteles jövedelmek rugalmassága – egy identifikációs kísérlet a családi adókedvezmény 2011-es bevezetése alapján<BR>[Elasticity of Taxable Income: An Experiment for Identification Based on the Introduction of the Hungarian Family Allowance in 2011]|The elasticity of taxable income has primary importance both from a theoretical and from a policy perspective. In this paper we estimate how the declared taxable income of taxpayers eligible for the family allowance changed following the introduction of the allowance in 2011. Our results show that the taxable income was more responsive to tax changes compared to previous Hungarian studies: the uncompensated elasticity falls robustly in the 0.15–0.25 range. Decomposing it to substitution and income effect is rather uncertain, which in our view is due to the strong correlation between changes in the marginal and average tax prices.
H24|The Effect of Labour Cost Reduction on Employment of Vulnerable Groups — Evaluation of the Hungarian Job Protection Act|In 2013 Hungary introduced large scale targeted employers' social security contribution cuts for the young, old, low-skilled, and other marginally attached workforce, called the Job Protection Act (JPA). In this paper I estimate the employment effects of the programme for the main target groups using the discontinuities in the JPA's design in a differences in differences framework on administrative datasources. My estimates show robust and economically significant employment effects for the JPA, a total 1.2% point increase in employment rate three years after the introduction. The JPA was highly effective in the young and low-skilled target groups, with high self-financing ratios, while it was only marginally effective in the old target group. The results suggests that targeted tax incentives can be a cost-efficient way of increasing employment in vulnerable groups.
H24|Tax Evasion and Financial Instability|This article explores the association between tax evasion and financial instability. The discussion also examines the effect of tax evasion for financial instability. The discussion shows that tax evasion can reduce the tax revenue available to governments to manage the economy and can weaken the government’s ability to promote stability in financial systems, while on the other hand, taxpayers who evade taxes feel they can use the evaded tax money to rather improve their own financial stability.
H24|Envelope wages, hidden production and labor productivity|We evaluate the relative importance of aggregate labor productivity versus income taxes and social contributions for tax compliance in an economy with a large degree of informality. Empirical evidence points out that tax evasion in Europe happens through partially concealing wages and profits in formally registered enterprises. To this end, we build a model in which employer-employee pairs of heterogeneous productive capacities make joint decisions on the degree of tax evasion. The quantitative model is used to analyze the case of Bulgaria which has the largest informal economy in Europe and underwent a number of important tax reforms over the period 2000–2014, including the introduction of a flat income tax in 2008. The estimation strategy relies on matching the empirical series for the size of the informal economy and other aggregate outcomes for 2000–2014. Our counterfactual experiments show that the most important factor for the changing size of the informal economy is labor productivity, which accounts for more than 75% of the change. The variation in corporate income tax accounts for the rest. We find that the 2008 flat tax reform did not play any visible role in coping with informality.
H24|Tax reform, wages, and employment: Evidence from Ohio|This paper evaluates the incidence of a natural experiment entailed by the 2005 Ohio tax reform. The policy reduced the corporate and personal income taxes over the period 2006-2010. I observe several cross-sections of the Current Population Survey and compare individuals in Ohio to similar individuals in Pennsylvania. Using a triple difference identification approach, I conclude that the reform significantly boosted labor force participation for women, specifically those with 5-year-old children and increased reported self-employment taxable earnings. However, it does not seem to have had a positive impact on corporate wages in the short-run.
H24|The Impact of Monetary and Tax Policy on Income Inequality in Japan|This paper assesses the effects of the most recent monetary policy behavior of the Bank of Japan (BOJ) (in particular, zero interest rate policy and negative interest rate policy) and Japanese tax policy on income inequality in this country during the period of 2002Q1 to 2017Q3. The vector error correction model that develops in this research, shows that increase in money stock (m1) through quantitative easing (QE) and quantitative and qualitative easing (QQE) policies of the BOJ significantly increases the income inequality. On the contrary, Japanese tax policy was effective in reducing the income inequality. Variance decomposition results show after ten periods almost 87.15% of the forecast error variance of the inequality is accounted for by its own innovations and 3.76% of the forecast error variance can be explained by exogenous shocks to monetary policy shockâ€”the money stock (M1). The short-term interest rate also accounts for the increase in inequality by 0.47%. On the other hand, the total tax and real gross domestic product contributed in reducing the inequality measure, respectively, by 6.65% and 1.96% after 10 periods.
H24|Study and Reports on the VAT Gap in the EU-28 Member States: 2018 Final Report|In this Report, the Authors present the new Value Added Tax (VAT) Gap estimates for 2016, as well as updated estimates for 2012-2016. In addition to the analysis of the Compliance Gap, this Report examines the Policy Gap in 2016 as well as the contribution that reduced rates and exemptions made to the theoretical VAT revenue losses. Moreover, the Report contains an econometric analysis of VAT Gap determinants, which is a novelty introduced from this year’s Study.
H24|Housing Taxation and Financial Intermediation|Through the lens of a multi-agent dynamic general equilibrium model, we examine the effects of four permanent changes in housing taxes and deductions on macroeconomic aggregates and welfare. Our main result is that the presence of borrowing-constrained bankers dampen the negative consequences of housing taxation on output. The long-run tax multipliers found range from -1.02 to -0.6. The reduction in the deduction of mortgage interest payments delivers the lowest multiplier. We also implement revenue-neutral tax reforms and find that the repeal of mortgage deductibility is the only policy that generates gains in output.
H24|Payment and Provision Consequentiality in Voluntary Contribution Mechanism: Single or Double “Knife-Edge” Evidence?|We conducted a field stated preferences survey to understand the joint and separate effects of payment and provision consequences on hypothetical bias associated with voluntary contribution. Based on four treatment groups and a contingent-ranking willingness to pay (WTP) question, this paper provides some support for “single” knife-edge evidence, which suggests that a respondent facing positive provision consequences will report a significantly higher preference only if the payment consequence is co-presented. For the payment consequence, its negative impact on WTP was independent on the presence of provision consequence; we therefore reject the “double” knife-edge evidence.
H24|Housing Tax Policy: Comment|Alpanda and Zubairy (2016) examine the effects of permanent changes to four types of housing-related tax policies in the context of a multi-agent DGE model. They find long-run tax multipliers that range from -2.21 to -1.53. However, we find an error in their codes that has a significant impact on the size of these multipliers. We correct their error and re-simulate their model. The long-run multipliers we find are reduced almost in half---they now range from -1.25 to -0.84. We also compute short-run multipliers at a 20-quarter horizon and find much lower multipliers, ranging between -0.14 to -0.02.
H24|Prélèvement à la source de l'impôt sur le revenu et année de transition : quel impact pour les finances publiques et l'équité générationelle ?|Le passage au prélèvement à la source de l'impôt sur le revenu prévu en France pour l'année 2019 introduit deux modifications fiscales. D'abord, puisque les impôts prélevés en 2018 le seront sur la base des revenus 2017 et ceux de l'année 2019 sur ceux de l'année 2019, les revenus 2018 ne seront pas fiscalisés, laissant ainsi place à une « année blanche ». Ensuite, les contribuables perdront l'avantage du paiement de l'impôt avec une année de décalage, caractérisant ainsi une hausse implicite d'impôt. Dans cet article, nous évaluons l'impact respectif de ces deux effets. Nous montrons que l'année blanche seule se traduit par une baisse annuelle des recettes fiscales proportionnelle à la différence entre le taux d'intérêt nominal et le taux de croissance des recettes fiscales. Ensuite, lorsqu'on tient compte de la hausse fiscale implicite, nous montrons comment l'Etat voit ses rentrées fiscales totales augmenter relativement au taux de croissance nominal de l'économie. Pour ce qui est des contribuables,nousmontronsquele prélèvementàla source aboutit à un impact inégalitaire, toujours en faveur des générations les plus âgées au détriment des nouveaux et potentiellement des futurs contribuables.
H24|From classes to copulas: wages, capital, and top incomes|Abstract Public debates about the rise in top income shares often focus on the growing dispersion in earnings, and the soaring pay for top executives and financial-sector employees. But can the change in the marginal distribution of earnings on its own explain the rise in top income shares? Are top executives replacing capital owners in the group of top-income earners, or are we rather witnessing a fusion of top capital and top earnings? This paper proposes an extension of the copula framework and uses it for exploring the changing composition of top incomes. It illustrates that changes in top income shares can easily be decomposed into respective changes in the marginal distributions of labour and capital income and the changing association between the two types of income. An application using tax record data from Norway shows that the association between top labour and capital incomes grew stronger between 1995 and 2005 in the top half of the wage and capital income distribution, though it declined for the top 1% of capital income receivers. A gender decomposition demonstrates that the association of wage and capital incomes at the top is particularly striking for men, whilst women are largely under-represented in the top halves of the two marginal distributions.
H24|From classes to copulas: wages, capital, and top incomes|Abstract Public debates about the rise in top income shares often focus on the growing dispersion in earnings, and the soaring pay for top executives and financial-sector employees. But can the change in the marginal distribution of earnings on its own explain the rise in top income shares? Are top executives replacing capital owners in the group of top-income earners, or are we rather witnessing a fusion of top capital and top earnings? This paper proposes an extension of the copula framework and uses it for exploring the changing composition of top incomes. It illustrates that changes in top income shares can easily be decomposed into respective changes in the marginal distributions of labour and capital income and the changing association between the two types of income. An application using tax record data from Norway shows that the association between top labour and capital incomes grew stronger between 1995 and 2005 in the top half of the wage and capital income distribution, though it declined for the top 1% of capital income receivers. A gender decomposition demonstrates that the association of wage and capital incomes at the top is particularly striking for men, whilst women are largely under-represented in the top halves of the two marginal distributions.
H24|Tax Policies in the European Union: 2018 Survey|This report aims to improve the transparency of the European Semester process by publishing in a clear and accessible format the main indicators used to examine Member States' tax policies, alongside information on recent tax reforms. It also sets out some reform options and examples to act as inspiration for Member States looking to improve the fairness and efficiency of their tax systems.
H24|Taxation trends in the European Union: 2018 edition|This report contains a detailed statistical and economic analysis of the tax systems of the Member States of the European Union, plus Iceland and Norway, which are Members of the European Economic Area. The data are presented within a unified statistical framework (the ESA2010 harmonised system of national and regional accounts), which makes it possible to assess the heterogeneous national tax systems on a fully comparable basis.
H24|VAT Treatment of the Financial Services: Implications for the Real Economy|Financial institutions are exempt from the Value-Added Tax in most countries. We develop a general equilibrium model with endogenous firm entry and a banking sector to accommodate three key distortions related to exempt treatment: (i) self-supply bias in the banking sector, (ii) under-taxation of payment services, and (iii) input distortions in the business sector and tax cascading. We calibrate our model to the average of Germany, France and the U.K data. Our results show that repealing exempt treatment always increases tax revenues. However, welfare gains occur only at low VAT rates due to the hump-shaped VAT Laffer curve.
H24|Social Insurance and Occupational Mobility|This paper studies how insurance from progressive taxation improves the matching of workers to occupations. We propose an equilibrium dynamic assignment model to illustrate how social insurance encourages mobility. Workers experiment to find their best occupational fit in a process filled with uncertainty. Risk aversion and limited earnings insurance induce workers to remain in unfitting occupations. We estimate the model using microdata from the United States and Germany. Higher earnings uncertainty explains the U.S. higher mobility rate. When workers in the United States enjoy Germany’s higher progressivity, mobility rises. Output and welfare gains are large.
H24|Financial Incentives to Work Decomposed: The Finnish Case|This paper analyses financial incentives to work in Finland from three perspectives. First, the financial incentives to work are quantified i.e. the participation tax rate (PTR) levels are calculated with numerous classifications. Second, a question of how different parts of the tax and social security system affect work incentives is answered; the PTR is decomposed so that the quantitative contribution of different tax and social security components is given. Third, subgroup decomposition method is applied to explain how variation in PTR is explained by various characteristics of individuals. We found that taxation and unemployment benefits account the largest shares of the mean PTR. Another finding is that PTRs vary substantially and the benefit side and length of unemployment explain this variation quite well. However, the majority of the variation cannot be explained.
H24|Suddenly Married: Joint Taxation And The Labor Supply Of Same-Sex Married Couples After U.S. v. Windsor|Joint taxation can exacerbate the deadweight loss of taxation due to labor supply responses, but evidence is scarce. I estimate the efficiency costs and labor supply effects of joint taxation in the United States by leveraging tax variation created by federal same-sex marriage recognition following the 2013 United States v. Windsor Supreme Court ruling. I find moderate hours responses among primary earners and larger labor force participation responses among secondary earners. My findings suggest that joint taxation is less efficient and generates less tax revenue than individual taxation, and that lowering tax rates for secondary earners could improve efficiency.
H24|Marriage, Divorce, and Tax and Transfer Policy|I use variation from the 1990s in the Earned Income Tax Credit and welfare reform to estimate the effects on marrying and divorcing. I examine flows into and out of marriage, use test scores to predict who is most likely to be affected by the policy changes, and employ a flexible functional form to estimate heterogeneous effects. I find that low-earning single parents are more likely to marry due to the EITC expansion and lower welfare generosity, while mid-earning married parents are less likely to divorce and high-earning married parents are more likely to divorce due to the EITC expansion.
H24|Decomposing the Redistributive Effect of Taxation to Reveal Axiom Violations|"In this paper we propose two alternative strategies in order to decompose the redistributive effect of the personal income tax in the portion due to deductions, marginal tax rates and tax credits. The first one, inspired by the analysis by Lambert (2001), Pfahler (1990) and Onrubia et al. (2014), is a stepwise or ""ex ante"" decomposition, whilst the second strategy, inspired by the works by Podder (1993a,b) and Podder and Chatterjee (2002), is an overall and simultaneous or ""ex post"" decomposition. The value added of our approaches is twofold: they are very simple and intuitive, and, moreover, both of them allow to quantify the Axiom violations, as proposed by Kakwani and Lambert (1998), for each part in which the redistributive effect can be decomposed. We take Italy as a case study."
H24|De quoi une « allocation universelle » est-elle la rémunération ?|La plupart des promoteurs d’une allocation universelle (AU) présentent celle-ci comme une rémunération. Mais on est en droit de s’interroger : rémunération de quoi ? Dit autrement, quelle contrepartie justifierait le versement d’une telle allocation ? Cet article propose de passer en revue les différentes conceptions qui légitiment la mise en place d’une allocation universelle sur la base d’un juste dû. En particulier, nous tentons de montrer les incohérences associées à l’idée que l’AU doit être vue comme un « revenu primaire » ou qu’elle puisse être définie comme un « revenu d’existence ». Ce faisant, nous soulignons combien une AU contribue à esquiver la question des inégalités de patrimoine et d’accès aux moyens de production.
H24|A European Net Wealth Tax|The increase of wealth inequality in many EU countries has spurred interest in wealth taxation. While taxes on wealth for a long time have played only a marginal role in the public finance and taxation literature, more recently a variety of arguments are brought forward in favour of (higher) wealth taxation. At the same time, tax competition has led to an almost complete disappearance of recurrent net wealth taxes in Europe. By dealing with non- and under-reporting in the Household and Consumption Survey (HFCS) data set provided by the European Central Bank, we are able to estimate the wealth distribution within 20 EU countries and the revenue potential of a progressive EU-wide net wealth tax.
H24|Effects of the Austrian Income Tax Reform 2015/2016 on Private Consumption: Survey Findings| We use survey findings to analyse the effects of the Austrian income tax reform 2015/2016 on private consumption differentiated by income classes. Using survey data, we also estimate the corresponding average marginal propensities to consume and compare them to applied average marginal propensities to consume in economic models used to analyse the previous two income tax reforms in Austria. The estimated average marginal propensity to consume amounts to approximately 0.46, whereby in tendency increasing from the lowest income class (0.42-0.43) to the highest income class (0.48-0.50). Our estimated average marginal propensity to consume across all income classes basically corresponds to those used in economic models to evaluate the income tax reform 2015/2016. However, our estimated marginal propensities to consume by income classes fundamentally differ from those used in the economic models.
H24|Locally Optimal Three-Bracket Piecewise Linear Income Taxation|The aim of this paper is to examine the setting of income tax policy from the perspective faced by governments. The government takes the current income tax schedule as the starting point, and seeks to implement a small change in the tax schedule that is both feasible and desirable. If no such change is possible, the current income tax schedule is said to be locally optimal, because it cannot be improved upon via a small reform. We assume that the current income tax schedule is piecewise linear with three tax brackets, which approximates most real-world income tax schedules. The characteristics of locally-optimal piecewise linear income tax schedules are then derived, with particular attention paid to the extent to which they depart from linearity.
H24|The Impact Of System Automation On Revenue Collection in Kenya Revenue Authority. (A Case Study of SIMBA)|The objective of the study was to examine the impact of system automation on revenue collection in Kenya revenue authority. This study employed descriptive study design. The study used secondary data collection. The study utilized KRA Customs data for ten financial years after Simba System.The data was analyzed using Gretl and presented in figures and tables. The study findings established that the number of transactions, increased significantly after the implementation process this means that due to revenue systems automation a high number of imported consignments were processed and passed through the centralized Document Processing Center (DPC). As a result of system, the shilling experienced a strong local currency then depreciated. The shilling has ever since been declining so sharply over the years against the US Dollar.This has a overall effect on the revenue collected in the sense that when the Kenyan shilling is weakened against the dollar i.e. one kshs trading for a very high value for the US dollar, the revenue collected will be of low value. The results established that the revenue collected was directly proportional to the exchange rates due to the positive sign in the coefficient. In conducting analysis of variance in the Gretl software, the probability value of p-value 2.6e-013 was obtained showing that the regression model was significant in predicting the relationship all the coefficients and revenue collected at 95% level of significance. The study findings established that there was a significant increase in the revenue collected after the automation to the simba system.The Exchange rates had an inverse effect on the revenue collected after the automation to the Simba system. The inflation rate was 10.5% in 2009 which increased to 15.2 in 2010 before slowing to 5.33% in 2011. This implies that the consumer price index in 2011 was 5.33. The study recommended that the ICT department should ensure that there is effective project coordination and change management for success of this automated system. Further, the department should ensure that there is a good data system and that is compatible with the system’s needs.
H24|Welfare Chauvinism? Refugee Flows and Electoral Support for Populist-right Parties in Industrial Democracies|In this paper we examine whether refugee flows are associated with an increase in electoral support for populist-right parties. The empirical evidence on this so far remains mixed. We argue that refugee inflows alone are an inaccurate predictor of the success of populist-right parties. Rather, refugee inflows can lead to a rise in electoral support for populist-right parties where traditional welfare states are expansive —the so called ‘welfare chauvinism’ argument, wherein natives already dependent on high levels of social welfare are likely to see refugees as interlopers who free-ride on welfare and thereby threaten the welfare of locals. Using panel data on 27 OECD countries during 1990–2014 period (25 years), we find no evidence to suggest that refugee inflows per se increase electoral support for populist-right parties. However, a positive effect of refugee inflows on electoral support for populist-right parties is conditional upon a higher degree of social welfare and unemployment benefit spending, which supports the propositions of 'welfare chauvinism.' Moreover, support for populist-right parties increase when the degree of labor market regulations and welfare spending is high. Our results are robust to alternative data, sample and estimation techniques.
H24|The reform of the tax system in Swaziland|This paper documents the tax reforms implemented in Swaziland since the 1990s and how they have contributed to revenue collection. Reforms have had a major impact on collection of indirect taxes (especially VAT) but no clear impact on receipts of direct taxes and trade taxes. Despite efforts to broaden the tax base, tax collection is still heavily concentrated on very few sources, with SACU receipts alone accounting for more than one-half of total revenue. Growth in revenue collections from direct taxes on income and profits, and indirect taxes on goods and services remain substantially too low to compensate for the loss in import tariff revenues.
H24|Impact of Cash Subsidy Transfer in a Nonlinear Programming Model for Economic Input-Output Analysis|This paper measures the distributional and welfare impacts of cutting commodity subsidy and paying cash subsidy. We introduce an extended Input-Output model employing a non-linear programming approach. The model is calibrated based on 2004 Iranian Micro Consistent Matrix with 56 commodity groups, 10 rural, and 10 urban household groups. Then we calculate Rawlsian welfare, Bentham welfare, and Cobb-Douglass welfare functions. Then the 2010 version of Iranian Economic Reform Plan to cut commodity subsidies and pay them in cash is simulated. We translate the 2010 cash subsidy policy to scale of 2004 data and with special attention to different household dimension. Simulating the policy, we found that equal payment to all individuals can lead to 47% rise in Rawlsian welfare index, and 3.6% higher welfare in Bentham welfare function. Paying cash subsidy to seven expenditure-deciles of households can improve the Rawlsian and Bentham welfare index by 73% and 1.9%, respectively. Although this policy is preferred by equality measures, it decreases the welfare of top 30% rich between 13% to 16%.
H24|The Mortgage Interest Deduction: Revenue and Distributional Effects|Conventional estimates of the size and distribution of the mortgage interest deduction (MID) in the personal income tax fail to account for potentially important responses in household behavior. As noted by Gervais and Pandey (2008) and Poterba and Sinai (2011), among others, were the MID to be eliminated, households would sell financial assets such as stocks and bonds to pay down their mortgage debt, and the smaller holdings of these taxable assets would offset some of the revenue gains from taxing mortgage interest. Conventional estimates therefore overstate the increase in revenues associated with eliminating the MID. Conventional estimates also overstate the progressivity of eliminating the MID, because households with higher levels of non-residential assets would respond by selling their taxable, non-residential assets. This paper builds on previous work that estimates the consequences of removing the MID using a framework that allows for the possibility of portfolio rebalancing. Unlike previous studies, we analyze data for several years â€” every third year from 1988 to 2012, inclusive. This reduces the likelihood that our estimates are due to the idiosyncrasies of some particular year, and allows us to investigate how and why the differences between estimates with and without a portfolio response have evolved over time. We then turn to the distributional implications of eliminating the MID, again looking at multiple years. A noteworthy feature of our distributional analyses is that we focus on both wealth and income as classifying variables. Our main findings are: (i) The revenue loss associated with the MID is smaller if one allows for rebalancing, with the ratio of the rebalancing-adjusted revenue loss to the conventionally estimated revenue loss varying from 76 percent in 1997 to 90 percent in 2009. While not dramatic, these are non-trivial effects. (ii ) During our sample period, changes in the ratio of the 2 revenue loss estimates were due primarily to changes in the relative stocks of assets to mortgage debt as opposed to changes in rates of return and the tax system, (iii) Portfolio rebalancing attenuates the increase in progressivity associated with elimination of the MID.
H24|Does the Earned Income Tax Credit Reduce Housing Instability?|Housing instability (inability to pay rent, frequent moves, doubling up, eviction, or homelessness) is common among low-income households and is linked with a host of negative outcomes for families and children. As rents have risen and wages have not kept pace, housing affordability has declined over the last 15 years, increasing rates of housing instability. In this study, we examine whether the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC), a key US social welfare policy and one of the largest cash transfer programs in the US, reduces housing instability. Using longitudinal data from the Fragile Families and Child Wellbeing Study and the Survey of Income and Program Participation, we employ a simulated instruments strategy to examine whether policy-induced expansions in the EITC reduce housing instability. Results suggest that a $1,000 increase in the EITC reduces doubling up (living with other non-nuclear family adults) 3 to 5 percentage points. We find some suggestive evidence that the EITC decreases the average number of moves per year (0.05 moves). While our results suggest that the EITC does decrease certain, less severe forms of housing instability, we find no evidence that the EITC decreases more extreme (and rarer) forms of housing instability: eviction or homelessness.
H24|Taxing Atlas: Executive Compensation, Firm Size and Their Impact on Optimal Top Income Tax Rates|We study the optimal taxation of top labor incomes. Top income earners are modeled as managers who operate a span of control technology as in Rosen (1982). Managers are heterogeneous across talent, which is both effort-augmenting and total-factor-productivity improving. The latter gives rise to a positive scale-of-operations effect. A tax formula for optimal taxes is derived linking optimal marginal tax rates to preferences and technology parameters. We show how to quantify the model using readily available firm-level data. Our benchmark calibration focuses on the US. Our results suggest that optimal top taxes are roughly in line with the current statutory rates and, thus, are significantly lower than what previous optimal taxation studies that ignore the scale-of-operations effect have shown. Similar quantitative findings hold when we extend the analysis to a panel of developed countries. (Copyright: Elsevier)
H24|Mathematical and Graphical Interpretation of Tax Tables|The average tax rate and the marginal tax rate are the most important tools used to distinguish tax table types and perceive structure of tax table. The relationship between these two variables and progress within themselves gives us many clues about the tax tables. In this study, after describing the theoretical background of tax tables, the mathematical background has been put forward by proving some proposals related to tax tables. The tax amount, the average tax rate and the marginal tax rate are formulated separately for each tax table type and the relationships among them are shown mathematically. Then the progress of the average tax rate curve under certain conditions is interpreted geometrically.
H24|How do wage earners respond to a large kink? Evidence on earnings and deduction behavior from Austria|This paper contributes to recent literature emphasizing the importance to identify the different channels along which taxable income responses occur. Using bunching techniques and exploiting a large kink point where marginal tax rates increase by as much as 38 percentage points, I first recover modest gross earnings responses of Austrian employees. Next, I demonstrate that when accounting for deduction behavior, the additional mass of wage earners at the kink increases by around 50%. I show direct evidence for wage earners targeting the kink with their deduction claiming. Finally, I contrast the responses of wage earners with those of self-employed taxpayers, and find that access to different tax adjustment channels corresponds with different adjustment behavior. In sum, my results suggest that distinguishing between earnings and deduction responses matters even for taxpayers with only limited possibilities to shelter taxable income.
