H39|Predicting criminal behavior with Lévy flights using real data from Bogotá|I use residential burglary data from Bogota, Colombia, to fit an agent-based model following truncated L´evy flights (Pan et al., 2018) elucidating criminal rational behavior and validating repeat/near-repeat victimization and broken windows effects. The estimated parameters suggest that if an average house or its neighbors have never been attacked, and it is suddenly burglarized, the probability of a new attack the next day increases, due to the crime event, in 79 percentage points. Moreover, the following day its neighbors will also face an increment in the probability of crime of 79 percentage points. This effect persists for a long time span. The model presents an area under the Cumulative Accuracy Profile (CAP) curve, of 0.8 performing similarly or better than state-of-the-art crime prediction models. Public policies seeking to reduce criminal activity and its negative consequences must take into account these mechanisms and the self-exciting nature of crime to effectively make criminal hotspots safer.
H39|Predicting criminal behavior with Levy flights using real data from Bogota|I use residential burglary data from Bogota, Colombia, to fit an agent-based modelfollowing truncated Lévy flights (Pan et al., 2018) elucidating criminal rational behaviorand validating repeat/near-repeat victimization and broken windows effects. The estimatedparameters suggest that if an average house or its neighbors have never been attacked,and it is suddenly burglarized, the probability of a new attack the next day increases, dueto the crime event, in 79 percentage points. Moreover, the following day its neighborswill also face an increment in the probability of crime of 79 percentage points. This effectpersists for a long time span. The model presents an area under the Cumulative AccuracyProfile (CAP) curve, of 0.8 performing similarly or better than state-of-the-art crimeprediction models. Public policies seeking to reduce criminal activity and its negativeconsequences must take into account these mechanisms and the self-exciting nature ofcrime to effectively make criminal hotspots safer
H39|Police spending and economic stabilization in a monetary economy with crime and differential human capital|This paper presents a dynamic model with crime, differential human capital, credit market imperfection, and police spending to examine the role of the latter in stabilizing shock arisen from formal educational quality uncertainty. Based on a stylized parameterization, we find formal and illegal human capital accumulation to share a common cyclical property. There is a case for the use of a rule-based approach to police spending as it smoothens out the fluctuations arisen from formal educational uncertainty, while contributing to a decoupling of the two types of human capital. This nonetheless comes with a cost of greater propagation of the financial accelerator effect due to credit market imperfection, and therefore necessitates the use of a supplementary monetary smoothing regime to negate these negative effects.
H39|Fiscal and Education Spillovers from Charter School Expansion|The fiscal and educational consequences of charter expansion for non-charter students are central issues in the debate over charter schools. Do charter schools drain resources and high-achieving peers from non-charter schools? This paper answers these questions using an empirical strategy that exploits a 2011 reform that lifted caps on charter schools for underperforming districts in Massachusetts. We use complementary synthetic control instrumental variables (IV-SC) and differences-in-differences instrumental variables (IV-DiD) estimators. The results suggest greater charter attendance increases per-pupil expenditures in traditional public schools and induces them to shift expenditure from support services to instruction and salaries. At the same time, charter expansion has a small positive effect on non-charter students' achievement.
H39|Fiscal and education spillovers from charter school expansion|The fiscal and educational consequences of charter expansion for non-charter students are central issues in the debate over charter schools. Do charter schools drain resources and high-achieving peers from non-charter schools? This paper answers these questions using an empirical strategy that exploits a 2011 reform that lifted caps on charter schools for underperforming districts in Massachusetts. We use complementary synthetic control instrumental variables (IV-SC) and differences-in-differences instrumental variables (IV-DiD) estimators. The results suggest greater charter attendance increases per-pupil expenditures in traditional public schools and induces them to shift expenditure from support services to instruction and salaries. At the same time, charter expansion has a small positive effect on non-charter students’ achievement.
H39|"Nothing is Certain Except Death and Taxes : The Lack of Policy Uncertainty from Expiring ""Temporary"" Taxes"|What is the policy uncertainty surrounding expiring taxes? How uncertain are the approvals of routine extensions of temporary tax policies? To answer these questions, I use event studies to measure cumulative abnormal returns (CARs) for firms that claimed the U.S. research and development (R&D) tax credit from 1996-2015. In 1996, the U.S. R&D tax credit was statutorily temporary but was routinely extended ten times until 2015, when it was made permanent. I take the event dates as both when these ten extensions of the R&D tax credit were introduced into committee and when the extensions were signed by the U.S. president into law. On average, I find no statistically significant CARs on these dates, which suggests that the market anticipated these extensions to become law. My results support the fact that a routine extension of a temporary tax policy is not a generator of policy uncertainty and, therefore, that a routine extension of temporary tax policy is not a fiscal shock.
H39|Runoff vs. Plurality: Does It Matter for Expenditures? Evidence from Italy|This paper compares the runoff system and the plurality rule in terms of the size and composition of public expenditures. I use the change in the voting rule in Italian municipalities at 15,000 residents to implement a regression discontinuity design. The results show that municipalities under the runoff system spend at least 20 percent more than those under the plurality rule, and that this effect is primarily driven by a large increase in administrative spending. Additionally, the greater number of candidates and the larger coalitions indicate lower accountability under the runoff system than under the plurality rule.
H39|Operationalising selected reporting and flexibility provisions in the Paris Agreement|An enhanced transparency framework is a central component of the Agreement, and will apply to all Parties, with flexibility for developing country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities. This paper examines how such flexibility might be operationalised when reporting information under the future enhanced transparency system for greenhouse gas inventories and for progress towards the mitigation component of NDCs under Article 4. The paper also highlights how improvements over time in reporting of adaptation, and support needed and received could be encouraged. For each individual reporting element in these four areas, the paper identifies possible ways that countries with a range of different capacity levels could provide information for specific elements under the four reporting areas examined in the paper.
H39|Public Finance and Right-Wing Populism|We build a public finance model that explains why voters vote for right-wing populists, and also under which conditions established politicians will adopt a right-wing populist policy platform. Voters with lower private income have a stronger demand for basic public services at the expense of spending on a global good; generosity of refugee support systems, foreign aid, and environmental protection. Low income voters are thus more prone to support right-wing populists who oppose spending on such global goods. We conclude that established politicians that are challenged by right-wing populists will implement a policy with no global good spending if the relative cost of the global good is high enough. Additionally, adoption of right-wing populist policy is more likely when the economy is in a recession.
H39|The Effects Of Asset Forfeiture On Policing: A Panel Approach|" type=""main"" xml:id=""ecin12232-abs-0001""> Asset forfeiture has proven highly controversial in the United States since its expansion in 1984. Most contentious is the widespread policy that allows police agencies to keep the assets seized, which both proponents and critics assert changes police behavior. From newly developed panel data sets, we find some statistical support for the proposition that police agencies change the intensity and pattern of policing in response to forfeiture. However, in economic terms these effects are very weak and do not support the proposition that forfeiture provides vital funds and incentives for crime policing. (JEL H39, H71, K42)"
H39|Voting and Popularity|For about 45 years, vote and popularity functions have been estimated for many countries indi- cating that voting intentions as well as actual votes are influenced by economic development. The economy is, of course, not the only and probably not always the most important factor, but there is no doubt anymore that it is an important factor. The most relevant variables are still unemployment, and/or real growth, and inflation. The estimated coefficients vary considerably between countries and time periods. In papers, retrospective sociotropic voting dominates. However, the evidence is not so univocal; it rath er tells that voting has egotropic as well as sociotropic aspects, and it is prospective as well as retrospective. It is still open what roles self- interest and altruism play in voting.
H39|Impuestos al tabaco|Resumen: La tributación al tabaco es considerada como una medida excepcionalmente efectiva para reducir los efectos negativos generados por el consumo del tabaco. De acuerdo con la OMS (2015), el aumento de los impuestos al tabaco a más del 75% del precio de venta es la medida más efectiva para controlar la epidemia, especialmente entre los más jóvenes y los más pobres. Pese a la evidencia disponible, en Colombia el impuesto al tabaco equivale a un 49,4% del precio de referencia promedio. La carga -relativamente baja- de los impuestos sobre estos productos explica el bajo precio de los cigarrillos en el país. El presente trabajo estudia las consecuencias sobre la salud en la eventualidad de no incrementar la tributación al cigarrillo, así como una propuesta para incrementar el impuesto al mismo. Con base en razones de salud pública y teniendo en cuenta los compromisos que ha adquirido Colombia como Estado Parte del Convenio Marco para el Control del Tabaco de la Organización Mundial de la Salud, se propone un incremento del 57% en el precio final del tabaco, a partir de un incremento en la tarifa del impuesto al consumo. Adicionalmente, se propone actualizar la tarifa anualmente, en un porcentaje equivalente al del crecimiento del IPC, más un 5% adicional hasta alcanzar el precio promedio que se registra en la región.
H39|Are fiscal rules an effective instrument in consolidating public finances? Conclusions from the economic crisis|The paper aims to assess the role of fiscal rules in the process of consolidating public finances and maintaining macroeconomic stability in the EU Member States in the period of the economic crisis. The paper puts forward the thesis that fiscal rules were not an effective instrument for ensuring fiscal discipline in times of crisis. It will present the most important issues of the process of evolution of the rules during the crisis. A review and an analysis of legislation and literature on reforms implemented in the area of fiscal rules, confirms this thesis. The paper points to the need to create such fiscal rules that could contribute not only to fiscal stability but also to macroeconomic stability of the economy and concludes with recommendations for the creation of effective fiscal rules and their desirable features. The rules should be based on the structural balance or the over the cycle balance (but, in order for such rules to be effective, the structural deficit should be relatively low). Effective enforcement of the rules is necessary as well as a strong legal basis for the rules. However, one may remember that the efficiency of the rules is also determined by causes and the scope of fiscal problems in individual countries. The rules alone are not sufficient to overcome the strong systemic and structural burdens placed on economies. In such a situation, a better solution is to develop a long-term strategy for reducing deficit and debt levels, incorporating fiscal rules as one of its elements.
H39|Voting and Popularity|For about 45 years, vote and popularity functions have been estimated for many countries indicating that voting intentions as well as actual votes are influenced by economic development. The economy is, of course, not the only and probably not always the most important factor, but there is no doubt anymore that it is an important factor. The most relevant variables are still unemployment, and/or real growth, and inflation. The estimated coefficients vary considerably between countries and time periods. In papers, retrospective sociotropic voting dominates. However, the evidence is not so univocal; it rather tells that voting has egotropic as well as sociotropic aspects, and it is prospective as well as retrospective. It is still open what roles self-interest and altruism play in voting.
H39|Reforming of Regional Fiscal Policy as Basis of Increasing Taxation Potential of Territories|The article is devoted to researching problems related to forming regional fiscal policy focused on increasing the taxation potential of territories. The subject of the research is theoretic and methodological basics of pursuing regional fiscal policy focused on developing the taxation potential of the Russian Federation regions. The object of the research is the Russian taxation system, regional fiscal policy, and foreign and national practices of taxation regulation of regional development. The authors consider in details such aspects of the theme as economic and functional content of regional fiscal policy. They argument the conclusion that efficient regional fiscal policy must contribute to stabilizing production and providing economic growth, equalizing conditions of social and economic, and financial development of regions, ensuring full implementation of principles of the taxation system and taxation federalism in the Russian Federation based on the unified economic and taxation space, establishing and providing financial and economic warranties of the local self-governance, providing all levels of government with monetary means that are sufficient for pursuing economic and social policy as well as fulfilling the imposed functions and performing tasks by relevant governmental authorities. The article stipulates the conclusion that an increase in efficiency of regional fiscal policy has an impact on volumes of tax revenues in budgets of the subjects of the Russian Federation and finally contributes to the development of the taxation potential of territories. It arguments the conclusion that the basic goal of regional fiscal policy is to increase the region’s own taxation potential by increasing the revenue base of regional budgets to carry out expendable obligations to provide economic growth.
H39|Evidencia de ciclo político presupuestal en el Estado de México|En este documento se determina la presencia de ciclos políticos presupuestales (CPP) asociados a las elecciones de gobernador del Estado de México; México, durante el periodo 1980-2011. Para ello, se analizan las características de los datos de gasto público en busca de evidencia preliminar. Posteriormente, se estiman modelos autorregresivos extendidos que incorporan variables (dicótomas) electorales y se controlan mediante los efectos del ciclo económico. Los resultados muestran la presencia de CPP en el gasto administrativo y la deuda pública, pero sólo evidencia episódica de conductas oportunistas en los rubros de gasto total (elección de 1993) y transferencias (elecciones de 1987 y 1999).
H39|The impact of price changes on volume sales of alcoholic beverages in Sweden, 2006–2013|We evaluate whether price elasticities on registered alcohol have changed in the last ten years in Sweden, in particular with regard to the investigation by Asplund et al (2007). We also investigate the fiscal effects of such changes. According to our estimates, price elasticities have increased, and these increases may have substantial effects on estimated changes in tax revenues when commodity tax rates are changed. In particular, commodity tax rates on spirits may have reached “Laffer territory” where tax increases may actually lower tax revenues.
H39|Threshold Effects of Fiscal Policy on Economic Activity in Developing Countries|The aim of this paper is to investigate the relationship between fiscal policy and economic growth for a panel of 40 developing countries for the period 1990 â€“ 2012 with a focus on a comparative analysis between Morocco and the panel. The variables used are real GDP, budget deficit, current government spending, national saving, inflation rate, total investment, public debt and current account balance. The main findings are: First, there is evidence of a double threshold effect of the fiscal balance. When exceeding a budget deficit level of 4.8% of GDP or a fiscal surplus level of 3.2% of GDP, economic growth is negatively affected. Second, the sign of the relationship between budget deficit and economic growth is conditioned by the level of total investment. For values of total investment higher than 23%, it follows that there is a positive relationship. However, it becomes negative, when investment falls below this threshold. Third, from Moroccoâ€™s perspective, analysis of threshold effects suggested that above 4.8% of budget deficit, average growth rate falls by 2.1%, while median growth falls by 1.5%.
H39|Evaluación de la Política Fiscal de Bolivia<BR>[Evaluation of Bolivia's Fiscal Policy]|I built a general equilibrium model for a small open economy, in order to analyze the effects of fiscal spending in Bolivia, observing certain effects on variables like is constructed: GDP, consumption, investment, exports, imports, real exchange rate and interest rate. Shocks are transmitted to the economy in the presence of the relationship between fiscal spending and the international price of oil, which was analyzed. The results indicate that in the short-term commodity price shock and fiscal spending have positively impacts in the product and despise the way real change.
H39|Handbook of Tobacco Taxation: Theory and Practice (Economic Theory of Taxation)<BR>[Руководство По Налогообложению Табачных Изделий: Теория И Практика (Экономическая Теория Налогообложения)]|Excise taxes are consumption taxes applied to a specific good, such as alcohol, gasoline, or tobacco, for example. Such taxes may be a mechanism to generate revenues for the overall government budget, be intended to curb consumption (e.g.,“sin” taxes on alcohol and tobacco), act as an “earmarked tax” to fund a public good (e.g., gasoline taxes often fund road maintenance and repair), or correct for a negative externality of consumption (e.g., fat taxes on fatty foods) — or any combination of the four. Adam Smith laid the groundwork for taxing consumable goods, with an excise tax on such goods seen as the most market-neutral tax — guaranteeing government revenue without increasing the natural wage rate of laborers. The premise of this assertion is that if goods like tobacco, rum, or sugar become too expensive, then consumers can simply cut them out of their budget, as they are not necessities. Over the subsequent centuries, a number of economists have expanded upon Smith’s theories. The additional research, along with years of practical experience, has cemented tobacco as one of the most frequent targets of tax increases, on both public health and public finance grounds. While the levying of excise taxes is theoretically substantiated for generating government tax revenues with minimum market distortions, as well as correcting for externalities, there are numerous theoretical and practical issues to consider when introducing or increasing excise taxes. Given recent discussions on international tobacco taxation, it remains of interest to find a way to objectively compare tax levels across countries. Broadly three approaches exist: comparing tax incidence, expressing taxes as a percentage of the retail consumer price; comparing monetary tax levels, in a common currency per pack of cigarettes; or comparing tax levels taking into account domestic income levels. Our study shows that this last approach, which takes into account the domestic affordability of tobacco products, is the most sensible for public policy benchmarking purposes. In general, governments levy excise taxes on tobacco to achieve fiscal and public health objectives. In order to evaluate both objectives, it is first necessary to review the elasticity of tobacco demand. From there, fiscal revenue and public health goals are discussed in context of the Laffer Curve (fiscal) and the Bhagwati Theorems (public health). Other theoretical concerns, such as affordability, regressivity, illicit trade, and the excise tax structure are also considered in this book. Of course, no analysis would be complete without an overview of the practical aspects of excise taxation — each of these topics are highlighted below
H39|Estudios sobre la eficacia del régimen fiscal cooperativo portugués<BR>[Study on the efficacy of the portuguese cooperative taxation]|El ordenamiento jurídico portugués consagra un régimen fiscal especial para el sector cooperativo, basado, al igual que otros ordenamientos como el español o el italiano, en la protección de la mutualidad como forma de organización empresarial especialmente benéfica en el plano social. Para alcanzar ese objetivo, el régimen fiscal cooperativo debe ser selectivo, lo que significa que al legislador se le plantea el reto de establecer criterios para separar, dentro del marco cooperativo, lo que debe ser protegido de lo que no merece protección fiscal. El legislador portugués optó por un modelo basado en dos grupos de ramos cooperativos claramente diferenciados según los beneficios fiscales aplicables, ambos con amplias exenciones fiscales. El presente trabajo no se centra en el contenido de los beneficios aplicables sino en las condiciones que las cooperativas deben reunir para acogerse a esos regímenes fiscales favorables. Estos criterios son: i) una división entre operaciones con socios y operaciones con terceros; ii) una delimitación de las operaciones o actividades cooperativas según estén o no vinculadas con el “fin propio de la cooperativa”; y iii) una estructura prevalentemente mutualista del factor trabajo. Esta fórmula legal tiene su raíz en una legislación de 1929 y se ha mantenido hasta el día de hoy debido en parte a un fenómeno de inercia legislativa. El presente trabajo, basándose en la metodología de la sociología jurídica, asienta en una encuesta dirigida a 64 cooperativas, por la que se buscaba indagar hasta qué punto estos criterios (de acuerdo con los que se seleccionan las cooperativas que pueden acogerse a los regímenes fiscales favorables) cuadran con la realidad cooperativa actual. Como era de esperar, la vetustez del régimen hizo que se encontraran desajustes muy significativos, que reclaman una reforma urgente.
H39|Fiscal incentives and policy choices of local governments: Evidence from China|This paper examines how fiscal incentives affect the policy choices of local governments in the context of China. Based on exogenous changes in the intergovernmental revenue-sharing scheme, we construct a simulated instrumental variable to resolve the endogeneity problem. We find evidence that local governments shifted their efforts from fostering industrial growth to “urbanizing” China, i.e., to developing the real estate and construction sectors, when their retention rate of enterprise tax revenue was reduced. The increase from the new revenue source compensated for half of the losses in revenue that resulted from the reassignment of fiscal rights. The reassignment had also the effect of retarding the industrial growth of domestically-owned firms in particular.
H39|Regulating European grant-making foundations. Lessons from the USA experience?|Grant-making foundations are private institutions that distribute their income to deserving organisations. In the USA, they enjoy fiscal incentives, but have to comply with complex rules securing that incentives are well deserved. In contrast, European countries have an embryonic legislation. This paper investigates whether the different tax rules adopted in the USA for independent and community foundations influence the grant-making behaviour of these organisations. Our econometric investigation underlines the existence of a large heterogeneity in the activities of both types, suggesting that the introduction of new regulations could benefit from a careful analysis of the nature and the features of these organisations.
H39|Will one size fit all? Incentives designed to nurture prosocial behaviour|Gneezy et al. (2011) review a literature that assesses the relevance of the form (monetary or non-monetary) of incentives employed to nurture prosocial behaviour. Here the objective is to assess the relevance of characteristics employed to describe individuals when comparing the efficacy of incentives designed to nurture prosocial behaviour. The impact of different incentives depends on the form they take and on the way they are received. This paper compares the impact of different incentives designed to increase pro-environmental behaviour (by increasing individuals’ willingness to recycle household waste). Some individuals are more responsive to a nudge (that increases individuals’ perceptions of the intrinsic value of action) than to a threat (that they will be punished if they refuse to comply). The relative efficacy of these incentives depends on the extent to which individuals are motivated by ‘environmental morale’. When designing policy to increase prosocial behaviour, ‘one size will not fit all’.
H39|Social justice in the construction of the acceptability judgment. Analysis of the farmers’ reactions to different groundwater sharing rules|Cet article analyse les discours des agriculteurs en réaction à différents modes de calcul de quotas individuels, pouvant être utilisés pour la mise en place de la loi sur l'eau de 2006. La démarche consiste à articuler deux types d'approches : l'évaluation de l'acceptabilité de ces règles et l'analyse des principes de justice sociale sous-jacents aux argumentaires. Cette problématique est abordée à travers une revue de la littérature et une étude empirique, consistant à soumettre neuf scénarios d'allocation à 76 agriculteurs sélectionnés dans cinq terrains en France. Cet article contribue à la littérature sur la justice sociale dans la gestion de l'eau, en combinant différents cadres d'analyse ; il donne également des outils pour la mise en place d'une gestion quantitative, en proposant une méthode d'évaluation a priori de l'acceptabilité des modes de calculs des quotas. MOTS-CLÉS : acceptabilité, justice sociale, loi sur l'eau, politiques publiques, irrigation Social justice in the construction of the acceptability judgment. Analysis of the farmers' reactions to different groundwater sharing rules This article analyses farmers' answers to different water allocation rules which could be used to implement the 2006 French Water Law. We develop an analytical framework which combines an evaluation of overall acceptability of these rules with an analysis of the underlying principles of social justice. This framework is applied through conducting a survey in five French case studies. Nine allocation rules are presented to 76 irrigating farmers and their preferences analyzed. This article contributes to literature on social justice by articulating different analysis framework, and gives tools to quantitative management implementation, by proposing an assessment method on calculation quotas acceptability. (JEL: Q25, Q15, Q28, Q54, K32, H39)
H39|Yükselen Ekonomilerde Risk Primi ve Toplam Dalgalanmalar|Bu çalışma, finansal ve enformasyonel aksaklıkların bulunduğu yükselen ekonomilerde risk priminin toplam dalgalanmalar üzerindeki etkilerini küçük açık bir ekonomi modeli kullanarak araştırmaktadır. Ekonomideki aktörler arasındaki enformasyonel asimetrilerin ve üretim sürecindeki belirsizliğin finansal aracılık gerektirdiği bir dinamik, stokastik, genel denge modeli geliştirilmektedir. Üretimdeki Holmstrom-Tirole tarzı belirsizlik aynı zamanda firmalar tarafından teminatlı borçlanmaya sebep olmaktadır ve firmaların fiziksel sermaye stoğu hem bir üretim faktörü hem de teminat olarak kullanılmaktadır. Model ekonomide ayrıca kısmi temerrüt riski ile içeriden borçlanan bir kamu sektörü bulunmaktadır. Devlet, tahvillerin içerdiği temerrüt riskinden dolayı, borç veren konumundaki hanehalklarına, yabancı bono ihraççılarının sunduğu dışsal olarak verilen uluslararası faiz oranına ilaveten risk primi sunmak zorundadır. Bu çalışmanın literatüre en büyük katkılarından biri, risk priminin aynı modelin içinde hem dışsal hem de içsel olarak incelenmesidir. Bu araştırmada, belirli koşullar altında, yükselen ekonomilerde pozitif, geçici risk primi şoklarına karşı devlet borçlanmasının düşürülmesi ve harcamaların arttırılmasının mümkün olabileceği gösterilmektedir.
H39|Fighting Harmful Tax Competition Generated by Offshore Jurisdictions|Harmful tax competition is not just tax system, but can also undermine the interests of local communities and the environment. Tax havens are a huge drain of resources from other countries (basic non tax haven) to offshore areas. To operate, tax havens are supported economically, politically, and socially by high tax states. Also, by encouraging savings, it boosts investment and capital formation. Because they are low tax jurisdictions, they exert a higher tax on tax rates worldwide.
H39|Relative Income and Subjective Wellbeing: Intra-national and Inter-national Comparisons by Settlement and Country Type|We extend the Easterlin Paradox (EP) literature in two key respects, testing whether inter-national as well as intra-national income comparisons matter for subjective wellbeing, and testing whether these effects differ by settlement-type as well as by country-type. We confirm the intra-national EP predictions (that subjective wellbeing is left unchanged by an equi-proportionate rise in all intra-country incomes) across four developed country settlement types ranging from rural areas to large cities. The EP result also holds for rural areas in transitional countries but not for larger settlement sizes in those countries. For all country-settlement types, we confirm the importance also of inter-national income comparisons in determining people’s subjective wellbeing. Again, however, the effect is less prominent in larger transitional country cities. We also show that once we control for personal characteristics and income-related factors, we cannot reject the presence of a spatial equilibrium in life satisfaction. Our results indicate that each individual government that wishes to raise the life satisfaction of its residents still needs to boost those residents’ incomes in order to raise their subjective wellbeing. However, at least amongst developed countries, this practice results in an international Prisoners Dilemma in which mean life satisfaction stays stable despite rising global incomes.
H39|Identifying and addressing gaps in the UNFCCC reporting framework|There are many reasons why the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) reporting framework requests information from countries. These include understanding and tracking progress with individual or collective commitments or pledges, providing confidence and enhancing accountability in quantified information measured and reported, and providing background information on the scope and ambition of national climate responses. This paper highlights the gaps, inconsistencies and uncertainties in the current reporting framework, which was developed for both long-standing obligations and mitigation pledges for the period to 2020. The paper also identifies possible improvements in the UNFCCC reporting framework in the context of the post-2020 transparency framework and nationally determined contributions (NDCs) for the post-2020 period. Recenser et combler les lacunes du cadre de notification d'informations de la CCNUCC La Convention-cadre des Nations Unies sur les changements climatiques (CCNUCC), qui invite les pays à lui communiquer des informations, vise plusieurs objectifs : mieux cerner les progrès accomplis dans la mise en oeuvre des engagements individuels ou collectifs et en assurer le suivi ; accroître la confiance dans les informations chiffrées communiquées par les pays et renforcer la transparence ; et fournir des renseignements sur le champ d’application et le niveau d’ambition des mesures climatiques nationales. Ce document met en évidence les lacunes, incohérences et incertitudes de l’actuel cadre de notification qui a été élaboré pour rendre compte à la fois des obligations de longue date des pays et de leurs engagements d’atténuation jusqu’en 2020. Il identifie aussi les améliorations qui pourraient être apportées au système de notification de la CCNUCC en ce qui concerne le cadre de transparence et les contributions déterminées au niveau national pour la période de l’après-2020.
H39|Cohesion Policy as a Function of the EU Budget: A Perspective from the CEE Member States|Summary This study analyses the key patterns of cohesion policy within the overall framework of the EU budget, viewed from the perspective of the new Member States of Central and Eastern Europe. In more specific terms, the main objectives are, first, to analyse past trends of cohesion policy and the attitude of various groups of countries towards this policy; second, to assess the position of cohesion policy within the 2014-2020 medium-term financial framework of the EU; and third, to discuss alternative options for cohesion policy within the framework of the EU budget in the post-2020 period. In methodological terms, the conceptual parts are based primarily on a qualitative analysis of the literature while empirical inputs were provided first of all through an expert questionnaire survey and country case studies. The research results convey the important message that the feasibility of scenarios other than maintaining the ‘status quo’ will most probably not depend on the behaviour of the new Member States. Despite their strong and explicit interest in securing ample resources from cohesion policy funds for themselves, the new Member States’ administrative and academic experts with their non-negligible influence on the political decisions of their governments cannot be seen as a stumbling block in the way towards reforms for a modernised and more rule-based EU budget. A resolute shift towards increased EU budgetary support for projects with more European value added and stronger future orientation than today, and a fair and transparent distribution of net financial positions will be far more determined by the outcome of multifaceted interest reconciliation among the ‘major players’ of the ‘old’ EU-15.
H39|Using Methodological Triangulation to Study the Individual Compliance Behaviour Towards Income Reporting|The research in tax compliance has approached various methods of data collection, but almost never methodological triangulation has been used. Triangulation helps the researcher in obtaining more reliable results, if they prove to be similar after each method used and also it increases the validity of the entire study. The purpose of the paper is to highlight the importance of triangulation and especially methodological triangulation, by presenting the use of it in researching the compliance behaviour of three categories of individual Romanian taxpayers (doctors, lawyers/notaries and self-employed accountants) towards income reporting. Two studies have been conducted: a survey on actual taxpayers and a quasi-experiment on potential taxpayers. The studies had similar results, so the usefulness of triangulation is once again confirmed. The results may be useful to both theorists and practitioners.
H39|Housing Provision, Finance, and Well-Being in Europe|This paper explores the role of housing in households’ increasing financial activities. First, I build on quantitative work on the growth of housing related debt across Europe carried out under WP5 by presenting data on rates of homeownership, levels and types of mortgage debt, and house prices (and, by implication, housing wealth). I find that, although there is a general tendency for all to increase, differences in the structures of housing provision across countries lead to significant variation in both the data, and what can be drawn from it, across countries. Second, I consider accounts of households’ growing financial activities that attribute a central role to housing, including Lapavitsas and Dos Santos’s ‘financial expropriation’ thesis, and a growing body of literature that sees Europe as moving towards a housing asset-based welfare model. I argue that both, in different ways, are insufficiently attentive to the way in which housing provision, the role of finance within it, and the relationship of both to the reproduction of labour power more generally, are all uniquely and distinctly structured in different countries. I also show that even in the UK, where the role of finance in housing and welfare provision is thought to be most advanced, the restructuring of housing and welfare in favour of finance remains limited and contradictory. Finally, I outline some preliminary findings on the impact that a growing tendency to treat one’s home as an asset has had on well-being.
H39|Macro Fiscal Policy in Economic Unions: States as Agents|The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) was the US government's fiscal response to the Great Recession. An important component of ARRA's $796 billion proposed budget was $318 billion in fiscal assistance to state and local governments. We examine the historical experience of federal government transfers to state and local governments and their impact on aggregate GDP growth, recognizing that lower-tier governments are their own fiscal agents. The SVAR analysis explicitly incorporates federal intergovernmental transfers, disaggregated into project (e.g., infrastructure) aid and welfare aid, as separate fiscal policies in addition to federal government purchases and federal net taxes on household and firms. A narrative analysis provides an alternative identification strategy. To better understand the estimated aggregate effects of aid on the economy, we also estimate a behavioral model of state responses to such assistance. The analysis reaches three conclusions. First, aggregate federal transfers to state and local governments are less stimulative than are transfers to households and firms. It is important to evaluate the two policies separately. Second, within intergovernmental transfers, matching (price) transfers for welfare spending are more effective for stimulating GDP growth than are unconstrained (income) transfers for project spending. Matching aid is fully spent on welfare services or middle-class tax relief; half of project aid is saved and only slowly spent in future years. Third, simulations using the SVAR specification suggest ARRA assistance would have been 30 percent more effective in stimulating GDP growth had the share spent on government purchases and project aid been fully allocated to private sector tax relief and to matching aid to states for lower-income support.
H39|Why do parties use primaries?: Political selection versus candidate incentives|This paper contrasts empirically two possible explanations for the party decision to use primaries: desire to improve political selection (selection effect), or desire to increase political competition—and incentives—among candidates (incentive effect). Using a simple model of endogenous primaries, I show that each explanation implies a different relation between primary adoption and the strength of partisan support. I estimate this relation using the case of Latin American presidential primaries and find robust evidence that the incentive effect dominates the selection effect. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014
H39|Проблемы и перспективы cекьюритизации активов на российском рынке<BR>[Problems and prospects of asset securitization in the Russian market]|This article discusses the problem of asset securitization in Russia, its distinctive features, perspectives and ways of its development
H39|Public–Private Service Delivery Arrangements and Incentive Schemes in Developing Asia|In many countries, public agencies or private firms are gradually moving away from being exclusive providers of goods and services that traditionally were assigned to the state or markets, respectively. Instead, state agencies, both at the national and the local level, and private organizations, both for-profit firms and nongovernment organizations (NGOs), increasingly coordinate, collaborate, or partner to finance, produce, or provide public services. This paper attempts to identify the factors that account for the successes or failures of such public–private service delivery arrangements, with a focus on the role of monetary andnonmonetary incentives used in selected case studies in developing Asia. It finds that such arrangements are a viable service delivery mechanism where there is a state or market failure. While governments now increasingly enter into such partnerships, they appear to do so more with for-profit firms than with NGOs. A key lesson is to mobilize potential private sector partners, match the partner’s mission with the appropriate type or level of service provision, and then motivate them with the right incentives but also monitor them for performance accordingly.
H39|Fiscal decentralisation and its effects on the health sector in Pakistan|Education and health sectors are known to have massive impact on the quality of human life. In this context, the health sector is discussed in this study to analyse the impact of fiscal decentralisation on basic health infrastructure in Pakistan. Provincial datasets (1980-2001) from three provinces were used for the analysis of provincial health indicators. It was learnt that the health sector remained neglected both at the national and provincial level. The provincial analysis suggests that federal transfers improved hospital beds availability in the economically active provinces, which were presumably more efficient. Provincial autonomy, on the other hand, failed to play a role in the improvement of the health sector. The analysis highlights the social implications of federal transfers. Differences in results for economically distinct provinces hint towards the efficiency aspect of resource utilisation.
H39|The German “debt brake”: a shining example for European fiscal policy?|Many observers consider the German ?debt brake? beyond criticism. In the current crisis, many European countries have difficulties refinancing their budgets, while the German Treasury?s funding conditions are most favourable. The ?fiscal compact?s? call for the introduction of German-style ?debt brakes? in the constitutions of other countries in order to rebuild their credibility on financial markets therefore might seem reasonable. However, there are several reasons to doubt the underlying (macro-) economic reasoning. Two specific problems of the German debt brake are analysed in greater detail: Firstly, the German rule is neither simple nor transparent. The calculation of structural deficits is a complex matter highly sensitive to specification and therefore open to political manipulation. Secondly, the debt brake will ultimately have a pro-cyclical effect because of the way the commonly used cyclical adjustment method works. This will, as a result, destabilise the economy. The German debt brake can therefore hardly serve as a good example for other countries. JEL Classification: H12, H39, H50, H6.
H39|Role of government funding on the empowerment of the Royal Project Foundation: A general equilibrium approach|This study uses the latest SAM of Thailand in 2010 and the computable general equilibrium model (CGE) to quantify the economic impact of the RPF on the Thai economy. It will investigate the impacts of 15 scenarios which focus on the role of government funding in various situations. The analysis concludes that the RPF relies heavily on the increasing government funding. However, the funding seems not enough for many situations that negatively affect the economy of the RPF. The most severe case is the rising of both agricultural and food manufacturing costs. Between them, the rising agricultural cost is much more severe than the rising food manufacturing cost. The increasing labor cost is also critical to the economy of the RPF but its effect is less than those of the increasing agricultural and food manufacturing cost. Therefore, the government should not only focus on the direct assist to the RPF by its expansionary funding but also the indirect supports by monitoring and somehow controlling the costs in agricultural, food manufacturing sectors and labor cost to gradually increase rather than letting them increase sharply without any prior warning signal or even attempting to issue some policies to radically increase these costs.
H39|El recaudo del impuesto predial en Cartagena de Indias, 1984-2010|En este trabajo se examinan los determinantes del recaudo del impuesto predial en el Distrito de Cartagena de Indias, Colombia, en el periodo 1984-2010. Este tributo representa el 33% de los ingresos corrientes del Distrito; con el impuesto de industria y comercio constituye la principal fuente de ingresos propios de la ciudad. A escala macro se analiza el efecto de la descentralización fiscal iniciada en los ochenta y profundizada en la segunda mitad de los años noventa, así como el cambio de modelo económico con la apertura comercial. También se consideran otras variables de este orden, como la inflación y la desigualdad en el ingreso. A escala local, se examinan los efectos de las reformas tributarias en el Distrito, la expansión de la construcción y el crecimiento demográfico, y siguiendo el enfoque de Iregui y otros (2004), del esfuerzo por recaudar otros impuestos y la respuesta de los contribuyentes ante cambios en el gasto social. Se encuentra que el recaudo del impuesto refleja las condiciones económicas de la ciudad, tanto por los ciclos de la urbanización y la distribución del ingreso como por el impacto de la inflación. Es posible mejorar el recaudo si la ciudadanía percibe aumentos de la inversión social. El fortalecimiento de la gestión tributaria permitirá superar dos serios problemas del recaudo: el efecto sustitución en las rentas propias (especialmente con el impuesto de industria y comercio) y la pereza fiscal. En los casos del impacto inflacionario y la desigualdad es evidente que la política tributaria más efectiva en el largo plazo es aquella que reduce la pobreza y la vulnerabilidad, y eleva la inversión y la eficiencia institucional en la gestión de recaudo.
H39|Grand corruption instead of commitment? Reconsidering time-inconsistency of monetary policy|This paper suggests that inflation may be affected differently by grand corruption compared to its positive nexus with petty corruption. In an extended Barro and Gordon (1983a) model grand corruption may serve as a quasi-commitment device: a cheating (expropriating) government may actually deter a monetary authority from cheating (reneging). Furthermore, Rogoff”s (1985) conservative central banker has an unambiguously beneficial effect; she reduces the inflationary bias even more while also rendering fiscal policy more effective. The model nests the standard fiscal–monetary interaction logic with and without expropriation as well as the diametrical “symbiosis” result obtained by Dixit and Lambertini (2003a).
H39|Conflict and negotiation in Colombia: Are pre-donations useful?|We model conflict between two agents in which each one has two possible strategies: cease-fire or rejection of the truce. We use the concept of pre-donations, namely, a redefinition of the game in which each agent commits to transfer a share of its output to the other agent (Sertel, 1991). Conditions are established under which a system of pre-donations may facilitate a truce. In particular, for conflicts involving high costs there is a distributive mechanism, acceptable for both parties, whereby cease-fire is the best strategy for both of them. However, in many cases the conditions are not right for such a scheme of pre-donations to be effective. Some limitations of the framework are analyzed and the model is extended to deal with certain shortcomings in the basic setup. To illustrate the relevance of the theoretical results, we briefly describe the circumstances that have characterized the negotiation processes between the Colombian government and various illegal groups in this long-lasting armed conflict.
H39|Determinants of the duration and ending of terrorist and other non-state armed groups|This study empirically investigates the impact of group characteristics and host country conditions on the duration and the ending of terrorist organizations and rebel groups. The empirical analysis relies on data for more than 600 armed groups from the Terrorist Organization Profiles, collected by the MIPT, and employs discrete time duration models with unobserved heterogeneity and its application to a setting with competing risks. It is found that organizations stabilize over time and face the highest risk of failure at the beginning. Factors that motivate members play an important role, as does support from other countries. Rich states are more likely to defeat armed groups and there is no evidence found that a restriction of civil rights decreases the duration of armed groups or increases the likelihood of capturing them.
H39|Voter Turnout and the Size of Government|This paper investigates the causal link between voter turnout and policy outcomes related to the size of government. Tax rate and public expenditures are the focal policy outcomes in this study. To capture the causal mechanism, Swedish and Finnish municipal data are used and a constitutional change in Sweden in 1970 is applied as an instrument for voter turnout in local elections. In 1970, Sweden moved from having separate election days for different levels of government,among other things, to a system with a single election day for political elections, thus reducing the cost associated with voting. This constitutional reform increased voter turnout in local elections in Sweden. The overall conclusion of this paper is that higher voter turnout yields higher municipal taxes and larger local public expenditures. Second,there is some evidence that higher turnout decreases the vote share for right-wing parties.
H39|Voter Turnout and the Size of Government|This paper investigates the causal link between voter turnout and policy outcomes related to the size of government. Tax rate and public expenditures are the focal policy outcomes in this study. To capture the causal mechanism, Swedish and Finnish municipal data are used and a constitutional change in Sweden in 1970 is applied as an instrument for voter turnout in local elections. In 1970, Sweden moved from having separate election days for different levels of government, among other things, to a system with a single election day for political elections, thus reducing the cost associated with voting. This constitutional reform increased voter turnout in local elections in Sweden. The overall conclusion of this paper is that higher voter turnout yields higher municipal taxes and larger local public expenditures. Second, there is some evidence that higher turnout decreases the vote share for right-wing parties.
H39|Pension fund taxation and risk-taking: should we switch from the EET to the TEE regime?|Most countries tax retirement savings according to the EET (exempt contributions, exempt accumulations, taxable withdrawals) regime. Relevant literature recommends the use of TEE (taxable contributions, exempt accumulations, exempt withdrawals) or EET systems and emphasizes their near equivalence. We show that this near equivalence breaks down when considering the tax effects on risk-taking. This paper proves that the TEE regime is risk-taking neutral, while the EET regime does not, in general, respect this property. The argument of risk-taking neutrality thus calls for broadening the use of the TEE configuration. Copyright Springer-Verlag 2013
H39|Ethics and Deontology in Public Administration|In the past years, public administration from Romania has faced significant changes with respect to its own operational framework. Because of difficulties in the public sector managemen system, there is a need for a set of anticorruption reforms that need to include a series of measures for the modification of working conditions in both central and local public administration.
H39|Are Your Firm´s Taxes Set in Warsaw? Spatial Tax Competition in Europe|Tax competition within the EU is fiercer than in the rest of the OECD, with EU tax rates falling rapidly. This paper analyzes whether countries in the enlarged EU respond differently to EU15 countries´ corporate tax rates and to new members´ corporate tax rates. The average corporate tax rate in the new member states has always been considerably lower than the average in the EU15 countries. The new members´ entry into the EU eliminated capital barriers, allowing firms to locate in one of the new member states with full access to the European Market. We use a spatial regression framework to test the hypothesis that tax reactions among European countries are asymmetric. Our results only find significant tax interaction between EU15 countries and new member states. This suggests that EU15 countries responded to corporate tax changes of their neighboring new member states during the period 1990--2009.
H39|Macro fiscal policy in economic unions: states as agents|The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) was the US government’s fiscal response to the Great Recession. An important component of ARRA’s $796 billion proposed budget was $318 billion in fiscal assistance to state and local governments. We examine the historical experience of federal government transfers to state and local governments and their impact on aggregate GDP growth, recognizing that lower-tier governments are their own fiscal agents. The SVAR analysis explicitly incorporates federal intergovernmental transfers, disaggregated into project (e.g., infrastructure) aid and welfare aid, as separate fiscal policies in addition to federal government purchases and federal net taxes on household and firms. A narrative analysis provides an alternative identification strategy. To better understand the estimated aggregate effects of aid on the economy, we also estimate a behavioral model of state responses to such assistance. The analysis reaches three conclusions. First, aggregate federal transfers to state and local governments are less stimulative than are transfers to households and firms. It is important to evaluate the two policies separately. Second, within intergovernmental transfers, matching (price) transfers for welfare spending are more effective for stimulating GDP growth than are unconstrained (income) transfers for project spending. Matching aid is fully spent on welfare services or middle-class tax relief; half of project aid is saved and only slowly spent in future years. Third, simulations using the SVAR specification suggest ARRA assistance would have been 30 percent more effective in stimulating GDP growth had the share spent on government purchases and project aid been fully allocated to private sector tax relief and to matching aid to states for lower-income support.
H39|Europe, Time to Wake Up! Change of monetary policy instruments — reduction of public debt (interest burdens), system of fiscal and monetary objectives — central bank independence|The economic crisis arising in 2008 has severely limited the options of economic policy in Hungary. The absence of fiscal expansion, and deficiencies in the coordination of fiscal and monetary policy have had a negative impact on the effectiveness of measures in economic policy to boost economic growth. This paper highlights the drawbacks and contradictions inherent in the goals, instruments and principles of monetary policy which are regarded as axioms today. Our conclusions suggest that (1) the central bank’s participation in the secondary market of government securities could be a viable way to reduce the interest burden on public debt; (2) the system of inflation targeting is not suitable for Hungary (an exchange rate channel would be more efficient); and (3) the central bank’s independence is only justified with the appropriate degree of accountability.
H39|Proiezioni della spesa e del finanziamento dei Sistemi Sanitari Regionali in Italia [2015-2030]<BR>[Projections of expenditures and financing resources of Italian Regional Health Care Systems [2015-2030]]|The work constructs projections till 2030 for health care expenditures of Italian Regional Health Care Systems. Three different schemes of financing are hypothesised, with three different levels of solidarity between Regions. Financing is always supposed to cover the entire exigency of expenditure. The two sides - expenditures and financing - are matched in order to derive indicators of sustainability (pressures on Gdp, or on active people, or on workers...) and to provide quantifications of flows of resources moving between Regions for re-distributional goals. A well-done mapping of needs and resources to finance them, with a full breakdown per Regions. A useful work for stimulating the debate on health system reforms in Italy, allowing informed decisions. nicola c. salerno [nicola.salerno@tin.it]
H39|The Mechanisms of Arrears in Romania|The phenomenon of arrears is difficult to capture due to its complexity. In this context, the paper aims at providing a unified perspective on the phenomenon by building a picture of the network of arrears in Romania which reflects the relations between the main economic actors involved. The relevance of the study stems from the analysis of the mechanism of arrears that made them a persistent phenomenon even after more than 20 years since the transition from the centrally-planned economy to the market economy, and from the analysis of the impact of financial crisis which reduced the accessibility of the Romanian agents to bank credit and, consequently, generated an increase in arrears.
H39|Self-control and support for anti-smoking policies among smokers, ex smokers, and never smokers|In this paper, we sustain that non-smokers who might be at risk of starting to smoke or relapsing can benefit from anti-smoking policies such as tax hikes and smoking bans because these are mechanisms that enhance their self-control with regard to tobacco consumption. We formalize this conjecture by proposing a model where starting/relapsing might result from time inconsistent preferences in a way that mirrors the inability of some smokers to carry out the decision to quit. Subsequently, we specify econometric models that allow us to test the implications of such conjecture using information on smoking behavior at the individual level from the Catalan Health Survey of 2006. The empirical results support our conjecture and suggest that the welfare gains derived from the reinforcement of self-control caused by tax hikes and smoking bans will accrue not only to smokers but also to the rest of the population. Copyright Springer-Verlag 2013
H39|Why Do Landlords Include Utilities in Rent? Evidence from the 2000 Housing Discrimination Study (HDS) and the 2002 American Housing Survey (AHS)|This study assesses the decision to include utilities in the rent and the effect of this decision on rents. We utilize individual house-level data from the 2000 Housing Discrimination Study (HDS) and 2002 American Housing Survey (AHS), and determine that the cost of meter installation is not the only reason that utility costs are included in rent. We find evidence that landlords include utilities in the rent to attract more customers. Additionally, our findings demonstrate that utility inclusion behavior differs significantly between old and new building owners. For the hedonic rent estimation, we find that the decision to include the cost of utilities in the rent raises rent.
H39|Unemployment Insurance and Union Behavior: Comparison of Some Paradigms and Endogenous Membership|This paper discusses the sensitivity of the labor market outcome in the standard bargaining paradigms - monopoly union and efficient bargaining - to the existence of a budget constraint pending on the financing of the unemployment benefit. Consequences of how the unions value members and members' status (employed or unemployed) in their collective maximand, implications of union having control over membership, and, hence, of unemployment insurance coverage, are also considered, as well as of different fiscal scenarios on the form of financing the unemployment benefit bill.
H39|Local Government Indebtedness and Debt Management in Switzerland. Causes and Consequences|The indebtedness of local governments has the potential to be highly detrimental at both local and central government levels. The objective of the present case study is to present the indebtedness and subsequent restructuring of the municipality of Leukerbad, highlighting the causes leading to the debt, problem management, legislative actions taken in response to the matter and the evaluation of the effectiveness of these measures. The reasons for the indebtedness of Swiss local governments were the soft legal framework and non-adherence to various fundamental statutory regulations. A restructuring concept was developed to settle the debt, according to which the municipality – through an enterprise established for this very purpose – pays 22 per cent of accumulated debt to creditors and holds out the prospect of repaying a further 11 per cent. The majority of creditors ultimately accepted this restructuring concept. Legislators reviewed the Local Government Act of 1980 and drafted a new Act in 2004, as a result of which the financial situation of municipalities of the Canton of Valais improved considerably.
H39|Muhasebe Meslek Mensuplarına Yönelik Bir Çalışma: Meslek Mensuplarının Demografik Durumları, Mesleki Sorunları ve Değerlendirilmesi|Accountants (SM) and Certified Public Accountants-CPA (SMMM) are one of the most important occupation’s groups on accounting and taxation for taxpayers. They have really serious responsibility against the tax administration. These groups also have important role between public finance authorizes and taxpayers. For this reason, it’s very important to these groups’ necessaries for their problems. In this study, the poll results answered by 2.740 Accountants (SM) and Certified Public Accountants-CPA (SMMM) are analyzed about occupational problems.
H39|Do More Powerful Interest Groups have a Disproportionate Influence on Policy?|Decisions-makers often rely on information supplied by interested parties. In practice, some parties have easier access to information than other parties. In this light, we examine whether more powerful parties have a disproportionate influence on decisions. We show that more powerful parties influence decisions with higher probability. However, in expected terms, decisions do not depend on the relative strength of interested parties. When parties have not provided information, decisions are biased towards the less powerful parties. Finally, we show that compelling parties to supply information destroys incentives to collect information.
H39|L'impact des fondamentaux macroéconomiques sur les spreads souverains de la zone euro est-il influencé par les réformes financières ?|In this paper we examine whether the weights of the forecasted macroeconomic variables in the valuation of sovereign risks has changed after the adoption of the Bâle 2 new regulation framework (around the years 2005/2006 when the new rules begun to be implemented in Europe). For purpose of illustration, we examine the case of France, Germany and Greece. We estimate a time-varying probability Markov Switching model in which the break date is endogenous. Our results show differences across countries. Classification JEL : C51, F36, H39
H39|Zonas francas en Colombia: beneficios tributarios en el impuesto de renta|Este documento presenta la medición de los beneficios en el impuesto de renta otorgados a las empresas que operan en las zonas francas, los cuales están representados por una tarifa diferencial del 15% y, hasta el año 2010, por una deducción especial por inversión en activos fijos. Así mismo, el documento incluye el cálculo del aporte de estas empresas al recaudo de renta, la evolución reciente de las zonas francas y la revisión de su régimen legal. Los resultados del estudio indican que dichos beneficios no han generado un costo fiscal importante y que el aporte de las zonas francas al impuesto de renta no es significativo. Se llama la atención sobre la inequidad tributaria y los problemas de asignación de recursos que genera el actual régimen de zonas francas.
H39|Análisis Del Comportamiento Fiscal De Los Municipios De Colombia En El Periodo 1993-2007|En este documento se presenta un análisis de las ejecuciones presupuestales y de los indicadores fiscales municipales en el período 1993 - 2007.Para ello se hicieron las ejecuciones presupuestales de los entes territoriales de Colombia con un formato agregado, según la metodología del FMI, y luego se elaboraron indicadores fiscales, diferentes a los de la División de Desarrollo Territorial del Departamento Nacional de Planeación,pues se realizaron, en primer lugar,indicadores macroeconómicos(teniendo en cuenta el PIB nacional)y en segundo lugar indicadores que miden el comportamiento del origen y uso de los recursos según rubros más importantes de las ejecuciones presupuestales en los municipios. El análisis de esos indicadores tuvo en cuenta: (i) las reformas estructurales más importantes que han influido en el comportamiento de los rubros más sobresalientes de las cuentas fiscales durante el período de referencia; (ii)los ciclos económicos por los cuales el país ha pasado entre los años 1993 y 1999, etapa de contracción y entre los años 2000 y 2007, período de expansión; toda esta descripción de resultados se desarrolla a través de seis consolidados: el de nivel territorial, elde ciudades capitales, el de municipios medianos (habitantes entre 100 mil y 1 millón), y el de municipios pequeños (menos de 100 mil habitantes), De esa forma se evaluó la situación económica de los entes territoriales desde una perspectiva fiscal.
H39|Fiscal Adjustment in Developing Countries Through Tax Administration Reform|Many developing countries undertaking a fiscal adjustment have followed the International Monetary Fund's (IMF) recommendation to create a large taxpayer unit (LTU) to ensure stable or enhanced revenue flows, but the problem is that researchers have not conducted a systematic evaluation (other than a survey) of this recommendation's revenue raising effects. It is important to understand the effects of this reform measure because limited country resources should be allocated carefully to policy reforms that have a reasonable chance of success. In order to address the issue, this paper evaluates the effectiveness of this fiscal reform using economic data. A unique panel data set has been assembled to evaluate performance of LTUs based on each country's tax share (tax revenue divided by GDP) over a seven-year period. Employing a straightforward empirical methodology of comparing changes in the average annual tax share before and after implementation, a surprising 43 percent of countries experienced a decline in the tax share after implementing an LTU. The implication for policy makers is that successful reform not only includes adopting the correct policy, but also taking adequate steps to ensure that the policy is well-implemented.
H39|Social Norms and Behavior in the Local Commons as Seen Through the Lens of Field Experiments|No abstract is available for this item.
H39|Default Risk Premium and Aggregate Fluctuations in a Small Open Economy|This study investigates the implications of risk premium shocks for aggregate fluctuations in a small open economy with financial and informational frictions. A dynamic, stochastic, general equilibrium framework is developed, where the informational asymmetries among the agents in the model and the uncertainty in the production process necessitate financial intermediation in the economy. The Holmstrom-Tirole type of uncertainty in the production process also leads to collateralized borrowing by firms, with the physical capital stock of firms serving as the collateral as well as the factor of production. There is also a government sector in the economy that borrows domestically with a partial default risk. In order to compensate the lenders for the default risk included in the government bonds, the government has to offer them some risk premium in addition to the exogenously given world interest rate offered by the foreign bond issuers. It is shown that, under certain circumstances, it is possible for the government to reduce its debt and increase its spending in response to a positive, temporary risk premium shock.
H39|European Policy Reactions to the Financial Crisis|The paper examines how economic policy have been carried out in Europe during the recent financial crisis. It focuses on the changes introduced in the operational procedures of monetary policy in the euro area in 2007 and 2008, pointing out that the objective of the authorities has been to respond to the liquidity needs of the monetary financial institutions, avoiding to loose control over M3. The paper argues that the interventions of the Eurosystem have produced satisfactory results and underlines the problems generated by the fall in productive activity and the need to face them with fiscal policies instruments. The inefficient forms of coordination between monetary and fiscal policies and the management of the government debt in some euro area countries are seen as the main sources of preoccupation for the evolution of the crisis.
H39|Hybrid Entrepreneurship|In contrast to previous efforts to model an individual's movement from wage work into entrepreneurship, we consider that individuals might transition incrementally by retaining their wage job while entering into self-employment. We show that these hybrid entrepreneurs represent a significant share of all entrepreneurial activity. Theoretical arguments are proposed to suggest why hybrid entrants are distinct from self-employment entrants, and why hybrid entry may facilitate subsequent entry into full self-employment. We demonstrate that there are significant theoretical and empirical consequences for this group and our understanding of self-employment entry and labor market dynamics. Using matched employee-employer data over eight years, we test the model on a population of Swedish wage earners in the knowledge-intensive sector.
H39|The Political Economy of Fiscal Reform in Brazil: The Rationale for the Suboptimal Equilibrum|This project examines fiscal reforms in Brazil since the 1990s, particularly in taxation, budgeting, and fiscal federalism. While recentralizing fiscal authority and massively expanding the extractive capacity of the state, policymakers chose not to revamp an inefficient tax system that has nonetheless proven capable of generating high levels of revenue. In budgeting, the economic crises of the mid-1990s prompted the government to rein in subnational fiscal imbalances but discouraged policymakers from introducing major changes in the tax system. As the executive derives utility from fiscal stability and inflation control because of electoral incentives and credibility gains in international markets, reform initiatives can generate political benefits for incumbent politicians. The paper finally argues that the Achilles’ heel of the sustainability of the Fiscal Responsibility Law is its enforcement technology: the Tribunais de Contas.
