H49|El valor social del tiempo en Colombia|El valor social del tiempo es uno de los precios – cuenta que presenta más dificultades para su cálculo, dado que no es un bien transado en el mercado. En este trabajo se hace una estimación de este precio – cuenta, bajo la metodología de asignación del tiempo, con el fin de mejorar el análisis costo – beneficio asociados a los proyectos de inversión. Las estimaciones se hacen bajo dos categorías: tiempo de viaje y tiempo de espera, tanto a nivel nacional, como para el sector rural y urbano.
H49|Long-Lasting Social Capital and its Impact on Economic Development: The Legacy of the Commons|This paper analyzes the historical determinants and long-term persistence of social capital, as well as its effect on economic development, by looking at the legacy of the commons in a Spanish region. In medieval times, common goods were granted to townships and were managed collectively by local citizens. This enabled the establishment of institutions for collective action and self-government. Common goods persisted until the second half of the nineteenth century. We argue that the experience of cooperation among villagers, repeated over the centuries, increased the social capital in each local community. In 1845, a law forced small villages to merge with others, a fact which generated exogenous variation in the number of mergers (i.e., cooperative networks) that each modern municipality was required to have. We exploit this change in an IV and RD setting and find that current municipalities formed by a greater number of old townships have a denser network of associations. We also find that higher social capital is associated with more economic development.
H49|Der Wohlfahrtstaat als Grundbestandteil des modernen demokratischen Staatsgefüges<BR>[The welfare state as a basic component of the modern democratic state structure]|Defining the welfare state is not a simpleminded task. Actually, there are numerous definitions which try to reflect at least some of the basic characteristics of the welfare state or its objectives and its functions. For some, there is primarily an institutional parameter, for others there are functional issues which have to be firstly indicated and for others, the ideological and political factors determine the definition and the attitude towards the welfare state. Apart from all these crucial ascertainments, there are some basic fundamental characteristics and values of the welfare state which render it as a precondition of the existence of the modern state. Unquestionably, it reflects a distinct part of the state but most importantly, it comprises a prerequisite for its existence. This is the exact aim of this paper; to surpass the theoretical diversifications and to find the fundamental common ground which forms the indispensability for the existence of the welfare state.
H49|Long-lasting social capital and its impact on economic development: the legacy of the commons|This paper analyzes the historical determinants and long-term persistence of social capital, as well as its effect on economic development, by looking at the legacy of the commons in a Spanish region. In medieval times, common goods were granted to townships and were managed collectively by local citizens. This enabled the establishment of institutions for collective action and self-government. Common goods persisted until the second half of the nineteenth century. We argue that the experience of cooperation among villagers, repeated over the centuries, increased the social capital in each local community. In 1845, a law forced small villages to merge with others, a fact which generated exogenous variation in the number of mergers (i.e., cooperative networks) that each modern municipality was required to have. We exploit this change in an IV and RD setting and find that current municipalities formed by a greater number of old townships have a denser network of associations. We also find that higher social capital is associated with more economic development.
H49|Location of Unwanted Facilities in Prague: NIMBY in Public Administration Hierarchy|The paper investigates how the problem of NIMBY (Not-In-My-Back-Yard) related to the location of unwanted facilities is dealt in a hierarchically organized city. The conventional view of NIMBY is based on two premises: first, that locally unwanted facilities are essential to achieve an important societal benefit and realize the public good; second, that selfish opposition of local community prevents the realization of that societal good. The NIMBY effect is studied as a conflict between the City of Prague and its city districts. The official documents of the Prague City Council and of the Prague City Assembly were searched to find examples of decisions on the location of unwanted facilities. The documents search was concentrated on five selected facilities: municipal waste dumps, services for the homeless, services for drug users, regulation of gambling facilities, and the system of parking zones. In the documents, the authors identified five types of approaches to NIMBY that are called financial compensation, fair distribution, local autonomy, gradual problem shifting, and consultation/cooperation. It was observed that city districts, lower level of public administration, behave as guardians of local interests if they communicate with a higher level of public administration, a guardian of global interests. As local politicians depend on their local voters, it is not surprising that they prefer local interests to global ones. This naturally creates an internal policy conflict in the city that is divided into smaller units.
H49|The problem of non-optimal management of urban green areas in Warsaw|"In his paper the author looks at management of urban green areas in Warsaw as a principal agent problem. In the study the principal is the City Mayor, while the agent is institution responsible for managing street trees in Warsaw (ZOM). While the City Mayor is interested in enhancing the welfare of their constituency, the lower level officers do not have to be preoccupied with the same concerns - they are interested in maximizing their utility subject to some constraints imposed by their bosses. This is a standard hierarchical agency theory model. As the agent’s contract is not incentive compatible, the theoretical ""residual claimancy"" condition does not hold, and the species composition is different from what it would have been if the principal-agent model implemented was incentive compatible."
H49|How does the public perceive alliances? The Central and Allied Powers in World War I|World War I was fought by numerous countries siding together as the Central Powers and, respectively, the Allied Powers. The former established around the German Empire and Austria-Hungary and grew to four allies when the Ottoman Empire in late 1914 and Bulgaria in late 1915 entered the scene; the latter centered on the alliance between England, France, and Russia and was informally extended to many more countries as they entered into the war ad-hoc by signaling common interests with the core Allied Powers. This article addresses an oft-neglected dimension of the alliance formation phenomenon, namely how alliances were perceived by the public, in contrast to military leaders' perceptions of each other. Were the Central and Allied Powers perceived as credible alliances - monolithic blocks - right at the time? We seek to determine the degree of 'alliance integration' among pairs of countries by applying cointegration analysis based on securities prices. It is assumed that prices of countries perceived as 'integrated' should show signs of co-movement. More specifically, we focus on the Amsterdam market for foreign government bonds providing us with a neutral's view on that matter. Our analysis is based on the yields for 13 belligerent countries' representative bonds traded during the war, but also before and after. Among other things, we cannot corroborate that investors recognized two monolithic blocks simply fighting the war.
H49|How Fundamentalism Takes Root: A Simulation Study|We report agent-based simulations of religiosity dynamics in a spatially dispersed population. Agents' religiosity responds to neighbours via pairwise interactions as well as via club goods effects. A simulation run is deemed fundamentalist if the final distribution contains a sizable minority of very high religiosity together with a majority of lesser religiosity. Such simulations are more prevalent when parameter values shift from values reflecting traditional societies towards values reflecting the modern world. The simulations suggest that the rise of fundamentalism in the modern world is boosted by greater real income, lower relative prices for secular goods, less substitutability between religious and secular goods, and less time spent with neighbours. Surprisingly, the simulations suggest little role for the rise of long distance communication and transportation.
H49|From Global Savings Glut to Financing Infrastructure: The Advent of Investment Platforms|This paper investigates the emerging global landscape for public-private co-investments in infrastructure. The creation of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank and other so-called “infrastructure investment platforms” are an attempt to tap into the pool of both public and private long-term savings in order to channel the latter into much needed infrastructure projects. This paper puts these new initiatives into perspective by critically reviewing the literature and experience with public private partnerships in infrastructure. It concludes by identifying the main challenges policy makers and other actors will need to confront going forward and to turn infrastructure into an asset class of its own.
H49|Open Data as an Infrastructure ?Impact of Availability of Government Data as Open Data on the Japanese Economy?|This study regards the data owned by national and local governments (public data) as infrastructure that will support the future development of Japanese society and economy. This article estimated the volume of public and private database assets and the impact of the provision of public sector data as open data on Japanese macro-economy. The study estimated the value of data stocks owned by administrative bodies as well as private corporations by regarding them as gdatabase assets h, and simulated the impact of the provision of public data as open data on Japanese macro-economy. The estimated value of data assets comes to about 2.7 trillion yen for private sector data and about 3.7 trillion yen for public sector data. The provision of public data as open data was estimated to boost up GDP by 158.6 billion yen to 701 billion yen, depending on the assumed parameters. The study clarified the potential of public data to be used as a new type of infrastructure and showed the effect of such use quantitatively by estimates based on published data, thereby could contribute to the related fields of study.
H49|Build it and they will come: Volunteer Opportunities and Volunteering|Formal volunteering takes place on behalf of charitable or non-profit organizations. While the physical presence of these organizations is usually required for citizens who want to volunteer, the physical presence of charitable organizations varies from neighbourhood to neighbourhood. Until now, no one has examined the role of charity proximity on volunteer decisions. In this paper we use information on the location of registered charities in Canada merged with survey information on the location of individuals and their volunteering decisions to examine how the physical proximity of charities (‘Access’) affects volunteer behaviour. Careful attention is paid to the possibility that the measure of access might be endogenous: organizations and volunteers may respond to the same unobservable factors when deciding where to locate. Our results imply that access does matter for the decision to volunteer as well as for the amount of time devoted to volunteering: increasing the number of charitable organizations within a one-kilometre buffer around an individual’s place of residence by 1% increases the predicted probability of volunteering by 0.9%. We find that the impact of an additional charity on the likelihood of volunteering decreases with distance to the individual’s residence, suggesting that the location of charities, indeed, matters when it comes to influencing volunteering behavior.
H49|Financing Africa's Infrastructure Deficit: From Development Banking to Long-term Investing|This article studies the appropriate financing structure of infrastructure investment in Africa. It starts with a description of recent initiatives to scale up infrastructure investment in Africa. The article then uses insights from the literature on informed versus arm's-length debt to discuss the structure of infrastructure financing. Considering the differences in investors’ preferences that Africa faces, the article argues that continent's success to fill its greenfield and hence risky infrastructure gap hinges upon a delicate balancing act between development banking and institutional long-term investment. In the first phase, development banks, which have both the flexibility and expertise, should help finance the riskier phases of large greenfield infrastructure projects. In the second phase, development banks should disengage and offload their mature brownfield projects to pave the way for a viable engagement of long-term institutional investors such as sovereign wealth funds. In order to promote an Africa-wide infrastructure bond markets where the latter could play a critical role, the enhancement of Africa's legal and regulatory framework should however start now.
H49|From Global Savings Glut to Financing Infrastructure; The Advent of Investment Platforms|This paper investigates the emerging global landscape for public-private co-investments in infrastructure. The creation of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank and other so-called “infrastructure investment platforms” are an attempt to tap into the pool of both public and private long-term savings in order to channel the latter into much needed infrastructure projects. This paper puts these new initiatives into perspective by critically reviewing the literature and experience with public private partnerships in infrastructure. It concludes by identifying the main challenges policy makers and other actors will need to confront going forward and to turn infrastructure into an asset class of its own.
H49|Climate Amenities, Climate Change, and American Quality of Life|We present a hedonic framework to estimate US households' preferences over local climates, using detailed weather and 2000 Census data. We find that Americans favor a daily average temperature of 65 degrees Fahrenheit, that they will pay more on the margin to avoid excess heat than cold, and that damages increase less than linearly over extreme cold. These preferences vary by location due to sorting or adaptation. Changes in climate amenities under business-as-usual predictions imply annual welfare losses of 1%-4% of income by 2100, holding technology and preferences constant.
H49|Does Better Information Lead to Better Choices? Evidence from Energy-Efficiency Labels|Information provision is a key element of government energy-efficiency policy, but the information that is provided is often too coarse to allow consumers to make efficient decisions. An important example is the ubiquitous yellow “EnergyGuide” label, which is required by law to be displayed on all major appliances sold in the United States. These labels report energy cost information based on average national usage and energy prices. We conduct an online stated-choice experiment to measure the potential welfare benefits from labels tailored to each household’s state of residence. We find that state-specific labels lead to significantly better choices. Consumers choose to invest about the same amount overall in energy efficiency, but the allocation is much better with more investment in high-usage high-price states and less investment in low-usage low-price states.
H49|Does the Median Voter or Special Interests Determine State Highway Expenditures? Recent Evidence|Abstract Using cross-sectional data from 50 states of the United States and the District of Columbia for two different time periods, this paper examines the degree to which special interests or the median voter determine state highway expenditures. In addition to finding that previous estimates of the determinants of state highway expenditures are robust, we find that that special interests that were important in 1984 were no longer significant nearly 20 years later. Like the previous literature, we conclude that the reduced form median voter model performs well in explaining state highway expenditures.
H49|Common-property, public infrastructure and rent dissipation in the long-run|By means of an overlapping generations model we study some long-run steady state features prompted by free-access public capital which enters a constant-returns-to-scale production function, dissipating its return among the private factors. The public investment is funded by lump-sum taxes in both younger and older generations. Our main conclusion is that the utility of an individual living in the long run steady state equilibrium may decline, even when the private capital-labor ratio increases, as a con-sequence of both an increase in per-capita public investment, and a shift of the tax burden from the younger to the older generation.
H49|Integrated Project Plan As Basis For Multi-Project Systems Management|Organizations today are faced with the challenge of managing a bigger number of projects in an efficient way. Public sector is a good example of a multi-project system and each improvement in project management in this kind of environment is a very interesting field for study. Assuming there is a well-defined and organized project management system in place, the literature describes and practical examples show that efficiency depends directly on quality of data delivered from the lowest levels of management. Research into the theoretical background of this phenomenon points to the necessity of a systematic approach to planning: clearly defined demands and standardized forms for project plans development create preconditions for a precise and transparent vertical flow of information available to all project participants. The goal is to record and keep all required pieces of information on the project, in the first place those regarding time and finances, in one place in an integrated document called the project plan.
H49|Crime Exposure and Educational Outcomes in Mexico|Driven by drug-trade related crimes, homicide levels in Mexico have dramatically increased since 2007. This study examines the effect of students' exposure to crime on educational outcomes. Using school level data, a panel of Mexico's primary and secondary schools from 2006 to 2012 is constructed to analyse the effect of exposure to local homicides on standardised test scores and grade failure rates. The results show that an increase of one unit in the number of homicides per 10,000 inhabitants reduces average standardised test scores between 0.0035 and 0.0142 standard deviations. This effect is larger in secondary schools, grows stronger if the homicide occurs closer to the examination date, and is relatively stable when using either total homicides or drug-trade related homicides to measure crime exposure. Higher homicides rates are also associated with an increase in the grade failure rate. It is proposed that the negative effects of crime exposure are partly due to a reduction in the number of contact hours, where students do not compensate for this by studying more outside of the school. By having a negative impact on educational outcomes, early exposure to homicides has potential long term consequences since it may affect educational attainment levels and future income streams.
H49|Cohesion Policy as a Function of the EU Budget: A Perspective from the CEE Member States|Summary This study analyses the key patterns of cohesion policy within the overall framework of the EU budget, viewed from the perspective of the new Member States of Central and Eastern Europe. In more specific terms, the main objectives are, first, to analyse past trends of cohesion policy and the attitude of various groups of countries towards this policy; second, to assess the position of cohesion policy within the 2014-2020 medium-term financial framework of the EU; and third, to discuss alternative options for cohesion policy within the framework of the EU budget in the post-2020 period. In methodological terms, the conceptual parts are based primarily on a qualitative analysis of the literature while empirical inputs were provided first of all through an expert questionnaire survey and country case studies. The research results convey the important message that the feasibility of scenarios other than maintaining the ‘status quo’ will most probably not depend on the behaviour of the new Member States. Despite their strong and explicit interest in securing ample resources from cohesion policy funds for themselves, the new Member States’ administrative and academic experts with their non-negligible influence on the political decisions of their governments cannot be seen as a stumbling block in the way towards reforms for a modernised and more rule-based EU budget. A resolute shift towards increased EU budgetary support for projects with more European value added and stronger future orientation than today, and a fair and transparent distribution of net financial positions will be far more determined by the outcome of multifaceted interest reconciliation among the ‘major players’ of the ‘old’ EU-15.
H49|Alphabetical Order Effects in School Admissions|If school admission committees use alphabetically sorted lists of applicants in their evaluations, one's position in the alphabet according to last name initial may be important in determining access to selective schools. In Jurajda and Münich (2010) we provided evidence consistent with this hypothesis based on graduation exams taken in grade 13 in the Czech Republic: 'Z' students in selective schools had higher exam scores than 'A'.students. In this paper, we use the TIMSS&PIRLS test scores of 4th graders and the PISA test scores of 8th and 9th graders in the Czech Republic to provide evidence on how the alphabetical sorting outcome we uncovered earlier arises during early tracking into selective schools. Using the PISA data, we also provide similar evidence for Denmark.
H49|Médiation. Un nouveau service public aux entreprises|Alongside commercial courts and in an economic and financial crisis context, the French State fosters and supports the integration of mediation between firms and their economic partners. Three types of organizations resulted in Mediation between firms and banks (Médiation du crédit), Mediation between firms (Médiation Inter-entreprises) and Mediation between firms and public procurement (Médiation des Marchés publics). First we ask: what is the importance of this recent phenomenon and how does it change the way of doing business? Then these three types of mediation are described, changes in relations between these economic partners are underlined and answers about the sustainability of this State's mission are suggested.
H49|Médiation. Un nouveau service public aux entreprises|En marge des tribunaux de commerce et dans un contexte de crise financière et économique, l'Etat a pris en charge l'intégration de la médiation dans les relations des entreprises avec les banques, avec les autres entreprises et avec l'Etat par le biais de la Médiation du crédit, la Médiation Inter-entreprises et la Médiation des Marchés publics. Cet article s'interroge sur l'importance de ce phénomène et les changements de culture dans le monde des affaires. Trois types de médiations sont présentés ici, il en est déduit leurs apports en termes de changements dans les relations entre les partenaires économiques et des réponses sont proposées sur la durabilité de cette prise en charge publique.
H49|Public Order and Private Payments: Paying for Police Services at Events|Should organizers of events, such as sport games or concerts, share the costs of maintaining public order in connection to the events? This question has been hotly debated in many countries, especially in connection to soccer hooliganism. Critics argue that organizers should do more to combat unruly behavior, which has significant external effects. The incentive to do so may be muted by the possibility of free riding on the police. We model how co-payments can address the under-provision of security on the part of organizers. However, it has been claimed that co-payments can backfire and lead financially constrained organizers to instead provide less, not more, security. We analyze under which circumstances this may be true. Finally, we exploit a natural experiment from the Swedish soccer league where police payments were introduced for some clubs only. The results are in line with the implications of the model.
H49|Public–Private Service Delivery Arrangements and Incentive Schemes in Developing Asia|In many countries, public agencies or private firms are gradually moving away from being exclusive providers of goods and services that traditionally were assigned to the state or markets, respectively. Instead, state agencies, both at the national and the local level, and private organizations, both for-profit firms and nongovernment organizations (NGOs), increasingly coordinate, collaborate, or partner to finance, produce, or provide public services. This paper attempts to identify the factors that account for the successes or failures of such public–private service delivery arrangements, with a focus on the role of monetary andnonmonetary incentives used in selected case studies in developing Asia. It finds that such arrangements are a viable service delivery mechanism where there is a state or market failure. While governments now increasingly enter into such partnerships, they appear to do so more with for-profit firms than with NGOs. A key lesson is to mobilize potential private sector partners, match the partner’s mission with the appropriate type or level of service provision, and then motivate them with the right incentives but also monitor them for performance accordingly.
H49|Cooperation and Trustworthiness in Repeated Interaction|Public goods provision often involves groups of contributors repeatedly interacting with administrators who can extract rents from the pool of contributions. We suggest a novel identification approach that exploits the sequential ordering of decisions in a panel vector autoregressive model to study social interactions in the laboratory. Despite rent extraction, contributors and administrators establish a stable interaction with cooperation matching the level from a comparable Public Goods Game. In the short run, temporary changes in behavior trigger substantial behavioral multiplier effects. We demonstrate that cooperation breeds trustworthiness and vice versa and that one-time disruptions are particularly damaging in settings with a lack of cooperative attitudes and trust.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
H49|El conocimiento en la economía global y colombiana|En este trabajo se muestra que el conocimiento juega un papel fundamental en el desempeño de las economías modernas y que Colombia presenta una gran brecha tecnológica en comparación con los países desarrollados y aún con los países Iberoamericanos. Se muestra que un incremento del 0.5% del progreso tecnológico aumentaría el crecimiento del PIB per cápita colombiano en un 2.0% en 5 años. Si tenemos en cuenta que las diferencias internacionales en el uso del conocimiento –en las capacidades innovadoras, en las fuentes y usos de las innovaciones, en las estrategias corporativas y condiciones institucionales– es de fundamental importancia para explicar tanto la contribución de cada país al comercio internacional, como las diferencias internacionales en los niveles de ingreso (Dosi et al, 1993), siendo la situación de la economía colombiana preocupante en este sentido.
H49|Der Wert der Sicherheit: Anmerkungen zur Ökonomie der Sicherheit<BR>[The value of safety: Some remarks on the economics of safety]|Safety is costly, but lack of safety can be even more expensive. This contribution considers the various dimensions of “Economics of Safety”, ranging from safety at work to road safety, terrorism and crime. Economic science helps to understand the role of safety as a (public or private) good which is supplied and demanded under technological and budgetary constraints as well as individual incentives. However, realized equilibrium levels of safety might be affected by market failure, for instance due to moral hazard problems. The paper highlights the need for regulated safety markets and minimum standards. The level of safety in a society depends on the opportunity costs of non-realized safety levels. For instance, when societal costs of crime are considered exuberant, public pressure will be high and more police would be hired. Thus, measuring costs of lacking safety and willingness-to-pay for security measures are crucial for practical policy and empirical aspects of the economics of safety. This paper presents common approaches found in the literature which distinguish between direct and indirect costs as well as between tangible and intangible costs. An illustrative example is taken from the calculation of societal costs of fatal traffic accidents which is contrasted by the way such costs measures are considered in the health sector and the economics of crime. Approaches are similar but differ in the evaluation of pain, harm and mental illness. Future policy advice would benefit from standardisation of intangible cost measures.
H49|Zmiany rol zarzadczych lekarzy w szpitalach: czego mozemy sie nauczyc od Brytyjczykow? (Change of managerial roles of doctors in hospitals: what can we learn from the British?)|This paper surveys the attitudes to managerial roles shown by Polish and British doctors and their evolution over the past decades. The paper is based on a review and analysis of literature, policy documents, healthcare statistic sand semi-structured interviews. Results of this research show that in the past doctors were reluctant to assume managerial roles in the UK system, whereas they were actually keen to do so in the Polish one. Changes in both countries (more market orientation in both countries, UK state policy) changed the doctors’ attitude to management. In the UK, doctors are at the moment more interested in taking on managerial responsibilities, while in Poland they are less interested in doing so in public hospitals due to the financial incentives attached to clinical work. In private hospitals, however, doctors understand the need for collaboration with general managers and other professional groups.
H49|Burned forest area or dead tres? A discrete choice experiment for Catalan citizens| This paper estimates the social-welfare change due to the application of additional fire prevention measures on Mediterranean forests. The discrete choice experiment is applied to elicit the social preferences regarding fire prevention measures in terms of their impact on fire behaviour –fire propagation and intensity- and to estimate the value of these measures for the society. The results of the study show that additional fire prevention measures increase the welfare of the Catalan population and that fire propagation is the descriptor of fire behaviour that most concerns the population. This information may be used by policy makers and environmental managers to design their programmes and activities.
H49|The Role of the Judiciary in the Public Decision‐Making Process|In this paper we investigate the role of judicial control of lobbying activities in an endogenous policy framework, focusing on two dimensions of quality of the judiciary, namely efficiency and integrity. We present a multi-layer lobbying model where a self-interested group is allowed to inuence a public decision maker – and possibly the judicial authority itself, which performs an anti-corruption task – with the payment of illegal contributions, and provide general conditions for the existence of a zero-contribution equilibrium. Furthermore, we study how sensitive the main findings are to different institutional arrangements as to judicial independence.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
H49|The Business Environment in the Transition|Following the collapse of planning, new small and medium-sized firms rapidly emerged in all transition economies. Using firm level data, we investigate the interaction between the widespread opportunities for new business activities such firms faced and their business environment. The business environment includes physical infrastructure, the availability of an educated labour force, provision of administrative and judicial services, the control of corruption and crime, and the stability of the macroeconomic environment. By comparing how different elements of the business environment affected firms in formerly planned economies with those in economies outside transition, we document not only the challenges faced by transition firms but also the effects of the planning legacy.
H49|Social Capital And Industrial District Development: The Role Of The Local Government|The paper represent a theoretical attempt to investigate the role that the local government can play in improving the level of social capital for the development of industrial districts. The social capital is not, as generally suggested by the socio-economic literature, an individual attitude towards something which does not imply privately appropriable economic benefits, as it is for a pure public good (which would not imply privately appropriable benefits). Social capital should be interpreted as a public component of an investment which implies private and public benefits entangled with each other. Firms could not have sufficient incentive to increase its investment in social capital, because this investment strictly depends on the economic convenience of investing in the impure public good. Starting from this point of view, we underline the importance of investing local public resources (funds, time and effort) for the development of the local social capital.
H49|Estimating the Value of Medal Success at the 2010 Winter Olympic Games|We estimate Canadians’ willingness to pay (WTP) for success by Team Canada in the 2010 Winter Olympic Games. The Canadian government subsidized elite athletes in the run up to the 2010 Games through the Own the Podium program, which was designed to increase Canada’s medal count. WTP estimates from a contingent valuation method study using data from nationally representative surveys before and after the Vancouver Games suggest that Own the Podium generated intangible benefits equal to 2 to 4 times its cost. The aggregate value of the intangible benefits generated by the program was between $251 million and $3.4 billion.
H49|Ambiguity, social opinion and the use of common property resources|In this paper we argue that ambiguity, combined with social opinion formation, can be used as the foundation of a game-theoretic equilibrium concept that transcends the standard Nash equilibrium concept, applied to a model of the tragedy of the commons. Our approach sheds light on the international environmental crisis and the relevant ongoing international negotiations. We conclude that social opinion formation in most cases has a significant impact on equilibrium common property resource usage.
H49|Do collective actions clear common air? The effect of international environmental protocols on sulphur emissions|This paper considers the effects of voluntary international environmental protocols on emissions, in particular the effect of the 1985 Helsinki Protocol and the 1994 Oslo Protocol on the reduction of sulphur oxides. The analysis employs panel data from 30 European countries over the period between 1960 and 2002. We divide all countries into 'signatories' and 'controls', i.e., those that have signed and ratified a specific protocol and those that have not. Using a difference-in-difference panel data regression model, including yearly dummies and country-specific quadratic growth trajectories, we find no significant effect of either the Helsinki or the Oslo agreement in reducing sulphur emissions.
H49|The role of income in the formation of new cities|No abstract is available for this item.
H49|About Other Kind Of Productivity And Growth (Homo-Sapiens To Homo-Oeconomicus)|Part of a larger research, this paper ranges among the matter of ideas confrontation concerning the causes of the economic crises and those keys to be passed. Paper aims at finding and praising the defining elements of our economy, in the purpose of better understanding the nowadays crisis, and at presenting certain conceptually different approaches. In this purpose, analytical presentations are focussed on the specific realities of the economic life that are in position in the last centuries, which are considered to be favouring the arriving to the critical states in the last years and to be promoting those maintaining, or which allow explaining certain effects and tendencies. The approach is made from the angle of the nature of the productivity that is had in view and highlighted in the market regulating mechanisms, and of the due growth. The paper is grounded on important analysis on the matter (including anterior researches of the author), but their dimensions does not allow their presentation in the abstract. Analysis starts from interpreting the very nowadays crisis, from different sites concerning the core (general) causes, by correlating with certain features of the industrialized consuming society. More recent references are made in the literature on the matter. Modern western economy is defined from the angle of focussing on material-quantitative productivity and growth. Analysis tries to explain certain effects concerning this kind of focus. Interesting effects and tendencies are noticed, that miss to the traditional approaches. Further on an opposed theoretic model is discussed. This is built and developed inside the service economy (on the case of two conceptually similar approaches, came from two different sources of economic thought in the field; original contributions of the author are involved). Adequately to the knowledge society, this last one is considered more favourable for homo sapiens, at least once the visible effects of the last two hundred years model are revealed, which are dominated by homo oeconomicus. This reference model being set up, a short foray is intuitively made in the perspectives of humanity on long run and on very long time, in the supposed maintain of the present economic model. In all those presentations and analyses, connections are made with other papers on the matter, in the purpose of more profound study. The conclusions concern the practical possibility of the model opposed to the industrialist economic crisis. The details highlighted from the analysis of the conceptual comparison between models and prospections bring, in the final, at proposing solutions, grounded on fundamental requirements on the line of humanityâ€(tm)s values, with didactic addressing to the young generation. The elements of contribution of the author are underlined in the presented matter.
H49|Perceptions about the mass media among the students from Republic of Moldova|The last decades revealed the importance of mass media in a society. Regarding the Republic of Moldova the role of mass media is influenced by some particularities of the economic, politic and social activities. Moldova is among the poorest states from Europe and its political situation is still unstable. On the markets of mass media from Moldova there are in competition different categories of participants: domestics and foreigners, public and private entities. This paper presents the results of an investigation among a group of students from the Republic of Moldova regarding their perceptions about mass media. Such results could contribute to understanding the impact of mass media for an important segment of the Bessarabian society.
H49|Estimating the Value of Medal Success at the 2010 Winter Olympic Games|We estimate Canadians’ willingness to pay (WTP) for success by Team Canada in the 2010 Winter Olympics. The Canadian government subsidized elite athletes in the run up to the 2010 Games through the Own the Podium program, which was designed to increase Canada’s medal count. WTP estimates from a contingent valuation method (CVM) study using data from nationally representative surveys before and after the Games suggest that Own the Podium generated intangible benefits of between 3 and 5 times its cost. The aggregate value of the intangible benefits generated by the program was between $719 million and $3.4 billion. Key Words: Olympic Games, contingent valuation method, willingness to pay
H49|Entry and Exit Strategies in Migration Dynamics|This work is devoted to study the role of combined entry and exit strategies in the migration process. It develops a real option model in which the community of immigrants in the host country is described as a club and the immigrant’s benefits is a U-shaped function, depending on the dimension of the district. There exist two threshold levels: the first one triggers the migration choice, while the second triggers the return to the country of origin. The theoretical results show that the phenomenon of hysteresis is amplified by the existence of a community both in the entry case and in the exit case. Furthermore, the community can reduce the minimum wage level required to trigger both exit and entry: this fact could explain why in some cases we observe migration inflows with a low wage differential and also with underemployment. Finally, the paper shows some possible further extensions: in one case, by introducing heterogeneity among immigrants, it gives some intuitions about migration inflows with respect to different skill levels and, in another case, it shows some theoretical implementations to include policy shocks in the migrant’s choice.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
H49|Incorporating water purification in efficiency evaluation: evidence from Japanese water utilities| This study attempts to show that the inclusion of water purification efforts should be another crucial dimension in the efficiency measurement. I use a Stochastic Cost Frontier (SCF) to estimate the technical efficiency of 392 Japanese water utilities in 2005. The results show that a water purification effort may increase cost, and that its inclusion in efficiency evaluation leads to some specific changes in efficiency score and the ranking of water utilities. Furthermore, this incorporation enables the impact of different qualities of source water on efficiency to be controlled. The result suggests that to encourage water purification efforts, it is crucial to incorporate purification in benchmarking.
H49|Induced Civic Pride and Integration|Does a nation’s contingent value of hosting a mega event depend on past experience with implied benefits? Applying data from ex‐ante and ex‐post queries, we use the FIFA World Cup 2006 to address this question. The ex‐post increase in valuation is shown to be owing to citizens requiring an involving experience. We also use the first mega‐event hosted by reunified Germany to investigate how the integration of the two parts of Germany progressed after 18 years of reunification. We find that civic pride induced by collective experience can considerably accelerate the convergence of East Germans’ preferences towards those of West Germans.
H49|"Taxing guns vs. taxing crime: An application of the ""market for offenses model"""|"The interaction between offenders and potential victims has so far received relatively little attention in the literature on the economics of crime. The main objective of this paper is twofold: to extend the ""market for offenses model"" to deal with both ""product"" and ""factor"" markets, and to apply it to the case where guns are used for crime commission by offenders and for self-protection by potential victims. Our analysis offers new insights about the association between crime and guns and the limits it imposes on the efficacy of law enforcement and regulatory policies aimed to control both crime and guns.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
H49|Career Counseling in the New Career Era|Increasingly, policy makers and academics are becoming convinced of the need for lifelong access to external, i.e. employer-independent, career counseling. As careers are becoming increasingly turbulent, traditional career counseling services, which mainly focused on supporting students with making a career decision, are considered to be no longer appropriate. Contemporary career counseling centres are expected to be available to people in any stage of their career and to include help with developing the competences necessary to self-direct one’s career. Though there is large agreement on this new task of career counseling, empirical studies on career counseling keep focusing on samples of students and on variables related to the traditional goal of career counseling. In order to tackle this gap, we performed three empirical studies on issues related to the new role of career counseling. In this article, I describe these studies and discuss their implications for policy and practice.
H49|The Number of Organizations in Heterogeneous Societies|I consider a society with heterogeneous individuals who can form organizations for the production of a differentiated service. An arrangement of organizations is said to be split up stable when there is no majority to split any of the organizations. Unlike other equilibrium concepts in the literature, the largest number of organizations that is split up stable corresponds to the socially optimal number of organizations, with a possibility of over provision of one organization. The analysis is extended to a case with endogeneous membership, where it is shown that the results remain the same.
H49|Productivity Questions for Public Sector Fast Fibre Network Financiers|Fast internet access is widely considered to be a productivity-enhancing factor. However, despite promises of substantial gains from its deployment, the evidence from recent empirical studies suggests that the productivity gains may not be as large as originally hypothesised. If substantiated, these findings suggest that current government plans to apply significant sums to bring forward the deployment of fast fibre networks (e.g. in both Australia and New Zealand) may not generate returns to the extent anticipated by their sponsors. Drawing upon the original ‘computer productivity paradox’ literature, this paper develops a critical questioning framework to assist policy-makers in identifying the salient productivity issues to be addressed when making the decision to apply scarce public resources to faster broadband network deployment. Using multiple literatures, the framework highlights the nuanced and highly complex ways in which broadband network speed may affect productivity, both positively and negatively. Policy-makers need to be satisfied that, on balance, government-funded investments in faster networks will likely generate the anticipated net benefits, given the significant uncertainties that are identified.
H49|Capacity of Phare and structural funds absorption: pre-accession versus post-accession|The capacity of structural funds absorption is a priority for the member states of the European Union which accessed the EU in 2004 and 2007, but slowing rates of the absorption capacity of these funds were noticed in comparison to the absorption rates of pre-accession funds. Within the context of “pre-accession versus post-accession” analysis, we present the gradual flexibilization of the process of EU funds absorption, the transfer of responsibilities for funds management towards the member states, as well as the differences between the two financing instruments used by the European Union function of different coordinates. The accession of the new member states from Central and Eastern Europe testimonies for the efficient ways of conditioning the aid for modernization offered to these countries, creating a reference framework whose coordination by proactive measures should continue during the post-accession period too. The success of the positive conditionality during the pre-accession period should be preserved by focusing on endogenous aspects specific to the assumption of responsibility for structural funds absorption by every new member state.
H49|Trade, Development, and the Political Economy of Public Standards|This paper presents a political economy model of public standards in an open economy model. We use the model to derive the political optimum and to analyze different factors that have an influence on this political equilibrium. The paper discusses how the level of development influences the political equilibrium. We also analyze the relation between trade and the political equilibrium and compare this political outcome with the social optimum to identify under which cases `under-standardization?or `over-standardization?results, and which standards can be labeled as (producer)protectionist measures.
H49|Information, Externalities and Socioeconomics of Malaria in Honduras: A Preliminary Analysis|This paper explores how different levels of knowledge correlate with desirable preventive and curative practices against malaria in Honduras. The paper additionally analyzes “information externalities” associated with non-specific malaria health services, communicational campaigns and organized community networks. Using the 2004 ENSEMAH survey, the analysis tests for statistical differences in the means of behavioral variables and an index of household malaria knowledge, finding that the adoption of desirable prevention and treatment behaviors correlates with proficient levels of knowledge. Differences in behavior across groups with distinctive levels of proficiency were found statistically significant. Also, while information externalities exist, they nonetheless do not deliver adequate levels of knowledge proficiency to induce desirable anti-malaria behavior.
