H52|The Post-9/11 GI Bill: Beneficiaries, Choices, and Cost|Beginning August 1, 2009, the Post-9/11 GI Bill extended educational benefits to service members who were on active duty in the military on or after September 11, 2001. Measured in 2018 dollars, the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) spent $65 billion on about 1.6 million beneficiaries in the seven years from the lawâ€™s inception through 2016. In 2016 alone, VBA spent $11 billion, an average of $17,400 per beneficiary.
H52|Funding for Results in Higher Education|No abstract is available for this item.
H52|The Political Economy of Higher Education Finance: How Information and Design Affect Public Preferences for Tuition|Public preferences for charging tuition are important for determining higher education finance. To test whether public support for tuition depends on information and design, we devise several survey experiments in representative samples of the German electorate. The electorate is divided, with a slight plurality opposing tuition. Providing information on the university earnings premium raises support for tuition by 7 percentage points, turning the plurality in favor. The opposition-reducing effect persists two weeks after treatment. Information on fiscal costs and unequal access does not affect public preferences. Designing tuition as deferred income-contingent payments raises support by 16 percentage points, creating a strong majority favoring tuition. The same effect emerges when framed as loan payments. Support decreases with higher tuition levels and increases when targeted at non-EU students.
H52|Do Party Positions Affect the Public's Policy Preferences?|The standard assumption of exogenous policy preferences implies that parties set their positions according to their voters' preferences. We investigate the reverse effect: Are the electorates' policy preferences responsive to party positions? In a representative German survey, we inform randomized treatment groups about the positions of political parties on two family policies, child care subsidy and universal student aid. In both experiments, results show that the treatment aligns the preferences of specific partisan groups with their preferred party's position on the policy under consideration, implying endogeneity of policy preferences. The information treatment also affects non-partisan swing voters.
H52|How Did EU Membership of Eastern Europe Affect Student Achievement?|The accession of Eastern European countries to the European Union increased family wealth and the returns to schooling. I analyze the change in student achievement due to the EU accession of Eastern Europe building on a panel of six PISA waves covering more than 1 million students in 32 countries. Using a difference-in-differences approach I find a positive and statistically significant link of EU membership to reading scores by one decile of a standard deviation. Mediation analysis suggests school efficiency, family wealth, and family structure as key transmitters of EU membership to student achievement.
H52|Comparison Is The Thief Of Joy. Does Social Comparison Affect Migrants’ Subjective Well-Being?|We use the repeated random assignment of external examiners to school institutes in Italy to investigate whether the effect of external monitoring on test score manipulation persists over time. We find that this effect is still present in the tests taken one year after exposure to the examiners, and is stronger for open-ended questions, for small school institutes, and for institutes located in the northern and central regions of the country. In the second year after exposure, however, this effect disappears, suggesting that monitoring is a symptomatic treatment rather than a cure of score manipulation. We discuss learning, reputational concerns, peer pressure and teacher preferences as potential mechanisms behind our findings, and present some evidence on the role played by social capital and high stakes.
H52|La globalización como proceso sinérgico en la evolución del desarrollo humano y la educación|Este documento busca analizar los efectos de la globalización sobre el desarrollo humano (medido a través del IDH) y la educación (medida a través del resultado de las pruebas PISA, número de solicitud de patentes e índice H) en Brasil, Chile, Colombia y México, para analizar si esta cumple con las características de un proceso sinérgico (heterogeneidad, complementariedad, autoorganización y sincronización). Se concluye que la evolución histórica de todos los indicadores analizados es positiva conforme avanza el proceso de globalización; por lo que este se puede considerar como un proceso sinérgico donde la cooperación, especialización y sincronización entre los países conlleva a mejoras en los campos de interés. Sin embargo, quedan por explicar las brechas existentes entre los distintos casos de estudio, así como la razón por la cual países con alto grado de globalización, como Colombia, tienen indicadores de desarrollo humano y educación con resultados menores en términos relativos. *** This paper seeks to analyze the effects of globalization on human development (measured through the HDI) and education (measured through the result of PISA test results, patent application number and H index) in Brazil, Chile, Colombia and Mexico, to examine whether it meets the characteristics of a synergistic process (heterogeneity, complementarity, self-organization and synchronization). It is concluded that the historical evolution of all the analyzed indicators is positive as the globalization process advances; therefore, this can be considered as a synergic process where cooperation, specialization and synchronization among countries lead to improvements in the fields of interest. However, the existing gaps between the different case studies remain to be explained, as well as the reason why countries with a high degree of globalization, such as Colombia, have indicators of human development and education with lower results in relative terms.
H52|Education and Conflict: Evidence from a Policy Experiment in Indonesia|This paper studies the impact of school construction on the likelihood of conflict, drawing on a policy experiment in Indonesia, and collecting our own novel dataset on political violence for 289 districts in Indonesia over the period 1955-1994. We find that education has a strong, robust and quantitatively sizeable conflict-reducing impact. It is shown that the channels of transmission are both related to economic factors as well as to an increase in inter-religious trust and tolerance. Interestingly, while societal mechanisms are found to have an immediate impact, economic channels only gain importance after some years. We also show that school construction results in a shift away from violent means of expression (armed conflict) towards non-violent ones (peaceful protests).
H52|Why should financial aid affect university participation? A review of the literature|This contribution reviews the literature on the role of financial aid in enhancing university participation. This aim will be reached through three main steps. First, we describe a theoretical framework based on rational action theory that could explain the effects exerted by the different measures. Second, we analyse the main forms of financial aid developed by the policy makers in Europe and in the US. More precisely, we look at the role played by: grants, tuition fees, loans and a novel approach in the financial aid debate: asset building. The paper attempts to provide an overview of the different measures’ effects on enrolment, academic performance and completion. Third, based on the reviewed literature, the paper tries to derive some general policy implications for the Italian case.
H52|The Consequences of Student Loan Credit Expansions: Evidence from Three Decades of Default Cycles|This paper studies the link between credit availability and student loan repayment using administrative federal student loan data. We demonstrate that expansions and contractions in federal student loan credit to institutions with high default rates explain most of the time series variation in student loan defaults between 1980 and 2010. Expansions in loan eligibility between 1976 and 1988 led to the entry of new, high-risk institutions, and default rates exceeding 30 percent in the late 1980s. Credit access was subsequently tightened through strict institutional and student accountability measures. This contracted credit availability at the highest default rate institutions, which in turn caused an exodus of institutions with high default rates, resulting in lower default rates on student loans. After 1992, the cycle was repeated, with credit access gradually loosened by unwinding many of the pre-1992 reforms. We confirm this time series narrative by examining discrete policy changes governing access to credit to show that tightening credit supply led to the closure of high-default schools and the relaxation of accountability rules resulted in their expansion. Our estimates imply that 85 percent of the increase in default between 1980 and 1990, and 95 percent of the decrease in default between 1990 and 2000 is driven by schools entering and exiting loan programs. One-third of the recent increase in default is associated with the entry of online programs following the relaxation of rules for lending to online schools, and another third is associated with the abolition of rules limiting the share of revenue coming from federal programs
H52|Inequality in Parental Transfers, Borrowing Constraints, and Optimal Higher Education Subsidies|This paper studies optimal education subsidies when parental transfers are unequally distributed across students and cannot be publicly observed. After documenting substantial inequality in parental transfers among US college students with similar family resources, I examine its implications for how the education subsidy should vary with schooling level and family resources to minimize inefficiencies generated by borrowing constraints. Unobservable heterogeneity in parental transfers creates a force to heavily subsidize low schooling levels chosen by borrowing-constrained students with low parental transfers. This force is stronger for rich families, but it is weakened if heterogeneity in returns to schooling also leads to different schooling choices. These mechanisms are quantified using a calibrated model. Quantitative analysis suggests a reform that reallocates public spending toward the first two years of college. The reform also reduces the gap in subsidy amounts by parental income during early years of college.
H52|Addressing Cross-National Generalizability in Educational Impact Evaluation|The evaluation of educational programs has accelerated dramatically in the past quarter century. While such evaluations were once almost exclusively conducted in the U.S., they have broadened dramatically across many countries of the world. At the same time, the methodology has improved, strengthening considerably the internal validity of various studies. We must now consider what conclusions can be drawn from the growing wealth of international results. In particular, available cross-national studies on a variety of topics suggest using caution when generalizing results, because the results vary systematically with a number of institutional characteristics of the different countries that are not explicitly considered in within-country analyses.
H52|The Causal Effects of Education on Adult Health, Mortality and Income: Evidence from Mendelian Randomization and the Raising of the School Leaving Age|We compare estimates of the effects of education on health and health behaviour using two different instrumental variables in the UK Biobank data. One is based on a conventional natural experiment while the other, known as Mendelian randomization (MR), is based on genetic variants. The natural experiment exploits a compulsory schooling reform in the UK in 1972 which involved raising the minimum school leaving age (RoSLA). MR exploits perturbations of germline genetic variation associated with educational attainment, which occur at conception. It has been widely used in epidemiology and clinical sciences. Under monotonicity, each IV identifies a LATE, with potentially different sets of compliers. The RoSLA affected the amount of education for those at the lower end of the ability distribution whereas MR affects individuals across the entire distribution. We find that estimates using each approach are remarkably congruent for a wide range of health outcomes. Effect sizes of additional years of education thus seem to be similar across the education distribution. Our study corroborates the usefulness of MR as a source of instrumental variation in education.
H52|Developmental Origins of Health Inequality|Building on early animal studies, 20th-century researchers increasingly explored the fact that early events – ranging from conception to childhood – affect a child's health trajectory in the long-term. By the 21st century, a wide body of research had emerged, incorporating the original 'Fetal Origins Hypothesis' into the 'Developmental Origins of Health and Disease'. Evidence from OECD countries suggests that health inequalities are strongly correlated with many dimensions of socio-economic status, such as educational attainment; and that they tend to increase with age and carry stark intergenerational implications. Different economic theories have been developed to rationalize this evidence, with an overarching comprehensive framework still lacking. Existing models widely rely on human capital theory, which has given rise to separate dynamic models of adult and child health capital, within a production function framework. A large body of empirical evidence has also found support for the developmental origins of inequalities in health. On the one hand, studies exploiting quasi-random exposure to adverse events have shown long-term physical and mental health impacts of exposure to early shocks, including pandemics or maternal illness, famine, malnutrition, stress, vitamin deficiencies, maltreatment, pollution and economic recessions. On the other hand, studies from the 20th century have shown that early interventions of various content and delivery format improve life course health. Further, given that the most socioeconomically disadvantaged groups show the greatest gains, such measures can potentially reduce health inequalities. However, studies of long-term impacts, as well as the mechanisms via which shocks or policies affect health, and the dynamic interaction amongst them, are still lacking. Mapping the complexities of those early event dynamics is an important avenue for future research.
H52|Ability to Sustain Test Performance and Remedial Education: Good News for Girls|Growing evidence shows that skills other than cognitive are crucial to understand labor market and other outcomes in life and that these skills are more malleable than the cognitive ones at later ages. However, little is known about the role of education in improving these abilities for disadvantaged teenagers in developed countries. In this paper we address two questions: (i) Can educational interventions aimed at teenagers improve skills other than cognitive? (ii) Can we expect heterogeneous e¿ects depending on the students’ gender? We take advantage of a remedial education program for under-performing students implemented in Spain between 2005 and 2012, and, following recent literature, we consider testing and survey behaviors as measures of non-cognitive skills. We use external evaluations of the schools (PISA 2012) and exploit the variation in the question ordering of the test to compute students’ ability to sustain performance throughout it. We ¿nd that the program had a positive e¿ect on girls’ ability to sustain test performance but no impact for boys.
H52|The Causal Effects of Education on Adult Health, Mortality and Income: Evidence from Mendelian Randomization and the Raising of the School Leaving Age|We compare estimates of the effects of education on health and health behaviour using two different instrumental variables in the UK Biobank data. One is based on a conventional natural experiment while the other, known as Mendelian randomization (MR), is based on genetic variants. The natural experiment exploits a compulsory schooling reform in the UK in 1972 which involved raising the minimum school leaving age (RoSLA). MR exploits perturbations of germline genetic variation associated with educational attainment, which occur at conception. It has been widely used in epidemiology and clinical sciences. Under monotonicity, each IV identifies a LATE, with potentially different sets of compliers. The RoSLA affected the amount of education for those at the lower end of the ability distribution whereas MR affects individuals across the entire distribution. We find that estimates using each approach are remarkably congruent for a wide range of health outcomes. Effect sizes of additional years of education thus seem to be similar across the education distribution. Our study corroborates the usefulness of MR as a source of instrumental variation in education.
H52|Selecting or Rewarding Teachers? International Evidence from Primary Schools|Using data from three waves of PIRLS, this paper examines the effect of teacher quality on fourth-grade students' literacy test scores by exploiting variations induced by reforms in teachers' selection and/or reward schemes. We construct an original data set of relevant reforms taking place at the national level over the last century and affecting the working conditions of primary school teachers, matching them by the year they entered the profession. After showing that teacher experience/age and qualification are significantly correlated with student competencies, we study the correlation between teacher working conditions (including recruitment, pay and retirement policies) and pupil achievement. Our identifying assumption is that the impact of reforms dissipates with the distance between the reform's introduction and entry into the profession. The results point to a more selective recruitment process and, to a lesser extent, more generous reward policies as effective ways to enhance student performance.
H52|Refugees and ‘native flight’ from public to private schools|Native children switch from public to private primary schools in response to increased refugee concentration in the Turkish public education system. 10 percentage-point increase in refugee-to-population ratio generates, on average, 0.12 percentage-point increase in private primary school enrollment. This roughly corresponds to 1 native child switching to private education for every 31.6 refugee children enrolled in public schools—weaker than the typical estimates in the literature.
H52|Do Party Positions Affect the Public\'s Policy Preferences?|The standard assumption of exogenous policy preferences implies that parties set their positions according to their voters\' preferences. We investigate the reverse effect: Are the electorates\' policy preferences responsive to party positions? In a representative German survey, we inform randomized treatment groups about the positions of political parties on two family policies, child care subsidy and universal student aid. In both experiments, results show that the treatment aligns the preferences of specific partisan groups with their preferred party\'s position on the policy under consideration, implying endogeneity of policy preferences. The information treatment also affects non-partisan swing voters.
H52|Active Choice Framing and Intergenerational Education Benefits: Evidence from the Field|The Post-9/11 GI Bill allows service members to transfer generous education benefits to a dependent. We run a large-scale experiment to test whether active choice framing impacts US Army service members' decision to transfer benefits. Individuals who received email messages framing GI Bill use as an active choice between own use and transfer to a family member are more likely to pursue information about the benefit than individuals receiving outreach that does not frame the decision as an active choice. While we find no overall effect of framing on transfer, active choice increases transfer among service members with graduate degrees.
H52|External Monitors and Score Manipulation in Italian Schools: Symptomatic Treatment or Cure?|We use the repeated random assignment of external examiners to school institutes in Italy to investigate whether the effect of external monitoring on test score manipulation persists over time. We find that this effect is still present in the tests taken one year after exposure to the examiners, and is stronger for open-ended questions, for small school institutes, and for institutes located in the northern and central regions of the country. In the second year after exposure, however, this effect disappears, suggesting that monitoring is a symptomatic treatment rather than a cure of score manipulation. We discuss learning, reputational concerns, peer pressure and teacher preferences as potential mechanisms behind our findings, and present some evidence on the role played by social capital and high stakes.
H52|Delayed graduation and university dropout: A review of theoretical approaches|This paper surveys the theoretical approaches used in the literature to study the phenomenon of delayed graduation and university dropout. The classical human capital model does not contemplate failure, which the amended human capital model does. Delayed graduation and university dropout are two stages of the same decision repeated over the years to step aside or leave when the net returns to education expected ex ante are negative. Failure can also be taken as a signal of the real skills of individuals who do not succeed to gain a higher level of education, The job search approach underlines the role of positive/negative local labor market conditions as a factor able to explain choices of investment in human capital. Within the bargaining approach, the decision to delay graduation or dropout from university is related to bargaining within the family between parents and children: the former give their children better consumption opportunities in return for their presence at home. Although the amended human capital model is certainly the most compelling one, the other approaches help framing factors which are neglected in the human capital model, forming a well-structured body of knowledge to better understand the phenomenon under scrutiny, while also suggesting a set of policy tools to better control it.
H52|Hunger and Performance in the Classroom|Hunger and malnourishment can adversely affect students' performance by lowering their effort and cognition during school hours. We conduct a lab-in-the field experiment, leveraging the extension of India's school meal program from primary to middle grades, to study the effects of school-based supplementary nutrition on students' cognitive effort in the classroom. Using individual level data on the performance of students in a cognitive task both before and after the extension of the program as well as pre and post meal recess on a school day, we find that the provision of meals improved the cognitive performance of students by 13% to 16%. This result is robust to unobserved heterogeneity in school quality and student ability. Our findings suggest that short-term improvements in classroom attention and effort due to school meals can be a mechanism through which longer-term learning outcomes may improve in developing countries.
H52|The Eﬀect of a Compressed High School Curriculum on University Performance|A recent education reform in Germany reduced the duration of academic high school education by one year but left the curriculum, and total class time unchanged. We use a unique data set of university students to investigate the eﬀects of this reduction in years of schooling on academic achievements at the tertiary level. By exploiting variation in the implementation of the reform across school types over time, we isolate the reform eﬀect from cohort, state, and school type eﬀects. Our results suggest that the reform lowers the opportunity costs of schooling and facilitates an earlier labor market entry as we ﬁnd no detrimental eﬀects while students are one year younger on average.
H52|A Comparison Between Merit-Based and Test-Based Higher Education Admission in Indonesia|The undergraduate admissions in Indonesia’s public universities are interestingly conducted in a two-fold system. Students are ?rst considered for the merit-based ‘Undangan’ admissions, whereas the test-based admissions are conducted afterwards. This study aims to discuss the differences of academic performances of students entering universities through the merit-based and test-based admissions. Our discussion utilizes a comprehensive data of 5,470 freshmen admitted during the period 2001 to 2017 at the Faculty of Economics and Business of Universitas Indonesia. We observed the differences using regression and matching estimates controlling the students’ characteristics and demographics. The ?ndings suggest that students admitted through the Undangan system perform generally betterHowever, such difference of academic performance diminishes across time. Furthermore, we describe the potential problems and, at the same time, progress for the country’s education system posed by the phenomenon.
H52|Earthquakes, grants and public expenditure: how municipalities respond to natural disasters|We analyze the response of municipalities to the occurrence of natural disasters (earthquakes) in Italy, in terms of spending behavior, use of upper tier transfers and recovery. We find evidence of increasing expenditure for about 12 years after the shock, with asymmetric responses between matching (earthquake-related) and unconditional grants, and heterogeneous flypaper effects across the country. While in Northern municipalities expenditure tends to regress to pre-treatment levels, i.e., before the earthquake occurrence, Southern municipalities react to the drop of grants showing inertia in expenditure levels. This evidence is coupled with a faster recovery of private income and housing prices in Northern municipalities. Our analysis exploits balance sheet data of about 8000 municipalities for the period 2000-2015 and encompasses the universe of earthquake events defined using alternative intensity measures. We apply a matching approach to disentangle earthquake-related grants (mostly matching grants) from other grants, and to define a control group of non-treated municipalities. The spatial and temporal variation in expenditure and transfers between treated and not-treated governments are then examined using panel data models on the universe of municipalities as well as on a matching sample of municipalities.
H52|Second Chance: Life without Student Debt|Rising student debt is considered one of the creeping threats of our time. This paper examines the effect of student debt relief on individual credit and labor market outcomes. We exploit the plausibly-random debt discharge due to the inability of National Collegiate, the largest owner of private student loan debt, to prove chain of title for thousands of loans across the US. Using hand-collected lawsuits filings matched with individual credit bureau information, we find that borrowers experiencing the debt relief shock reduce their indebtedness by 26%, by both reducing their demand for credit and limiting the use of existing credit accounts, and are 11% less likely to default on other accounts. After the discharge, the borrowers' geographical mobility increases, as well as, their probability to change jobs and ultimately their income increases by about $3000 over a three year period. These findings speak to the benefits of intervening in the student loan market to reduce the consequences of debt overhang problems by forgiving student debts.
H52|Do Income Contingent Student Loan Programs Distort Earnings? Evidence from the UK|Government backed income contingent student loans are an increasingly being used to fund higher education. An income contingent repayment plan acts as an incremental marginal tax on labor earnings, which could cause individuals to distort their work effort. This paper uses an administrative dataset from the UK that links student loan borrowers between 1998 and 2008, to their official tax records between 2001/02 and 2013/14. Using a combination of techniques, including bunching and difference-in-difference methodology, our findings strongly reject the hypothesis that the UK’s income-contingent repayment plan distorts labor supply.
H52|Designing Effective Teacher Performance Pay Programs: Experimental Evidence from Tanzania|We use a field experiment in Tanzania to compare the effectiveness on learning of two teacher performance pay systems. The first is a Pay for Percentile system (a rank-order tournament). The second rewards teachers based on multiple proficiency thresholds. Pay for Percentile can (under certain conditions) induce optimal effort among teachers, but our threshold system is easier to implement and provides teachers with clearer goals and targets. Both systems improved student test scores. However, the multiple-thresholds system was more effective in boosting student learning and is less costly.
H52|College Remediation Goes Back to High School: Evidence from a Statewide Program in Tennessee|Many U.S. students arrive on college campus lacking the skills expected for college-level work. As state leaders seek to increase postsecondary enrollment and completion, public colleges have sought to lessen the delays created by remedial course requirements. Tennessee has taken a novel approach by allowing students to complete their remediation requirements in high school. Using both a difference-in-differences and a regression discontinuity design, we evaluate the program’s impact on college enrollment and credit accumulation, finding that the program boosted enrollment in college-level math during the first year of college and allowed students to earn a modest 4.5 additional college credits by their second year. We also report the first causal evidence on remediation's impact on students' math skills, finding that the program did not improve students’ math achievement, nor boost students’ chances of passing college math. Our findings cast doubt on the effectiveness of the current model of remediation—whether in high school or college—in improving students’ math skills. They also suggest that the time cost of remediation—whether pre-requisite or co-requisite remediation—is not the primary barrier causing low degree completion for students with weak math preparation.
H52|Could the Child Benefit Save the Low Fertility Country?: Evidence from the Expansion of Child Benefit Policy in Japan|This paper verified whether the expansion of Child Benefit Policy (CB) in Japan affected parental demand for their child fs quantity or quality. We regarded the number of newborns as the demand for child fs quantity and priorities for each child-rearing environment as the demand for child fs quality. Compared with the control group (parents with only high school students aged between 16-18), we found that the CB expansion increase newborns as the government expected. Regarding the child fs quality, the treated parents with the only pre-school student (Aged 0-6) increased the demand for the childcare environment. On the other hand, the parents with only primary school students (Aged 7-12) raised the demand for the educational environment. After all, these results suggest that receiving the unpredicted gain in CB leads parents to take different reactions to the demands for the child fs quantity and quality according to their child fs age. Therefore, this study has an important implication such that the government should carefully choose target households when they attempt to introduce some new official financial supports without any conditions for the reception, e.g., the threshold based on household income or child fs age.
H52|Educational funds and economic growth:private versus public funds|This study constructs an overlapping generations model in order to examine the relationshipbetween education and R&D activities. Using this model, we analyze the effect of individuals'borrowing of educational funds on economic growth. We rst consider the benchmark case inwhich individuals borrow educational funds at a market interest rate. We next consider thatindividuals borrow educational funds from a government at a constant rate of interest. If thepolicy interest rate is too low, the number of skilled workers increases, but economic growth isnot achieved in the long run, because an increase in the demand for educational funds owing tothe low policy interest rate crowds out funds for R&D investment and hinders economic growth.In addition, this study examines welfare and intergenerational inequality. When the governmentlowers the policy interest rate, the current generation's welfare level increases. However, futuregenerations' welfare levels will decrease. This study shows that the government faces a trade-offbetween the current generation's welfare and future generations' welfare.
H52|Inequality and Education Choice|This study presents a two-class, successive generations model with human capi- tal accumulation and the choice to opt out of public education. The model demon- strates the mutual interaction between inequality and education choice and shows that the interaction leads to two locally stable steady-state equilibria. The exis- tence of multiple stable equilibria implies a negative correlation between inequality and enrollment in public education, which is consistent with evidence from OECD countries. This study also presents a welfare analysis using data from OECD coun- tries and shows that introducing a compulsory public education system leaves the rst generation worse off, though improves welfare for future generations of indi- viduals in a lower class. The results also suggest that the two equilibria are not Pareto-ranked.
H52|Gasto Público Social, Gobernanza y Desarrollo Humano: Una Aplicación con Datos Municipales de Bolivia: 1994-2008<BR>[Social Public Expenditure, Governance and Human Development: An Application with Municipal Data of Bolivia: 1994-2008]|In this opportunity, we analyze the relationship among public social spending, governance and human development based on cross-sectional sample of data from more than 300 municipalities of Bolivia. Considering the municipal statistical information, we estimate a multiple linear regression model with instrumental variables, using least squares in two stages. We have instrumentalized the public social expenditure variable through an efficiency government index (governance). In the first stage, we have found that government efficiency explains the differences in total social public expenditure per capita executed between 1997 and 2005. In the second stage, we find a positive effect of total social public expenditure per capita executed between 1997 and 2005 on human development, measured in 2005. Therefore, estimates reveal that higher levels of social public spending tend to generate a higher level of human development in municipalities where government efficiency is higher. In quantitative terms, the results reveal that, keeping the rest of the variables constant and considering the importance of government efficiency, if the total social public expenditure per capita executed during 1997 to 2005 had increased by Bs 100 per capita, then human development measured in 2005, it would have increased by 6.6%.
H52|The political economy of higher education finance: how information and design affect public preferences for tuition|Public preferences for charging tuition are important for determining higher education finance. To test whether public support for tuition depends on information and design, we devise several survey experiments in representative samples of the German electorate (N>19,500). The electorate is divided, with a slight plurality opposing tuition. Providing information on the university earnings premium raises support for tuition by 7 percentage points, turning the plurality in favor. The opposition-reducing effect persists two weeks after treatment. Information on fiscal costs and unequal access does not affect public preferences. Designing tuition as deferred income-contingent payments raises support by 16 percentage points, creating a strong majority favoring tuition. The same effect emerges when framed as loan payments. Support decreases with higher tuition levels and increases when targeted at non-EU students.
H52|The political economy of educational policies and inequality of opportunity|We propose a political economy model to explain cross-country differences observed in educational policies and to show how such heterogeneity is associated with the level of a country’s development and inequality. Parents, heterogeneous in terms of income and their child’s ability, vote over the educational policy, by deciding the allocation of a given public budget between basic and higher education. Parents can invest in supplemental private education to increase the probability of their children of being admitted to higher education. When the level of development is low and inequality between social classes is sufficiently large, there is low exchange social mobility in the access to higher education, and educational policies are characterized by a large relative per-student expenditure in higher education.
H52|Delayed Graduation and University Dropout: A Review of Theoretical Approaches|This paper surveys the theoretical approaches used in the literature to study the phenomenon of delayed graduation and university dropout. The classical human capital model does not contemplate failure, which the amended human capital model does. Delayed graduation and university dropout are two stages of the same decision repeated over the years to step aside or leave when the net returns to education expected ex ante are negative. Failure can also be taken as a signal of the real skills of individuals who do not succeed to gain a higher level of education. The job search approach underlines the role of positive/negative local labor market conditions as a factor able to explain choices of investment in human capital. Within the bargaining approach, the decision to delay graduation or dropout from university is related to bargaining within the family between parents and children: the former give their children better consumption opportunities in return for their presence at home. Although the amended human capital model is certainly the most compelling one, the other approaches help framing factors which are neglected in the human capital model, forming a well-structured body of knowledge to better understand the phenomenon under scrutiny, while also suggesting a set of policy tools to better control it.
H52|The quasi-market of employment services in Italy|This paper aims to study the shortcomings and merits of the first experiment of quasi-market in the provision of employment services: the Lombardy DUL (Dote Unica Lavoro). This system, which has inspired the 2015 national reform within the Jobs Act, has reactivated and revitalized the sector by providing important job opportunities to jobless workers. The system has the typical problems of quasi-markets in the provision of public services (lion's share of private organizations; cherry picking; gaming). However, different expedients are devised in the program to minimize these shortcomings. The empirical analysis suggest that such phenomena if existent are at a physiological level. Analysis of the determinants of completing successfully the program provides non-trivial results as to, among others, the role organizations of different ownership type and of services provided.
H52|"Anpassung der Lehrerbesoldung in Nordrhein-Westfalen: Stellungnahme zum Gesetzentwurf der SPD im nordrhein-westfälischen Landtag ""Gesetz über Gleichen Lohn für Gleiche Arbeit - Anpassung der Lehrerbesoldung an ihre Ausbildung"". Drucksache 17/3812"|Die SPD-Fraktion im nordrhein-westfälischen Landtag schlägt eine Anhebung der Besoldung für Grund-, Haupt-, Real-, Sekundar- und Gesamtschullehrer der entsprechenden Jahrgangsstufen (im Folgenden wird der Einfachheit halber nur auf Grundschullehrer abgestellt) von A12 auf A13 vor. Um Ungleichbehandlungen zu vermeiden, soll laut Gesetzentwurf die Höherstufung nicht nur für neue, sondern auch für bereits sich im Schuldienst befindende Lehrer gelten. Begründet wird das Vorhaben damit, dass Grundschullehrer seit 2009 eine ebenso umfangreiche Ausbildung absolvieren wie Gymnasiallehrer. Aufgrund der begrenzten Finanzmittel ist es Aufgabe der Politik, Prioritäten zu setzen. Im Fokus sollte dabei eine effiziente Verwendung der Steuergelder stehen. Denn zu jeder Handlungsoption bestehen Alternativen, die die Höhe der Opportunitätskosten bestimmen. Die zusätzlichen Ausgaben einer besseren Bezahlung von Grundschullehrern von rund 600 Millionen Euro im Jahr würden zu keinem direkten Nutzen für die Allgemeinheit führen, da die Anzahl der Grundschullehrer unverändert bliebe. Daher sollte in Erwägung gezogen werden, statt einer höheren Lehrerbesoldung die Qualität an den Schulen zu verbessern, zum Beispiel durch eine Modernisierung von Gebäuden und Ausstattung. In diesem Bereich gibt es in Nordrhein-Westfalen einen erheblichen Nachholbedarf.
H52|Assessing Public Expenditure Efficiency at Indian States|This paper attempts to understand what drives the public expenditure efficiency among the States. For this, it looks at the role of economic growth as well as quality of governance. The results of input-oriented and output-oriented DEA approach finds a large variation in the efficiency of public spending as well as scope for resource saving among Indian States. The results suggest that States are spending their resources more efficiently on education than on health and overall social sector spending. Further, it also finds that both quality of governance and economic growth affects the efficiency of education, health, and social sector with governance to have larger effect compared to growth. Overall, the study suggests that focus on good governance could yield better outcomes from public spending
H52|Development of Education and Health Services in Asia and the Role of the State|This paper analyses the dramatic spread of education and healthcare in Asia and also the large variations in that spread across and within countries over fifty years. Apart from differences in initial conditions and income levels, the nature of the State has also been an important determinant of these variations. This is because social development has typically been led by the State. But in most countries, public resource constraints and the growing dependence on private provision and private spending have generated a pattern of nested disparities in the access to education and healthcare between rich and poor regions, between rural and urban areas within regions, and between rich and poor households within these areas. However, as the better-off regions, areas, and households approach the upper limits of achievable education and health standards, a process of convergence is also underway as those left behind begin to catch up.
H52|Costa Rica: Restoring fiscal sustainability and setting the basis for a more growth-friendly and inclusive fiscal policy|Consecutive years of primary deficits have led to mounting public debt of almost 50% of GDP, one of the fastest increases in Latin America over the last decade. Government attempts to restore fiscal health have been undermined by a gridlocked Congress. While only minor reforms have been enacted to contain spending, efforts to curb tax evasion and increase the efficiency of the tax administration are commendable. However, increases in tax revenue have been unable to match mandated increases in spending. As a consequence, sovereign debt ratings have declined to below investment level, and the negative outlook on Costa Rica’s debt signals increasing financing costs. Against this backdrop, the risk of a fiscal crisis is increasing, particularly as global financial conditions become less favourable and debt structure has shifted towards increased reliance on floating rates and dollar-denominated bonds. Enacting a three year fiscal consolidation programme of one percentage point of GDP each year, will enable debt to stabilise at current levels by 2032. The current draft bill to strengthen public finances – Ley de Fortalecimiento de las Finanzas Públicas – proposes a comprehensive fiscal reform package, with measures on both the revenue and the spending side, as well as a fiscal rule. It needs to be complemented with additional measures to contain revenue earmarking. In addition, reducing excessive fragmentation of the public sector would allow the Ministry of Finance to regain control of the budget. There is also room to reduce expenditure on remuneration of public sector workers, one of the fastest growing expenditure items and a source of income inequality. The proposed fiscal rule should be strengthened, including introducing a multi-year expenditure framework and a fiscal council. Debt management should be modernised by stepping up communication with markets and reducing the number of benchmark securities. Over time, improving social spending efficiency and quality as well as modifying the tax structure away from social security contributions and enlarging the tax base would allow for a much stronger contribution of fiscal policy to growth and equity.
H52|Generating employment, raising incomes and addressing poverty in Greece|Employment is pivotal to strengthening Greece’s economic recovery, increasing social welfare and redressing poverty. Jobs are returning, making inroads into high unemployment, but their wages and skill levels are lower than many that were lost during the crisis. Greece’s hiring is benefiting from more flexible arrangements. Legislative amendments can maintain this flexibility, ensure wages align with productivity and better protect individuals from labour market risks. Ensuring that workers possess skills that match employers’ needs will sustain employment and productivity growth. Improving the education system is a long-term mission and involves raising its pedagogical strength and orientation towards professional needs. A social welfare system dominated by pensions has not been able to prevent a steep hike in poverty among children and the young, risking long-term harm to well-being. Pursuing recent steps towards a better targeted social protection, accompanied by support programmes for jobseekers, will provide a reliable safety net and reduce poverty. This Working Paper relates to the 2018 OECD Economic Survey of Greece. (http://www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/economic-survey-greece.htm).
H52|Generational Conflict and Education Politics: Implications for Growth and Welfare|This study considers the politics of public education and its impact on economicgrowth and welfare across generations. We employ probabilistic voting to demon-strate the generational con ict regarding taxes and spending and show that agingresults in a tax burden shift from the retired to the working generation, reductionin public education spending, and ultimately in slowing down economic growth.We subsequently consider a legal constraint that aims to boost education spend-ing: a spending oor for education. This constraint stimulates economic growthbut creates a trade-off between current and future generations' welfare. Finally, thequantitative implications of our results are explored by calibrating the model to theJapanese economy.
H52|Generational Conflict and Education Politics: Implications for Growth and Welfare|This study considers the politics of public education and its impact on economic growth and welfare across generations. We employ probabilistic voting to demon- strate the generational con ict regarding taxes and spending, and show that aging results in a tax burden shift from the retired to the working generation, a reduction in public education spending, and ultimately in slowing down economic growth. We subsequently consider a legal constraint that aims to boost education spending: a spending oor for education. This constraint stimulates economic growth, but cre- ates a trade-off between current and future generations in terms of welfare. Finally, the quantitative implications of our results are explored by calibrating the model to the Japanese economy.
H52|Efficiency of public expenditure on education: comparing Croatia with other NMS|Modern economies are becoming more knowledge-intensive and service-oriented, which makes human capital more important than ever for mid-term and long-term growth. Therefore, education, the main channel of governments’ influence on human capital formation, became important research subject in the field of economic growth. This paper examines efficiency of public expenditure on secondary and tertiary education in the New Member States (NMS) in EU ; only efficient government spending can generate adequate returns in terms of contribution to economic growth. Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA) is applied to assess relative technical efficiency of public expenditure on secondary and tertiary education in NMS, with a particular focus on Croatia. Input variables are public expenditure on education per student and as % of total education expenditure, while output variables for secondary education are PISA results and for tertiary education share of unemployed with a tertiary education and Shanghai ranking of leading national universities. The results show high inefficiency of public spending on education in Croatia.
H52|Capital Income Taxation, Economic Growth, and the Politics of Public Education|This study considers the politics of public education and its impacts on economic growth and welfare across generations. Public education is funded by taxing the labor income of the working generation and capital income of the retired. We employ probabilistic voting to demonstrate the politics of taxes and expenditure and show that aging results in a shift of the tax burden from the old to the young and a slowdown of economic growth. We then consider three alternative constraints that limit the choice of taxes and/or expenditure: a minimum level of public education expenditure, an upper limit of the capital income tax rate, and a combination of the two. These constraints all create a trade-off between current and future generations in terms of welfare.
H52|Der Wohlfahrtstaat als Grundbestandteil des modernen demokratischen Staatsgefüges<BR>[The welfare state as a basic component of the modern democratic state structure]|Defining the welfare state is not a simpleminded task. Actually, there are numerous definitions which try to reflect at least some of the basic characteristics of the welfare state or its objectives and its functions. For some, there is primarily an institutional parameter, for others there are functional issues which have to be firstly indicated and for others, the ideological and political factors determine the definition and the attitude towards the welfare state. Apart from all these crucial ascertainments, there are some basic fundamental characteristics and values of the welfare state which render it as a precondition of the existence of the modern state. Unquestionably, it reflects a distinct part of the state but most importantly, it comprises a prerequisite for its existence. This is the exact aim of this paper; to surpass the theoretical diversifications and to find the fundamental common ground which forms the indispensability for the existence of the welfare state.
H52|Assessment of Human Capital and Development.Contributions from Structural Funds|Numerous studies and publications pay attention to the evolution of human capital and the direction of their connection with development and democracy. ([1], [2], [3] etc.) Although from a conceptual point of view, human capital does not have sufficient explanatory power, the assumption that the performance of economic and social development depends heavily on human capital is almost unanimously accepted. From here, also arise the relevant concerns of the academic, business and public business community for assessing human capital and its impact on development. In this context, besides research on the nature of human capital, interdependencies and organizational responsibility and the incorporation of human capital into the economy of the future, other two theoretical and empirical directions, promoted on the one hand by the World Economic Forum or another part of the European Commission through the Structural Funds. The concerns of the two institutions become convergent on programs for human capital. If, [4, pp.2]proposes ”a new benchmark for leaders to build the workforces of the future”, the Structural Funds provide concrete instruments for investing in human capital. The present paper aims to substantiate and exemplify a new framework for assessing human capital and the contribution of structural funds to its evolution.
H52|Assessment of Human Capital and Development.Contributions from Structural Funds|Numerous studies and publications pay attention to the evolution of human capital and the direction of their connection with development and democracy. ([1], [2], [3] etc.) Although from a conceptual point of view, human capital does not have sufficient explanatory power, the assumption that the performance of economic and social development depends heavily on human capital is almost unanimously accepted. From here, also arise the relevant concerns of the academic, business and public business community for assessing human capital and its impact on development. In this context, besides research on the nature of human capital, interdependencies and organizational responsibility and the incorporation of human capital into the economy of the future, other two theoretical and empirical directions, promoted on the one hand by the World Economic Forum or another part of the European Commission through the Structural Funds. The concerns of the two institutions become convergent on programs for human capital. If, [4, pp.2]proposes ”a new benchmark for leaders to build the workforces of the future”, the Structural Funds provide concrete instruments for investing in human capital. The present paper aims to substantiate and exemplify a new framework for assessing human capital and the contribution of structural funds to its evolution.
H52|Education expenditure and economic growth: Some empirical evidence from Côte d’Ivoire|There are many recent studies on African countries about the relationship between education expenditure and economic growth. However, the case of Côte d’Ivoire has been so far neglected. The aim of this paper is then to investigate that relationship for Côte d’Ivoire for the period from 1970 to 2015. We applied the Pesaran et al. (2001) bounds testing approach, estimated an ARDL model and used the Toda and Yamamoto (1995) causality test. The study provides evidence of the existence of a negative and significant long term effect of government education expenditure on economic growth for the aforementioned period. Moreover, there is a non-significant positive effect of government education expenditure on economic growth in the short term. The results show a unidirectional causality relationship between the two variables, running from education expenditure to economic growth. These findings are consistent with some results in the empirical literature and, first, indicate that government education expenditure does not stimulate economic growth in Côte d’Ivoire. This may be due to low levels of government education expenditures and the inefficiency with which these expenditures are converted into human capital stock and thus into economic growth. Second, policies aiming to invest more in education are important for more production and more economic growth.
H52|The Decommissioning of the Middle Class|": The euro crisis has threatened the balance of social structures, through the impoverishment of the middle class, in almost all countries of the Old Continent. This trend has not only posed a threat to social cohesion, but it also threats the very nature of the so-called Western-style Democracy. The reason for this is that there is a class that has always been a ""cushion"" that absorbs both the vibrations of competition and the confrontation of the social elite with the socially weak, offering the latter the ability to overcome their misery. In most capitalist economies, the middle class label is based on an economic definition that is largely based on a lifestyle that is based on a certain economic robustness and endurance. With the deepening of the crisis, however, the diversity of the middle class not only has it been jeopardized, but rather, it has gradually been replaced by a new demographic category called the prekariat. This new category consists of a group of people once in the middle class and currently marginalized. All of this leads to generalized uncertainty and totally unstable political attitudes, with intense mobility at the extremes. The rapid rise of right and left-wing populism is an aspect of the threatened subjugation of the middle class strata. The consequences for societies when their layered center is lost are obvious and significant."
H52|Capital humain, productivité manufacturière et croissance économique dans les pays de l’UEMOA<BR>[Human capital, manufacturing productivity and economic growth in WAEMU countries]|The objective of this work is to analyze the relationship between human capital and productivity in manufacturing industries, by studying their direct link to economic growth. Based on annual data from the countries of the West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU), taken between 2000 and 2016, we apply the Pooled Mean Group method for our estimates. The results show that productivity in manufacturing industries is unlikely to support sustainable economic growth through human capital. In this respect, the increase in tertiary and secondary enrolment rates and the quality of training will have a positive impact on manufacturing production and economic growth. Since public spending on education is low, it has a perverse effect on manufacturing productivity. But increasing public spending on education would mitigate this perverse effect.
H52|Some Higher Education Issues in Muslim Countries with Islamic Economics as an Illustrative Case|The purpose of this paper is (i) to state the objectives of higher education commensurate with Islamic requirements; (ii) to examine the current state of higher education in Muslim majority countries with reference to the stated objectives with a view to indentifying the main issues it faces and (iii) to present in outline a program for creating an Islamic space for higher education at the global level. The constraints of space, time and resources at our disposal do not permit us to present an all covering blue print on this vital subject. Instead of dealing with specifics, we shall focus on attitudinal and directional issues of evolution. We shall use Islamic economics including finance as an illustrative case. Even here a comprehension of the desired magnitude may be lacking. Thus, we are conscious of the limitations of the truncated approach the paper takes to the problem. Yet, we expect the exercise to be rewarding in lighting up a few dark corners in the area.
H52|Investigating The Dynamic Effect of Healthcare Expenditure and Education Expenditure On Economic Growth in Organisation of Islamic Countries (OIC)|The socio-economic development level of any country has been significantly attached to the state of healthcare and well-being of its people. Moreover, it is unequivocal that healthy people have substantial influences on economic advancement of a country because when they live longer there is tendency that they will be more productive. On the other hand, the standpoint of education on economic growth cannot be underscored as it serves as method of evolution and progression of personalities and an essential indicator of broad production of the national income. Nevertheless, this paper examines the dynamic effect of healthcare expenditure and education expenditure on economic growth using evidence from Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) countries. The study applied Pool Mean Group (PMG) method by using 1990 to 2015 data. The study reveals a robust long-run co-integrating relationship between healthcare expenditure, education expenditure, research and development and the economic growths of OIC countries. Besides, the short-run effects indicates that, healthcare expenditure per capita significantly impact economic growth of OIC countries, while the education expenditure and research and development (technology) were insignificantly impact economic growth of OIC countries in the short-run. Albeit, the findings of the study short-run specific-effects concluded that, there is existence of a co-integrating relationship between the healthcare, education, technology and economic growth in 36 out of the 56 OIC countries, while 20 other countries have no co-integrating relationship with the economic growths. However, the study suggests that healthcare and education are device to further attain economic growth and development in OIC countries if well managed and administered.
H52|The (intertemporal) equity-efficiency trade-off of fiscal consolidation|We build a dynamic general equilibrium model with heterogeneous households and capital-skill complementarity in the production function to study aggregate and distributional effects of fiscal consolidation policies when government uses a rich set of productivity-enhancing spending instruments along with utility-enhancing spending and tax fiscal instruments. Fiscal policy is conducted through simple fiscal rules. We study both ad-hoc and optimized fiscal rules. Our main results indicate that ad-hoc fiscal consolidation policies, either through spending cuts or tax increases, are recessionary and entail an equity-efficiency trade-off in the short- and medium-run. That is spending-based consolidation policies are less recessionary but come at a higher distributional cost; whereas tax-based consolidation policies result in sharper output losses but have smoother distributional effects. In addition, fiscal consolidation policies through optimized fiscal rules can be expansionary and social welfare enhancing while at the same time balance the equity-efficiency trade-off.
H52|Re examination of Kinked Demand Oligopoly Market: Theory, Evidence and Policy Implications from Lakshadweep|There are number of markets discussed in the economic theory seems only as imaginative and lacks proper investigation on the existence in the real world situation and their validity. The kinked demand curve hypothesis is a famous one among them which is under crux among the economic researcher. In the past few decades the existence of this market in the real world economies and its impact is continue to be a puzzle and a very few attempts were made in this areas with a few oscillating conclusions. With this backdrop this attempt is made to fill this gap in economics literature of re examining the existence and the impact of the kinked demand theory hypothesis with a special reference to Lakshadweep islands of India.
H52|Challenges To Higher Education In Canada And Australia|This paper provides an overview of the higher education sector in Canada, so it can serve as a comparison to that in Australia. It seeks to identify stresses and challenges to this sector in Canada. The study also seeks to offer possible lessons for the direction of higher education policy in Australia and to raise concerns for the direction in Canada. The focus of the study is on the period since 2000 when consistent data for Canada largely became available. In 2005, the Rae Report Â– the last major overall review of higher education in Canada Â– was published followed by three volumes of evaluative studies of the state of higher education in Canada (Beach, Boadway and McInnis, 2005; Beach, 2005; and Iacobucci and Tuohy, 2005). So earlier and detailed commentaries are readily available from these sources. The present paper includes discussion of both universities as well as colleges that jointly make up the higher education sector in Canada. The perspective of the discussion is largely economic and heavily based on comparative statistics and the incentives they reveal. The paper proceeds as follows. The next section points out the major distinguishing features of the Canadian higher education system. Section 3 identifies a number of challenges and stresses the higher education sector has been facing in Canada. Then Section 4 examines some background influences on the higher education sector in both Australia and Canada. Section 5 then raises concerns about the growing role of metrics in higher education and the incentive issues they raise. And Section 6 concludes with some lessons to be considered in both countriesÂ’ tertiary education sectors.
H52|Educational Inequality and Public Policy Preferences: Evidence from Representative Survey Experiments|To study how information about educational inequality affects public concerns and policy preferences, we devise survey experiments in representative samples of the German population. Providing information about the extent of educational inequality strongly increases concerns about educational inequality but only slightly affects support for equity-oriented education policies, which is generally high. The small treatment effects are not due to respondents' failure to connect policies with educational inequality or aversion against government interventions. Support for compulsory preschool is the one policy with a strong positive information treatment effect, which is increased further by informing about policy effectiveness.
H52|Testing|School systems regularly use student assessments for accountability purposes. But, as highlighted by our conceptual model, different configurations of assessment usage generate performance-conducive incentives of different strengths for different stakeholders in different school environments. We build a dataset of over 2 million students in 59 countries observed over 6 waves in the international PISA student achievement test 2000-2015. Our empirical model exploits the country panel dimension to investigate reforms in assessment systems over time, where identification comes from taking out country and year fixed effects along with a rich set of student, school, and country measures. We find that the expansion of standardized external comparisons, both school-based and student-based, is associated with improvements in student achievement. The effect of school-based comparison is stronger in countries with initially low performance. Similarly, standardized monitoring without external comparison has a positive effect in initially poorly performing countries. By contrast, the introduction of solely internal testing and internal teacher monitoring including inspectorates does not affect student achievement. Our findings point out the pitfalls of overly broad generalizations from specific country testing systems.
H52|Obstacles to Efficient Allocations of Public Education Spending|Economic research suggests that investments in early education are generally more successful than investments at later ages. This paper presents a representative survey experiment on education spending in Germany, which exhibits low relative public spending on early education. Results are consistent with a model of misconceptions: informing randomly selected respondents about benefits of early education spending shifts majority support for public spending increases from later education levels to spending on early and primary education. Effects of information provision persist over a two-week period in a follow-up survey. By contrast, results do not suggest self-interested groups inefficiently allocate public education spending.
H52|Human Capital and Income Inequality|We investigate empirically how human capital, measured by educational attainment, is related to income distribution. We find that the regressions, using a panel data set covering a broad range of countries between 1980 and 2015, show that a more equal distribution of education contributes significantly to reducing income inequality. Educational expansion is a major factor in reducing educational inequality and thus income inequality. Public policies that improve social benefits and price stability contribute to reducing income inequality, while public spending on education helps to reduce educational inequality. In contrast, higher per capita income, greater openness to international trade, and faster technological progress tend to make both income and education distribution more unequal. Using the calibration of empirical results, we find that we can attribute the rising income inequality within East Asian economies in recent decades to the unequalizing effects of fast income growth and rapid progress in globalization and technological change, which have surpassed the income-equalizing effects from improved equality in the distribution of educational attainment during the period.
H52|The Impact of Primary School Investment Reallocation on Educational Attainment in Rural Areas of the People’s Republic of China|We analyze the effect of removing village-level primary schools and effectively merging these into larger township-level schools on educational attainment in rural areas of the People’s Republic of China. We employ individual- and village-level information from the China Household Ethnic Survey, which covers regions that are intensively affected by the removal campaign. We find a negative effect of school removals on primary school and junior high school completion rates. However, we also find positive effects on educational attainment beyond junior high school for those students who began their education in the new merged primary schools. This effect can be attributed to resource pooling and higher teacher quality in the new schools. The adverse effects are more severe for girls, especially if the new schools do not provide boarding and are located far away from student residences, and for children whose parents have low educational attainment, thus exacerbating gender inequality and the intergenerational transmission of education inequality. Our findings provide an important reference for other developing countries that will need to reallocate primary school investment in the future.
H52|Matching for Social Mobility with Unobserved Heritable Characteristics|We analyse the intergenerational transmission of ‘innate ability’, focusing on the role of marital sorting. The heritability of ability induces a concern for the ability of potential spouses independently of a concern for their earning capacity. Marriages form on the basis of beliefs about ability (since it is not observed) as well earning capacity (which is observed). Beliefs are informed by earning capacity, but crucially also by family background. We show how the intergenerational transmission of ability becomes sensitive to elements of the economic environment once marital sorting is endogenously determined, but also that policy variables (e.g. income redistribution) generally have no impact. The analysis also reveals a novel ‘status motive’ for parental investment and channel through which the fortunes of grandparents and prior generations persist.
H52|Higher education and economic development: can public funding restrain the returns from tertiary education?|This paper examines whether the contribution of tertiary education to economic growth and income per capita depends on the structure of public education budgets. The analysis resorts to a panel of 41 countries over the period 1970-2010. The empirical approach is based on system GMM regressions and Hierarchical Linear Models, which allow dealing with endogeneity concerns and parameter heterogeneity. The estimates show that budget imbalances against basic schooling seem to undermine the achievement of productivity gains from higher education.
H52|The efficiency of Uruguayan secondary schools: Evidence based on PISA 2015 data|While Uruguayan public education spending is limited so that increasing funding could still improve schooling outcomes, a better use of the current resources could also make a difference. This paper analyses the efficiency performance of a set of public and private schools and explores its main drivers based on PISA-2015 data. Efficiency is estimated by using PISA marks adjusted by the student socioeconomic condition as outputs in a Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA) and it is regressed on a set of explanatory variables by applying bootstrapped truncated regressions. Results show high inefficiencies for the average Uruguayan school with a considerable dispersion in the efficiency attainments. Efficiency gains are associated to school size, location, private management and the presence of non-teaching staff.
H52|Mixed Duopoly in Education with Vouchers| In a mixed duopoly environment, I study under which conditions the introduction of a voucher system for private schools can increase competition and as a result, social welfare. My model considers a market in which schools compete in qualities to attract students. Speci cally, I consider two settings: one with two private pro t-maximizing schools and one with a mixed duopoly, in which one of the schools maximizes social welfare. In the two situations, the quality level offered by the schools plays a crucial role in the students' enrollment decision. I nd that in both private and mixed duopoly, the voucher reduces the tuition fee and the quality of the high quality school. It also increases own pro ts and decreases the ones of its competitor. Thus, the voucher reduces the incentives of the high-quality school to invest on its quality, and this weakens the competition in the market. In the mixed duopoly scenario, particularly for having an increasing consumer surplus and social welfare, the social planner needs to implement a low voucher. The contrary needs to be implemented in the private duopoly. Finally, the low voucher policy can be successful as a high voucher is costly. Keywords: Mixed Duopoly, Voucher Programs, Educational System, Vertical and Horizontal Differentiation. JEL classi fications: D21, H52, I2, L13.
H52|Parental Support, Savings and Student Loan Repayment|Using unique survey and administrative data from the Canada Student Loans Program, we document that parental support and personal savings substantially lower student loan repayment problems. We develop a theoretical model for studying student borrowing and repayment in the presence of risky labor market outcomes, moral hazard, and costly earnings verification. This framework demonstrates that non-monetary costs of applying for income-based repayment assistance are critical to understanding why resources other than earnings lead to greater repayment. We further show that eliminating these non-monetary costs may be inefficient and lead to undesirable redistribution. Empirically, we demonstrate that expanding Canada’s income-based Repayment Assistance Plan to automatically cover all borrowers would likely reduce program revenue by nearly one-half over early years of repayment. Finally, we show how student loan programs can be more efficiently designed to address heterogeneity in parental transfers in the presence of non-monetary earnings verification costs and moral hazard.
H52|Inequalities in adolescent learning: Does the timing and persistence of food insecurity at home matter?|We investigated inequalities in learning achievements at 12 years by household food insecurity trajectories at ages 5, 8 and 12 years in a longitudinal sample of 1,911 Indian children. Estimates included extensive child and household controls and lagged cognitive scores to address unobserved individual heterogeneity in ability and early investments. Overall, household food insecurity at any age predicted lower vocabulary, reading, maths and English scores in early adolescence. Adolescents from households that transitioned from food insecurity at age 5 to food security at a later age, and adolescents from chronically food insecure households had the lowest scores across all outcomes. There was heterogeneity in the relationship between temporal occurrence of food insecurity and cognitive skills, based on developmental and curriculum-specific timing of skill formation. Results were robust to additional explanations of the “household food insecurity gap”, i.e. education and health investments, parental and children's educational aspirations, and children's psychosocial skills.
H52|The Economics of University Dropouts and Delayed Graduation: A Survey|This survey organizes and discusses the theoretical and empirical literature on the determinants of university student achievements. According to the theoretical framework, the decision to invest in tertiary education is a sequential process made under gradually decreasing levels of uncertainty on education costs and future returns. Students, applying a learning by doing approach, update their information set each academic year and revise benefits and costs associated to tertiary education. Accordingly, they decide whether to continue university studies in order to get a degree or to withdraw. This university decisional process is discussed by clustering the determinants of university outcomes into four main categories - students' characteristics, abilities and behavior; parental background and family networks; characteristics of the tertiary education system and its institutions; labor market performance - which are drawn from the empirical evidence. The policy advice resulting from the encompassing analysis is to provide an all-inclusive orientation activity for students, before they enroll at university. A complete understanding of the potential costs and benefits of this human capital investment can in fact reduce the risk of early withdrawal or delayed graduation.
H52|Stochastic frontier analysis in higher education: A systematic review|This paper provides a systematic review of the literature that employs stochastic frontier analysis to measure the efficiency of higher education institutions. The overview opens with a look at the general development of the literature, before emphasis is laid on the methodical aspects. Focus is thereby placed on the necessary underlying assumptions and the employed specifications, discussing their advantages and drawbacks. Afterwards, the factors that were specified in the literature, including the input and output variables, as well as the determinants of efficiency, are discussed in detail. Based on the insights of the literature review, the paper highlights some of the existing deficiencies and ways forward. To our knowledge, the present study provides the first systematic review on the usage of the stochastic frontier analysis to measure efficiency in the higher education sector.
H52|Early Detection of Students at Risk – Predicting Student Dropouts Using Administrative Student Data and Machine Learning Methods|To successfully reduce student attrition, it is imperative to understand what the underlying determinants of attrition are and which students are at risk of dropping out. We develop an early detection system (EDS) using administrative student data from a state and a private university to predict student success as a basis for a targeted intervention. The EDS uses regression analysis, neural networks, decision trees, and the AdaBoost algorithm to identify student characteristics which distinguish potential dropouts from graduates. Prediction accuracy at the end of the first semester is 79% for the state university and 85% for the private university of applied sciences. After the fourth semester, the accuracy improves to 90% for the state university and 95% for the private university of applied sciences.
H52|Fertility Effects of College Education: Evidence from the German Educational Expansion|We estimate the effects of college education on female fertility – a so far understudied margin of education, which we instrument by arguably exogenous variation induced through college expansions. While college education reduces the probability of becoming a mother, college-educated mothers have slightly more children than mothers without a college education. Unfolding the effects by the timing of birth reveals a postponement that goes beyond the time in college – indicating a negative early-career effect on fertility. Coupled with higher labor-supply and wage returns for non-mothers as compared to mothers the timing effects moreover suggest that career and family are not fully compatible.
H52|One Billion Euro Program for Early Childcare Services in Italy|In 2007 the Italian central government started a program by transferring funds to regional governments to develop both private and public early childcare services. Exploiting the different timing of program implementation across regions, we evaluate its effectiveness in boosting the public supply of early childhood educational services. We find that the ratio between the available slots in public early childhood education and the population of those aged 0-2 increased by 18.1% three years after the start of the program, with respect to the pre-program level. The program impact was however nil in the South and totally driven by the Center-North.
H52|Raising aspirations and higher education: evidence from the UK’s Widening Participation policy|This paper investigates the relationship between aspirations and inequality in higher education participation. Using a regression discontinuity design, I evaluate the impact of a nationwide UK policy aimed at raising aspirations towards college education in pupils from disadvantaged backgrounds by involving them in outreach activities. I find that the policy successfully raised the aspirations of the target students and their participation in post compulsory education. However, its final effect on college enrolment was negligible overall and appears concentrated among students from the most affluent families and those in the central part of the ability distribution.
H52|Distribution of Federal Support for Students Pursuing Higher Education in 2016|CBO estimates the federal government provided students pursuing higher education in 2016 with about $91 billion in direct financial support through a wide variety of spending programs (including subsidies for student loans) and income and payroll tax expenditures. Altogether, that assistance covered almost one-third of the cost of attendance for students from households in the lowest-income quintile but less than 10 percent for students from households in the highest-income quintile.
H52|Federal Aid for Postsecondary Students|The federal government supports postsecondary students through various loan programs, grants, and tax expenditures. In 2017, the federal government financed roughly $100 billion in student loans, and about $30 billion in grants and $30 billion in tax preferences were provided to students and their families. In this report, CBO examines some reasons the federal government offers this support and how the current system helps alleviate some of the challenges students encounter. CBO also considers a number of potential approaches to changing federal aid for postsecondary students.
H52|Long-Term Gains from Longer School Days|This paper examines whether additional time in school affects labor market outcomes and educational attainment in adulthood. We leverage within and across city and cohort variation covering a large-scale reform that increased the Chilean elementary and secondary school day by 30 percent between 1997 and 2010. Exposure to full-day school increases educational attainment and earnings when students are in their 20s and 30s. In addition, we find evidence of delayed childbearing among women, and some occupational upskilling. These labor market effects are not concentrated in any particular subgroup, but are widespread throughout the population. JEL classification: I26; I25; J24; H52
H52|Government education expenditures, pre-primary education and school performance: A cross-country analysis| Using data from OECDâ€™s PISA, Eurostat and World Bankâ€™s WDI, we explore how child cognitive outcomes at the aggregate country level are related to macroeconomic conditions, specifically government education expenditures and early education experience. We find that both government expenditures in education and attendance to early child care are associated with better later school performance. We also consider different childcare characteristics such as duration and quality, which appear to have significant effects Our results may imply that policies encouraging childcare expansion should also take into account quality issues.
H52|How to Measure Research Efficiency in Higher Education? Research Grants vs. Publication Output|An ongoing debate in the literature on efficiency of higher education institutions concerns the indicator for research output in the empirical analysis. While several studies chose to use the number of publications, others rely on the overall amount of research grants. The present study investigates whether both lead to similar or different assessments of universities. Besides the amount of research grants and the absolute number of publications, the number of publications belonging to the 10% and 1% most frequently cited papers in the corresponding subject category and publication year are evaluated. We show that there is a high correlation of efficiency values between the estimations using these indicators; however, the concordance is partly lower. The results do not only provide a helpful guideline for researchers, but are also valuable for policy makers deciding which incentives to create through funding.
H52|Praxiserfahrungen mit den Befreiungsvorschriften des Kleinanlegerschutzgesetzes|Dieser Forschungsbericht untersucht die Auswirkungen der im Sommer 2015 eingeführten Befreiungsvorschriften des Kleinanlegerschutzgesetzes. Durch eine stärkere Regulierung soll das Kleinanlegerschutzgesetz für mehr Transparenz für Anlegerinnen und Anleger auf dem grauen Kapitalmarkt sorgen. Das Gesetz beinhaltet jedoch auch Ausnahmeregelungen. Diese entbinden sowohl Unternehmen, die sich über Crowdinvesting-Plattform finanzieren, als auch soziale, gemeinnützige und kirchliche Projekte von der Pflicht einer Prospekterstellung bei dem Angebot von Vermögensanlagen. Grundlage der Untersuchung dieser Ausnahmeregelungen ist die Crowdinvesting-Datenbank, eine Befragung unter sozialen und gemeinnützigen Organisation sowie Expertengespräche. Zusammenfassend lassen sich rund ein Jahr nach Einführung des Kleinanlegerschutzgesetzes keine starken Effekte für den Markt für Schwarmfinanzierungen in Deutschland erkennen. Die von uns analysierten Daten zeigen auch, dass sich das Anlageverhalten durch die neu eingeführte Pflicht zur Selbstauskunft über das Einkommen und Vermögen der Investierenden nicht verändert hat. Allerdings haben sich die bei Schwarmfinanzierungen verwendeten Vermögensanlagen in den letzten Jahren weg von stillen Beteiligungen und hin zu partiarischen Darlehen und Nachrangdarlehen entwickelt. Im Bereich sozialer und gemeinnütziger Projekte finden die geschaffenen Ausnahmeregelungen so gut wie keine Anwendung, da andere Regelungen eine wesentlich einfachere Entbindung von der Prospektpflicht ermöglichen.
H52|Wie effizient forschen Universitäten in Deutschland, deren Zukunftskonzepte im Rahmen der Exzellenzinitiative ausgezeichnet wurden?|In der vorliegenden Studie haben wir eine Effizienzanalyse von Universitäten in Deutschland vorgenommen, deren Zukunftskonzepte im Rahmen der Exzellenzinitiative ausgezeichnet wurden: RWTH Aachen, FU Berlin, HU Berlin, Uni Bremen, TU Dresden, Uni Freiburg, Uni Göttingen, Uni Heidelberg, Karlsruher Institut für Technologie (KIT), Uni Köln, Uni Konstanz, LMU München, TU München und Uni Tübingen. Für die Analyse wurden die Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA) sowie die neuere und robustere Partial Frontier Analysis (PFA) verwendet. Als Input-Variablen haben wir die Ausgaben der Universitäten und die Anzahl der wissenschaftlichen Mitarbeiter/ innen verwendet; die Output-Variablen wurden durch die Anzahl der (hochzitierten) Publikationen sowie die Absolventen/-innen abgebildet. Die Ergebnisse der DEA zeigen, dass nahezu alle Universitäten entweder effizient oder sehr nah an der Effizienzlinie operieren. Die Ergebnisse der PFA deuten darauf hin, dass es keine super- effizienten Universitäten gibt. Insgesamt gesehen weisen die Ergebnisse auf ein homogenes Bild der in der Exzellenzinitiative ausgezeichneten Universitäten hin.
H52|The Completion Shift of German Universities of Applied Sciences|In research on higher education, the evaluation of completion and drop-out rates has generated a steady stream of interest for decades. While most studies only calculate quotes using student and graduate numbers for both phenomena, we propose to also consider the budget available to universities. We transfer the idea of the excellence shift from the research (Bornmann et al., 2017) to the teaching area, and particularly to the completion rate of educational entities. The completion shift shows institutions’ ability to produce graduates as measured against their basic academic teaching efficiency, thereby avoiding the well-known heterogeneity problem in efficiency measurement. Their politically determined focus on education makes German universities of applied science the perfect sample for evaluating this novel method. Using a comprehensive dataset covering the years 2008 to 2013, we show that the shift produces results, which correlate considerably with the results of the standard Data Envelopment Approach (DEA). Thus, we recommend the completion shift as an alternative method of efficiency measurement in the teaching area. Compared to DEA, the computation of the shift is easy and the results are understandable to non-economists.
H52|Décentralisation, compétences partagées, compétences exclusives : Proposition méthodologique appliquée à l’école obligatoire|Dans la plupart des pays décentralisés ou fédéralistes, la question de la répartition des compétences « exclusives » ou « partagées » ne reçoit le plus souvent pas une réponse satisfaisante parce qu’elle est mal posée. Partage ou exclusivité sont confus parce que les contenus des attributions respectives à chaque (niveau de) gouvernement ne sont pas délimités avec suffisamment de précision. Il en résulte des situations d’excès ou de disette dans la production d’un service mal délimité. On peut résoudre ce problème en désagrégeant la fonction de production d’une compétence à partager, en identifiant les composants de cette fonction de production et en attribuant de manière exclusive la responsabilité de chaque composant à un seul niveau de gouvernement, tout en maintenant la cohérence globale de l’offre. On a alors bel et bien un partage de compétence, prise dans sa globalité, mais une exclusivité d’action sur ses composantes, chaque élément constitutif (ou intrant) d’une compétence étant attribué de manière unique à un seul niveau de gouvernement. C’est la démarche proposée dans cette contribution en utilisant une méthode fondée sur une matrice de décentralisation, en prenant l’exemple de la scolarité obligatoire.
H52|Reprobación y desempeño académico: Evidencia de la implementación de la promoción automática en Colombia|El sistema de promoción automática, en oposición al de retención escolar, asegura a los estudiantes el ingreso al siguiente nivel de escolaridad como medida para reducir la deserción y eliminar los costos de repetición. Este artículo examina el efecto de la introducción de la promoción automática en el desempeño académico de los estudiantes de colegios oficiales en Colombia. El Decreto 230 de 2002 estableció que únicamente el 5% de los alumnos en cada grado podía reprobar el año escolar. La implementación de esta política crea un cuasi experimento que permite evaluar el efecto de cambios en las tasas de reprobación sobre el aprendizaje. Mediante una aproximación por diferencias en diferencias en dos etapas se encuentra que una caída de una desviación estándar en la tasa de reprobación conlleva a una disminución de 0.035 desviaciones estándar en pruebas estandarizadas de matemáticas, pero sin efectos significativos sobre las pruebas de lenguaje. Este trabajo contribuye a comprender el efecto de las políticas de reprobación sobre el aprendizaje.
H52|Equality of Opportunity and Human Capital Accumulation: Motivational Effect of a Nationwide Scholarship in Colombia|We study the ex-ante motivational effect of a nationwide merit and need-based scholarship in Colombia. Ser Pilo Paga (SPP) is a program that grants full scholarships at top-quality universities for 10,000 low-income students per cohort. After its introduction in 2014, SPP completely closed the socioeconomic enrollment gap for high-performing students in top universities. Using administrative data on the universe of high-school seniors, we explore whether this unprecedented change in opportunities generated an ex-ante motivational effect on eligible students’ performance in the 2015 national high school exit exam. Our results from a Difference in Difference model and a Regression Discontinuity Design indicate that the need-based eligibility to the scholarship had a substantial effect on test scores at the top of the distribution, starting around the 70th percentile. For example, at the 90th percentile of the test score distribution, eligibility to the scholarship reduced the socioeconomic achievement gap by 17 percent. We also find that the motivational effect is concentrated in schools where at least one student received the scholarship in 2014, and that university enrollment rates even increased for eligible students who obtained a test score just below the requirement to obtain the scholarship. Our results highlight the way in which the lack of opportunities for social mobility discourages human capital accumulation by low income students, thus contributing to the persistence of poverty and inequality.
H52|Lightning the future of education in Brazil: the impact of rural electrification on educational outcomes|We analyze the impact of rural electricity access on different educational outcomes for children by taking advantage of the priorization criteria of the brazilian program Luz Para Todos (LPT) which determines an assignment variable that extracts the exogenous variation in rural electricity access. Using test scores and census data at the school and child level we establish that having electricity access through LPT has a positive and significant effect on Language and Math test scores for 5th and 9th graders, on literacy likelihood and on approval rates. We argument that the effect is driven by an increase in electricity access and use within schools which empirically remarks the importance of electrical device access and technology use on modern education.
H52|Pay for locally monitored performance? A welfare analysis for teacher attendance in Ugandan primary schools|To achieve the twin objectives of incentivizing agent performance and providing information for planning purposes, public sector organizations often rely on reports by local monitors that are costly to verify. Received wisdom has it that attaching financial incentives to these reports will result in collusion, and undermine both objectives. Simple bargaining logic, however, suggests the reverse: pay for locally monitored performance could incentivize desired behavior and improve information. To investigate this issue, we conducted a randomized controlled trial in Ugandan primary schools that explored how incentives for teachers could be designed when based on local monitoring by head teachers. Our experiment randomly varied whether head teachers' reports of teacher attendance were tied to teacher bonus payments or not. We find that local monitoring on its own is ineffective at improving teacher attendance. However, combining local monitoring with financial incentives leads to both an increase in teacher attendance (by 8 percentage points) and an improvement in the quality of information. We also observe substantial gains in pupil attainment, driven primarily by a reduction in dropouts. By placing a financial value on these enrollment gains, we demonstrate that pay for locally monitored performance passes both welfare and fiscal sustainability tests.
H52|Ethnic Favoritism: Winner Takes All or Power Sharing? Evidence from school constructions in Benin| Ethnic favoritism often distorts public policies in fractionalized countries, especially in Subsaharan Africa. We estimate the impact of a change in the ethnic group of the education minister and of the president on school construction in Benin. We estimate difference in differences and regression discontinuities based on the dates of the changes, and we find that school constructions are more frequent when the district is coethnic with a new education minister, but less frequent when the district is coethnic with a new president. The effects are very large in magnitude: a coethnic education minister approximately doubles the number of school constructions, a coethnic president approximately divides this number by two. These results suggest that the president does not systematically favor his own ethnic group but has to share power in order to survive. By appointing politicians from other ethnic groups in the government, she redistributes power to these groups, as ministers have the discretionary power to favor their own group. This specific pattern of ethnic favoritism vanishes after the democratization of Benin, in 1991. The checks and balances created by democracy seemingly prevented ethnically targeted public policies.
H52|Assessing Public Expenditure Efficiency at Indian States|In recent times, the issue of public expenditure efficiency has drawn the attention of both policymakers and researchers globally. Even in India, with the increased demands for Outcome-based Budgeting, the assessment of public expenditure efficiency becomes much more crucial. Towards this direction, by using outlays-outcome framework, the pa-per attempts to measure the efficiency of government expenditures on Social Sector, es-pecially health and education, among the Indian States using various DEA approaches. Further, the paper also attempts to understand what drives the public expenditure effi-ciency among the States. For this, it looks at the role of economic growth as well as quality of governance. The results of input-oriented and output-oriented DEA approach finds a large variation in the efficiency of public spending as well as scope for resource saving among Indian States. The results suggest that States are spending their resources more efficiently on education than on health and overall social sector spending. Further, it also finds that both quality of governance and economic growth affects the efficiency of edu-cation, health, and social sector with governance to have larger effect compared to growth. Overall, the study suggests that focus on good governance could yield better out-comes from public spending.
H52|Economists’ Musings on Human Capital Investment: How Efficient is Public Spending on Education in EU Member States?|In this paper we perform stochastic frontier analyses to assess the quality of public spending on education in Europe. To measure the corresponding efficiency, three dimensions are taken into account: (1) quantity (tertiary educational attainment), (2) quality (PISA scores in the area of science), and (3) inclusiveness (proxied by the inverse of young people not in employment, training or education (NEET rates)). All EU Member States are covered over the period 2002 – 2015. Based on pooled and fixed effects regressions, the EU Member States' efficiency scores are assessed both with a view at an EU-wide frontier to allow for cross-country comparisons as well as concerning country-specific frontiers to identify individual trends and possibly remaining deficiencies. The results reveal that some Member States manage to achieve high efficiency in all observed output dimensions 'quantity', 'quality' and 'inclusion', such as e.g. the Netherlands and the United Kingdom - which implies that there is not necessarily a trade-off between the individual output dimensions. Evidence suggests, moreover, that most Member States made remarkable progress over time in terms of efficient use of public resources in reaching large numbers of highly educated young adults. With a view at quality and inclusiveness of public spending on education, however, in many Member States seems to remain still room (and need) for further improvements.
H52|A Day Late and a Dollar Short : Liquidity and Household Formation among Student Borrowers|The federal government encourages human capital investment through lending and grant programs, but resources from these programs may also finance non-education activities for students whose liquidity is otherwise restricted. This paper explores this possibility, using administrative data for the universe of federal student loan borrowers linked to tax records. We examine the effects of a sharp discontinuity in program limits—generated by the timing of a student borrower’s 24th birthday—on household formation early in the lifecycle. After demonstrating that this discontinuity induces a jump in federal support, we estimate an immediate and persistent increase in homeownership, with larger effects among those most financially constrained. In the first year, borrowers with higher limits also earn less but are more likely to save; however, there are no differences in subsequent years. Finally, effects on marriage and fertility lag homeownership. Altogether, the results appear to be driven by liquidity rather than human capital or wealth effects.
H52|Preferences for Public Education Spending in Hierarchical Education Systems: Theory and Empirical Evidence from OECD Countries|This paper analyses the factors affecting preferences for public education spending, focusing on household income and other individualsâ€™ characteristics as well as on institutional features. Standard redistributive arguments Ã la Meltzer and Richard (1981) suggest that the impact of household income on preferences should be negative since richer families are likely to oppose the redistributive effect of public funding. However, the empirical evidence does not seem to confirm this prediction. To shed some light on this issue, our proposed interpretative key hinges on the hierarchical structure of the education system. To this purpose, we set up a model in which agents are heterogeneous in terms of income and education and human capital is produced in a two-tier education system. We show that individual preferences for public education spending are affected by household income and by variables related to the socioeconomic context, such as income inequality and social inclusiveness of the education system, which determine the ultimate redistributive effect of public spending. We are able to test some of the predictions of our model using individualsâ€™ data from ISSP (2006 wave). The econometric analysis points out thatÂ household income is, unambiguously, a negative predictor of preferences when considering openly redistributive education expenses. Differently, when considering general schooling expenses, the intensity and even the direction of the income effect is affected by income inequality and by the social inclusiveness of the education system. We also assess the presence of significant residual variability in the income coefficient, due to unobserved factors, which for the most part is due to the individual within-country rather than to the cross-country level.
H52|On the political economy of compulsory education|We consider an economy with two categories of agents: entrepreneurs and workers. In laissez-faire, the former gain from having their children educated, while the latter, although they may profit from their own education, have no interest in sending their children to school. We first characterise the preferred education policy-cum-redistributive taxation for the two groups, and find that entrepreneurs favour a compulsory education policy while workers prefer a purely redistributive taxation. Each group would like the policy to be entirely financed by the other group. Then, we introduce a political process with probabilistic voting and verify that an equilibrium with both a compulsory education policy and some redistribution may exist in which the workers are constrained but the entrepeneurs, who benefit from hiring educated workers, are not.
H52|Emergence of sovereign wealth funds|In this paper we show that domestic economic and political characteristics can explain why some countries established a Sovereign Wealth Funds (SWFs) and others not. We find that 1) the existence of natural resources profits, 2) the government structure and 3) the ability to invest in a socially beneficial way in the domestic economy can explain this choice. At the same time these same factors do not relate to the size of the national savings. We use a sample of countries that established a SWF in the period 1998–2008 and compare them to those that did not set up a fund in the same period. The results suggest that SWFs tend to be established in autocratically run countries that have difficulties finding suitable opportunities for domestic investments.
H52|How many educated workers for your economy? European targets, optimal public spending, and labor market impact|Abstract This paper studies optimal taxation schemes for education in a search-matching model where the labor market is divided between a high-skill and a low-skill sector. Two public policy targets - maximizing the total employment level and optimizing the social surplus - are studied according to three different public taxation strategies. We calibrate our model using evidence from thirteen European countries, and compare our results with the target from the Europe 2020 Agenda for achievement in higher education. We show that, with current labor market characteristics, the target set by governments seems compatible with the social surplus maximization objective for some countries, while being too high for other countries. For all countries, maximizing employment would imply higher educational spending than that required for the social surplus to reach its maximum.
H52|Parental Support, Savings and Student Loan Repayment|Using unique survey and administrative data from the Canada Student Loans Program, we document that parental support and personal savings substantially lower student loan repayment problems. We develop a theoretical model for studying student borrowing and repayment in the presence of risky labor market outcomes, moral hazard, and costly earnings verification. This framework demonstrates that non-monetary costs of applying for income-based repayment assistance are critical to understanding why resources other than earnings lead to greater repayment. We further show that eliminating these non-monetary costs may be inefficient and lead to undesirable redistribution. Empirically, we demonstrate that expanding Canada’s income-based Repayment Assistance Plan to automatically cover all borrowers would likely reduce program revenue by nearly one-half over early years of repayment. Finally, we show how student loan programs can be more efficiently designed to address heterogeneity in parental transfers in the presence of non-monetary earnings verification costs and moral hazard.
H52|The Economic Effects of Providing Legal Status to DREAMers|This study quantifies the economic effects of two major immigration reforms aimed at legalizing undocumented individuals that entered the United States as children and completed high school: Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) and the DREAM Act. The former offers only temporary legal status to eligible individuals; the latter provides a track to legal permanent residence. Our analysis is based on a general-equilibrium model that allows for shifts in participation between work, college and non-employment. The model is calibrated to account for productivity differences across workers of different skills and documentation status, and a rich pattern of complementarities across different types of workers. We estimate DACA increased GDP by almost 0.02% (about $3.5 billion), or $7,454 per legalized worker. Passing the DREAM Act would increase GDP by around 0.08% (or $15.2 billion), which amounts to an average of $15,371 for each legalized worker. The larger effects of the DREAM Act stem from the expected larger take-up and the increased incentive to attend college among DREAMers with a high school degree. We also find substantial wage increases for individuals obtaining legal status, particularly for individuals that increase their educational attainment. Because of the small size of the DREAMer population, legalization entails negligible effects on the wages of US-born workers.
H52|Are They Coming Back? The Mobility of University Students in Switzerland after Graduation|We analyze the internal mobility of university graduates in Switzerland. An empirically interesting question because not all the cantons have a university and therefore in some cantons students have to leave their home for studying but all the cantons have to bear the public costs for studying for their students irrespective of their study place. On average, approximately half of the students who had left their home canton in order to study, return to their home canton, and about half of those who do not return move onward from the canton where they studied to a third canton. Controlling for several factors explaining graduate mobility, we find that top performing students return less often than do low performers. As a consequence the home cantons, which cover the bulk of the costs also for the students that had left for studying in another canton, face a quantitative and qualitative disadvantage when losing mobile graduates.
H52|The economics of university dropouts and delayed graduation: a survey|This survey organizes and discusses the theoretical and empirical literature on the determinants of university student achievements. According to the theoretical framework, the decision to invest in tertiary education is a sequential process made under gradually decreasing levels of uncertainty on education costs and future returns. Students, applying a learning by doing approach, update their information set each academic year and revise benefits and costs associated to tertiary education. Accordingly, they decide whether to continue university studies in order to get a degree or to withdraw. This university decisional process is discussed by clustering the determinants of university outcomes into four main categories - students’ characteristics, abilities and behavior; parental background and family networks; characteristics of the tertiary education system and its institutions; labor market performance - which are drawn from the empirical evidence. The policy advice resulting from the encompassing analysis is to provide an all-inclusive orientation activity for students, before they enroll at university. A complete understanding of the potential costs and benefits of this human capital investment can in fact reduce the risk of early withdrawal or delayed graduation.
H52|Child Care, Parental Labor Supply and Tax Revenue|We study the impact of child care for toddlers on the labor supply of mothers and fathers in Norway. For identification, we exploit the staggered expansion across municipalities following a large reform from 2002. Our IV-estimates indicate that child care use causes an increase in the labor supply of mothers. Results suggest that cohabiting mothers move towards full time employment, while single mothers move to part time. Meanwhile, we find no impact for fathers or grandparents. We also find an increase in the taxes paid from cohabiting mothers, lending some support to the argument that parts of the cost of child care is offset by increased taxes.
H52|Testing|School systems regularly use student assessments for accountability purposes. But, as highlighted by our conceptual model, different configurations of assessment usage generate performance-conducive incentives of different strengths for different stakeholders in different school environments. We build a dataset of over 2 million students in 59 countries observed over 6 waves in the international PISA student achievement test 2000-2015. Our empirical model exploits the country panel dimension to investigate reforms in assessment systems over time, where identification comes from taking out country and year fixed effects along with a rich set of student, school, and country measures. We find that the expansion of standardized external comparisons, both school-based and student-based, is associated with improvements in student achievement. The effect of school-based comparison is stronger in countries with initially low performance. Similarly, standardized monitoring without external comparison has a positive effect in initially poorly performing countries. By contrast, the introduction of solely internal testing and internal teacher monitoring including inspectorates does not affect student achievement. Our findings point out the pitfalls of overly broad generalizations from specific country testing systems.
H52|One billion Euro program for early childcare services in Italy|In 2007 the Italian central government started a program by transferring funds to regional governments to develop both private and public early childcare services. Exploiting the different timing of program implementation across regions, we evaluate its effectiveness in boosting the public supply of early childhood educational services. We find that the ratio between the available slots in public early childhood education and the population of those aged 0-2 increased by 18.1% three years after the start of the program, with respect to the pre-program level. The program impact was however nil in the South and totally driven by the Center-North.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
H52|Educational Inequality and Public Policy Preferences: Evidence From Representative Survey Experiments|To study how information about educational inequality affects public concerns and policy preferences, we devise survey experiments in representative samples of the German population. Providing information about the extent of educational inequality strongly increases concerns about educational inequality but only slightly affects support for equity-oriented education policies, which is generally high. The small treatment effects are not due to respondents\' failure to connect policies with educational inequality or aversion against government interventions. Support for compulsory preschool is the one policy with a strong positive information treatment effect, which is increased further by informing about policy effectiveness.
H52|ProPelled: The Effects of Grants on Graduation, Earnings, and Welfare|We estimate effects of the Pell Grant—the largest US federal grant for college students—using administrative data from Texas public colleges and a discontinuity in grant generosity for low-income students. Within four-year institutions, eligibility for additional grant aid significantly increases first-time students' degree completion and later earnings. Our estimated impacts on earnings alone are enough to fully recoup government expenditures within 10 years, suggesting that financial aid likely pays for itself several times over.
H52|Public opinion and the political economy of educational reforms: A survey|In the political economy of education policy, interactions between policymakers and public opinion can create discrepancies between political awareness and action. While a large literature studies public opinion on different aspects of the welfare state, research has only recently started to investigate the public’s attitudes towards education policy. We survey this emerging literature with a particular focus on public preferences for education spending in different sociodemographic subgroups, policy trade-offs, support for specific education reforms, and the importance of information for public preferences. While the available evidence is multifaceted, there is some general indication that citizens place high priority on education policy, show substantial willingness to reform, and are responsive to information and adequate reform designs.
H52|How information affects support for education spending: Evidence from survey experiments in Germany and the United States|To study whether current spending levels and public knowledge of them contribute to transatlantic differences in policy preferences, we implement parallel survey experiments in Germany and the United States. In both countries, support for increased education spending and teacher salaries falls when respondents receive information about existing levels. Treatment effects vary by prior knowledge in a manner consistent with information effects rather than priming. Support for salary increases is inversely related to salary levels across American states, suggesting that higher salaries could explain much of Germans' lower support for increases. Information about the tradeoffs between specific spending categories shifts preferences from class-size reduction towards alternative purposes. Additional German experiments indicate that information effects extend to specific reform proposals and to other areas of public spending.
H52|Labor Market Outcomes and Postsecondary Accountability: Are Imperfect Metrics Better than None?|No abstract is available for this item.
H52|Framing Effects, Earnings Expectations, and the Design of Student Loan Repayment Schemes|Income-driven student loan repayment (IDR) plans provide protection against unaffordable loan payments and default by linking loan payments to borrowers’ earnings. Despite the advantages IDR would offer to many borrowers, take-up remains low. We investigate how take-up is affected by the framing of IDR through a survey of University of Maryland undergraduates. When the insurance aspects of IDR are emphasized, students are significantly more likely to participate, while participation is significantly lower when costs are emphasized. IDR framing interacts with expected labor market outcomes. Emphasizing the insurance aspects of IDR has larger effects on students who anticipate a higher probability of not being employed and/or low earnings at graduation. In contrast, when costs are emphasized, IDR take-up is uncorrelated with students’ expected labor market outcomes. Simulation results suggest that a simple change in the framing of IDR could generate substantial reductions in loan defaults with little cost to long-run federal revenue.
H52|Social Capital, Government Expenditures, and Growth|Countries with greater social capital have higher economic growth. We show that social capital is also highly positively correlated across countries with government expenditure on education. We develop an infinite-horizon model of public spending and endogenous stochastic growth that explains both facts through frictions in political agency when voters have imperfect information. In our model, the government provides services that yield immediate utility, and investment that raises future productivity. Voters are more likely to observe public services, so politicians have electoral incentives to under-provide public investment. Social capital increases voters' awareness of all government activity. As a consequence, both politicians' incentives and their selection improve. In the dynamic equilibrium, both the amount and the efficiency of public investment increase, permanently raising the growth rate.
H52|School spirit: Legislator school ties and state funding for higher education|We explore a new mechanism to understand state funding for public colleges and universities by leveraging data on the educational experiences of state legislators, specifically if and where they received postsecondary education. Using novel, hand-collected data from 2002 through 2014, we provide comprehensive documentation – for the first time in the literature – on the educational backgrounds of state legislators. We find a statistically significant, positive association between the share of legislators who attended their states' public institutions and state funding for their entire public higher-education system. We also find a similar positive relationship between the share of state legislators who attended particular campuses of the state's public university system and funding for those campuses. This relationship is more pronounced among publicly educated legislators who represent legislative districts close to their alma mater's district, and becomes most consequential when the legislator's district contains his or her alma mater. We discuss the implications of our findings for academic studies on how politics and legislators' personal experiences influence support for higher education.
H52|Inputs, Incentives, and Complementarities in Education: Experimental Evidence from Tanzania|We present results from a large-scale randomized experiment across 350 schools in Tanzania that studied the impact of providing schools with (a) unconditional grants, (b) teacher incentives based on student performance, and (c) both of the above. After two years, we find (a) no impact on student test scores from providing school grants, (b) some evidence of positive effects from teacher incentives, and (c) significant positive effects from providing both programs. Most importantly, we find strong evidence of complementarities between the two programs, with the effect of joint provision being significantly greater than the sum of the individual effects. Our results suggest that combining spending on school inputs (which is the default policy) with improved teacher incentives could substantially increase the cost-effectiveness of public spending on education.
H52|When Investor Incentives and Consumer Interests Diverge: Private Equity in Higher Education|This paper studies how private equity buyouts create value in higher education, a sector with opaque product quality and intense government subsidy. With novel data on 88 private equity deals involving 994 schools, we show that buyouts lead to higher tuition and per-student debt. Exploiting loan limit increases, we find that private equity-owned schools better capture government aid. After buyouts, we observe lower education inputs, graduation rates, loan repayment rates, and earnings among graduates. Neither school selection nor student body changes fully explain the results. The results indicate that in a subsidized industry maximizing value may not improve consumer outcomes.
H52|School Nutrition and Student Discipline: Effects of Schoolwide Free Meals|Under the Community Eligibility Provision (CEP), schools serving sufficiently high-poverty populations may enroll their entire student bodies in free lunch and breakfast programs, extending free meals to some students who would not qualify individually and potentially decreasing the stigma associated with free meals. We examine whether CEP affects disciplinary outcomes, focusing on the use of suspensions. We use school discipline measures from the Civil Rights Data Collection and rely on the timing of pilot implementation of CEP across states to assess how disciplinary infractions evolve within a school as it adopts CEP. We find modest reductions in suspension rates among elementary and middle but not high school students. While we are unable to observe how the expansion of free school meals affects the dietary intake of students in our national sample, we do observe that for younger students, these reductions are concentrated in areas with higher levels of estimated child food insecurity. Our findings suggest that the impact of school-based child nutrition services extends beyond the academic gains identified in some of the existing literature.
H52|The Effect of Public Sector Development Expenditures and Investment on Economic Growth: Evidence from Pakistan|It is an established fact that there is strong association between investment and economic growth of a country but no such direct consensus had been developed on the type of investment. i.e. what are the different sectors in which investment has led to long term impact and did contributed to the growth. The current study in this regard will focus on investigating the relationship of Public Sector Development Programme (PSDP), Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) and Private Investment with the growth. The study will use data from 1980-81 to 2015-16 in this regard and employ Johansen cointegration to investigate the long run relationship. It is found that with foreign direct investment, health expenditure and transport and communication expenditure has negative relationship in the long run. Where as private investment, education expenditure and expenditure on housing has positive relationship with growth. Based on these findings recommendations were totally investment centric with primary focus on reduction in taxes and other barriers to bring in more investment in long run. Beside taxation, recommendations were made on administrative balance both in tax system and public sectors which were made part of provincial domain after 18th amendment.
H52|Old, Frail, and Uninsured: Accounting for Puzzles in the U.S. Long-Term Care Insurance Market|Half of U.S. 50-year-olds will experience a nursing home stay before they die, and one in ten will incur out-of-pocket long-term care expenses in excess of $200,000. Surprisingly, only about 10% of individuals over age 62 have private long-term care insurance (LTCI). This paper proposes a quantitative equilibrium optimal contracting model of the LTCI market that features screening along the extensive margin. Frail and/or poor risk groups are ordered a single contract of no insurance that we refer to as a rejection. According to our model, rejections are the main reason that LTCI take-up rates are low. Both supply-side frictions due to private information and administrative costs and demand-side frictions due to Medicaid play important and distinct roles in generating rejections and the pattern of low take-up rates in the data.
H52|Where Do Students Go when For-Profit Colleges Lose Federal Aid?|Recent policy debates have focused on whether restricting for-profit institutions’ access to federal student financial aid could reduce student loan defaults without restricting prospective students’ access to higher education. We examine the effects of similar restrictions imposed on over 1,200 for-profit colleges in the 1990s. Using variation in the timing and magnitude of sanctions linked to student loan default rates, we estimate the impact of the loss of federal aid on the enrollment of Pell Grant recipients in sanctioned institutions and their local unsanctioned competitors. On average, sanctioned for-profit colleges experience a 40 percent decrease in annual enrollment in the five years following sanction receipt. Enrollment losses due to for-profit sanctions are offset by enrollment increases within local community colleges. For-profit sanctions also produce negative enrollment spillovers on unsanctioned for-profit competitors, and we provide evidence that these effects are likely due to improved information about local higher education options and/or reputational spillovers to for-profit institutions offering similar programs. Given these offsetting effects, we estimate that within the average county, the public sector absorbs 40 to 60 percent of the total enrollment decline generated by an additional for-profit sanction. Overall, market enrollment declines by just 3 percent. Finally, we provide suggestive evidence that students induced to enroll in community colleges following a for-profit competitor’s sanction are less likely to default on their federal loans.
H52|Government education expenditures and economic growth: a meta-analysis|Using a sample of 237 estimates drawn from 29 primary studies, we conduct a hierarchical meta-regression analysis that examines the association between economic growth and government expenditure on education. We find that the effect of government education expenditure on growth is positive for developed countries. However, when the evidence pertains to less developed countries (LDCs), we find a statistically insignificant association. We also examine the heterogeneity in empirical results and found that factors such as econometric specifications, publication characteristics as well as data characteristics explain the heterogeneity in the literature. We find no evidence of publication selectivity.
H52|Modeling the Effect of Healthcare Expenditure and Education Expenditure on Labour Productivity: A Study on OIC Countries|"""Objective – The possibility of healthcare expenditure and education expenditure are becoming a thought-provoking issue for numerous governments globally, in spite of the fact that healthcare is unique and vital rudiments of well-being. On the other hand, education is the strength and spinal column of ground-breaking thoughts. Nevertheless, with an ageing population and ballooning protracted health difficulties, the preservation of the quality of life demands improved healthcare and education expenditure on the part of government. However, this study scrutinizes the effect of healthcare expenditure and education expenditure on labour productivity using Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) countries as a case study. Methodology/Technique – The research utilized pooled-panel data method with data from 1990 to 2015. Findings – The result of the findings shows that there is the statistical significant relationship between healthcare expenditure, education expenditure and labour productivity in OIC countries. Novelty – Research suggests that healthcare and education is a mechanism to stimulate the productivity of labour in OIC countries."""
H52|A Model about the Impact of Ability Grouping on Student Achievement|This paper presents a small theoretical model to compare school systems that segregate students by ability (“tracking”) with comprehensive ones, which allow for mixing of differently skilled students into same classes. The outcomes of interest are the achievement levels of weaker and better students, and the average achievement of all students. In the model, the instructional pace is tailored to the skill distribution of a class, and higher-achieving peers are an additional source of learning. The results show that differences in both the share of high-achievers and degree of interaction between student types can explain the mixed (quasi-)experimental evidence on the effect of de-tracking on student achievement. As changes in peer quality affect good and weak students’ achievement in very different ways, the term “peer effect” should be used with caution.
H52|Does grade configuration matter for school performance? Short- and long-run effects of school reorganisation|This paper studies the effects of school organisation on short- and long-run pupil outcomes, exploiting a policy change that reorganised Swedish middle school education. The reorganisation induced pupils to remain in small local schools throughout grades 1–9, as opposed to making a transition to large middle schools between grades 6 and 7. We find that the reorganisation had large consequences for pupils, who came to attend smaller schools closer to home, whose teachers had lower qualifications. Despite that the previous literature has found that school transitions and school size are important inputs in the education production function, we find no evidence that remaining in a small local school and avoiding a transition to a large middle school had effects on educational outcomes. We reconcile our evidence with the previous literature using a survey which shows that Swedish pupils do not perceive large differences in the school environment between schools of different grade configurations.
H52|Student Aid, Academic Achievement, and Labor Market Behavior|Does it matter whether study aid is provided as grants or loans? We provide a framework for quantifying the impacts of financial aid on student debt, academic capital, and labor market outcomes. We specify and estimate a dynamic discrete choice model of simultaneous education, work, and student loan take-up decisions. We use administrative panel data and exploit exogenous variation from the 2001 Swedish Study Aid reform for identification of the model parameters. This enables ex-ante evaluation of various changes to financial aid schemes. We find that additional years of aid and more generous means testing on student income substantially reduce dropout rates and increase graduation rates with more advanced degrees, but at the cost of students staying enrolled longer and accumulating more debt. Moving from an income-contingent to an annuity-based loan repayment scheme decreases student debt accumulation and improves the effectiveness of academic capital accumulation. If study aid consists mostly of grants, a reduction in loans and increase in grants reduces graduation rates. However, once loans are larger than grants, further changes have little impact on dropout and graduation rates. This means that in some cases, the government can decide who bears the college cost without affecting human capital accumulation.
H52|The Political Economics of Growth, Labor Control and Coercion: Evidence from a Suffrage Reform|In this paper, we analyze how a suffrage reform in 1862/63 that shifted the de jure distribution of political power from landowners to industrialists affected Sweden’s industrialization and economic and social development from the 1860s to the 1910s. Using a newly constructed, comprehensive historical data set of the universe of approximately 2,400 Swedish local governments, we document that the change in suffrage affected a very large number of development and social outcomes at the local level, such as labor coercion, factor price manipulation in the form of entry barriers including investments in local public goods (i.e., schooling) and transportation (i.e., local railways), the real wage structure, technology adoption in both agriculture and industry, labor productivity in both agriculture and industry, changes in the composition of employment and the structure of production, demographic transition, organized labor, and persistence in dysfunctional local political institutions. Our findings are consistent with the idea that political institutions are a key determinant of long-run development and growth. Specifically, our results suggest that politically powerful landowners can block economic development using labor coercion and factor price manipulation, i.e., using entry barriers and other distortionary policies.
H52|High-Speed Broadband and Academic Achievement in Teenagers: Evidence from Sweden|This study examines the effects of super-fast internet connections on the academic achievement of students in upper secondary school. We link detailed register data on around 250,000 students to local levels of access to optic fiber broadband and estimate the effect of broadband on student GPA. We show that reaching full coverage in the student’s parish of residence causes a GPA reduction ranging from 3 to 6 percent of a standard deviation. Estimates are consistently more negative for boys and students with low ability and/or low-educated parents. Using PISA survey data, we provide evidence that students living in areas with faster broadband expansion also saw a greater increase in the number of hours spent online during weekdays, suggesting student time use as a mechanism.
H52|Market power and price discrimination in the US market for higher education|We estimate an equilibrium model of private and state college competition that generates realistic pricing patterns for private colleges using a large national data set from the National Postsecondary Student Aid Study (NPSAS). Our analysis distinguishes between tuition variation that reflects efficient pricing to students who generate beneficial peer externalities and variation that reflects arguably inefficient exercise of market power. Our findings indicate substantial exercise of market power and, importantly, sizable variation in this power along the college quality hierarchy and among students with different characteristics. Finally, we conduct policy analysis to examine the consequences of increased availability of quality public colleges in a state.
H52|Effects of early childhood intervention on fertility and maternal employment: Evidence from a randomized controlled trial|This paper presents the results of a randomized study of a home visiting program implemented in Germany for low-income, first-time mothers. Besides improving child health and development, a major goal of the program is to improve the participants’ economic self-sufficiency and family planning. I use administrative data from the German social security system and detailed telephone surveys to examine the effects of the intervention on maternal employment, welfare benefits, household composition, well-being, and fertility behavior. The study reveals that the intervention decreased maternal employment by 9.3 percentage points and increased subsequent births by 6.4 percentage points, in part through a reduction in abortions.
H52|Parental Leave, (In)formal Childcare and Long-term Child Outcomes|We provide a novel interpretation of the estimated treatment effects from evaluations of parental leave reforms. Accounting for the counterfactual mode of care is crucial in the analysis of child outcomes and potential mediators. We evaluate a large and generous parental leave extension in Austria exploiting a sharp birthday cutoff-based discontinuity in the eligibility for extended parental leave and geographical variation in formal childcare. We find that estimated treatment effects on long-term child outcomes differ substantially according to the availability of formal childcare and the mother's counterfactual work behavior. We show that extending parental leave has significant positive effects on children's health and human capital outcomes only if the reform induces a replacement of informal childcare with maternal care. We conclude that care provided by mothers (or formal institutions) is superior to informal care-arrangements.
H52|Efficiency of investment in compulsory education: empirical analyses in Europe|The current economic crisis has put ever more to the forefront the need to achieve educational goals in the most efficient way. Therefore, this report provides an empirical analysis of the efficiency in education in the EU. Efficiency is measured first by using two different but related traditional frontier approaches (Data Envelopment Analysis and Free Disposal Hull) and then the robustness of our findings is checked by means of multi-criteria evaluation. The analysis is based on a number of standard variables from the literature. The results show, among others, that not the amount, but the specific use of resources is what matters; and that the efficiency of an educational system could also contribute to long-term benefits in terms of adultsâ€™ skills and competences.
H52|Efficiency of investment in compulsory education: An Overview of Methodological Approaches|"The policy discourses often refer to the term ""efficiency"" for indicating the necessity of reducing resources devoted to interventions and whole sub-sectors, while keeping the output produced constant. In this technical report, we review the theoretical and empirical foundations of efficiency analysis as applicable to the educational policy. After introducing some key concepts and definitions (technical, allocative, spending and scale efficiency), the report illustrates which variables of inputs, outputs and contextual factors are used in applied studies that assess efficiency in compulsory education. Then, an explanation of methods for conducting efficiency studies is proposed; in particular frontier methods such as non-parametric approaches (as Data Envelopment Analysis) and parametric models (as Stochastic Frontier Analysis) and multi-criteria approaches (such as Multi-Objective Optimisation and Discrete Methods) are reviewed. The main objective of this report is to present to the interested reader the main technical tools which can be applied for carrying out real-world efficiency analyses. A tween report presents an application of efficiency analysis for European compulsory education, at country level."
H52|Money Counts, but So Does Timing: Public Investment and Adult Competencies|Numeracy skills of adults within and across 12 different countries in 2011 are strongly associated with the accumulated public investments in education received by these adults during their schooling. This paper confirms existing evidence that the timing of educational investments is important, with early investments playing the most fundamental role. Investment in primary education is associated with higher numeracy scores for those who went on to continue their education. Higher investments in tertiary education are needed in order to fully realize the benefit of the investments in primary school. Family background is a decisive factor in relation to numeracy skills of these adults, in line with all available evidence. Adults who received higher public investment in primary education were more likely to complete secondary school and attain tertiary education. This refutes earlier studies indicating that the amount of financial resources available for education may not be that important for the development of competences.
H52|Why so slow? The School-to-Work Transition in Italy|This essay provides a comprehensive interpretative framework to understand the reasons why the school-to-work transition (SWT) is so slow and hard in Italy. The country is a typical example of the South European SWT regime, where the educational system is typically rigid and sequential, the labor market has been recently made more flexible through two-tier labor market reforms, and the family has typicallyan important role to absorb the individual and social cost of the passage to adulthood. The main thesis of this essay is that the traditional disorganization of the educational and training system coupled with slow economic growth, rather than the supposedly low degree of labor market flexibility explain high (youth) unemployment. Important reforms of several tiles of the Italian SWT regime – the Jobs Act, important fiscal incentives to hiring youth long term unemployed, the so-called Good School and the related introduction of work-related learning, the European Youth Guarantee and the reform of employment services – have been all recently implemented, which are causing a slow convergence towards the so-called European social model, but it is still too early to draw conclusions as to the impact of such reforms on youth labor market outcomes.
H52|Parental Leave, (In)formal Childcare and Long-term Child Outcomes|We provide a novel interpretation of the estimated treatment effects from evaluations of parental leave reforms. Accounting for the counterfactual mode of care is crucial in the analysis of child outcomes and potential mediators. We evaluate a large and generous parental leave extension in Austria exploiting a sharp birthday cutoff-based discontinuity in the eligibility for extended parental leave and geographical variation in formal childcare. We find that estimated treatment effects on long-term child outcomes differ substantially according to the availability of formal childcare and the mother's counterfactual work behavior. We show that extending parental leave has significant positive effects on children's health and human capital outcomes only if the reform induces a replacement of informal childcare with maternal care. We conclude that care provided by mothers (or formal institutions) is superior to informal care-arrangements.
H52|Public Opinion on Education Policy in Germany|To better understand the political economy constraints of education policy, we have conducted the annual ifo Education Survey in Germany since 2014. This paper summarizes selected key findings on the German publics’ preferences for education policies ranging from early childhood education and schools to the apprenticeship system, universities, and lifelong learning. While the emerging picture is complex and multifaceted, some general patterns emerge. The majority of Germans is surprisingly open to education reform and favors clear performance orientation. Survey experiments indicate that information can have substantial effects on public policy preferences. Overall, education policies seem important for respondents’ voting behavior.
H52|Youth Enfranchisement, Political Responsiveness, and Education Expenditure: Evidence from the U.S|This paper studies the effect of preregistration laws on government spending in the U.S. Preregistration allows young citizens to register before being eligible to vote and has been introduced in different states in different years. Employing a difference-in-differences regression design, we first establish that preregistration shifts state-level government spending toward expenditure on higher education. The magnitude of the increase is larger when political competition is weaker and inequality is higher. Second, we document a positive effect of preregistration on state-provided student aid and its number of recipients by comparing higher education institutions within border-county pairs. Lastly, using individual-level data on voting records, we show that preregistration promotes a de facto youth enfranchisement episode. Consistent with a political economy model of distributive politics, the results collectively suggest strong political responsiveness to the needs of the newly-enfranchised constituent group.
H52|Rising Stars| We use the UK’s 2014 Research Excellence Framework (REF) to study which attributes characterize a top-scoring (four-star) publication in Economics and Econometrics. We frame the analysis as a classification problem and, using information in official documents, derive conditions to infer the unobservable score that panellists awarded to each publication. Juxtaposing institutions’ submissions with REF outcomes provides information on the latent pass-marks used for assigning quality levels, which respond to journal prestige measured by the Thomson Reuters Article Influence Score. We explore this statistical feature in the econometric analysis, which reveals the limited contribution to awarded quality made by other publication attributes, possibly unobservable to us, conditional on the Article Influence Score. We conclude that, in large-scale and costly evaluations such as the REF, the time-consuming task of peer reviews should be devoted to publications not in academic outlets with unambiguously top-scoring bibliometric indicators of journal impact. Our model also predicts a ranking of academic journals consistent with the classification of REF panellists.
H52|Getting it right. Youth employment policy within the EU|This essay discusses the determinants of youth unemployment within the EU and then the alternative policy options currently at stake. We argue that youth unemployment regards especially some peripheral EU countries and is due to a mix of factors that should be addressed more vigorously, starting from expansionary fiscal and monetary policy. The guiding line should be to reform the Maastricht Treaty so as to allow eacg EU country to reach the Europe 2020 targets. Moreover, especially in the peripheral countries drastic reforms of the school-to-work transition regimes are needed, including not only the European Youth Guarantee, which is underfinanced, but also the introduction of better links between the education system and the labor market. The past emphasis on labor market reforms, instead, should be reconsidered.
H52|Multistage public education, voting, and income distribution|Abstract This paper proposes a theory to study the formulation of education policies and human capital accumulation. The government collects income taxes and allocates tax revenue to primary and higher education. The tax rate and the allocation rule are both endogenously determined through majority voting. The tax rate is kept at a low level, and public funding for higher education is not supported unless the majority of individuals have human capital above some threshold. Although public support for higher education promotes aggregate human capital accumulation, it may create long-run income inequality because the poor are excluded from higher education.
H52|The Role of Fees in Foreign Education: Evidence From Italy|This paper studies the determinants of international students' mobility at the university level, focusing specifically on the role of tuition fees. We derive a gravity model from a Random Utility Maximization model of location choice for international students in the presence of capacity constraints of the hosting institutions. The last layer of the model is estimated using new data on student migration flows at the university level for Italy. We control for the potential endogeneity of tuition fees through a classical IV approach based on the status of the university. We obtain evidence for a clear and negative effect of fees on international student mobility and confirm the positive impact of the quality of the education. The estimations also support the important role of additional destination-specific variables such as host capacity, the expected return of education and the cost of living in the vicinity of the university.
H52|Understanding the Impact of Tuition Fees in Foreign Education: the Case of the UK|This paper studies the determinants of international students mobility at the university level, focusing specifically on the role of tuition fees. We first develop an original Random Utility Maximization model of location choice for international students in the presence of capacity constraints of the hosting institutions. The last layer of the model gives rise to a gravity equation. This equation is estimated using new data on student migration flows at the university level for the U.K. We control for the endogeneity of tuition fees by taking benefit of the institutional constraints in terms of tuition caps applied in the UK to European students at the bachelor level. The estimations support a negative impact of tuition fees and stress the need to account for the endogenous nature of the fees in the empirical identification of their impact. The estimations also support an important role of additional destination-specific variables such as host capacity, the expected return of education and the cost of living in the vicinity of the university.
H52|Let Them Eat Lunch: The Impact of Universal Free Meals on Student Performance|This paper investigates the impact of extending free school lunch to all students, regardless of income, on academic performance in New York City middle schools. Using a difference-in-difference design and unique longitudinal, student level data, we derive credibly causal estimates of the impacts of “Universal Free Meals” (UFM) on test scores in English Language Arts (ELA) and mathematics, and participation in school lunch. We find UFM increases academic performance by as much as 0.059 standard deviations in math and 0.083 in ELA for non-poor students, with smaller, statistically significant effects of 0.032 and 0.027 standard deviations in math and ELA for poor students. Further, UFM increases participation in school lunch by roughly 11.0 percentage points for non-poor students and 5.4 percentage points for poor students. We then investigate the academic effects of school lunch participation per se, using UFM as an instrumental variable. Results indicate that increases in school lunch participation improve academic performance for both poor and non-poor students; an additional lunch every two weeks increases test scores by roughly 0.08 standard deviations in math and 0.07 standard deviations in ELA. Finally, we explore potential unintended consequences for student weight outcomes, finding no evidence that UFM increases probability of obesity or overweight, or BMI. Results are robust to an array of alternative assumptions about sample and specifications.
H52|Youth Enfranchisement, Political Responsiveness, and Education Expenditure: Evidence from the U.S|This paper studies the effect of preregistration laws on government spending in the U.S. Preregistration allows young citizens to register before being eligible to vote and has been introduced in different states in different years. Employing a difference-in-differences regression design, we first establish that preregistration shifts state-level government spending toward expenditure on higher education. The magnitude of the increase is larger when political competition is weaker and inequality is higher. Second, we document a positive effect of preregistration on state-provided student aid and its number of recipients by comparing higher education institutions within border-county pairs. Lastly, using individual-level data on voting records, we show that preregistration promotes a de facto youth enfranchisement episode. Consistent with a political economy model of distributive politics,the results collectively suggest strong political responsiveness to the needs of the newly-enfranchised constituent group.
H52|Youth Enfranchisement, Political Responsiveness, and Education Expenditure: Evidence from the U.S|This paper studies the effect of preregistration laws on government spending in the U.S. Preregistration allows young citizens to register before being eligible to vote and has been introduced in different states in different years. Employing a difference-in-differences regression design, we first establish that preregistration shifts state-level government spending toward expenditure on higher education. The magnitude of the increase is larger when political competition is weaker and inequality is higher. Second, we document a positive effect of preregistration on state-provided student aid and its number of recipients by comparing higher education institutions within border-county pairs. Lastly, using individual-level data on voting records, we show that preregistration promotes a de facto youth enfranchisement episode. Consistent with a political economy model of distributive politics,the results collectively suggest strong political responsiveness to the needs of the newly-enfranchised constituent group.
H52|Measuring Loan Outcomes at Postsecondary Institutions: Cohort Repayment Rates as an Indicator of Student Success and Institutional Accountability|Low- and middle-income college borrowers often struggle with economic opportunity and loan burdens after leaving school. However, some institutions, including some non-selective schools, do a good job of providing economic mobility to low-income students. This implies that there is scope for a policy to redirect loan dollars – and therefore students – from low-performing schools to higher-performing ones. Here we define a particular metric of institutional loan performance, the cohort repayment rate, and describe its distribution. We demonstrate that the cohort repayment rate is correlated with other institutional outcomes of interest, and thus could be used as an institutional accountability tool.
H52|The Returns to Online Postsecondary Education|This paper is temporarily unavailable while a permissions issue is being resolved.
H52|Innovation and American K-12 Education|Economists have long believed education is essential to the acquisition of human capital and contributes to economic growth. However, education researchers, political and business leaders and other stakeholders have raised concerns about the quality and costs of the K-12 education system in the United States and the implications for the development of the nation’s future workforce. Some of these groups have called for more innovation in K-12 education, leveraging technology in the classroom and experimenting with different organizing models for schools, both as a means to lower costs and increase quality. To shed light on the prospects of this approach, I review the economics literature at the intersection between innovation and K-12 education from two different, but related, perspectives. First, I summarize the evidence about the efficacy of technological and other kinds of innovation in the classroom. Second, I discuss the state of research on how the American K-12 system influences the production of innovators and entrepreneurs. In both instances, I identify implications for policy and opportunities for future research to generate actionable insights, particularly around increasing the low levels of research and development in the education sector.
H52|The Impact of Price Caps and Spending Cuts on U.S. Postsecondary Attainment|Increasing the postsecondary attainment rate of college-age youth is an important economic priority in the U.S. and in other developed countries. Yet little is known about whether different forms of public subsidy can increase degree completion. In this paper, we compare the impact of the marginal taxpayer dollar on postsecondary attainment when it is spent on lowering tuition prices versus increasing the quality of the college experience. We do so by estimating the causal impact of changes in tuition and spending on enrollment and degree completion in U.S. public postsecondary institutions between 1990 and 2013. We estimate these impacts using a newly assembled data set of legislative tuition caps and freezes, combined with variation in exposure to state budget shocks that is driven by differences in historical reliance on state appropriations. We find large impacts of spending on enrollment and degree completion. In contrast, we find no impact of price changes. Our estimates suggest that spending increases are more effective per-dollar than price cuts as a means of increasing postsecondary attainment.
H52|Pareto efficient taxation and expenditures: Pre- and re-distribution|This paper shows that there is a presumption that Pareto-efficient taxation entails a positive tax on capital. When tax and expenditure policies can affect the market distribution of income in ways that cannot be directly offset, those effects need to be taken into account, reducing the burden imposed on distortionary redistribution. The paper extends the 1976 Atkinson-Stiglitz results to a dynamic, overlapping generations model, correcting a misreading of the result on the desirability of a zero capital tax. That result required separability of consumption from labor and that the only unobservable differences among individuals were in (fixed) labor productivities. In a general equilibrium model, one needs to take into account the effects of policy changes on binding self-selection constraints. In a simple model with time separability but with non-separability between consumption and leisure, capital taxation depends on the complementarity/substitutability of leisure during work with retirement consumption.
H52|Resource requirements for Right to Education (RTE): Normative and the Real|The paper examines the issue of resource adequacy for Right to Education (RTE) by estimating the resource requirement for universalization of elementary education across twelve Indian States. Using RTE norms as the base, a framework for estimating school and system level resource requirements is laid down. Apart from the official norms, framing of the normative must necessarily take into account the present structure of schools including the pattern of enrolment in government schools vis-à-vis private schools, existing infrastruc-ture in these schools, school size etc. Database of school-level information has been used for the purpose. Actual budgetary expenditure presents the distance from the normative. The results indicate that even with minimal norms, there is a vast amount of under-spending per student by governments. Except in the case of Tamil Nadu, the required ex-penditure per student is short of the normative requirement. In States like Bihar, Jharkhand, Orissa and Madhya Pradesh, not only is the requirement many times the present levels of expenditure, the burden of additional requirement falls disproportionately on these poorer States. The present set of policy interventions and inter-governmental resource sharing ar-rangements fail to adequately address the specific resource needs of these States for fulfilling the basic entitlement.
H52|The Effect of Intergovernmental Transfers on Public Services in India|India has witnessed impressive growth performance since the market based re-forms were introduced in 1991. However, its regional spread has been uneven. Consid-ering the fact that over 63 per cent of the population lives in economically lagging states and they have over 67 per cent of children in the age group 0-14 demographic dividends can be realised only when a system of intergovernmental transfers is designed to offset their fiscal disabilities. The present paper analyses the design and implementation of gen-eral and specific purpose transfers in India. While the general purpose transfers are given to enable the States to provide comparable levels of services at comparable tax rates. However, given the large differences in the revenue capacities of the states with the rich-est large state having five times the per capita income of the lowest, it is politically infea-sible to offset the differences in revenue capacities completely. Therefore, the specific purpose which are meant to ensure minimum standards of meritorious services with high degree of externalities are extremely important. However, the analysis shows that there are too many specific purpose transfers, they are poorly targeted and inclusion of multiple objectives in each of the specific purpose transfers makes the compliance by the States difficult. The objective of inclusive development requires that the transfer system should be reformed.
H52|Luxembourg: reaping the benefits of a diverse society through better integration of immigrants|Luxembourg’s large foreign-born population is a pillar of the country’s prosperity: they have brought skills and knowledge to many sectors of the economy. They also tend to successfully find jobs, with a higher employment rate than natives. However, not all immigrants have done well. The minority from non-EU origin (about 10% of the country’s population) suffers from high unemployment, large gender gaps in activity and below-average incomes. Refugees are particularly vulnerable. Other integration shortcomings go beyond disadvantaged minorities. Pervasive labour market segmentation is well illustrated by the marked under-representation of the foreign-born in public sector jobs. Political participation of immigrants at local level is modest. At school, their children are often put at a disadvantage by an education system which tends to perpetuate socio-economic inequality. The diversity of Luxembourg’s society contributed by immigrants should be seen as an asset for economic growth and well-being. Initiatives such as the diversity charter can help private and public organisations to reap the benefit of diversity through the inclusion of outsiders and the strengthening of social cohesion. Learning the languages of Luxembourg, developing social capital and having foreign qualifications validated are key preconditions for successful integration. Education requires both general equity-enhancing reforms, starting at early childhood, and targeted support to disadvantaged students, including upgraded vocational studies. Furthermore, job matching and social cohesion would benefit from greater immigrant participation in public sector employment and civic life. Avoiding that asylum seekers undergo protracted inactivity is also a concern. This Working Paper relates to the 2017 OECD Economic Survey of Luxembourg (www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/economic-survey-luxembourg.htm).
H52|Fiscal sustainability under physical and human capital accumulation in an overlapping generations model|We consider fiscal sustainability by using an overlapping generations model with human capital accumulation (private and public education) and public debt. Based on this model, we explicitly show (i) the parameter region in which the economy cannot be fiscally sustainable for any initial endowment, and (ii) the threshold of initial endowment over (under) which the economy diverges (converges) to the steady state. Importantly, the threshold is neutral to the level of initial human capital. Further, we show the existence and uniqueness of the growth-maximizing level of each policy variable (i.e., the tax rate and public education/production ratio).
H52| El derecho a la educación intercultural bilingüe y la política fiscal en Perú| Para la educación peruana, el problema de la calidad aparece hoy como el mayor problema, habiéndose logrado niveles de cobertura de primaria ya casi universales al año 2000. En las escuelas EIB (ubicadas en zonas indígenas y cuyos docentes debieran enseñar usando también la lengua originaria) solo el 26,5% de estos estudiantes obtuvieron el nivel de satisfactorio en comprensión lectora; existe una brecha enorme de 23 puntos en relación al resto del país. Es necesaria una pedagogía bilingüe, que respete su propia cultura y entable un diálogo con ella. La educación intercultural bilingüe ha tenidos avances muy tardíos y limitados en el quinquenio pasado, con producción de materiales educativos en lenguas nativas, acompañamiento pedagógico en escuelas EIB, becas para la formación docente en EIB y un Plan Nacional. Consolidado el Perú como un país de ingresos medios-altos, habiendo gozado de una década de fuerte crecimiento económico y auge fiscal gracias al boom de las materias primas, el Estado ha destinado recursos al derecho a la educación de manera muy insuficiente. Durante el periodo de “vacas gordas” que tuvo la economía peruana, del 2004 al 2014, apenas 14% del gasto adicional realizado por el Estado se destinó a educación. Para la Educación Intercultural Bilingüe el tratamiento presupuestal fue discriminatorio en extremo, con apenas el 0,6% del presupuesto en educación y el 0,1% del gasto público total el 2016, en un país donde entre un sexto y una cuarta parte de la población es indígena. JEL Classification-JEL: H52, I24, I28
H52|Guidelines for data fusion with international large scale assessments: Insights from the TALIS-PISA link|The educational effectiveness research has experienced a substantial improvement in the last decades thanks to the refinement of large-scale international assessments. Those surveys provide researchers and policy makers with comparative micro data that can be exploited in cross-national studies in order to evaluate educational policies or determinants of educational achievement. This paper focuses on the potential uses and misuses that can be made with the so-called TALIS-PISA link created by the OECD. This is a recently developed instrument that allows for connecting data about teacher characteristics and practices collected in TALIS with students´ academic performance measured in PISA. However, the statistical and technical aspects regarding this link between both surveys are far from straightforward. In this paper we explore the main problematic issues of the data fusion process and provide some guidelines for researchers interested in performing empirical analyses using the resulting dataset.
H52|Building Peace through Education: Case of India and Pakistan Conflict|The paper utilises unique conflict data set from literature to capture different aspects of India and Pakistan conflict and analyses the role of education in peace building between the two countries. Education not only directly eases hostilities but it also puts a positive effect on economic growth rates and democratic values in both countries that in return further reduce tensions in dyadic conflict proxies.
H52|Unemployment, Neets And The Social Role Of Education In Europe|Education is maybe the most important engine for economic and social development and cultural empowerment, and also the most beneficial investment that a government can make. In this paper we present a short overview on the socio-educational situation of the young people in Europe. If we refer to the social situation, the role of education becomes an undeniable one, regarding the support of the learners from a socio-economic point of view. Starting from the premise that education represents the society’s health, the education must be considered as the most important factor regarding the situation of the unemployed people from different age groups. Knowing that the higher the level of education of individuals, the more appropriate and probable are the individuals’ commitments during work. This leads to the hypothesis of a socio-economic climate, beneficial growth and further economic development. Moreover, we investigate several employment indicators, such as the unemployment rate at the European level, from the age groups of 15-24, on the period 2013-2015. We particularly investigate data in the base of some indicators, part of the training process in countries such as Poland, Estonia, Hungary and Bulgaria.
H52|Transferencias como Canal de Ventaja Electoral: El Caso de Chile<BR>[Discretionary Government Transfers to Catch Votes: The Case of Chile]|Discretionary transfers from the Chilean central government have grown significantly as a percentage of Chilean municipalities’ total financing. This paper investigates whether discretionary transfers act as a channel that gives electoral advantage to the incumbent political coalition that runs a municipality. We develop a simple theoretical model which predicts that the central government transfers more resources to the communes managed by mayors of its own political coalition, particularly in which the mayor won by a narrow margin. Then, in order to test the main results of the theoretical model, a Discontinuous Regression Design is applied using data from the 2004, 2008 and 2012 election periods. The results show that for the subset of communes with narrow voting margins, the central government transfers about an additional 250 million Chilean pesos to the communes that are administered by mayors of its own political coalition. Moreover, observing only the communes with the largest number of inhabitants there is a difference of 730 million Chilean pesos. Disaggregating by type of transfers we show that political discretion would be given only in some types of transfers. This is an important result because allows identifying the channels to be researched in the future and open questions about the influence of institutional and/ or strategic factors. Finally, disaggregating by election period, the results are always consistent with 2008 and 2012 election periods, supporting the fact that this discretionary mechanism has become important over time.
H52|The Nigerian University System in a Recessionary Economy|Adopting the political economy review framework, the paper notes that government support for University education in Nigeria over time has plummeted as a result of long term non-democratization of the country. To ascertain the arguments that University education can drive growth of nations, the paper adopting the Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) methodology, found that the effect of contemporaneous graduate output on total national output is positive and significant and that Federal allocation to education affected national output more significantly with a lag. The unit root result indicated that graduate output, gross domestic product, federal allocation to education, gross fixed capital formation and foreign direct investment were integrated of order one 1(1). The co- integration test indicated absence of long-run relationship between real output and education performance indicators. Summarily indicating that the more a nation spends on University education, the more her output will grow. After establishing the positive link between University funding and national output, the paper considered the dwindling earnings of the country resulting from recessionary pressure that had caused further decline in University funding and suggested options that could reverse the recessionary trend to encourage improved funding to University education. The paper further suggests alternative strategies for raising funds for University education in Nigeria to reduce the pressure on government.
H52|Rising Stars|We use the UK's 2014 Research Excellence Framework (REF) to study which attributes characterize a top-scoring (four-star) publication in Economics and Econometrics. We frame the analysis as a classification problem and, using information in official documents, derive conditions to infer the unobservable score that panellists awarded to each publication. Juxtaposing institutions' submissions with REF outcomes provides information on the latent pass-marks used for assigning quality levels, which respond to journal prestige measured by the Thomson Reuters Article Influence Score. We explore this statistical feature in the econometric analysis, which reveals the limited contribution to awarded quality made by other publication attributes, possibly unobservable to us, conditional on the Article Influence Score. We conclude that, in large-scale and costly evaluations such as the REF, the time-consuming task of peer reviews should be devoted to publications not in academic outlets with unambiguously top-scoring bibliometric indicators of journal impact. Our model also predicts a ranking of academic journals consistent with the classification of REF panellists.
H52|Maternal education and childhood immunization in Turkey|We study the causal effect of maternal education on childhood immunization rates. We use the Compulsory Education Law of 1997, and the differentiation in its implementation across regions, as instruments for schooling of young mothers in Turkey. The Compulsory Education Law increased the compulsory years of schooling of those born after 1986 from 5 to 8 years. We find that education of mothers increases the probability of completing the full course of diphtheria, pertussis, and tetanus and Hepatitis B vaccinations for their children. The results are robust to variations in regression specification and including various individual and community variables.
H52|Male Education and Domestic Violence in Turkey: Evidence from a Natural Experiment|We utilize a natural experiment, an education reform increasing compulsory schooling from five to eight years in Turkey, to obtain endogeneity-robust estimates of the effect of male education on the incidence of abusive and violent behaviour against women. We find that husband`s education lowers the probability of suffering physical, emotional and economic violence. The only aspect of violence not affected by spouse`s education is sexual violence. Schooling also lowers the likelihood that the marriage was arranged against the woman`s will, and makes men less inclined to engage in socially unacceptable behaviours such as drinking, gambling, and drug abuse. We also find that women whose mothers or whose husbands’ mothers experienced domestic violence are more likely to suffer violence themselves.
H52|Human Capital Spending, Inequality, and Growth in Middle-Income Asia| Asia’s rapid population aging fortifies the case for strengthening human capital investments. Further, the experience of the newly industrialized economies suggests that human capital investments will be a vital ingredient of the transition from middle income to high income. Those investments can also affect equity and public finances. In this article, we use data from the National Transfer Accounts to empirically analyze the effect of human capital investment in Asian countries on economic growth, inequality, and fiscal balance. Our empirical evidence suggests that human capital investments have a positive effect on labor productivity and, hence, output. The positive effect is stronger for poorer households and, hence, beneficial for equity. We also find that such investments can generate sufficient tax revenues to improve the fiscal balance. Overall, our evidence points to a positive effect of human capital on growth, equity, and fiscal balance in Asia.
H52|Preschool and school performance of children from immigrant families|Abstract We study whether free preschool affects the subsequent school performance of children from immigrant families. Our difference-in-differences approach takes advantage of a policy intervention implemented in two districts in Oslo, leaving other similar districts unaffected. The grade point average of girls increases more in the intervention districts than in the comparison districts, resulting in effect estimates of about a tenth of the standard deviation. We find no consistent effects for boys.
H52|A normative justification of compulsory education|Abstract Using a household production model of educational choices, we characterise a free-market situation in which some agents (high wagers) fully educate their children and spend a sizable amount of resources on them, while others (low wagers) educate them only partially. The free-market equilibrium is iniquitous, both because the households have different resources and because the children have different access to education. Public policy is thus called for, for vertical as well as horizontal equity purposes. Conventional wisdom has it that both objectives could be achieved using price control instruments, i.e. income taxes and price subsidies. We find instead that income taxes reduce equality of opportunity and that price subsidies cannot remedy this. Quantity controls become necessary: a compulsory education package, financed by a redistributive tax system, achieves both types of equity. Redistributive taxation and compulsory education are therefore best seen as complementary policies.
H52|A Typology of European Research Universities. Differentiation, Layering and Resource Distribution|The aim of this paper is to develop a theory-based typology of Higher Education Institutions (HEIs) based on three dimensions of differentiation, i.e. their activity profile (education vs. research), the subject scope (generalist vs. specialist) and regulatory characteristics which constrain previous two. We examine the financial environment of HEIs as a possible selection mechanism. Particular attention is devoted to the identification of European Research Universities By testing this typology on a large sample of European HEIs, we show systematic differences between types in their activity profile and in the level of funding, therefore providing evidence that types are associated with different market positioning. We identify a small group of research universities, characterized by a high level of research volume and intensity and by a volume of funding far higher than all other HEIs in the sample, suggesting that their emergence is critically linked to the concentration of resources.
H52|Does Public School Spending Raise Intergenerational Mobility?: Evidence from U.S. School Finance Reforms|It is generally believed that equality of opportunity can be achieved through high qual-ity public schools. This paper examines the causal e˙ect of public school spending on intergenerational mobility by exploiting U.S. court-mandated school finance reforms. I utilize college attendance rate and intergenerational income mobility that Chetty et al. (2014) construct based on administrative tax records. Event study and instru-mental variable models show that students are more likely to attend college due to additional resources in public schools. Reform-induced spending increases also improve intergenerational mobility of advantaged children, but have little impact on mobility of disadvantaged children. In fact, the gap in the mean income rank between advan-tage and disadvantage children widens. The heterogeneity by county characteristics suggests that the school spending e˙ect may be mitigated by negative environments in high poverty area.
H52|Some “unexpected proximities” between Schultz and Galbraith on human capital|This contribution highlights some unexpected proximities between Galbraith and Schultz’s thoughts on human capital. Despite apparently strong methodological divergences, both authors analyze the issue of human capital investment in the light of the dynamics of the economic development process. This issue is formulated in Galbraith’s vocabulary in terms of the requirements of the planning system, and in terms of the needs of production activities deriving from the dynamics of growth in Schultz’s. But the logic underlying their analysis is of the same order. The emphasis on the needs of production leads the two authors to address the issue of student sovereignty in making allocative decisions regarding education. By highlighting these proximities, our study shows that Schultz’s thought on human capital must not be conflated, from a methodological point of view, with Becker’s and Mincer’s. We thus question the idea that the human capital research program is characterized by strong methodological unity, in particular that it is characterized by methodological individualism. That Becker and Mincer’s works rely on methodological individualism is not called into question; the idea that Schultz’s thought is grounded on it deserves more careful examination.
H52|Fiscal decentralization and the performance of higher education institutions: the case of Europe|This paper empirically evaluates the impact of fiscal decentralization on the performance of higher education systems. To test this relationship,we build up a panel dataset composed of European countries. Countrylevel performance is measured by an indicator using data from the Shanghai ranking. Using a dynamic panel approach, we find that a higher share of government spending coming from decentralized levels of governmentsleads to an improvement of the performance of research-intensive higher education institutions. This result is confirmed by the use of an instrumental variable approach. We argue that a more decentralized higher education system increases the ability to attract and retain top scholars.
H52|Born under a Lucky Star: Financial Aid, College Completion, Labor Supply, and Credit Constraints|Financial aid can affect both college enrollment and graduation. The effects on graduation can be driven by students being induced to enroll by financial aid, students who would have enrolled anyway graduating as a result of the financial aid, or both. This study isolates the effect of financial aid on the second group by examining a change in aid that did not change enrollment. I study a discontinuous change in the amount of aid available to students who meet the age cutoff for financial independence. I find that additional aid causes some university seniors to graduate one year earlier.
H52|Education and tax morale| While the determinants of tax morale have been widely studied in the literature, surprisingly, the fundamental influence of education on tax morale has yet to be investigated. Given the insights in the psychological and political science literature about the role of education in the formation of social values, in this paper, we analyze two channels through which education shapes tax morale. We find that while the tax morale of individuals that are net receivers of welfare state benefits increases with their educational level, it decreases with educational level among those who are net contributors. Furthermore, our results indicate that the more highly educated, who have been shown to be better able to assess information in the media on public affairs, exhibit higher levels of tax morale in countries that have better quality public services, a fairer tax system and more transparent institutions. JEL classification: H26; H52; I25 Key words: Tax morale; Tax compliance; Education; Welfare state benefits; Trust in public institutions
H52|Early and Late Human Capital Investments, Borrowing Constraints, and the Family|This paper investigates the importance of family borrowing constraints in determining human capital investments in children at early and late ages. We begin by providing new evidence from the Children of the NLSY (CNLSY) which suggests that borrowing constraints bind for at least some families with young children. Next, we develop an intergenerational model of lifecycle human capital accumulation to study the role of early versus late investments in children when credit markets are imperfect. We analytically establish the importance of dynamic complementarity in investment for the qualitative nature of investment responses to income and policy changes. We extend the framework to incorporate dynasties and use data from the CNLSY to calibrate the model. Our benchmark steady state suggests that roughly half of young parents and 12% of old parents are borrowing constrained, while older children are unconstrained. We also identify strong complementarity between early and late investments, suggesting that policies targeted to one stage of development tend to have similar effects on investment in both stages. We use this calibrated model to study the effects of education subsidies, loans and transfers offered at different ages on early and late human capital investments and subsequent earnings in the short-run and long-run. A key lesson is that the interaction between dynamic complementarity and early borrowing constraints means that early interventions tend to be more successful than later interventions at improving human capital outcomes.
H52|Choosing the future: economic preferences for higher education using discrete choice experiment method|This study illustrates how respondents’ stated choices (the discrete choice experiment method) combined with the random utility framework can be used to model preferences for higher education. The flexibility offered by stated preference data circumvents limitations of other approaches, and allows quantifying young people’ preferences for selected attributes of higher education programs that are typically highly correlated in revealed preference data. The empirical study presented here is based on a survey of 20,000 Polish respondents aged 18-30, who stated their preferences for higher education programs in carefully prepared hypothetical choice situations. The attributes we considered include tuition fee, expected salary after graduation, quality of institution, interest in the field of study, distance from home, and mode of study. Using random parameters and latent class mixed multinomial logit models, we can formally describe young peoples’ preferences, and identify the financial trade-offs they are willing to make, that is, estimate their willingness to pay for specific attribute levels in terms of increased tuition fees or expected salary after graduation. Accounting for respondents’ observed and unobserved preference heterogeneity, we address a few research questions related to, for example, distinct preferences of students whose neither parent attained tertiary education, students from lower socio-economic groups, or students of a particular gender. Overall, we demonstrate how stated preference methods can be a useful tool for exploring economic preferences, better understanding the determinants of choices, forecasting, and designing the services offered by higher education institutions in an optimal way.
H52|Can Parental Migration Reduce Petty Corruption in Education?|The income generated from parental migration can increase funds available for children’s education. In countries where informal payments to teachers are common migration could therefore increase petty corruption in education. To test this hypothesis, we investigate the effect of migration on educational inputs. We use an instrumental variables approach on survey data and matched administrative records from the World Bank’s Open Budget Initiative (BOOST) from Moldova, one of the countries with the highest emigration rates. Contrary to the positive income effect, we find that the strongest migration-related response in private education expenditure is a substantial decrease in informal payments to public school teachers. Any positive income effect due to migration must hence be overcompensated by some payment-reducing effects. We discuss a number of potential explanations at the family level, school level or community level. We furthermore rule out several of these explanations and highlight possible interpretations for future research.
H52|Österreichs Staatsausgabenstrukturen im europäischen Vergleich|This publication is available in German language only. For a brief English summary see further below. Diese Studie liefert eine detaillierte Analyse der Staatsausgabenstrukturen Österreichs im europäischen Vergleich anhand der COFOG-Daten („Classification of the Functions of Government“) von Eurostat. Der Fokus der Untersuchung liegt zum einen auf einer Einordnung der Staatsausgabenstrukturen Österreichs gegenüber anderen Eurozonenländern; dabei werden strukturelle Ähnlichkeiten und Unterschiede herausgearbeitet. Zum anderen werden neben den Vorzügen auch die Grenzen der von Eurostat bereitgestellten COFOG-Daten für Ländervergleiche analysiert. Eine detaillierte Effizienz- bzw. Effektivitätsanalyse einzelner staatlicher Ausgabenbereiche würde den Untersuchungsrahmen dieser Studie sprengen. Folgestudien, die sich eingehender mit europäischen Ländervergleichen zu den Staatsausgabenstrukturen beschäftigen, müssen vor allem jene Aspekte berücksichtigen, die im Hinblick auf die Kontextualisierung der Ausgabenstrukturen relevant sind. Durch die Möglichkeit des Ländervergleichs liefern die COFOG-Daten wertvolle Anhaltspunkte hinsichtlich struktureller Unterschiede und Ähnlichkeiten von Staatsausgaben. Hinsichtlich einer sinnvollen Verwendung der Daten ist jedoch zu beachten, dass simple quantitative Benchmark-Vergleiche von Staatsausgabenstrukturen, wie sie regelmäßig in anderen Studien vorgenommen werden, potentiell irreführend sind. Aussagen nach dem Muster „Die Quote der Sozialausgaben in Relation zur Wirtschaftsleistung ist in Land A niedriger (höher) als in den Ländern B und C, deshalb ist das Sozialsystem in Land A ausgabeneffizienter (weniger ausgabeneffizient) als in den Ländern B und C“ sind in der Regel wenig bis gar nicht aussagekräftig, wenn sie nicht in einen breiteren Kontext gestellt werden. Dies liegt insbesondere an drei Problemfeldern. Erstens sollten bei einem Vergleich mehrerer Länder öffentliche und private Ausgaben nach Möglichkeit zusammen betrachtet werden. Denn Unterschiede in der Systemgestaltung hinsichtlich privater und öffentlicher Ausgabenkomponenten schlagen sich auch in der Struktur der Staatsausgaben nieder. Zweitens müssen vergangene und zu erwartende gesellschaftshistorische und wirtschaftliche Entwicklungen in eine Analyse der staatlichen Ausgabenstrukturen einfließen, wenn diese kontextadäquat sein soll. Drittens bestehen zum einen bei der Zuordnung von Ausgaben auf Privat- und Staatssektor und zum anderen bei der Zuordnung staatlicher Ausgaben auf verschiedene Ausgabenbereiche im Detail Probleme Die Organisation staatlicher Leistungen kann dazu führen, dass Ausgabenunterschiede im Ländervergleich bei näherer Betrachtung mehr auf statistische als auf inhaltliche Differenzen zurückzuführen sind. Diese drei Problempunkte bedeuten nicht, dass Ländervergleiche der Ausgabenstrukturen generell nichts brächten; aber sie verweisen darauf, dass institutionelle Gegebenheiten, wirtschaftliche und gesellschaftliche Entwicklung sowie statistische Besonderheiten berücksichtigt werden müssen, wenn die Analyse mehrerer Länder nicht in die Irre führen soll. Diese Studie veranschaulicht die genannten drei Problempunkte hinsichtlich des Mehrländervergleichs von staatlichen Ausgabenstrukturen anhand von drei Eurozonenländern Österreich, Belgien und Deutschland. Dieser Ländervergleich erscheint zielführend, weil alle drei Länder ein vergleichbares Entwicklungs- und Wohlstandsniveau sowie relevante Ähnlichkeiten in Bezug auf institutionelle Charakteristika und ökonomische Verflochtenheit aufweisen. Der Schwerpunkt liegt insbesondere auf der Analyse der Bildungs-, Gesundheits- und Sozialausgaben, weil diesen drei Bereichen sowohl aufgrund ihres quantitativen Budgetanteils als auch in politischen Debatten besondere Relevanz zukommt. Die staatlichen Bildungs-, Gesundheits- und Sozialausgaben machen in Österreich zusammengenommen 67,1% der gesamten Staatsausgaben aus, was sich im Vergleich mit den anderen EU-Ländern als typisch für einen entwickelten Sozialstaat erweist. Sowohl in der EU‑28 als auch im Euroraum entfielen im Jahr 2015 rund zwei Drittel aller Staatsausgaben auf diese Bereiche. Während die skandinavischen Wohlfahrtsstaaten und Eurozonen-Kernländer wie Deutschland, Österreich und Frankreich von diesem Durchschnitt nach oben abweichen, sind die staatlichen Ausgabenquoten für Bildung, Gesundheit und soziale Sicherung insbesondere in den im Zuge jüngster EU-Erweiterungsrunden hinzugekommenen Ländern wie Bulgarien und Rumänien relativ gering. Aber auch südeuropäische Länder weisen in der Regel unterdurchschnittliche Ausgabenanteile in den Bereichen Bildung, Gesundheit und soziale Sicherung auf. Seit dem Ausbruch der Finanz- und Wirtschaftskrise ist innerhalb der Eurozone ein verstärktes Auseinanderdriften in den Staatsausgaben zwischen Kernländern wie Deutschland, Österreich und Belgien und den südlichen Peripherieländern zu verzeichnen; insbesondere in Griechenland, aber auch in Portugal, Spanien und Italien sind aufgrund der Budgetkonsolidierungspolitik die realen Bildungs-, Gesundheits- und Sozialausgaben mit wenigen Ausnahmen zwischen 2008 und 2015 markant gesunken. Innerhalb der EU-Staaten zeigt sich, dass eine höhere Staatsausgabenquote mit geringeren privaten Konsumausgaben in Relation zu den Gesamtausgaben im Zusammenhang steht Je höher die staatliche Ausgabenquote im jeweiligen EU-Land ist, desto geringer fällt der Anteil der privaten Konsumausgaben an den gesamten Ausgaben aus (und umgekehrt). Dieses Ergebnis deutet darauf hin, dass staatliche Ausgaben eine Entlastung für private Haushalte darstellen können. Zudem zeigt sich, dass europäische Länder, die sich durch volkswirtschaftlichen Erfolg und hohe Produktivität auszeichnen (dazu zählt auch Österreich), in der Regel einen ausgebauten Sozialstaat mit einer relativ hohen Staatsausgabenquote aufweisen. Der österreichische Sozialstaat bringt mit seiner Staatsausgabenquote im europäischen Vergleich ein ausgeprägtes Umverteilungspotential mit sich, weil die Umverteilung der Markteinkommen großteils ausgabenseitig (und nicht über Steuern) vollzogen wird. English Summary Austria’s government expenditure structures in European comparison This study analyses Austria’s government expenditure structures in a European comparison by using Eurostat’s COFOG data (‘Classification of the Functions of Government’). On the one hand, the analysis focuses on putting government expenditure structures into comparative perspective with other eurozone countries. On the other hand, restricting the analysis to emphasising the advantages of multi-country analysis proves insufficient, since there are important limits to using Eurostat’s COFOG data for quantitative benchmark comparisons. A detailed efficiency or effectiveness analysis was beyond the scope of this study. Consecutive analyses dealing with multi-country comparisons should put special weight on those factors that are crucial for contextualising similarities and differences in government expenditure structures. By allowing for government expenditures to be compared across countries, the COFOG data provide valuable reference points regarding structural differences and similarities of government expenditures. However, if the data are to be used appropriately, one should not stop at simple quantitative benchmark comparisons as regularly undertaken in other studies. Statements such as ‘The ratio of social expenditures to GDP in country A is lower (higher) than in countries B and C; hence, the social system in country A is more efficient (less efficient) than in countries B and C’ are usually not very informative and potentially misleading if they are not put into proper context. Three points are especially relevant. First, public and private expenditures should be integrated into a proper analysis, because differences in the design of private and public expenditure components have a marked impact on expenditure structures. Second, both the past and projected future of relevant developments in the economy and society and their effect on expenditures should be considered if the analysis is to be context-adequate. Third, the attribution of expenditures to the private and public sector is fraught with difficulties. The organisation of government services can lead to expenditure differences across countries, which, after taking a closer look, turn out to be more due to differences in statistics rather than substance. Those three problem areas do not imply that country comparisons should not be undertaken at all; but they suggest that institutional conditions, developments in the economy and society as well as statistical peculiarities need be to accounted for in order to avoid that the COFOG data analysis ends up being misleading. This study illustrates the three problems mentioned in terms of quantitative multi-country comparisons by analysing three euro-area countries Austria, Belgium and Germany. Comparing those three countries makes sense because they have important similarities in terms of their level of economic development and prosperity, their institutional characteristics and production structures. The focus is on analysing expenditures on education, health and social protection, as those three areas make up the largest part of the overall budget and prove particularly important for policy discussions. In Austria, public expenditures on education, health and social protection amount to 67.1% of total government expenditures, which proves to be typical of advanced welfare states in the EU. Both in the EU-28 and in the euro area, about two thirds of government expenditures are spent on those three areas. While the Scandinavian welfare states and euro-area core countries such as Germany, Austria and Belgium are above the average, new EU Member States such as Bulgaria and Romania but also older Member States in the southern periphery allocate a smaller part of overall government expenditures to education, health and social protection. For the period after the financial crisis, the analysis indicates a further drifting apart in government expenditure structures, as periphery countries – which already had lower government expenditure ratios to GDP on education, health and social protection – have fallen further behind vis-à-vis core countries such as Germany, Austria and Belgium. In Greece, but to a smaller extent also in Portugal, Spain and Italy, fiscal consolidation policies have led to a marked decline in real government expenditures on education, health and social protection.
H52|The Distribution of Economic Resources to Children in Germany|This paper investigates the redistributive impact of private and public childcare provision and education on children's resources in Germany between 2009 and 2013. It takes account of the multidimensionality of children's needs and access to economic resources by applying an extended income approach. Combining survey data from the Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP) with administrative data from the German Federal Statistical Office, extended disposable income inequality is found to be significantly lower than disposable cash income inequality at the five percent level across all years. However, the extension does not significantly change distributional trends. At the same time, publicly provided childcare and schooling notably decrease inequality among children such that it cushions cash income inequality. One major reason for this effect is that public in-kind benefits profit children living with single parents, which are deprived in terms of cash incomes, most. This gives additional evidence on the importance of publicly provided childcare and schooling as a policy instrument to equalize economic resources and opportunities in children's lives.
H52|Male Education and Domestic Violence in Turkey: Evidence from a Natural Experiment|We utilize a natural experiment, an education reform increasing compulsory schooling from five to eight years in Turkey, to obtain endogeneity-robust estimates of the effect of male education on the incidence of abusive and violent behaviour against women. We find that husband's education lowers the probability of suffering physical, emotional and economic violence. The only aspect of violence not affected by spouse's education is sexual violence. Schooling also lowers the likelihood that the marriage was arranged against the woman's will, and makes men less inclined to engage in socially unacceptable behaviours such as drinking, gambling, and drug abuse. We also find that women whose mothers or whose husbands' mothers experienced domestic violence are more likely to suffer violence themselves.
H52|Why So Slow? The School-to-Work Transition in Italy|This essay provides a comprehensive interpretative framework to understand the reasons why the school-to-work transition (SWT) is so slow and hard in Italy. The country is a typical example of the South European SWT regime, where the educational system is typically rigid and sequential, the labor market has been recently made more flexible through two-tier labor market reforms, and the family has typically an important role to absorb the individual and social cost of the passage to adulthood. The main thesis of this essay is that the traditional disorganization of the educational and training system coupled with slow economic growth, rather than the supposedly low degree of labor market flexibility explain high (youth) unemployment. Important reforms of several tiles of the Italian SWT regime – the Jobs Act, important fiscal incentives to hiring youth long term unemployed, the so-called Good School and the related introduction of work-related learning, the European Youth Guarantee and the reform of employment services – have been all recently implemented, which are causing a slow convergence towards the so-called European social model, but it is still too early to draw conclusions as to the impact of such reforms on youth labor market outcomes.
H52|Getting It Right: Youth Employment Policy within the EU|This essay discusses the determinants of youth unemployment within the EU and then the alternative policy options currently at stake. We argue that youth unemployment regards especially some peripheral EU countries and is due to a mix of factors that should be addressed more vigorously, starting from expansionary fiscal and monetary policy. The guiding line should be to reform the Maastricht Treaty so as to allow each EU country to reach the Europe 2020 targets. Moreover, especially in the peripheral countries drastic reforms of the school-to-work transition regimes are needed, including not only the European Youth Guarantee, which is underfinanced, but also the introduction of better links between the education system and the labor market. The past emphasis on labor market reforms, instead, should be reconsidered.
H52|Handlungsempfehlungen für die Hochschule der Zukunft|Vernetzt mit Wirtschaft und Gesellschaft, eingebettet in einen internationalen Aus-tausch und flexibel auf die unterschiedlichen Interessen von Studierenden mit und ohne Berufserfahrung reagierend - so sollten die Hochschulen aufgestellt sein, um den Megatrends Digitalisierung, Internationalisierung und demographischer Wandel produktiv begegnen zu können. In der Forschung ist dank Exzellenzinitiative und Pakt für Forschung und Innovation ein bemerkenswertes Maß an Vernetzung und Internationalisierung erreicht worden - allerdings in erster Linie für die Universitäten. In die Fachhochschulen als Treiber des Wissenstransfers und als Garanten einer praxisbezogenen Hochschulausbildung muss künftig mehr investiert werden. Rückläufige Anteile bei den privaten Drittmitteln der Hochschulen verweisen darauf, dass die Kooperation von Wirtschaft und Wissenschaft kein Selbstläufer ist. Eine steuerliche Förderung der Ausgaben für Forschung und Entwicklung sollte diesen Trend korrigieren. [...]
H52|Fertility effects of college education: Evidence from the German educational expansion|We estimate the effects of college education on female fertility - a so far understudied margin of education, which we instrument by arguably exogenous variation induced through college expansions. While college education reduces the probability of becoming a mother, college-educated mothers have slightly more children than mothers without a college education. Unfolding the effects by the timing of birth reveals a postponement that goes beyond the time in college - indicating a negative earlycareer effect on fertility. Coupled with higher labor-supply and wage returns for nonmothers as compared to mothers the timing effects moreover suggest that career and family are not fully compatible.
H52|More oil, less quality of education? New empirical evidence|The resource curse hypothesis suggests that resource-rich countries show lower economic growth rates compared to resource-poor countries. We add to this literature by providing empirical evidence on a new transmission channel of the resource curse, namely, the negative effect of rents on the quality of education. The cross-country analysis for more than 70 countries shows a significantly positive effect of oil rents on the quantity of education measured by government spending on primary and secondary education. Hence, the underspending hypothesis championed by Gylfason (2001) no longer holds with newer data. However, we find a robust and negative effect of oil rents dependency on the current objective and subjective indicators of quality of education, controlling for a set of other drivers of education quality and regional dummies. Despite pending significant shares of GDP on education, oil-rich countries still suffer from an insuficient quality of primary and secondary education,which may hamper their growth potentials. The significant negative effect of oil rents dependency on education quality can be explained by both the demand (e.g., skill acquisition) and supply (e.g., teacher quality) side channels.
H52|The transient and persistent efficiency of Italian and German universities: A stochastic frontier analysis|Despite measures on the European level to increase the compatibility between the HE sectors of the member states, the recent literature exposes variations in their efficiencies. To gain insights into these differences we split the efficiency term according to the two management levels each university is confronted with. Utilizing a recent advancement in the method to measure efficiency, we separate short-term (transient) and long-term (persistent) efficiency, while controlling for unobserved institution specific heterogeneity. While the first term reflects the efficiency of the individual universities working within the country, the second term echoes the influence of the country specific overall HE structure. The cross-country comparison displays if the overall efficiency difference between countries is related to individual performance of their universities or their HE structure. This allows more purposeful policy recommendation and expands the literature regarding the efficiency of universities in a fundamental way. Choosing Italy and Germany as two important illustrative examples we can take advantage of a novel dataset including characteristics of institutions in both countries for an exceptional long period of time from 2001 to 2011. We show that the Italian universities exhibit a higher overall efficiency value than their German counterparts. With the individual universities working at the upper bound of efficiency in both countries, the overall inefficiency as well as the gap between the countries is caused by persistent, structural inefficiency. To expedite a true European Area of Higher Education future measures should hence aim at the country specific structure, not solely at affecting the activities of single universities.
H52|Vor- und Nachteile verschiedener Arten von Drittmitteln|Es gibt verschiedene Arten von Drittmitteln für wissenschaftliche Forschung. Insbesondere lassen sich Drittmittel für freie Forschung, zur ergebnisoffenen Themenbearbeitung und für spezifizierte Auftragsforschung unterscheiden. Deren jeweilige Vor- und Nachteile werden diskutiert, auch im Verhältnis zur Grundfinanzierung.
H52|Literacy skills, equality of educational opportunities and educational outcomes: an international comparison|This paper assesses the role of literacy skills as an equalizer in both educational outcomes and educational opportunities. First, by linking two surveys of adult skills for 11 OECD countries (PIAAC - Survey of Adult Skills (conducted in mid-90s) and IALS - International Adult Literacy Survey (conducted in 2011)), the relationship between performance (average literacy test scores) across countries and within-country skill inequality (dispersion in literacy test scores) is examined...
H52|The teachers’ merry-go-round: job insecurity and staff turnover over the last 2 years|The paper illustrates the recent trends in the use of contract staff and in staff turnover in the Italian education system, traditionally plagued by high levels of job insecurity and turnover. The system has been affected by the extraordinary scheme for hiring permanent teachers in 2015 and a mobility and reallocation plan the following year. The number of people on the national list of untenured teachers (frozen about 10 years ago) shrank from 124,000 to 47,000 (to which we should, however, add another 34,000 teachers added to a reserve list following a judgment by the State Council). The use of contract staff remained largely unchanged: the number of annual job contracts rose from 118,000 to 126,000, and fell from 14.6 to 14.4% as a share of total staff, the numbers of which have grown in the meantime. The share of those on the local lists of supply teachers (yet not required to follow a postgraduate internship program) increased among teachers with a yearly contract, who are on average younger than before. Staff mobility and turnover rose sharply, regardless of problems with implementation which led to a considerable rise in staff reassignment in the last school year.
H52|STEM graduates and secondary school curriculum: does early exposure to science matter?|Increasing the number of Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) university graduates is considered a key element for long-term productivity and competitiveness in the global economy. Still, little is known about what actually drives and shapes students' choices. This paper focusses on secondary school students at the very top of the ability distribution and explores the effect of more exposure to science on enrolment and persistence in STEM degrees at the university and on the quality of the university attended. The paper overcomes the standard endogeneity problems by exploiting the different timing in the implementation of a reform that induced secondary schools in the UK to offer more science to high ability 14 year-old children. Taking more science in secondary school increases the probability of enrolling in a STEM degree by 1.5 percentage point and the probability of graduating in these degrees by 3 percentage points. The results mask substantial gender heterogeneity: while girls are as willing as boys to take advanced science in secondary school - when offered -, the effect on STEM degrees is entirely driven by boys. Girls are induced to choose more challenging subjects, but still the most female-dominated ones.
H52|Calidad y Cobertura de la Educación Secundaria Pública y Privada en Colombia, y sus Costos Ocultos|Este documento describe la evolución de la cobertura de la educación secundaria en Colombia. Combina técnicas de evaluación de impacto y un análisis de costo-beneficio para comparar la calidad de la educación media pública con la privada. Se observa que el crecimiento de la matrícula pública está desplazando a la oferta privada, incluso en hogares en niveles socioeconómicos con capacidad de pago por educación privada. Se evidencia una gran variación en los resultados en las pruebas Saber 11 entre los colegios públicos. Asimismo, en algunas ciudades y estratos, hay estudiantes asistiendo a una oferta pública de menor calidad que la privada disponible, debido, en gran medida, a la falta de incentivos privados de los hogares. Finalmente, se encuentra que el gobierno podría generar beneficios sociales si incentivara en los hogares, vía el otorgamiento de becas parciales, el tránsito de colegios públicos a colegios privados. Beneficios similares se podrían generar si el gobierno regulara la educación privada de baja calidad en las ciudades y estratos con oferta pública de mayor calidad. Estos resultados llevan a cuestionar la magnitud de la expansión en la cobertura de la educación pública, a la vez que sugieren que al interior del sector público y privado, habría espacio para introducir incentivos diferenciales al desempeño.
H52|Financing Education Abroad: A Developing Country Perspective|Developing countries intensively promote education abroad through financial aid policies. While some financially support students with scholarships, other countries prefer to provide loans. This paper provides a novel data-set containing characteristics of world-wide government-funded scholarship and loan programs supporting education abroad. The data allows us to identify unique stylized facts on these financing policies for middle and low income countries. We find that scholarship programs more frequently select students based on merit criteria, target graduate and postgraduate study level, and require recipients to return after studies than loan programs do. We build a two-country student migration model with government intervention to qualitatively account for the observed patterns. In our model, government intervention is justified for two reasons. First, students from a developing country are financially constrained and cannot afford education abroad. Second, the government values the productivity of ”returnees” higher than the market does. We argue that when students are uncertain about their future productivity and may fail at their studies, scholarship programs can insure them against potential default. Consequently, if students differ in their expected ability, under certain conditions a government with a tight budget will prioritize ex-ante high-ability students and support them with scholarships with the return requirement, and support ex-ante low-ability students with loans without the return requirement.
H52|Does Maternal Education Affect Childhood Immunization Rates? Evidence from Turkey|We study the causal effect of maternal education on childhood immunization rates. We use the Compulsory Education Law (CEL) of 1997, and the differentiation in its implementation across regions, as instruments for schooling of young mothers in Turkey. The CEL increased the compulsory years of schooling of those born after 1986 from 5 to 8 years. We find that education of mothers increases the probability of completing the full course of DPT and Hepatitis B vaccinations for their children. Furthermore, education increases the age of first marriage and birth, changes women`s and their spouse’s labour market status, and significantly affects women`s attitude towards spousal violence against women and gender discrimination in a manner that empowers women.
H52|Public Opinion on Education Policy in Germany|To better understand the political economy constraints of education policy, we have conducted the annual ifo Education Survey in Germany since 2014. This paper summarizes selected key findings on the German publics' preferences for education policies ranging from early childhood education and schools to the apprenticeship system, universities, and lifelong learning. While the emerging picture is complex and multifaceted, some general patterns emerge. The majority of Germans is surprisingly open to education reform and favors clear performance orientation. Survey experiments indicate that information can have substantial effects on public policy preferences. Overall, education policies seem important for respondents' voting behavior.
H52|Qualität statt Quantität? Steigender Wettbewerb um sächsische Studienplätze nach 2020 zu erwarten|Der im Jahr 2007 zwischen Bund und Ländern beschlossene Hochschulpakt, eingeführt mit dem Ziel, für die zunehmende Anzahl an Studienberechtigten einen Studienplatz bereitzustellen, läuft 2020 und damit in absehbarer Zeit aus. Entsprechend beraten die Länder bereits heute, wie sie trotz wegfallender Fördergelder eine hinreichende Finanzausstattung der Hochschulen sicherstellen. Der Freistaat Sachen reagiert mit der Hochschulentwicklungsplanung nach 2020 mit einer deutlichen Absenkung der Studierendenzahlen um mehr als 15 %. Vor dem Hintergrund einer konstant hohen Nachfrage nach Studienplätzen und eines etwaigen Fachkräftemangels wird diese Planung im vorliegenden Blickpunkt kommentiert.
H52|French and British Colonial Legacies in Education: Evidence from the Partition of Cameroon|I use the partition of Cameroon between France and the UK after WWI and its reunification after independence to investigate colonial legacies in education. Using border discontinuity analysis, I find that Cameroonians born in the 1970s are 9 percentage points more likely to have completed high school if they were born in the former British part. French and British Cameroon started diverging after partition, but the British advantage disappeared when the French increased education expenditure in the 1950s. The resurgence of a British advantage is explained by the French legacy of high repetition rates and their detrimental effect on dropout.
H52|The Role of Fees in Foreign Education: Evidence From Italy and the United Kingdom|This working paper studies the determinants of international students’ mobility at the university level, focusing specifically on the role of tuition fees. We derive a gravity model based on a Random Utility Maximization model of location choice for international students in the presence of capacity constraints of the hosting institutions. The last layer of the model is estimated using new data on student migration flows at the university level for Italy and the United Kingdom. The particular institutional setting of the two destination countries allows us to control for the potential endogeneity of tuition fees. We obtain evidence for a clear and negative effect of fees on international student mobility and confirm the positive impact of the quality of the education. The estimations also support the important role of additional destination-specific variables such as host capacity, the expected return of education and the cost of living in the vicinity of the university.
H52|Does Better Teacher Selection Lead to Better Students? Evidence from a Large Scale Reform in Colombia|In 2002 the career of Colombian public school teachers was significantly reformed through the introduction of a selective entry competition and of further quality incentives. This paper estimates how the new quality-screened teachers impact students’ high school performance. We exploit the fact that the novel regulation applied only to newly hired teachers, whereas those al-ready in office in 2002 remained exempt, creating a mix of New-Regulation and Old-Regulation teachers in Colombian schools. Using data at the school-year-subject level, we eliminate any school-level confounders and associate the proportion of New-Regulation teachers to the variation in student test scores. We pin down a positive and significant, although not very large, effect of New Regulation teachers on student performance. New Regulation teachers have decreasing marginal returns, are more effective in larger schools and when surrounded by colleagues holding postgraduate degrees. We also document that the enforcement of the New Regulation has been somewhat unsatisfactory, since in the period 2008-2013 around 30% of all New Regulation teachers are employed in temporary positions without having passed the compulsory entry exam. These teachers have lower and less robust impacts on student performance.
H52|The Intended and Unintended Impacts of a Merit-Based Financial Aid Program for the Poor: The Case of Ser Pilo Paga|We study a recent merit-based financial program for the poor in Colombia. We exploit sharp eligibility rules in household wealth and standardized test scores to identify the causal effect of financial aid on postsecondary enrollment and academic performance. We find large positive effects on postsecondary enrollment on both the extensive and intensive margins. Immediate enrollment doubled among eligible students, making the SES gap in enrollment disappear among top students. At the intensive margin, the program shifted students from low-quality institutions into higher-quality institutions, and from public to private colleges. We also observe significant general equilibrium effects in secondary and postsecondary education. The program promoted class diversity at top private schools, and significantly raised student quality at these institutions (but not public institutions). Demand for top private education shifted to the right, driving admission rates downward and increasing entry competition at these institutions, thus raising stratification by ability. However, program beneficiaries did not fully crowd out high-SES students from top private schools because supply also expanded. Finally, the program seems to have raised high school exit test performance among recent cohorts with relatively poor backgrounds.
H52|El Programa Ser Pilo Paga: Impactos Iniciales en Equidad en el Acceso a la Educación Superior y el Desempeño Académico|En 2014 el Ministerio de Educación Nacional de Colombia lanzó el programa Ser Pilo Paga como parte del objetivo de convertir el país en el más educado de América Latina en el 2025. Desde su creación, el programa ha beneficiado a más de 30,000 jóvenes de escasos recursos que presentaron la prueba Saber 11 entre el 2014-2 y el 2016-2. En el presente documento se lleva a cabo la evaluación de impacto de corto plazo del crédito-beca Ser Pilo Paga para las cohortes 2014-2 y 2015-2, con base en datos administrativos y 1,487 encuestas representativas realizadas a jóvenes elegibles y no elegibles de la cohorte 2015-2. Se utiliza la metodología de regresión discontinua para evaluar el impacto del crédito-beca sobre variables de acceso a educación superior y la metodología de variables instrumentales para analizar el efecto sobre el desempeño académico de los beneficiarios. El aumento en la probabilidad de acceso a educación superior para los jóvenes de Ser Pilo Paga 1 fue de 31.8 puntos porcentuales, mientras que para los jóvenes de Ser Pilo Paga 2 fue de 25.8 puntos porcentuales. Además, el efecto sobre el acceso a educación de calidad (IES acreditadas) fue de 46.1 puntos porcentuales y 41.2 puntos porcentuales, respectivamente. También se encuentra que la ausencia intersemestral de los beneficiarios de la primera cohorte es 7.1 puntos porcentuales menor, en comparación a sus compañeros de IES acreditadas mientras a primer semestre la tasa de deserción es inferior en 6 puntos porcentuales. Por último, los beneficiarios del programa presentan mejores índices de calidad de vida pese a que muestran mayores niveles de depresión, menores niveles de perseverancia y apoyo social.
H52|Economic efficiency of public secondary education expenditure: How different are developed and developing countries?|This study measures the efficiency of public secondary education expenditure in 37 developing and developed countries using a two-step semi-parametric DEA (Data Envelopment Analysis) methodology. We first implement two cross-country frontier models for the 2012-2015 period: one using a physical input (i.e., teacher-pupil ratio) and one using monetary inputs (i.e., government and private expenditure per secondary student as a percentage of GDP). These results are corrected by the effects of GDP per capita and adult educational attainment as non-discretionary inputs. We obtain five important results: 1) developed and developing countries are similar in terms of the education production process due to the peers used in the non-parametric estimation of relative efficiency; 2) developing countries could increase their enrolment rates and PISA scores by approximately 22% and 21%, respectively, by maintaining the same teacher-pupil ratios and public-private spending levels; 3) Australia, Belgium, Finland, and Japan are efficient countries in the two frontier models; 4) robust empirical evidence indicates that both income and parental educational attainment negatively affect efficiency in both models; and 5) the physical frontier model significantly favours developing countries, bringing them closer to the efficiency frontier; however, it negatively affects developed countries.
H52|Revisión de gasto sector educación|Este documento corresponde al informe final del estudio de Revisión de Gasto del sector Educación. Se compone de cuatro capítulos. En el primero, se describe el panorama general del presupuesto del sector educación, haciendo un análisis particular al Sistema General de Participaciones (SGP) que hace parte del presupuesto de funcionamiento, y a los recursos que se destinan al sector provenientes del Sistema General de Regalías (SGR). En el segundo, se presenta la metodología y el desarrollo de las mesas técnicas. En el tercero, se presentan los resultados generales de la revisión de gasto, de acuerdo con las propuestas que las entidades del sector pusieron a consideración de la mesa técnica. Finalmente, en el cuarto capítulo se presentan las lecciones aprendidas para las diferentes etapas del proceso y las recomendaciones estratégicas para avanzar en la eficiencia del gasto en el sector educación.
H52|Revisión de gasto sector transporte|Este documento corresponde al informe final del estudio de Revisión de Gasto del sector Transporte. El ejercicio busca implementar un método permanente para analizar la eficiencia y efectividad de los recursos públicos y proveer recomendaciones. El documento contiene 4 grandes secciones. La primera hace una descripción del gasto en el sector transporte. La segunda, describe el proceso de implementación de fases y actividades de la revisión de gasto. La tercera explica los resultados de la priorización en el sector transporte y la cuarta resume las lecciones aprendidas y recomendaciones.
H52|¿El programa de alimentación escolar contribuye a mejorar el rendimiento académico?: Evaluación del PAE en Colombia|El programa de alimentación escolar (PAE), es un programa social que busca aumentar la tasa de matrícula, la disminución de la deserción y el ausentismo escolar y así lograr un mejor desempeño académico de niños y niñas en condiciones de vulnerabilidad. Para el año 2015 el programa benefició a más de cuatro millones de estudiantes con una inversión cercana a los 400 mil millones de pesos de acuerdo con el Ministerio de Educación Nacional (MEN). Convirtiéndose en uno de los programas más importantes del gobierno. Esta investigación indaga sobre la relación que existe entre el PAE y el rendimiento académico en las pruebas SABER de los estudiantes de grado 3° de los colegios públicos del país, para el año 2015. Mediante el uso de las bases de datos SIMAT e ICFES; y las metodologías de Mínimos Cuadrados Ordinarios (MCO) y emparejamiento. Los primeros resultados usando MCO sugieren que existe una relación positiva y significativa (2.6* puntos con 0.05 desviaciones estándar), entre ser beneficiario del programa y un mejor rendimiento académico en las pruebas para las áreas de matemáticas y lenguaje. Sin embargo esta significancia desaparece al usar el método de evaluación de emparejamiento, que compara colegios beneficiarios con los que no, consiguiendo así una mejor aproximación a la medición del efecto. Estos resultados podrían corresponder a un un lower bound ya que cerca del 25% de colegios dentro de la muestra tenía características socioeconómicas (promedio estrato, número de estudiantes, ubicación, entre otras) diferentes, que indicaban una mayor vulnerabilidad que los colegios tomados dentro de la muestra, que no lograron ser identificados correctamente. Aunque los resultados de la investigación no permiten concluir que ser beneficiario del programa mejore el rendimiento en las pruebas SABER si abre la puerta a trabajos futuros que permitan establecer con mayor precisión los efectos del programa en el rendimiento académico para los diferentes grupos, ya que los resultados también sugieren que el efecto varia por estrato socioeconómico, género, municipio y la modalidad de alimento recibido, siendo los colegios de estratos medios ubicados en municipios de desarrollo alto los que muestran las relaciones más débiles entre el programa y el puntaje.
