H79|Trust in Government in Times of Crisis: A Quasi-Experiment During the Two World Wars|Do crises erode trust in government? To answer this question, we leverage the quasi-experimental setting of the sharply increased military threat to the neutral county of Switzerland during the two world wars as an exogenous shock. In doing so, we exploit a unique feature of Swiss politics: government issuance of pre-referenda voting recommendations. We use constitu ent adherence to government recommendations as a behaviour al proxy for trus t in government, measured in real time prior to, duri ng, and after the crisis. Our difference-in- differences estimates provide strong evidence that constituents are significantly less likely to follow governmental voting recommendations during wartime.
H79|Municipal indebtedness in Poland ? formal and informal conditions|The ongoing processes of decentralization, which are present in many countries, cause a growing proportion of public funds to be collected and spent at the local government tier, which necessitates the use of fiscal rules not only at the state level. This issue may raise some controversy due to the specific character, autonomy and empowerment of local government and local communities. Therefore, the analysed subject is based on three questions: 1. Limited fiscal autonomy of local self-government and it?s consequences 2. A real need for and the scope of the use of fiscal rules in local government finance, 3. The informal factors that directly determine the indebtedness in local governments in the light of literature and selected empirical research. We use a descriptive method supported by an analysis of financial data and a case study as it presents selected aspects of Polish experience in the subject matter. The results of the analysis seem to point to the necessity of the use of fiscal rules in local government finance, which paradoxically strengthens the processes of decentralization, democratization, technological advancement and globalization. Some primary results of our research indicate investment expenditure, own revenues, number of companies (level of GDP) and election cycle as important, significant factors (in statistical meaning) effecting the local deficit and debt. The conclusions list the advantages of the use of fiscal rules at the local government tier and large diversity of informal conditions across the whole country.
H79|Different approaches and measures of fiscal decentralisation|Once the phenomenon of fiscal decentralisation was appropriately operationalised and measured, it has become evident that not many countries had absolutely self-financing sub-national governments. The evidence shows that, in many developed countries, fiscal decentralisation has occurred almost exclusively through devolution of expenditure activities, while a large part of the regional and local government expenditures is funded primarily by intergovernmental grants, revenue-sharing programs, or other centrally controlled funds. Measurement-wise, this suggests that taxes should be refined in terms of the degree of autonomy they provide to sub-national governments. In the relevant empirical studies, it is a common practice to use accounting measures of either revenue or spending shares for sub-national relative to general government as a proxy for fiscal decentralisation. However, those two accounting measures may not capture accurately the phenomenon of fiscal decentralisation. The two standard sources of data for fiscal decentralisation have been the IMF?s Government Finance Statistics (GFS) where the intergovernmental fiscal structure of countries is not captured properly and OECD?s measure of revenue decentralisation where taxes are classified in terms of the degree of autonomy they provide to sub-national governments. As an improved measure of revenue decentralisation, Stegarescu (2005) constructs an appropriate measure of fiscal decentralisation; namely, ?purified? sub-national own-source revenues as a share of total government revenues. The main aim of this paper is to compare in details the above mentioned measures of fiscal decentralisation, and evaluate the bias in the accounting measures compared to a ?purified? measure that accounts for the real fiscal autonomy of sub-national governments by comparing the results gained through estimation of the government sector size model using the pooled mean group (PMG) estimation approach.
H79|Problems of State Debt Management in Georgia|One of the topical problems of modernity is the investigation of the reasons, which had caused origin of the state debt, its assessment criteria and indicators. The article has investigated reasons causing both the permanent growth of domestic and external debts of developing and post socialist countries and their debt crisis. The article analyzes economic, social and political developments resulting the permanent growth of domestic and external debt in developing and post socialist countries.There are set out conclusions for regulation of financial, foreign exchange, foreign and trade relations. The article suggests concrete efforts aimed to overcome debt crisis. For this reason we suggest to use universal recognized methods and mechanisms, which will support to overcome the debt crisis.
H79|Analyse économique des politiques linguistiques au Québec : 40 ans de Loi 101|Ce texte examine à l’aide des outils de l’analyse économique l’offre et la demande pour le français et l’anglais au Québec puis de leur utilisation et valeur sur le marché du travail pour la période 1971-2011. Nous présentons également la politique linguistique en vigueur au Québec et discutons de comment la rendre optimale. Nos principaux résultats empiriques sont que : La connaissance du français a augmenté au Québec alors que la part de la population de langue maternelle française a diminué entre 1971 et 2016 (offre) ; L’importance des employeurs francophones a augmenté au Québec entre 1961 et 2003 (demande); Le statut socio-économique du français sur le marché du travail mesuré par son utilisation et sa rémunération s’est amélioré entre 1971 et 2011 alors que le bilinguisme est toujours plus rémunérateur que l’unilinguisme.
H79|The Public Finance Challenges of Fracking for Local Governments in the United States|Fracking has revolutionized international oil and gas markets practically overnight, but its impact on local public finance and governance have largely been overlooked. While operating under federal and state constraints, the key ongoing policy question is whether and to what extent local governments can â€“ and should â€“ have the power to manage the industryâ€™s effects on their communities. This IMFG Paper explores the fiscal health risks associated with the industry, its local revenue generation implications, and what local governments can do to address the spatial and temporal mismatches between the two. As the industry expands internationally, including to Canada, lessons from the United States can inform future regulatory response in other places.
H79|Investigating the Relationship between Work-Life-Balance and Motivation of the Employees: Evidences from the Local Government of Jakarta|This paper examines the relationship between work-life-balance and employees' motivation in the public sector of Jakarta, Indonesia. Through motivational theories and work-life-balance theories, the conceptual framework is developed to explore research variables. This is a descriptive research following qualitative inductive method. The total sample size for this research is 86 respondents working in the local government of Jakarta. Data was gathered through self-administered survey questionnaire. Findings revealed that personal life significantly affect the work. Majority of the respondents prefer flexible work and operating from home. Interestingly, females are more eager to work from home in comparison to males. Furthermore, the findings revealed that females in contrast to males are much more organized in managing professional commitment and personal life agendas. Additionally, all employees seek taking holiday in contrast to extra money or bonus. Lastly, working for longer hours is the most de-motivating job attribute.
H79|(Re)creating Boundary Lines: Assessing Toronto's Ward Boundary Review Process|When Toronto's Ward Boundary Review (WBR) began in 2013, the city's 44 wards varied widely in size, ranging from 45,000 to 90,000 residents. The WBRâ€™s multi-year process was designed by staff and led by consultants, with ample opportunity for involvement by councillors. The final ward boundaries were approved in November 2016 without significant deviation from those recommended in the consultantsâ€™ report. The result was the addition of three new wards. Assuming there are no successful appeals of the decision, the new ward boundaries will be in place for the 2018 election. The ward boundary review raised significant questions about the regularity by which such reviews should be held, the role of city councillors as participants and decision-makers in the process, and the relationship between the WBR and a future governance review. This paper sets out the contested legal terrain within which the City of Torontoâ€™s WBR took place and assesses possible next steps, including the grounds for a possible Ontario Municipal Board appeal. Ultimately, the paper concludes that wards are but one important component of municipal representation and governance.
H79|You shall not build! (until tomorrow) [:] Electoral cycles and housing policies in Germany|This paper investigates whether local politicians adjust their approval of housing licenses during election times in Germany. For my research, I use a balanced Panel of 4,983 West German municipalities from 2002 to 2010. Due to the timing of local elections in Germany, I can disentangle the election effect from common time effects. My results suggest a decrease in new construction approvals for residential housing areas during election years of around 11 % evaluated at the mean, and an increase of similar magnitude in the years following the election. Furthermore, I am able to show that the decrease during election times is associated with the share of homeowners in a municipality. Hence, my research adds to the literature on political business cycles as well as to the existing literature on homevoters and their potential effect on housing policies during election times.
H79|Analysis of the implementation of information disclosure ordinances in Japan: the effect on the income of mayors and chief executives in local governments|This paper attempts to investigate how information transparency affects human behavior. Thus, we empirically examine the influence of information disclosure ordinances on the income of mayors and chief executives in local governments in Japan. For the estimation, we use panel data of local governments covering 1999–2010, during which time many local governments implemented such ordinances. The key finding is that the income of mayors and chief executives in local governments decreased after the implementation of the ordinances. Furthermore, as the years passed, the income declined further. Hence, information disclosure regarding local government reduces the income of top officials and its influence becomes greater over time. Although the income of mayors and chiefs executives is open information without the need for an ordinance, it provided transparency regarding their work performance. Furthermore, the effect of the ordinance did not depend on the mayors or chief executives’ income level in 1999. Therefore, the reduction of income is mainly due to the government’s accountability rather than citizens’ inequality aversion.
H79|Dutch Municipalities are Becoming Greener: Some Political and Institutional Explanations|This paper analyzes whether Dutch municipalities became greener between 1999 and 2014 by investigating whether they implement different unit-based pricing systems. Based on their incentive, systems are ranged from green ('weight' ) to less green ('volume' ), or not green ('flat rate' ). In one-third of the municipalities, shifts took place, with 83 percent becoming greener and 17 percent less green. Political fragmentation (measured in three ways) plays a key role in explaining these shifts. There is less evidence for political motivation. Particularly, Conservative Liberals are not in favor of unit-based pricing, whereas Social Liberals are in favor. In addition, municipalities in rural and shrinking areas are more in favor of unit-based pricing.
H79|Assessing Electronic Service Delivery in Municipalities|In the Netherlands, electronic service delivery has become an important issue in many municipalities. Using the Internet for service delivery is seen as an important element of e-government. Based on 2014-2016 panel-data of ICT service delivery for all Dutch municipalities, we show that there is a large variety among the municipalities in the extent to which they offer their service delivery digitally. We explore the factors that may explain the differences among the municipalities. Some trends can be discerned, most notably the strong relationship of e-government adoption with demographic characteristics, such as population, population density and both older age and younger age groups. Remarkably, we did not find an influence of educa-tion and income. Finally, we did not observe a relation between municipal allocated costs and level of e-maturity, hereby leaving the question open if and how e-government can lead to cost reductions.
H79|Organizacje pozarządowe w subregionie leszczyńskim. Potencjał i bariery / The Non-Governmental Organisations in the Leszno Subregion. Their Potential and Constraints|Due to the growing importance of local pro-development attitudes and non-governmental organizations for development, it is important to look at their activities in different subregions. In this work the author presents the results of research carried out in the Leszno subregion on the presence of elements of social capital, the organizational and financial sustainability of NGOs, and their cooperation with public administration in the context of their impact on local development. In addition, through a comparative analysis of selected issues, it recalls the good practices of NGOs in Switzerland which, because of the long tradition of their operation and the experience gained, can also be used in Polish settings.
H79|Postawy etyczne pracowników administracji samorządowej / The Ethical Attitudes of Local Government Employees|The purpose of the article is to present the appropriate ethical attitudes of local government employees which affect the efficiency of the administration. Local government employees who are exclusively competent and honest are able to properly execute their goals within strictly defined procedures and tasks. The article focuses on a brief analysis of the concept of ethics, employees of local government, as well as an analysis of ethics in terms of its impact on the quality of services.
H79|Współpraca pomiędzy biznesem a organizacjami pozarządowymi na przykładzie województwa lubuskiego / Current Trends in Fostering Cooperation Between Business and NGO’s Supported by Examples from Lubusz Voivodeship|Non-governmental organisations in recent years have gained new possibilities to realise their initiatives, thanks to the strong need among corporations to maintain their socially-desired image, which translates into their greater openness towards possible cooperation with the third sector. Several representatives of NGOs, utilising the latest technological solutions, are improving both the extent of their influence and its effectiveness. As multiple examples from Lubusz Voivodeship illustrate, the strategy of cooperation between business and non-governmental organisations can take on many forms, not necessarily based on financial support. Currently, a bargaining chip in the case of both sides is their knowledge capital. Corporations striving to maintain a positive image in the surroundings they function within are more eager to support social initiatives, recognising in it a possible path to gaining a competitive edge. In my article, I intend to reflect the specificity of the business/NGO relation and its determinants on the basis of selected examples from Lubusz Voivodeship. By analysing case studies, I will try to indicate the most common mutual expectations and construct a vision of a “perfect partner”. The context of analysing the quality of relations between business and NGO’s is social capital, which is an important value determining its shape. This arises from the belief that an organisation’s social capital has a meaningful impact on its attractiveness in the eyes of a potential partner. In my paper I will also present the most recent data, depicting the level of trust among the local community.
H79|Local Fiscal Instruments For ''Green Cities'' - Case Of Romania|One of the great challenges that local authorities have to face in the current period of time is climate change and that environmental protection, the responsibility of creation or strengthening green cities appearing in the forefront. In this context, the success of policies based on regulations can be sustained and substantially enhanced by appropriate use of local fiscal instruments such as taxes, fees or expenditures. From this point of view, our paper suggests some alternative design, implementation and use of these fiscal tools so that they can manifest realistic as active levers to influence the activities and behaviors of actors involved to develop and strengthen green cities.
H79|The Aid Policy Network in Pakistan: An Actor-Network Analysis|Despite an extensive debate on foreign aid, the voluminous literature mainly focuses on the evaluation of foreign aid outcomes (or aid effectiveness). The aid literature has rarely considered the aid policy process and the influence of aid policy networks on managing foreign aid decisions in an aid recipient country. Using an actor-network analysis, this study helps to understand the complexities, interdependencies, and constraints involved in managing aid policy process in Pakistan. The findings indicate that absence of an inclusive actionable development framework and limited capacity of the state provide opportunities for donors to dominate the policy debate and pursue their own priorities. Further, the provincial devolution of 2011 has made the aid delivery system in Pakistan even more fragmented and complex, operating at multiple levels.
H79|The determinants of pro-environmental concerns of political parties during electoral periods|"The electoral process in a democratic country has a significant impact on its economy. Researchers even speak about the emergence of a new concept of ""election-year economics"" in economic policies, especially for countries with young democracies. Nevertheless, the implications of political factors in the electoral periods don?t resume to the economic aspects of the society; they make themselves noticed also on other non-economic issues such as: environmental protection, quality of life etc. If prior to the election period, the focus of the political parties and also of the general public is mainly on primary policies (including fiscal policies, budgetary or exchange rate policies), other secondary policies fade in the picture, among which we include the environmental policy. Nevertheless, during political campaigns prior to elections, some parties and their affiliated politicians may display a kind of pro-environmental behaviour only to convince some of the voters to cast them a ballot. If the specialized literature has looked well enough into the determinants of citizens? pro-environmental behavior, this is not the case of the drivers that push political parties towards adopting environmental attitudes. The lack of knowledge in this regard is even more pronounced when dealing with Eastern European countries that were, in many cases, excluded from the research (given the inconsistency in and lack of data). The methodological approach consists in a regression analysis between the political parties? tendencies towards environmental decisions and actions, on the one hand, and various economic, social and environmental conditions. Using the data provided by the Manifesto Project Dataset (CMP), the websites and platforms of the Romanian political parties and the input from interviews with politicians as well as ENGO specialists, covering the period 1990-2015, the paper investigates the ?greening? of Romanian political parties prior to national election periods and the determinant factors in this regard. The preliminary results suggest that political parties? environmental concern is strongly correlated with their political ideology, but also reveal some specific features that describe Romania?s young democratic system. The paper contributes to the existing literature by filling a gap related to the investigated subject (political parties? environmental policy offer) and to the geographical coverage. Acknowledgement: This work is financially supported through the UAIC Grant for Young Researchers competition of the Alexandru Ioan Cuza University of Ia?i, Romania (Grant registration number: GI-2015-24)."
H79|Yerel Düzeyde Katılımcı Mekanizmalar Olarak Kent Konseylerinin Bilinirlilik ve Etkinlik Düzeylerinin Analizi: Bursa Örneği|The research, in which recognition and effectiveness levels of city councils are handled, has two aims. First aim is: determining to what extent city councils and Bursa City Council are known by citizens living in city of Bursa and their information levels about the legal - administrative structures of city councils. Second aim is: Presenting to what extent the city councils fulfill the duties mentioned in the 76. article of municipality law and 6. article of city council legislation from the citizens’ point of view. Based on the results obtained from field study conducted on 2915 people by face to face survey method, suggestions were made related with increasing recognition of city council by Turkish citizens and with performing their duties efficiently.
H79|Information on the ballot, voter satisfaction and election turnout|If voters do not perceive meaningful differences between parties and candidates, they tend to stay at home or choose by other factors like style or likability. This study examines whether including different kinds of information about the candidates on the ballot affects the satisfaction and turnout of voters in low-profile elections in which most candidates are unknown and party-identification cannot be used to distinguish them. This case often appears in election systems with either intra-party primaries or open lists, in particular at lower institutional levels. The empirical analysis is based on an experimental exit-poll of voters at local elections in two German states in 2014 in which respondents faced a hypothetical election with different information treatments. The main results are: (1) More information on the ballot increases voter satisfaction, but the marginal effect is decreasing. (2) Profession information is particularly useful for voters. (3) This translates directly into a greater willingness to take part in the hypothetical election ('turnout'), especially for individuals unsatisfied with the real election system. (4) The last result can be confirmed with aggregate turnout data of German local elections after reunification.
H79|Trust and prosocial behaviour in a process of state capacity building: the case of the Palestinian territories|This paper contributes to the literature by conducting the first empirical investigation into the determinants of prosocial behavior in the Palestinian territories, with a focus on the role of trust and institutions. Drawing on a unique dataset collected through the administration of a questionnaire to a representative sample of the population of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, we have found that institutional trust is the strongest predictor of prosociality. This result suggests that, in collectivist societies with low levels of generalized trust, the lack of citizens’ confidence in the fairness and efficiency of public institutions may compromise social order. The strengthening of institutional trust may also reinforce prosocial behavior in individualist societies, where a decline in generalized trust has been documented by empirical studies.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
H79|Regional Crime Rates and Fear of Crime: WISIND Findings|"Many people are afraid of falling prey to crime. The present report investigates the extent to which this fear is in line with the actual regional crime rates. This analysis is based on data from a comprehensive database on the fear of crime, combined with police crime statistics (specifically, adjusted crime statistics which factor in the ""dark figure"" of unreported crime). No evidence was found to support the (occasionally voiced) contention that the fear of falling prey to crime is irrational in many cases and not representative of the actual level of safety within a given region. In fact, our data shows a clear statistical correlation between regional crime rates and the fear of crime, both of which are more pronounced in the north of Germany than in the south, for instance. The inclusion of cybercrime in crime statistics, however, has meant that the former, higher crime rates and greater fear of crime often recordedin urban areas as opposed to rural regions are no longer as pronounced."
H79|Perceptions of Personal Security in Social Media and Search Engines: A Realistic Reflection of Actual Crime Rates?|The most common method of measuring subjective fear of crime in the general population has traditionally been through surveys. With the spread of digital technologies, however, data from social media and search engines could now help researchers learn more about people’s subjective perceptions of certain types of crime. The present article will show that although the analysis of data from social media and search engines is not suitable as an indicator of actual crime levels in Germany, it can certainly be a cost-effective supplement to traditional methods of collecting data on perceived crime levels.
H79|Gefährliche Nachbarschaft? Welches Bild von Kriminalität die deutsche lokale und regionale Tagespresse zeichnet: Ergebnisse einer standardisierten Inhaltsanalyse|Generally, crime cannot be perceived directly, but rather only indirectly through media coverage. In terms of the perceived threat, local and regional newspapers are of particular importance. Therefore, the focus of the present article is on how local and regional German newspapers report crime. To answer this question, a standardisedcontent analysis of 31 newspapers was conducted. The findings show that newspa- per articles about crime take up a small, yet clearly perceivable space relative to the total space allotted to local and regional coverage. Moreover, it is noteworthy that serious criminal offenses, such as acts of violence and homicides, are clearly overrepresented in comparison to the official statistics. Newspapers with urban and rural distribution areas diverge significantly when it comes to the frequency of coverage about specific offences. The findings of the study are discussed at the end of the paper. Kriminalität kann in der Regel nicht unmittelbar wahrgenommen werden, sondern nur mittelbar über die Medienberichterstattung. Im Hinblick auf die wahrgenommene Bedrohungslage kommt insbesondere den lokalen und regionalen Abonnementzeitungen eine hohe Bedeutung zu. Im Mittelpunkt des Beitrags steht deshalb die Frage,wie die deutsche lokale und regionale Tagespresse über Kriminalität berichtet. Um diese Frage zu beantworten, wurde eine standardisierte Inhaltsanalyse von 31 Abonnementzeitungen durchgeführt. Die Befunde zeigen, dass Artikel mit Kriminalitätsbezug im Vergleich zur gesamten Lokal- und Regionalberichterstattung zwar nur einen eher geringen, dennoch aber deutlich wahrnehmbaren Raum einnehmen. Bemerkenswert ist zudem, dass schwere Straftaten wie Rohheitsdelikte oder Straftatengegen das Leben im Vergleich zur offiziellen Statistik deutlich überrepräsentiert sind. Bezogen auf die Häufigkeit der Behandlung spezifischer Deliktsbereiche sind zum Teil merkliche Unterschiede zwischen den Zeitungsausgaben mit städtischem und ländlichem Verbreitungsgebiet erkennbar. Die Befunde werden abschließend diskutiert und eingeordnet.
H79|Ansätze und Datenquellen in der Kriminalitätsmessung: ein Überblick zu den offen zugänglichen WISIND-Daten|The WISIND (The system of economic indicators to measure security and security provision in Germany) research project not only measures the multiple threats causedby crimes committed willfully and directly affecting the individual but also the personal fear of such crimes. Extensive (survey) data was collected and integrated into existing data. This article outlines the composition of the WISIND indicators for crime and fear of crime, explicitly detailing how data were integrated, whether from newly collected data or existing official statistics. The newly collected data include, among others, communication data from digital social networks, a media analysis, and extensive survey data on the effect of crime on the individual, fear of crime and assessments of crime severity. A methodological overview of data collected during theWISIND project is also provided in order to facilitate data usage via the GESIS data service. Im Forschungsprojekt WISIND (Ein Wirtschaftswissenschaftliches Indikatorensystem zur Messung von Sicherheit und Sicherheitswirtschaft in Deutschland) wurden sowohl die vielfältigen Bedrohungen durch willentlich verursachte, das Individuum direkt beeinträchtigende Kriminalitätsformen gemessen als auch die persönliche Furcht vor solcher Kriminalität erfasst. Hier gingen neben bereits bestehenden Datenquellen insbesondere umfangreiche eigene Erhebungen ein. Der vorliegende Beitrag skizziert zum einen die Zusammensetzung der WISIND-Indikatoren für Kriminalitätsbedrohung und Kriminalitätsfurcht mit einer genauen Beschreibung, welche eigens für das Forschungsprojekt erhobenen Daten und welche bereits in offiziellen Statistiken vorhanden Quellen wo eingingen. Zu letzteren gehören unter anderem Kommunikationsdaten aus sozialen Netzwerken, eine Medienanalyse und individuelle Befragungsdaten über die persönliche Betroffenheit durch Kriminalität, die Kriminalitätsfurcht und Einschätzungen zu Schweregraden von Kriminalität. Zum anderen werden die methodischen Rahmeninformationen zu den diversen eigens erhobenen Daten überblicksartig dargestellt um ihre Nutzung über den Datenservice bei Gesis zu erleichtern.
H79|Regionale Kriminalitätsbelastung und Kriminalitätsfurcht: Befunde der WISIND-Studie|"Many people are afraid of falling prey to crime. The present report investigates the extent to which this fear is in line with the actual regional crime rates. This analysis is based on data from a comprehensive database on the fear of crime, combined with police crime statistics (specifically, adjusted crime statistics which factor in the ""dark figure"" of unreported crime). No evidence was found to support the (occasionally voiced) contention that the fear of falling prey to crime is irrational in many cases and not representative of the actual level of safety within a given region. In fact, our data shows a clear statistical correlation between regional crime rates and the fear of crime, both of which are more pronounced in the north of Germany than in the south, for instance. The inclusion of cybercrime in crime statistics, however, has meant that the former, higher crime rates and greater fear of crime often recordedin urban areas as opposed to rural regions are no longer as pronounced. Viele Bürger fürchten Opfer einer Straftat zu werden. Der Frage, inwieweit diese Furcht sich mit der regionalen Kriminalitätsbelastung deckt, versucht dieser Beitrag nachzugehen. Die Untersuchung basiert auf einer umfangreichen Datengrundlage zu Kriminalitätsfurcht und verbindet diese mit polizeilichen Daten zur Kriminalitätsbelastung (genauer: die um ihr Dunkelfeld korrigierte polizeiliche Kriminalstatistik). Die gelegentlich geäußerte Vermutung, die Furcht der Opferwerdung sei vielfach irrational und decke sich nicht mit der faktischen Sicherheit in einer Region lässt sich nicht bestätigen: In den Daten zeigt sich ein deutlicher statistischer Zusammenhang zwischen regionaler Kriminalitätsbelastung und Kriminalitätsfurcht. Beispielsweise sind beide im Norden Deutschlands höher als im Süden. Durch die Berücksichtigung von Delikten aus dem Bereich der Cyberkriminalität verschwindet jedoch tendenziell die früher oftmals dokumentierte höhere Kriminalitätsbelastung in städtischen gegenüber ländlichen Regionen."
H79|Sicherheitsempfinden in sozialen Medien und Suchmaschinen: ein realistisches Abbild der Kriminalitätsbelastung?|The most common method of measuring subjective fear of crime in the general population has traditionally been through surveys. With the spread of digital technologies, however, data from social media and search engines could now help researchers learn more about people's subjective perceptions of certain types of crime. The present article will show that although the analysis of data from social media and search engines is not suitable as an indicator of actual crime levels in Germany, it can certainly be a cost-effective supplement to traditional methods of collecting data on perceived crime levels. Um die subjektive Kriminalitätsfurcht der Bevölkerung zu messen, werden bislang vor allem Befragungen durchgeführt. In Zeiten der zunehmenden Digitalisierung könnten aber auch Daten aus sozialen Medien und Suchmaschinen dazu beitragen, mehr über die subjektiven Empfindungen der Bevölkerung zu bestimmten Deliktfeldern zu erfahren. Dieser Beitrag zeigt, dass die Auswertung von Daten aus sozialen Medien und Suchmaschinen zwar nicht geeignet ist, die tatsächliche Kriminalitätsbelastung in Deutschland widerzuspiegeln. Sie kann aber durchaus als kostengünstige Ergänzung der bisherigen Erhebungsmethoden dienen, um die empfundene Belastung abzubilden.
H79|Lokale Kriminalitätsberichterstattung: Abbild oder Zerrspiegel von Kriminalität?|The present report analyzes crime reporting in newspapers and compares this to actual crime rates and fear of crime. One key finding is that crime-related issues play a comparativelyminor role in local editions of regional subscription newspapers. While this does not apply to the number of articles, it certainly does apply to the areas covered in these articles. It is often alleged that crime in the media is ubiquitous but this can only be confirmed to a limited degree in local reporting. A comparison of crime reporting with police crime statistics and the WISIND indicator on the fear of crime also shows a significant discrepancy, both geographically and in terms of specific offenses. First, there is clearly a disproportionately high focus in the print media on violent and sex offenses and, second, there is below-average reporting of more minor offenses. Consequently, cybercrime is relatively insignificant in the local media landscape even though it affects a broad cross-section of the population. The focus of crime reporting varies from one region to another and contradicts the official crime figures and fear of crime to some extent. Der vorliegende Bericht analysiert die Kriminalitätsberichterstattung in Zeitungen und vergleicht diese mit der tatsächlichen Kriminalitätsbelastung sowie der Furcht vor Kriminalität. Ein zentraler Befund ist, dass kriminalitätsbezogene Themen eine vergleichsweise geringe Rolle in den Lokalausgaben regionaler Abozeitungen spielen. Dies gilt zwar nicht in Bezug auf die Anzahl von Artikeln, aber sehr wohl für die Fläche, welche diese Artikel in der Gesamtberichterstattung einnehmen. Die häufig unterstellte Allgegenwart von Kriminalität in den Medien kann für die lokale Berichterstattung nur mit Einschränkungen bestätigt werden. Ein Abgleich von Kriminalitätsberichterstattung mit der Polizeilichen Kriminalstatistik und dem WISIND-Kriminalitätsfurchtindikator zeigt darüber hinaus eine erhebliche Diskrepanz sowohl in geographischer als auch deliktspezifischer Hinsicht: Deutlich wird einerseits eine in Printmedien auftretende überproportionale Fokussierung auf Gewalt-, Sexual- und Rohheitsdelikte und andererseits eine unterdurchschnittliche Berücksichtigung leichter Delikte. Die sich neu entwickelnde und die Bevölkerung in der großen Breite betreffende Internetkriminalität spielt in der lokalen Presselandschaft keine Rolle. Es lässt sich ein regional stark variierender Fokus auf Kriminalitätsberichterstattung belegen, der teilweise konträr zum offiziell bekannten Kriminalitätsgeschehen und zur Kriminalitätsfurcht steht.
H79|Tatort Internet: Kriminalität verursacht Bürgern Schäden in Milliardenhöhe|Cybercrime can lead to considerable costs for those affected. Previous attempts to quantify the damage have focused mainly on businesses. Official information on damages incurredby individuals is based primarily on cases reported to the police, but these figures in no way accurately reflect the actual number of cybercrimes. This study, which is based on a broadly conceived survey, evaluates the financial harm to individuals. It covers four key areas of cybercrime - phishing, identity theft, consumer fraud, and malicious software. The damage in these areas together amounts to approximately 3.4 billion euros per year, equivalent to 0.1 percent of Germany’s gross domestic product (GDP). Internetkriminalität kann für die Betroffenen erhebliche Kosten zur Folge haben. Bisherige Ansätze der Quantifizierung konzentrierten sich meist auf Schäden für Unternehmen. Offizielle Angaben zu Schäden für Privatpersonen beruhen in erster Linie auf den polizeilich erfassten Fällen, dadurch wird die tatsächliche Belastung der Bürger aber nicht annähernd wiedergegeben. In der vorliegenden Untersuchung, die auf einer breit angelegten Befragung beruht, wird der finanzielle Schaden für Privatpersonen abgeschätzt. Er beläuft sich in vier wichtigen Bereichen der Internetkriminalität – Phishing, Identitätsbetrug, Waren- und Dienstleistungsbetrug und Schadsoftware – jährlich auf insgesamt 3,4 Milliarden Euro, dies entspricht 0,1 Prozent des deutschen Bruttoinlandsprodukts.
H79|Sovereign States and Surging Water: Brahmaputra River between China and India|Brahmaputra river basin is one of the most vulnerable areas in the world subject to combined effects of glacier melt, extreme monsoon rainfall and sea level rise. Water is emerging as a new possible irritant between China and India. For India, Water of Brahmaputra constitutes a major lifeline for people of Tibet and North Eastern states. The building of dams and diversion projects in Tibet by China is a matter of grave concern for lower riparian states. For China, it is having hidden inclination to create employment potentials for more than millions of people by making Brahmaputra diversion project forward. The requirement of fresh water as the pollution grows and population rise has forced China to have the Tsangpo-Brahmaputra River project. The objective of this paper is to focus the reaction of both people on the water diversion issue, disastrous ecological consequences and the urgent necessity for having a water treaty between Asian giants. It also examines the hegemonic tendencies of China on Brahmaputra River & exercise of power for economic gains and outcomes. The policies China takes on trans- Boundary Rivers are not symptom of peaceful nature of its rise. In addition, it establishes the fact that sharing of information, ecosystem-friendly policies, thought and mutual understanding will dispel the suspicion and develop trust between two countries, creating an enabling environment for better management of Brahmaputra River.
H79|No Place like Home: Opinion Formation with Homophily and Implications for Policy Decisions|We demonstrate a simple model of opinion diffusion where a local opinion leader acts as the initiator of public discussion. We show the possibility of driving a significant wedge between opinions of two groups that exhibit homophily even though individuals are highly conformist. In particular, we show that there exists an opinion gap between the group which the opinion leader belongs to (referred to as the residence community) and the other group; and this opinion gap is increasing in the relative size of the residence community. Using a unique dataset of national referenda in Switzerland from 2008 to 2012, we show that members of parliament (MPs) match referenda outcomes in their residence communities closer than they do in neighboring communities, and this wedge interacts signi cantly with the relative size of the residence community, thus aligning with our theoretical conjectures. We conclude that observed opinion gaps can actually be overrated to the extent that they are driven by structures that underlie the social web of different groups within the society.
H79|Signature requirements and citizen initiatives: Quasi-experimental evidence from Germany|Signature requirements are often used as hurdles to prevent overuse of direct democratic instruments such as citizen initiatives. We evaluate the causal effect of lowering signature requirements on the number of observed citizen initiative petitions. Based on municipal-level data for Germany, we make use of changes in signature requirements that occur at specific population thresholds to build an identification strategy using a regression discontinuity design. We find that reducing the signature requirement by 1 % point increases the probability of observing an initiative petition in a given city-year by 8–10 % points. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
H79|The Stability of Bank Deposits of Communes in Poland (Stabilnosc lokat bankowych gmin w Polsce)|The aim of the article is to characterize the stability of bank deposits of each type of the communes in Poland as well as the main determinants of their value. The research time range covers the period 2008–2014. In this period, some legal and financial determinants of deposit activity of these units appeared. The activity of the communes in this field simultaneously influences the stability of sources of funding of banks, which include deposits of these entities. This especially concerns cooperative banks, which are natural clients for rural communes and urban-rural communes, as units from the public finance sector in Poland.
H79|Benchmarking Metis Economic and Social Development|This is a report on the socio-economic development of the Metis in Canada. The report identifies appropriate indicators to benchmark Metis socio-economic development against non-Aboriginal socio-economic development, while establishing a benchmark against which future progress can be gauged. Quite briefly, there have been strong gains in Metis socio-economic development, especially concerning income and education. In particular, Metis median income reached 86.7 per cent of non-Aboriginal median income in 2010, up from 72.9 per cent in 2000. In terms of education, the share of the Metis with a college, CEGEP or other non-university certificate or diploma as their highest degree actually surpassed the share of the non-Aboriginal population in similar areas by 2011. However, there are still a number of gaps that remain. For example, the Metis continue to have poorer indicators of health, especially concerning smoking. Furthermore, the Metis still have lower levels of suitable housing than the non-Aboriginal population. One of the most interesting findings of the report is the large gaps that exist within the Metis Nation between provinces. The report concludes that concerted efforts, determined cooperation, and substantial participation from Metis leaders and Metis organizations at both the provincial and national level will be required to close the remaining gaps between provinces within the Metis Nation and between the aggregate Metis and non-Aboriginal populations.
H79|Political realism and models of the state: Antonio de Viti de Marco and the origins of public choice|Abstract It is well known that one of the features of public choice, political realism, is embedded in a time-honored Italian tradition going back to Machiavelli and perpetuated by G. Mosca and V. Pareto in their political and sociological writings. The scientific spirit, which in their era led to the foundation of various social disciplines, fostered the application of economic analysis to the political sphere. In that context, Antonio de Viti de Marco (1858–1943) formulated an economic model of the state, consisting of two types of constitutional extremes: the absolute state and the democratic state. We ask herein how that model may be reconciled to G. Mosca and Pareto’s theory of the ruling class, with which De Viti de Marco agreed. Finally, we analyze his political writings in order to reconstruct his interpretation of collusion, rent seeking and “clientelism”, i.e., the redistribution of extracted rent, which takes place in the form of discretionary allocations of public jobs, public contracts and other corporative favors. Collusion is the use of democratic institutions by the ruling classes in order to gain monopoly power. While collusion is the basis of rent creation, rent extraction is not the final goal of politicians; rather, it is a means of strengthening electoral support.
H79|Institutional context for local economic development in Mexico, 1990-2015. A need for change?|People?s quality of life in specific places is affected by their territories? characteristics and local agents? actions and interactions, as well as their responses to external influences. Formal and informal institutions contribute to shape those actions, interactions and responses. Following North (1990) and Storper (1995), the economic performance of places is influenced by their particular institutional setting; and, therefore, by the way a particular society is organised. Hence, the political and social dimensions acquire special importance. Relating those ideas to the bottom-up approach towards development, and its positive effect on the development of Mexican municipalities found by Rodriguez-Pose and Palavicini-Corona (2013), it is relevant and interesting to analyse if, in the Mexican context, formal and informal institutions have facilitated or not economic development at the local level. As the basis of the development from below approach stems from its proximity to local characteristics and agents, the lowest level of government jurisdiction is the focus of analysis. Two municipalities located in a Mexican state with a long presence of institutions and resulting mechanisms closer to citizens were selected in order to further assess the role of institutions. The hypothesis tested is that the general formal institutional context in Mexico has a relevant propitious role in LED. In relation to the case studies, the hypothesis is that a more favourable effect in one of the studied municipalities than the other is due to differences in the functioning of their formal institutions and the particularities of their informal ones. It was found that the national and sub-national formal institutional setting has allowed and, at some degree, stimulated municipalities to plan and execute local economic development actions during the period of analysis (1990-2015). However, abiding to the law and enforcing it are the main aspects to be addressed in this Latin American country. As far as the case studies are concerned, significant differences in their informal institutions affected the presence of the LED approach and their development performance from 1990 to 2010. Finally, in light of the concrete findings, I present a set of proposals to both introduce some adjustments to the legal framework and make the best of current formal and informal institutions prevailing in Mexico, in general, and the studied municipalities, in particular.
H79|Civil Service Rules and Policy Choices: Evidence from US State Governments|This paper studies the policy impact of civil service regulations, exploiting reforms undertaken by US state governments throughout the twentieth century. These reforms replaced political patronage with a civil service recruited based on merit and protected from politics. I find that state politicians respond to these changes by spending relatively less through the reformed state-level bureaucracies. Instead, they allocate more funds to lower level governments. The reallocation of expenditures leads to reduced long-term investment by state governments.
H79|"The management crisis represents all the measures and arrangements taken by the government in cooperation with specialized non-governmental organizations and it ensures the public safety serious emergency situations. From this perspective, the concepts of major accident, catastrophe, calamity or disaster are special forms of crisis. Therefore, the specialized intervention in the event of a natural disaster or caused accidentally by humans, represents a special form of ""crisis"" management. Generally speaking, we can talk about a ""crisis"" when it is questioned the existence of something or of someone"|No abstract is available for this item.
H79|Severný Kaukaz Ako Destabilizujúci Región V Kontexte Vnútornej Bezpečnosti Ruskej Federácie|Oblasť Severného Kaukazu sa vyznačuje vysokou mierou nestability. Medzi faktory, ktoré ovplyvňujú nestabilitu v regióne, je možné zaradiť: latentné napätie medzi etnikami, porušovanie ľudských práv, nerovnomerný hospodársky rozvoj, korupcia, organizovaný zločin. Severokaukazská oblasť sa vyznačuje výraznou heterogenitou v kontexte multikultúrnej populácie. Každý má svoje vlastné poňatie vlasti, vlastné poňatie histórie vzťahov s Ruskom a vlastnú hierarchiu etnických a kultúrnych hodnôt ako aj náboženstva. Na nestabilite v regióne sa do značnej miery podieľajú aj organizované zločinecké skupiny, a to predovšetkým čečenské.
H79|Zahraniční Politika Ázerbajdžánu V Letech 1991-2004|Osamostatnění se v roce 1991 bylo pro Ázerbajdžánce nečekaným darem. Pro tehdejší republikové vyvstal nesmírný problém, s nímž neměli žádné zkušenosti ani oni, ani jejich předchůdci – vybudovat od základů fungující národní stát. V době euforických očekávání, kterou měsíce krátce po získané nezávislosti představovaly, zjednodušené vnímání komplikovaných lokálních a mezinárodních souvislostí bylo běžnou záležitostí; v plné míře se tudíž promítalo i do definování zahraničněpolitických cílů.
H79|Vnútropolitické Determinanty Krízovej Situácie Na Ukrajine|Ukrajina zažíva v posledných mesiacoch najhoršiu krízu od vyhlásenia nezávislosti - krízu politickú, ekonomickú, kultúrnu, sociálnu. Článok sa preto zaoberá analýzou základných tendencií transformácie politického systému a faktorov, ktoré mali aj majú vplyv na dnešnú situáciu na Ukrajine (politická elita, osobitosti fungovania štátnej moci, stranícko-politická aktivita občanov, korupcia).
H79|Finanzas públicas y desigualdad fiscal en los municipios de Boyacá, 1985-2010|La desigualdad de los ingresos fiscales per cápita de los municipios y provincias del departamento de Boyacá y su evolución, es analizada utilizando tres indicadores (Gini, Theil y coeficiente sigma), para acercarse a la explicación de la contribución del proceso de descentralización fiscal en la reducción de las disparidades intermunicipales y provinciales. De los resultados obtenidos, se deduce que en materia fiscal hay un proceso de convergencia, además, al contrastarlos con indicadores como el NBI, el porcentaje de población en situación de pobreza y el Gini de gastos por municipio, en 1993 y 2005, estos últimos presentan disminuciones importantes que en cierta forma corroboran la mejora en los indicadores de equidad.
H79|Patents Assessed through Sectoral Operational Programs|"According to the International Accounting Standards – IAS 38 „Intangible assets”; these assets are identifiable non-monetary assets under construction were considered without physical substance. Lack actual physical form must not be understood that an intangible asset would have no material support, because the presence of any intangible asset can be demonstrated only by a support material form. Exmple: frequently encounter compact-disc (in case a software), legal documentation (in the case of licences, trade marks and patents of invention), contracts, permits and licences, technical documentation or films. Nowadays we are constantly subjected to the changing flow of information that is found in a perpetual technological change which started the emergence of a new stage in the society development that which carries the name of knowledge. The object of my research is the patent for the structural funds reimbursable project submitted in the ""Operational Program, Economic Competitiveness"" Operation 2.3.1. ""Support for start-ups and innovative spin-offs. Patent is an official document certifying the inventor, the exclusive right to produce a certain good or product or use a particular process. Remember that evaluation of intangible assets is the most complex and systematic procedure."
H79|The Convergence Of Migration To The European Union Requirements|This article reflects the interdependence between the migration phenomenon of our country's population and the phenomena carried in the overall human development of the Republic of Moldova, and the consequences of migration on the social and economic development at the macro-level, separately. The qualitative analysis performed reveals the importance accorded to migration in terms of social security of the country, as well as Moldova's position towards recipient countries to protect Moldova’s citizens.
H79|Local Taxation, Private-Public Consumption Complementarity, and the Optimal Number of Jurisdictions|Viewing local finances under the approach to private-public consumption complementarity, we conclude that foot voting and tax competition become extinct when the (capital) tax structure across jurisdictions is the one forging close ties between the burgher and his/her jurisdiction. Feeling the burgher attached to the local public goods offered and to the local business activity, prevents labor and capital relocation. The optimal number of jurisdictions is that which is conducive to the adoption of that local taxation that fosters such an attachment; taxation made possible by capitalizing upon private-public consumption complementarity. The intuitive appeal of this result is then contemplated within the broader framework of fiscal policymaking accommodative of citizen heterogeneity. In view of complementarity, there appears to be scope for decentralized treatment of citizen preferences via the localities, leaving the treatment of endowment differences to the central government
H79|Financial Management of Sports Clubs in the Czech Republic|The economic situation and general characteristics of sports clubs have not been much explored in the Czech Republic. At the same time, sport is an area into which we channel considerable attention and government funds. What is the economic situation of Czech sports clubs, and what do we know about them? The objective of the research was to map the environment in which Czech sports clubs operate and to identify their main economic characteristics based on a selected sample. The paper presents partial results from a 2011 survey conducted via questionnaire among sports clubs in the Czech Republic. The survey results are based on 430 responses from the total 1567 addressed sports clubs. We establish that the economic situation of clubs is quite bad; however, it cannot be unequivocally proved that insufficient support from municipalities or public sources is to blame. The size of a municipality proved to be a significant variable in subsidies-related issues and in the quality of relations between clubs and municipalities. An analysis of the effects caused by the reduction of subsidies in comparison to requested sums would be significant. What seems good from a short-term perspective (more applicants are satisfied) will probably lead to an artificial inflation of requested sums in the long term, because entities will factor any expected subsidy reduction into their application.
H79|Responsibility with accountability: A FAIR governance framework for performance accountability of local governments|This paper focuses on the role of local governments in bringing about fair, accountable, incoorruptible and responsive (FAIR) governance. Local governments around the world have done important innovations to earn the trust of their residents and their comparative performance is of great interest yet a comprehensive framework to provide such benchmarking is not available. This paper attempts to fill this void, by developing a general framework for performance accountability of local governments and by relating real world practices to aspects of this framework. The proposed rating framework requires several types of assessments: (a) their compliance with due process and law; (b) monitoring of fiscal health for sustainability; (c) monitoring of service delivery ; and (d) citizens’ satisfaction with local services. The approach yields key indicators useful for benchmarking performance that can be used in selfevaluation and improvement of performance. t From an analysis of practices in local government performance monitoring and evaluation, the paper concludes that ad hoc ad-on self standing monitoring and evaluation systems are more costly and less useful than built-in tools and mechanisms for government transparency, self–evaluation and citizen based accountability such as local government output budgeting and output based fiscal transfers to finance local services.
H79|Local Administration Systems and Local Democracy Perception|Institutions which are subunits of a government or regional administration and authorized as defining limited number of public policies in relatively small area and implicating these policies are defined as public institutions and local administrations. The existence reasons of local administrations enforce some services which will be presented to public not by the government centre but by the public entities which are not included in centralized administration hierarchy and in centralized management organizations. There are two types of the term? decentralisation? which are governmental decentralisation and political decentralisation. If the authority transferred by centralized management is limited with legislation and to a certain degree with jurisdiction it is Political decentralisation which is special to federal states, if the authorities transferred by centralized management is limited only with enforcement it is governmental decentralisation. The first target to be reached in democracies is to make the public have rights in administration. The prior purpose in countries which has the tradition of democratic administration is to include the public in each step of administration and decision making. Public?s participation in administration process and public?s having rights in administration are easy is local administrations. In this direction, this study?s main subject will be local administration systems and the relation of systems with democratic administration.
H79|Crisis Management in the Slovak Republic at the National Level|Crisis management in the Slovak Republic works on a hierarchical basis. It consists of a very well designed system of functioning of state bodies that provide crisis management of the country in times of war and peace . The supreme body of crisis management is the Security Council of the Slovak Republic - consultative body of the Government of the Slovak Republic. The Security Council of the Slovak Republic is involved in the development and implementation of the security system of the Slovak Republic. The Security Council ensures compliance of international obligations in the field of security, evaluate the security situation of the Slovak Republic and the world. Central Crisis Staff also plays pivotal role in crisis management procedures in the Slovak Republic.
H79|Wspolczesne wyzwania rynku finansowego (Contemporary challenges of the financial market)|The book describes the contemporary problems and challenges of governing the financial market. The authors divided the issues associated with it in two parts. The first concerns the challenges of governing the banking sector. The authors discuss the analysis of systemic risk within the banking sector in the Balkan countries and the management and marketing of financial services. The second part covers issues relating to the Balanced Scorecard, ABC methods, TD-ABC and the importance of information on the results and economic efficiency of the listed companies.
H79|Government Transparency And Expenditure In The Rent-Seeking Industry: The Case Of Japan For 1998–2004|Since the end of the 1990s, local governments in Japan have enacted Information Disclosure Ordinances, which require the disclosure of official government information. This paper uses Japanese prefecture-level data for the period 1998–2004 to examine how this enactment affected the rate of government construction expenditure. The Dynamic Panel model is used to control for unobserved prefecture-specific effects and endogenous bias. The major finding is that disclosure of government information reduces the rate of government construction expenditure. This implies that information disclosure reduces losses from rent-seeking activity, which is consistent with public choice theory.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
H79|Organizačné Prostredie Zahraničnej Politiky Slovenskej Republiky|Tento príspevok analyzuje formovanie zahraničnej politiky v rámci vnútorného organizačného prostredia štátu. Ťažiskom výskumu je Slovenská republika a Česká republika, ktorých organizačné prostredia sú porovnávané s cieľom zodpovedať otázku „Aké je organizačné prostredie zahraničnej politiky Slovenskej republiky?“ Pri odpovedaní na túto otázku je využitý prístup zahraničnopolitickej analýzy, najmä modely organizačného prostredia a byrokratickej politiky so zameraním na aktérov a štruktúry organizačného prostredia. Zameriava sa na kompetencie inštitúcií, ktorých úloha v zahraničnopolitickom procese je vymedzená ústavnými zákonmi. Ide najmä o parlament, prezidenta a vládu. V prípade, že aktéri vystupujú v kolektívnom orgáne, sú využité rôzne úrovne analýzy: jednotlivec, skupina a celok.
H79|Súčasný Stav A Perspektívy Rusko-Afganských Vzťahov|Problematika vzájomných vzťahov Ruska a Afganistanu má svoju historickú pamäť s pozitívnymi i negatívnymi konotáciami. Dynamický vývoj v regióne širšej Strednej Ázie v posledných rokoch vťahuje do riešenia afganskej otázky viaceré krajiny oblasti a hlavných hráčov svetovej politickej scény. Rusko je vzhľadom na tento vývoj postavené do situácie, keď konsolidácia vzťahov s Afganistanom sa stáva otázkou národnej bezpečnosti. Článok venuje pozornosť súčasnosti a perspektívam vzájomných vzťahov týchto dvoch krajín, odhaľuje hrozby a riziká, ktoré môžu v najbližšej budúcnosti vstúpiť do zložitého procesu budovania dôvery medzi Ruskom a Afganistanom v citlivej geopolitickej oblasti.
H79|On the problem of scale: Spinozistic sovereignty as the logical foundation of constitutional economics|This paper argues that sovereignty, as envisaged by Spinoza, is the logical foundation of constitutional economics. Constitutional constructs such as sovereignty weave an evolutionary dialectic between different organizational scales (the local, national, and global). This dialectic continues to wreak havoc at the local scale, and can be interrupted only through explicit constitutional constraints on the size of jurisdictions. The paper argues for more emphasis on constitutional orders in the spirit of Spinoza’s understanding of sovereignty. This entails preference for federal polities in which sovereignty is shared between different cities rather states where once capital cities dominate.
H79|Decentralization and Natural Disasters|This paper surveys recent research on decentralization and natural disasters. The first part discusses results from theoretical models that have been used to study the issues that arise when natural disasters occur in a country with more than one level of government. The next section discusses the empirical results that have been found in the literature. A third section briefly touches upon practical problems that arise when decentralized governments are confronted with a natural disaster. The paper concludes by reflecting on what we know about whether policies to confront natural disasters should be centralized or decentralized.
H79|Technical efficiency of local public institutions in Colombia|Using a theoretical recursive model based on cognitive synergy measured by five dimensions (economical, judiciary, civil conflict, geography, and urban) as restrictions to allow better results on institutional quality, the research shows a link between economic, social, and political environment with public efficiency in local governments. Impacts on local public government efficiency of different levels of advancement for each dimension are estimated for 23 major cities in Colombia in 2010 by implementing a Data Envelopment Analysis followed by a Tobit model similar to what has been proposed in recent literature of public efficiency analysis. The main findings showed an average of public local efficiency of 76% when an output oriented DEA model is adjusted using a Financial Public Performance index (FPI) as input and the Multidimensional Poverty Index (MPI) as output. After correcting for technology differences public average efficiency score reduces to 60% meaning that local government can increased their performance by 40% in poverty results measured by IPM with the same level of inputs measured by FPI. In order to narrow gap performances between cities reductions in unemployment levels, informal markets and transaction costs of doing business are required, there is also a positive significant impact of internet access and a negative impact of increasing urban population. The decentralization process is showing a negative impact over local public efficiency measured by the distance in square kilometers towards the central government capital. Other dimensions relevant such as the civil conflict and the judiciary system efficiency show negative and positive impacts as expected however they are not statically significant. Constraint aggregate effect on cognitive synergy developments over institutional quality reduces is impact to 38% when calculated following the structural equation on institutional determinants defined by the theoretical model.
H79|Bydgoszcz-Toruń Functional (Metropolitan) Area in the Light of Selected Aspects|The aim of the paper is both delimitation attempt and characteristics of Bydgoszcz-Toruń Functional (Metropolitan) Area, in the light of selected indicators relating to socio-demographic determinants and functional relationships of the analysed area. Issues relating to socio-demographic factors are shown in the background of the situation in Poland. However, a functional relationship was analysed in the context of transport links and public transport situation in the metropolitan area.
H79|Signature Requirements and Citizen Initiatives: Quasi-Experimental Evidence from Germany|Signature requirements are often used as hurdles to prevent overuse of public referenda. We evaluate the causal effect of lowering signature requirements on the number of observed citizen initiatives. Based on municipality-level data for Germany, we make use of legislative changes at specific population thresholds to build an identification strategy using a regression discontinuity design. We find that reducing the signature requirement by 1 percentage point increases the probability of observing an initiative by 8-10 percentage points. The results are robust to a variety of tests. Importantly, we go into great detail to rule out other potential confounders.
H79|Is there duration dependence in Portuguese local governments' tenure?|This paper analyses the presence of duration dependence in Portuguese local governments' tenure employing continuous and discrete-time duration analyses over a set of spells of time in office for the period 1979–2005. Our results show that the more time a party remains in office, the higher is the likelihood of leaving it. However, more flexible polynomial-in-time, cubic splines and time-dummies specifications show that the behaviour of that likelihood is not monotonic: it increases but only until the third term, then it decreases until the sixth term before starting to increase again. This study also shows that the likelihood of an incumbent party leaving office, given his tenure, is affected by the local economic environment, political support, the effective number of parties, the dimension of the municipality and the age of its leader. Additionally, it shows that that likelihood is consistently lower when the party leader/mayor decides to run for another term.
H79|Non-cooperative pollution control in an inter-jurisdictional setting|This paper examines various circumstances under which decentralized pollution policies can be efficient both in federal settings and in multi-region settings with labor mobility. We consider a model in which pollution control policies are set by regional governments non-cooperatively and pollution damages are borne by the residents of all regions. We characterize the efficiency of pollution policies, and of population allocation among regions, in a variety of scenarios, including when pollution policies are enacted before interregional transfers are determined by the federal government and before migration occurs; when migration decisions are taken before policy decisions; in the absence of a central government if regional governments can make voluntary interregional transfers; when decisions over pollution control policies are followed by voluntary contributions by regions to a national public good; when regions can commit to matching the abatement efforts of each other; and when regions can commit to specific levels of abatement contingent on the emissions of other regions not exceeding some maximum level.
H79|Cittadinanza multilivello, nuovi rischi sociali e welfare regionale|"L’articolo propone un’analisi concettuale dei fondamenti del Modello Sociale Europeo come sistema di welfare multilivello. In particolare, espone l’importanza della sussidiarietà amministrativa tra i diversi livelli della governance europea come un elemento centrale della cittadinanza sociale. Con questa espressione viene definita l’articolazione strategica tra legittimità sovra-nazionale e responsabilità sub-statale che ottimizza l’implementazione di politiche pubbliche. L’impatto dei cosiddetti ""nuovi rischi sociali"" (NSR) dipende dalle possibilità di sviluppo sociale, strutturale ed istituzionale delle comunità locali. In questo senso, l’autonomia fiscale a livello regionale è un aspetto centrale per garantire politiche redistributive e di solidarietà. Partendo da queste riflessioni, nell’ultima sezione si valuta come la governance multilivello possa rafforzare la cittadinanza sociale europea grazie all’interscambio di esperienze positive e innovative tra diversi stati membri, specialmente nell’attuale congiuntura di instabilità economica internazionale."
H79|Fiscal rules, budget deficits and budget projections|Fiscal rules are mentioned as instruments to commit political actors on long-term fiscal sustainability. However, fiscal rules may have stronger effects on projected than on realized fiscal outcomes because of window-dressing measures or because they alter the bargaining situation in the budget process. In our analysis for Swiss cantons, fiscal rules significantly lower the probability of projected and realized deficits with the former effect being twice as large. Projections are generally over-pessimistic but fiscal rules increase the probability of accurate projections. Thus, fiscal rules seem to substitute for finance ministers’ over-pessimistic projections intended to reign in fellow ministers and legislatures (100 words). Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2013
H79|Running for office again: evidence from Portuguese municipal elections|Using a data set that covers all Portuguese mainland municipalities for the period 1979–2005, this study performs an empirical analysis of the economic determinants of mayors’ decisions to run for another term in office. The literature on the subject is mainly centered on the United States and, as far as we know, there are no papers addressing the economic factors influencing those choices. Probit panel estimations show that local economic conditions matter more than the national or regional economic environment. The results also confirm that political variables are important and that they influence the likelihood of seeking reelection in much the same way as they affect vote and popularity functions. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2013
H79|On the measurement of sociopolitical consensus in direct democracies: Proposal of indexes|We investigate the measurement of sociopolitical consensus in direct democracies by means of three novel Consensus Indexes. They are special cases of Approval Consensus Measures, a tool from social choice that evaluates the degree of cohesiveness in a fixed group of agents that vote on a list of issues. We perform a basic dynamic analysis of the Swiss votes in popular initiatives, in periods marked by the main reforms and political crisis along those years. We provide novel quantitative arguments to validate the hypotheses that those reorganizations had an impact in terms of sociopolitical consensus during the last decade in comparison with prior stages. In addition we study the cumulative consensus in Italian referendums since 1974. We also investigate to what extent our indexes reflect the existence of periods in the development of referendums as a constitutional praxis.
H79|Professional Chambers as Forms of Civil Society|The system of self-governing professions through the chambers pertain the performance of highly skilled occupations associated with personal responsibility and professional accountability. Such professions must be performed with qualified supervision to prevent damages to property or health. Therefore, the role of professional chambers is simply irreplaceable. Chambers are gatekeepers over access to such professions and they are responsible over exercise of the profession and set standards and rules for carrying out best practices. Through their codes of conducts they supervise a compliance of their members with ethical standards. Moreover, chambers are important components of liberal democracies and fulfil the myriad of functions attributed to civil society. Chambers therefore do (and should) mainly act in accordance with public interests. In the Czech Republic currently there are two types of professional associations; chambers with a compulsory membership and chambers with a voluntary membership. However, only chambers with compulsory membership have the opportunity to punish its members for violations of professional and ethical standards.
H79|Le territoire entrepreneurial: analyse et réalités<BR>[Entrepreneur-Centered Territorial Development Analysis And Realities]|Faire parler de son territoire, le rendre attractif et visible pour des cibles internationales est une priorité pour les grandes agglomérations. De ce fait, les outils de marketing territorial et de land branding deviennent de plus en plus sophistiqués. Les outils d’attractivité, de gestion de prospects, de conduite de projet sont performants et permettent de soutenir l’objectif d’implantation d’entreprises, notamment étrangères sur les territoires. Cette situation crée une concurrence entre les territoires pour attirer les entreprises. La concurrence se traduit par une sur-communication territoriale qui amène à rechercher une spécificité (discours, plus d'avantages économiques, surexploitation de lieux historiques, etc.).
H79|Ubezpieczenia wzajemne w finansowaniu skutkow zdarzen katastroficznych w samorzadzie terytorialnym – zarys koncepcji . (Mutual insurance in the financing of the effects of catastrophic events in the local government – an outline of the concept.)|The analysis of the financing of the effects of natural disasters in Poland indicates a large inconsistency and arbitrariness as far as the decisions of the local government and state authorities are concerned. The paper attempts to identify proposals for systemic solutions, based on mutual insurance, which would ensure covering the costs of the local government caused by natural disasters. Work in this area seems to be all the more necessary that the insurance market is increasingly refuses to cover this risk.
H79|Impact of weight indicators of TOPSIS technique in the selected district in the Slovak Republic|The purpose of multicriteria decision models is to help decision maker to evaluate each alternative and to rank them in descending order of performance. This study analyses the concept of Multiple Attribute Decision Making for using in local government area. The aim of this paper is to analyse the concept of Multiple Attribute Decision Making for selecting the most efficient municipality in selected district in the Slovak Republic. Achieving this purpose, TOPSIS technique (in two variants) is used as decision making tools.
H79|Europe 2020 and national reforms: economic governance and structural reforms|Structural reforms are stressed in Europe 2020 as a tool for boosting economic growth and improving social cohesion. Yet tensions often arises between country specificities and goals, on one side, and pressures by partners and EU wide goals on the other side. The paper discusses the European economic governance issues building upon a sketchy historical account of the so called Open Method of Coordination. It is argued that the structural reformsï¿½ success depends upon aspects like the variety, ex ante identifiability and easiness to organize of their potential supporters as well as the presence of institutional mechanisms through which it is possible to compensate the potential losers and/or distributing on wider and fairer basis their benefits; furthermore mechanisms capable to contrast the shortsightedness of many political decisions, also favouring the political participation of all often silent stakeholders, are argued as essential. The most important contribution from EU wide pressures and rules is identified in the capacity building of national institution, to be based also upon stringent rules, aiming at fostering national governmentsï¿½ accountability and the policy evaluation tools.
H79|Vybrané Problémy Iránskej Zahraničnej Politiky V Strednej Ázii|Vývoj v Iráne po roku 1979 a situácia v regióne postsovietskej Strednej Ázie a prikaspickej oblasti po skončení studenej vojny boli a sú predmetom zvýšeného záujmu medzinárodnej verejnosti. O vysokom destabilizačnom potenciáli, ktorý sa v oblasti nachádza, bolo napísaných viacero štúdií. Napriek tomu je informovanosť o regióne Strednej Ázie nepostačujúca. Táto štúdia preto vo svojej analýze venuje hlavnú pozornosť jednému z aspektov ovplyvňujúcich vývoj v oblasti – regionálnej stratégii Iránu v postsovietskej Strednej Ázii a prikaspickej oblasti. Na príklade vzájomných vzťahov Iránu a jeho severných susedov analyzuje možnosti a limity spolupráce, ktorá mala a v budúcnosti bude mať vplyv na situáciu v regióne.
H79|Mocenské Zmeny Vo Francúzsku Vo Volebnom Roku 2012|Francúzske prezidentské a parlamentné voľby 2012 zmenili politickú mapu v krajine. Nicolas Sarkozy sa stal len druhým francúzskym prezidentom piatej republiky, ktorému sa nepodarilo obhájiť mandát a podobne ako Valéry Giscard d'Estaing v roku 1981 aj on stratil mandát v prospech kandidáta ľavice. Tým bol tentoraz François Hollande. Zmena sa dotkla aj Národného zhromaždenia, v ktorom Socialistická strana získala oproti predchádzajúcemu obdobiu o približne sto kresiel viac. Pred Françoisom Hollandom stojí množstvo úloh. Tie sú spojené najmä s finančnou a ekonomickou krízou. V zahraničnej politike sa výrazné zmeny neočakávajú. Naopak, predpokladá sa kontinuita s predchádzajúcim obdobím, hoci francúzsko-nemecké vzťahy pravdepodobne nebudú aspoň na začiatku také srdečné ako v minulosti.
H79|Ústavný Vývoj Fínska A Jeho Snahy O Integráciu Do Európskych A Transatlantických Štruktúr|Fínska zahraničná a bezpečnostná politika vychádza z geopolitickej a historickej skúsenosti. Počas studenej vojny Fínsko zastávalo politiku neutrality. Od začiatku 90tych rokov sa fínska zahraničná politika začala otvorene hlásiť k západu. Po dlhej dobe sa Fíni konečne mohli aktívne zapojiť do integračných procesov západoeurópskych štruktúr. V súčasnosti je členskou krajinou EU a aktívne spolupracuje s NATO.
H79|Východiská zahraničnej a bezpečnostnej politiky Francúzska po nástupe Nicolasa Sarkozyho do prezidentského úradu|Francúzsko bezpochyby patrí ku kľúčovým aktérom ovplyvňujúcim povahu budúcej európskej politiky. Ambície krajiny však siahajú ďalej a zdá sa, že majú globálnejší charakter, ako tomu bolo v nedávnej minulosti. Súčasné francúzske zahraničnopolitické princípy, resp. zásady bezpečnostnej politiky sú obsiahnuté v dvoch bielych knihách zverejnených na začiatku funkčného obdobia bývalého prezidenta Nicolasa Sarkozyho – v Bielej knihe obrany a národnej bezpečnosti a v Bielej knihe zahraničnej a európskej politiky. Nicolas Sarkozy sa už od svojho nástupu pokúšal o aktívnu zahraničnú politiku. Ako príklady môžeme spomenúť jeho úlohu pri riešení rusko-gruzínskeho konfliktu, príp. francúzske aktivity v severnej Afrike.
H79|Vybrané problémy vzájomných vzťahov postsovietskych republík strednej Ázie a Afganistanu|Stredná Ázia pomerne dlho nebola stredobodom záujmu svetovej politiky. S koncom studenej vojny sa situácia začala meniť. Nielen v dôsledku samostatného vývoja piatich bývalých sovietskych republík a situácie v Afganistane došlo aj k zmene pohľadu na geopolitiku a geoekonomiku regiónu. V tzv. „novej veľkej hre“, ktorá sa v dôsledku nových a rýchlo sa meniacich skutočností vlastne ani poriadne nerozohrala, boli postsovietske republiky Strednej Ázie a Afganistan primárnym objektom záujmu. Udalosti z 11. 9. 2001 tento trend len zvýraznili. Nie vždy sa však v týchto súvislostiach dostatočne analyzovali vzťahy medzi samotnými účastníkmi v rámci regiónu. Preto tento článok ponúka pohľad na niektoré vybrané problémy vzájomných vzťahov postsovietskych republík Strednej Ázie a Afganistanu. Súčasne má ambíciu bližšie poukázať na zložitosti presadenia regionálneho prístupu k riešení problémov v širšom priestore Strednej Ázie, ktorý bez postsovietskych republík a Afganistanu nie je možný.
H79|Faktory rozvoja a radikalizácie islamu v regióne Strednej Ázie|Stredoázijský región má za sebou viac ako po 20-tich rokoch od skončenia studenej vojny zaujímavý vývoj, ktorý ovplyvnil medzinárodné vzťahy vo viacerých smeroch. Jedným z fenoménov modernej doby je nepochybne politický islam a jeho extrémne prejavy. Krajiny nachádzajúce sa v širšom regióne Strednej Ázie sú krajiny, kde má moslimské náboženstvo hlboké tradície. Najmä päť postsovietskych krajín prešlo vo vzťahu k islamu zložitým historickým vývojom. Článok analyzuje faktory, ktoré mali relevantný vplyv na jeho politizáciu v regióne a na vybraných problémoch Islamského hnutia Uzbekistanu demonštruje prepojenie radikálneho islamu s ambíciami niektorých vonkajších hráčov moslimského sveta, ale aj svetovej politiky.
H79|European Administrative Cooperation in the Field of Taxation|The operation of different taxation systems in EU member states appears to promote more increasingly the appearance of double taxation entailing fraud and tax evasion. The phenomenon is amplified by the remaining control competences at the national level, and the lack of administrative cooperation in tax matters at EU level is being a decisive factor in delaying the causes with the consequence of prescription of the facts which brings serious damage enhanced EU budget. This study aims to examine the legal ways and means to ensure that the information, reports, statements and other documents mandatory to the administrative or judicial proceedings to be legal required from the counterparts existing in other members states invoked as evidence by their competent bodies.
H79|"L’opera di luca antonini, ""federalismo all’italiana"": ovvero del pensiero ellittico"|"The paper About the Work of Luca Antonini on ""Federalismo all’italiana"": or else about his Elliptical Thinking, by Federico Pica, has for object the wide and detailed reconstruction proposed by Luca Antonini on the vicissitudes of the ""fiscal federalism"", in Italy. Antonini is the chairman of the Joint Technical Commission for the Implementation of Fiscal Federalism, established by the Italian government, to exercise, among other things, the function of ""acquiring and processing cognitive elements for the elaboration of the contents of the legislative decrees"". He is the principal advisor of the Minister Calderoli, who tied to his name the Act which regulates today the Italian electoral system (so called ""porcellum"") and also the rules for applying the ""fiscal federalism"". The paper presented here is a systematic and radical criticism of the Antonini’s views and also of the implementing measures of the ""federalist"" reform."
H79|Water Governance in Latin America and the Caribbean: A Multi-Level Approach|The water debate in relation to poverty alleviation has one dimension that is often sidelined: its relationship with public governance. This report attempts to shed some light on the governance of water policy in Latin American and Caribbean (LAC) countries. It argues that public governance of water in most LAC countries is fragmented, as it is in the OECD area as well, and that greater efforts to co-ordinate water with other policy areas are crucial to maximise the impact on poverty reduction. It emphasises the need to design water policies in a more integrated manner and implement effective water governance tools and mechanisms that are context-specific, flexible and beneficial to the poor.
H79|The Question Marks of Public Audits – Regularities and Irregularities in Public Administration|The study analyses the concept of irregularity and its theoretical and legal manifestations. Irregularity in Hungarian law is in use in more than one sense; one of these is based on the regulations of the European Union. The EU’s regulation of irregularity and domestic legal practice contain numerous contradictions. The present article attempts to draw attention to the contradictions of Hungarian regulational and contractual practice.
H79|Theoretical Perspective of Local Government - Literature Review|“This research paper discusses the basic fundamentals of local government in theoretical perspective. The aim of this paper is to critically evaluate the conceptual framework of local government with its significance in the modern era. Various approaches of local government are discussed in the light of previous empirical researches. The paper also attempts to explore the role of good governance in the development of society’s infrastructure. In developing countries the role of LG (local government) is unlike in the developed countries but to great extent its essentiality is widely accepted by large number of researches and legal experts in order to build strong foundation therefore the role, approaches and its significance are undertaken in this paper to evaluate local government in depth. On the basis of identified notions, the framework to build strong governance is developed”.
H79|Da governo a governance: il possibile ruolo della partecipazione<BR>[From government to governance: the possible role of participation]|Il lavoro analizza il ruolo della governance nei processi decisionali inerenti la gestione delle risorse naturali e delle aree protette, per illustrare la dimensione chiave della partecipazione nell’ambito normativo ed attuativo della PA italiana ed individuare punti di debolezza e di forza nell’innesco di processi di scelta partecipata. Il lavoro fornisce indicazioni pratiche sulla gestione di questo tipo di processi sulla scorta di un caso studio. The paper does consider the governance role in the decision processes regarding the natural resource and protected area management. The aim is consider the governance key dimension “participation” in the normative and management context of the Italian Public Administration to point out the limits of its implementation. The paper gives some practical hints on participative process management based on a case study.
H79|Challenges in Implementing FP7 Projects in the Public Institutions|National Authority for Scientific Research (ANCS) and Executive Unit for Higher Education, Research and Development and Innovation Funding (UEFISCDI) participate to several projects funded under the Framework Programmes, since 1998. The staff from each the two organisations participating in projects are merely the same, typically from “international cooperation” departments. In each of the two organisations, dedicated teams were set and a distinct specialization emerged. In this respect, dedicated procedures and good practices in project management were developed. Even the Framework Programs had different structures and the focused was different (e.g. knowledge creation, EU problem solving, scientific support for policies and programs, etc.), the funding instruments (projects) were not radically different from a Framework Program to another, so the staff could gain experience in managing this type of projects. Experience and expertise gained during this long period of time led to definition of a general framework within the two institutions and setting up of a general guideline for participation to this type of projects. The main dimensions of this framework are: project team organization, project management process, managing results and risk, organisational framework, good practices, factors which ensure success in project implementation.The paper presents a specific framework for FP 7 project implementation and how this framework is applied by both organisations, a set of rules and procedures that should be followed by any organisation, in particular governmental ones, participating in FP 7 projects and a set of good practices developed by ANCS and UEFISCDI.
H79|An Overview and Analysis on Indices of Regional Competitiveness|Over the last years many policy-makers and analysts have put effort on measuring and comparing regional competitive performance. This goes back to the fact that the concept of competitiveness was taken over from the business field and applied on the national and regional level. And as competitiveness is a relative concept, it implies the need to compare with others such that regions are inexorably sucked into the continual monitoring and periodic benchmarking of what ?the competition¡® is doing and where the ?best practice¡® or ?best offer¡® lies. Therefore, efforts have increasingly focused on the development of composite indices which combine relevant indicators into one overarching measure, the results of which can be reported in the form of a ?league table¡®. Such indices and rankings attract widespread attention in the media and could be regarded as a potentially useful means of helping firms, policy-makers and institutions to assess the performance of their economies in comparable (i.e. numerical) terms, and to undertake appropriate remedial strategies. This paper gives an overview on some of the indices to be found in the world, analyzing them with respect to indicators included and predictive quality. We conclude with some reflections on the value and role of measures of regional competitiveness.
H79|Homeownership, dissatisfaction and voting|This article explores the relationships between homeownership, dissatisfaction with city services, and voting turnout in local elections, using original survey data. Homeowners are more likely than renters to vote, but the pure effect of ownership is not robust to either basic socio-economic controls or an instrumental variable strategy. However, dissatisfaction has a positive, significant and robust effect on likelihood of voting. When interacting homeownership and dissatisfaction, the author finds that dissatisfied homeowners are significantly more likely to vote than both satisfied homeowners and all renters. This finding is consistent with Fischel’s (2001) homevoter hypothesis.
H79|Fiskalna pravila i fiskalna transparentnost zemalja Europske Unije s osvrtom na Republiku Hrvatsku - poboljšavaju li fiskalna pravila u?inkovitost poreznog sustava|Globalna financijska kriza ukazala je na niz nedostataka u fiskalnim politikama europskih zemalja koje su ugrozile i ukupnu stabilnost zajednice, te su fiskalna konsolidacija i transparentnost prora?unskog procesa postali prvorazredna ekonomska, ali i politi?ka pitanja. Od 2011. godine (i) u Republici Hrvatskoj je Zakonom o fiskalnoj odgovornosti uvedeno fiskalno pravilo radi poboljšanja fiskalne discipline. Kao pristupnica Europskoj uniji, Hrvatska, tako?er, treba uvažiti kriterije iz Maastrichta u vezi dopuštenih razina javnog duga i prora?unskog deficita. S druge strane, pored discipliniranja fiskalne politike, nužno je i poboljšanje fiskalne transparentnosti kvalitetnim informiranjem javnosti o aktivnostima vlade, uklju?uju?i i podatke o poduzetim fiskalnim mjerama i njihovim (o?ekivanim) ishodima. Rad ima nekoliko ciljeva, a pitanje koje se analizira s više aspekata jest - poboljšava li uvo?enje fiskalnih pravila u?inkovitost poreznog sustava? Prvi je cilj rada analiza dosadašnje prakse korištenja fiskalnog pravila kao numeri?kog ograni?enja u europskim zemljama pa se s aspekta te analize daju projekcije za Hrvatsku. Slijedi analiza fiskalne konsolidacije na razini Europske unije te novih smjernica, pravila i ograni?enja koje taj proces pretpostavlja. Kona?no, pozornost je posve?ena fiskalnoj transparentnosti, kao i mogu?nostima njezinog poboljšanja u Hrvatskoj.
H79|The role of income in the formation of new cities|No abstract is available for this item.
H79|Mayors’ Reelection Choice and the Economy: Evidence from Portugal|Using a data set that covers all Portuguese mainland municipalities for the period 1979-2005, this study performs an empirical analysis of the economic determinants of Mayors' choice to run for another term. The literature on the subject is mainly centered on the United States and, as far as we know, no papers are found addressing the economic factors of this choice. Probit panel estimations show that local economic conditions matter more than the national or regional economic environment. The results also confirm that political variables are important and that they influence the likelihood of seeking reelection in the same way as they affect vote and popularity functions.
H79|Neural Networks, Ordered Probit Models and Multiple Discriminants. Evaluating Risk Rating Forecasts of Local Governments in Mexico|Credit risk ratings have become an important input in the process of improving transparency of public finances in local governments and also in the evaluation of credit quality of state and municipal governments in Mexico. Although rating agencies have recently been subjected to heavy criticism, credit ratings are indicators still widely used as a benchmark by analysts, regulators and banks monitoring financial performance of local governments in stable and volatile periods. In this work we compare and evaluate the performance of three forecasting methods frequently used in the literature estimating credit ratings: Artificial Neural Networks (ANN), Ordered Probit models (OP) and Multiple Discriminant Analysis (MDA). We have also compared the performance of the three methods with two models, the first one being an extended model of 34 financial predictors and a second model restricted to only six factors, accounting for more than 80% of the data variability. Although ANN provides better performance within the training sample, OP and MDA are better choices for classifications in the testing sample respectively.
H79|The National and International Effects;of Regional Policy Choices: Agglomeration Economies, Peripherality and Territorial Characteristics|This paper analyzes the effects of national regional policy choices on domestic and foreign regions to detect the different interests at play. The analysis starts from a new 2-country-4-region model with agglomeration economies, an immobile production factor and a mobile one, allowing the study of international capital and profit flows moreover, different assumptions on bilateral transport costs allow to obtain results in different spatial settings. It is shown that concurrent and often conflicting interests co-exist, especially when agglomeration economies are strong. The other key variables influencing the results are the characteristics and specificities of regions, which can be introduced in the model, and the existence of peripheral regions.
H79|The Relevance of Notions of Risk and Uncertainty in Investment Decision to Base at Local|Investing resources in the local public interest objectives locally involves taking risks caused by system operation and efficiency level established. Uncertainty and risk meet anywhere (even local government), combined in different proportions, so that the process has consciously assumed taking place in every field of activity, uncertainty can be eliminated.
H79|The Changes Brought By The Financial Crisis Upon The Interaction Between The European Union Budget And Small And Medium Sized Enterprises| Currently, Europe and the entire world is hit by the most serious financial crisis of the past 80 years aroused from the United States sub-mortgage market falling.The countries’ governments together with main financial institutions, are required to take an exceptional series of decisions, decisions which can minimize the possible devastating effects on the economy and citizens. In the European aria, the European Union budget is the most important tool that influences the amount of expenses and income related to the policy objectives of the Community and in this way each member state policy. For preventing the crisis grow the European Union is trying hard to expand it’s power in the decision process, and that’s way the Budget’s construction is starting to change. In this paper we try to find the main effects of that changes on the development of the small and medium sized enterprises. We would also show if the reverse connection is as true as the first one, meaning: Are the small and medium sized enterprises able to pull off faster the European economy from this crisis and so to have an influence on the make over of the European Union Budget?
H79|The Architectural Design Of The Cohesion Policy Within The Eu Budget| The cohesion policy of the European Union reflects the communitarian financial priorities. As all public policies of the EU, the cohesion policy is financed from the EU budget. Therefore, it has a major role in shaping the budget. The paper analyzes the interdependence between the cohesion policy and the EU budget, indicating the direct connection between the expenses made from the communitarian budget and the architectural design of the cohesion policy. The paper presents the parallel evolution of the European Union budget, on the one hand, and of the cohesion policy, on the other hand. At the same time, the changes brought about by the accession of new Member States are described and analyzed, as well as the multi-annual financial programming periods. The focus of the research and analysis will fall on the 2000-2006 and 2007-2013 financial frameworks. Finally, the paper will attempt to identify the possible changes predicted for the 2014-2020 period, brought about by the new challenges faced by the European Union, both in terms of budgetary construction and regarding the architecture, objectives and programs of the cohesion policy. Hence, the dynamism and mutual influence in the relationship between the cohesion policy and the EU budget will be once more demonstrated.
H79|Entry in tax competition: a note|No abstract is available for this item.
H79|El nuevo sistema de financiación autonómica. Una visión crítica. /The New Regional Financing System. A Critical Review|La reforma del sistema de financiación aprobada en julio del año 2009 es esencialmente diferente de las reformas de los sistemas de financiación anteriores. Por un lado, no ha venido exigida por el tradicional plazo de caducidad de los sistemas de financiación cada cinco años, sino por circunstancias esencialmente políticas. Por otro lado, se ha dicho que el nuevo sistema de financiación introduce cambios esenciales en la financiación autonómica. En este artículo se realiza un repaso de los principales elementos del nuevo sistema de financiación, a la vez que se ofrece una opinión crítica sobre las causas y resultados de la reforma. The 2009 reform of the financing system is fundamentally different from the previous reforms of the financing system. On the one hand, it has not been caused by the traditional five years caducity of the financing system, but based on political circumstances. On the other hand, it has being said that the new financing system introduces structural changes in the regional financing model. This article reviews the main elements of the new system of financing and gives a critical view on the causes and results of the reform.
H79|La cuantificación de la solidaridad en la financiación de las Comunidades Autónomas de régimen común en el período 2002-2007/An Assessment of the Solidarity in the Spanish Regional Financing System for the Period 2002-2007|En este artículo se ofrece una metodología dirigida a cuantificar el grado de solidaridad interterritorial a través de los recursos con los que cuentan las Comunidades Autónomas (CCAA) procedentes, en su mayor parte, del sistema de financiación autonómica. Esta metodología se fundamenta en la redistribución de los recursos tributarios analizada mediante la estimación de las aportaciones realizadas por los residentes en las CCAA para la financiación del gobierno central y una medida de la riqueza de esos residentes. Para la estimación se utiliza la técnica econométrica de panel de datos. A la luz de los resultados obtenidos en el análisis, se puede concluir que, las Comunidades Autónomas reciben recursos en función de sus necesidades de gasto, sin importar la renta relativa de sus habitantes, y que el sistema es solidario. This article offers a methodology to cuantify the degree of solidarity between territories through the Autonomous Communities resources, being most of them obtained from the regional financing system. This methodology is based on the redistribution of tax revenues analyzed by estimating the contributions made by residents in the CCAA to central government funding and a measure of the wealth of those residents. To estimate the econometric technique we used panel data. In the light of the results of the analysis, we can conclude that the Autonomous Communities receive resources according to their spending needs, regardless of the relative income of its residents and that the system is solidary.
H79|TERRORISM IN SOUTH ASIA (English version)|Mumbai attacks remain a mystery for long despite the capture of a ‘Lashkar-e- Taiba’ terrorist on the night of November 26, 2008. Pakistan takes 77 days to admit its citizen’s involvement, Mumbai police consumed 90 days to file the chargesheet and FBI takes a year to arrest a couple of conspirators. The plotters of the attacks belongs to five countries (US, Canada, Italy, Pakistan and India) involving three continents. Presently nearly a dozen courts across the world (India, Pakistan, US, Singapore, Italy, France and Japan) hearing the case. ‘LeT’ is now considered as the most dangerous terror group in recent time after al Qaeda. Unravelling the Mumbai conspiracy is challenging as with each passing day mysterious but fresh facts related to the attacks are trickling.
H79|"Euroregion’s ""mission"" and the success of the Lisbon strategy"|The article presents how Euroregions contribute to the execution of Lisbon Strategy’s objectives to ensure its positive outcomes. As „special” regions, Euroregion are the embodiment of entrepreneurship and they strive to be competitive. Because the Lisbon Strategy emphasised entrepreneurship-based competitiveness, especially the competitiveness of the SME sector, Euroregions, representing “natural entrepreneurship” and a basis for SME development, carried out their “mission” in line with the Lisbon Strategy.
H79|Managing the Risk of Natural Catastrophes: The Role and Functioning of State Insurance Programs|This paper surveys state-mandated programs designed to provide natural catastrophe insurance to property owners and businesses unable to find a policy in the private market. The paper provides an overview of the 10 state programs offering wind or earthquake coverage and outlines the motivation for establishing such programs. The implications of design and operation decisions, such as pricing strategies and contract options, are discussed, as well as how these programs interact with the private property insurance market. Finally, the paper examines whether such programs can handle a truly catastrophic loss year and the merits and drawbacks of federal support for the programs.
H79|La gestión financiera de las Haciendas Municipales en la Edad Moderna. El caso de los Bienes de Propios de Madrid|El estudio de la gestión de las finanzas Municipales permite profundizar en el conocimiento de la funcionalidad y eficiencia de las instituciones en la Edad Moderna. En este trabajo se analiza el caso del patrimonio municipal de Madrid, una parte fundamental de las haciendas locales. Su gestión se estructura en tres niveles: el nivel político, en el que la toma de decisiones y control sobre los propios corresponde al ayuntamiento (corregidor y regidores); la administración y tesorería, que recaía en el mayordomo y, por último, el control contable por parte de diversas contadurías. Este entramado institucional se estudia en una perspectiva de largo plazo, analizando los cambios e innovaciones experimentadas, especialmente con las reformas en el régimen municipal llevado a cabo en el s. XVIII.
H79|Prudent Intesting? The Credit Crisis of August 2007 Mainsail II Siv-Lite, and the State Cash Investment Pool|This paper reviews the period leading up to and including the credit disruption of August 2007 and then examines one failed structured finance issue and one investor in that issue. The investor was a financially conservative U.S. state treasury and the issue, Mainsail II, a little-known esoteric structure known as a SIV-Lite. The pairing of these two entities is part of the story of the financial crisis and tells us much about the excesses of the markets at that time and the lack of investment discipline. The paper explains the structure of a SIVLite as well as a collateralized debt obligation (CDO), a structured investment vehicle (SIV), and an asset-backed commercial paper conduit. It explores the role of the broker and rating agencies in the investment decision.
H79|The Tax Burden In Eu-27| The present papers presents the problem of tax burden at the level of European Union between 2001 and 2006. The first part presents various opinions regarding the tax burden. The second part focused on the analysis of overall tax burden evolution over the period 2001-2006. The third part is focused on the overall picture of tax burden during 2006 and makes an overview regarding the three pillars that support the European fiscal system.
H79|Les indicateurs d'inclusion sociale : où est la Wallonie aujourd'hui ?|We use the primary indicators of social inclusion proposed within the scope of the Open Method of Coordination (OMC) to situate Wallonia in the European Union (EU15) context. The results show that Wallonia stood in 2005 at the same level as Greece and was behind the EU15 level mainly regarding poverty and long-term unemployment rates. Groups at risk are single-parent families as well as unemployed and other inactive categories. Having at disposal these indicators for the years to come will be a must not only for the design but also for the evaluation of policies towards a better social cohesion. JEL Codes – H790, I300, I320.
H79|On the many Ways Europeanization Matters: The Implementation of the Water Reform in Italy (1994-2006)|The research agenda of Europeanization is currently highly focused on issued related to what accounts for the 'horizontal' interaction between domestic actors and how these actors make use of stimuli originating from the EU. This paper aims to contribute to this line of inquiry through the case study of the implementation of the 1994 water reform in Italy in the period between 1994 and 2006. The analysis shows the role played by the use of monetary incentives provided by EU funding sources, by changes in the institutional context partially originating from EU factors, and by the rulings of the European Court of Justice.
H79|The New Rural Paradigm And The Public Policies In France: Rural Excellence Poles|The new rural paradigm requires important changes in how policies are conceived and implemented to include a cross-cutting and multi-level governance approach. Designing rural development policy for different communities or territories requires the pooling of knowledge held by a wide variety of public and private actors. Traditional hierarchical administrative structures are likely to be inadequate to administer these policies effectively and adjustments are thus needed along three key governance dimensions: horizontally at both the central and the local levels and vertically across levels of government (OECD, 2006, p. 17). Two principles characterise the new rural paradigm: a focus on places instead of sectors and a focus on investments instead of subsidies. Thus, the main purpose of this paper is to analyse the experience of the French public policy for development of rural spaces and cities – The Rural Excellence Poles. Relative to these poles, we verify the lack of the literature. However, the theme is very interesting because it is conceived within the new rural paradigm and the recent preoccupations with the rural territories.
H79|Перспективы Реформирования Регионального Экономического Управления В Российской Федерации На Современном Этапе<BR>[Prospects for Reform of Regional Economic Governance in the Russian Federation at the Present Stage]|Article about the prospects of regional economic governance in Russia. The author analyzes the problems and contradictions arising in the implementation of government economic policy on the basis of the methodology of general systems theory and the theory of self-organization.
H79|Evaluación De Programas Para El Desarrollo De Zonas Indígenas. El Caso De Los Fondos Regionales En Zitácuaro (Michoacán)|El presente artículo busca explicar en qué medida los diversos proyectos productivos promovidos como estrategia de combate a la pobreza impactan en el desarrollo local. Se investiga el Programa Fondos regionales (PFr). Se desarrolla una propuesta metodológica para evaluar estos proyectos, y luego se aplica en la evaluación de los proyectos financiados por el Programa Fondos regionales en las comunidades indígenas del municipio de Zitácuaro. Se sostiene que el PFr no ha podido incorporar y organizar a las comunidades indígenas de Zitácuaro en cuanto al manejo y financiamiento de los proyectos productivos y no se han logrado los objetivos desarrollo.
H79|Russia's innovation reform - the current state of the special economic zones|Approximately 20 special economic zones (SEZs) have been founded in Russia. Four of them are innovation zones, two manufacturing zones, seven tourism zones, three port zones and two old zones of the 1990's, namely the Kaliningrad SEZ and the Magadan SEZ. Additionally, four gambling zones are to be opened by July 2009. The Russian SEZs currently produce more plans than results i.e. unrealistic plans characterise the contemporary Russian SEZs. Only the Kaliningrad SEZ and the Magadan SEZ can be classified as fully operational, and therefore, it is far too early to make any firm conclusion on the economic impact of these zones on the Russian economy. On the other hand, it is highly recommendable that a follow-up of the Russian SEZs will be carried out in 3-5 years from now, since the results of today do not necessarily describe the potential of tomorrow.
H79|A Generalized Goals-achievement Model in Data Envelopment Analysis: an Application to Efficiency Improvement in Local Government Finance in Japan| Abstract Data envelopment analysis (DEA) has become an established benchmark tool in efficiency strategies in both the public and the private sectors. The aim of this paper is to present and apply a newly developed, emerging from a blend of a Distance Friction Minimization (DFM) and a Goals Achievements (GA), model in DEA. The above-mentioned DFM-GA model is illustrated empirically by using a data set of efficiency indicators for cities in Hokkaido prefecture in Japan. In summary, this paper presents a practical policy instrument that may contribute to efficient decision making of both public and private actors. Modèle généralisé de réalisation des objectifs dans l'analyse par la méthode d'enveloppe: application dans l'augmentation du rendement dans les finances des administrations régionales au Japon RÉSUMÉ La méthode d'enveloppe [data envelopment analysis (DEA)] est un étalon bien établi pour les stratégies d'efficacité tant dans le secteur public que dans le secteur privé. L'objectif de la présente communication est de présenter et d'appliquer un modèle de méthode d'enveloppe nouveau et ajusté. Le modèle DFM-GA susmentionné est illustré de façon empirique au moyen d'un ensemble d'indicateurs d'efficacité pour des villes de la préfecture d'Hokkaido, au Japon. En résumé, la présente communication présente un instrument de politique pratique qui pourrait contribuer à des prises de décision efficaces par des acteurs tant publics que privés. Un modelo generalizado de logro de objetivos en el análisis envolvente de datos: aplicación a la mejora de la eficiencia en las finanzas de gobiernos locales de Japón RÉSUMÉN El análisis envolvente de datos (DEA) se ha convertido en una herramienta de referencia establecida en las estrategias de eficiencia, tanto en el sector público como privado. El objetivo de este trabajo es presentar y aplicar un modelo DEA ajustado y recién desarrollado. El modelo DFM-GA mencionado anteriormente se ilustra empíricamente utilizando un conjunto de datos de indicadores de eficiencia relacionados con ciudades de la prefectura de Hokkaido, Japón. En resumen, este trabajo presenta un instrumento práctico de política que puede contribuir a una toma de decisiones eficiente tanto de actores públicos como privados.
H79|The role of economic versus political factors in the incidence of intergovernmental transfers in Nigeria|"The main element of Nigeria's system of intergovernmental fiscal transfers – known as the ""Federal Allocations"" – is driven by a set of vertical and horizontal allocations formulae. The vertical sharing formula determines the share of national revenues that is passed on to state and local governments, and it typically receives the greatest political attention. However, the horizontal allocation formula is also of major importance, and determines the allocation of resources among Nigeria's 36 states. In this paper we use a unique data set on Federal Allocations to examine the distribution (or the ""incidence"") of transfers across the states. Our empirical analysis suggests that the current allocation formula fails to achieve its stated objectives of equalizing expenditure needs and stimulating fiscal effort. Instead, the current incidence of transfers does not channel more resources to states with greater expenditure needs, and does not stimulate fiscal effort. The formula in fact is pro-wealthy, and provides disproportionately greater transfers to less populous states."
H79|Political fragmentation and projected tax revenues: evidence from Flemish municipalities|The level of revenues pocketed by a government during the fiscal year often deviates from that projected by this government in its budget. Despite a flourishing literature on, for example, the technical or procedural determinants of such forecast errors, little is yet known about how political stratagems may affect forecast errors. In the present paper, we analyse whether differences in the level of government fragmentation are useful in explaining local government tax revenue forecast errors – controlling for various other factors. Using data on 242 Flemish municipalities for the period 1992-2002, we find that two-party governments are more optimistic than single-party governments. In contrast to our initial expectations, governments with at least three parties are significantly more careful (or less optimistic) in their revenue projections than single- or twoparty governments.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
H79|Do vertical tax externalities lead to tax rates being too high? A note|No abstract is available for this item.
H79|Regional policy from a supra-regional perspective|This paper introduces a new 2-country 4-region model in order to study the possible trade-offs arising between national efficiency and interregional equity, differentiating for different strengths of agglomeration economies and different regional productivities. In this static model the national policy maker can affect entrepreneurship through the set-up costs of firms. It is evidenced that, for countries composed of identical regions, spatially dispersed allocations of public productive expenditure are more efficient with low agglomeration economies whereas spatially concentrated allocations are more efficient with high agglomeration economies. As the regions become different, however, unbalanced allocations of public productive expenditure;towards the most advanced region become more efficient also in case of relatively weak agglomeration economies, until, for regions sufficiently different, the most efficient allocation of public productive expenditure is always to;concentrate it in the most advanced territories. For this reason, if some sort of lump-sum compensating mechanisms are available, short-sighted national policy makers, not taking into account long-run growth and factor mobility, can rationally decide to support the competitiveness of the already more-productive regions and transfer income to the lagging ones, a behaviour which is shown to have significant similarities with two real cases.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
H79|The role of urban indicators in city management: a proposal for Croatian cities|No abstract is available for this item.
H79|Explaining Public Attitudes on State Legislative Professionalism|Scholars have long argued that state legislative professionalism, or the provision of staff, legislator salary, and session length, has behavioral incentives for legislators and implications for legislative capacity. Scant attention, however, has been devoted to public attitudes on the provision of these legislative resources. Using survey data on preferences for features associated with a citizen legislature versus a professional legislature, we examine the contours of public attitudes on professionalism and test models on the factors associated with these attitudes. Results suggest partisanship, trust, and approval of the local delegation matter, but the factors differ by the legislative professionalism of the respondents state and for low versus high knowledge citizens.
H79|Staff growth in international organizations: A principal-agent problem? An empirical analysis|The analysis covers 27 international organizations in the years 1950- 2001. From the first to the last year, staff increased at a compound average rate of 3.2 percent per annum. Since the number of member states rose by only 2.5 percent, the elasticity of staff to member states is larger than one (1.28). As this may be due to an expansion of tasks, we estimate time-series regressions and panel-data regressions which contain output proxies or task dummies wherever possible. The pooled analysis of 817 observations reveals that (i) the elasticity of staff to membership is much larger than unity (1.36) if, and only if, the non- stationary component of staff size is not removed, (ii) United Nations organizations have significantly more staff, (iii) international organizations in the United States and Switzerland have significantly less staff, (iv) heterogeneity in terms of per capita income limits the size of an international organization and that (v) its staff is larger if its membership comprises many industrial or communist countries. In a reduced sample, the financing share of the largest contributor in combination with the party or programmatic orientation of its government has a significantly negative effect on staff because the size of the largest financing share determines the incentive to monitor. U.S. exit from an international organization reduces its staff significantly. Most of these results depend on the condition that the non-stationary component of staff size is not taken account of by time dummies or trends.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
H79|"From ""Clientelism"" to a ""Client-Centred Orientation""? The Challenge of Public Administration Reform in Russia"|The inefficiency, corruption and lack of accountability that afflict public administration in Russia impose substantial direct costs on both entrepreneurs and ordinary citizens. This paper examines the major weaknesses of Russia’s public administration and assesses the government’s recently revised programme of administrative reform. It lays particular stress on the relationship between public bureaucracies and the larger institutional environment within which they operate, as well as on the need for far greater transparency of public bodies and stronger non-judicial means of redress for citizens wishing to challenge bureaucratic decisions. Many of the problems of Russia’s public administration are aggravated by the fact that the Russian state often tries to do too much: the paper therefore explores the link between administrative reform and the scope of state ownership and regulation. Du « clientélisme » à une culture administrative orientée vers le « client »? Le défi de la réforme de l'administration publique en Russie Le manque d’efficacité, la corruption et la déresponsabilisation de l’administration publique en Russie imposent un lourd fardeau à la fois aux entreprises et aux particuliers. Cette étude examine les principales faiblesses de l’administration publique russe et évalue le programme gouvernemental de réforme administrative, récemment révisé. Un accent particulier est mis sur les liens entre l’administration publique et l’environnement institutionnel dans lequel elle opère ainsi que sur la nécessité d’une bien plus grande transparence des organes publics et de voies de recours extrajudiciaires renforcées pour les citoyens contestant une décision administrative. Beaucoup des problèmes de l’administration publique russe sont aggravés par le fait que, souvent, l’État russe est enclin à trop intervenir ; pour cette raison, l’étude analyse les interactions entre la réforme administrative d’une part et l’étendue de la propriété publique et de la réglementation d’autre part.
H79|La cooperación en materia de Tecnologías de la Información en el Binomio Argentina-Brasil|Inside the binomial constituted by Argentina and Brazil, within the framework of the Mercosur integration process, we essay to perform this research on the basis of the public policy approach, having as a premise the fact that, in these countries, public policies related to Science and Technologies have been designed and implemented without having in mind institutional and economic contexts, casting aside from democratic government and civil society agendas the importance of such kind of cooperation. The conceptual framework is supported in the idea that economic growth is associated to technological innovation, research and development. Then, it is undertaken that scientific and technological activities constitute a strategic tool in the development process of such countries.
H79|The economic rationale for integrated tariffs in local public transport|No abstract is available for this item.
H79|Principal-agent problems in international organizations|No abstract is available for this item.
H79|IMF quotas: Constructing an international organization using inferior building blocks|The International Monetary Fund’s structure and rules are based on the quota system that was constructed when the Fund was set up in 1946. Quotas affect contributions and resource availability at the Fund, access to resources, the distribution of Special Drawing Rights, and voting rights. Despite periodic reviews and modifications, the quota system has gradually been eroded and undermined. The fundamental problem is that a single system is attempting to serve four separate and incompatible functions. We illustrate how this erosion has taken place, and how an unreformed quota system will compromise the future operations of the IMF and the international monetary and financial system. Although the difficulties associated with reforming quotas are myriad and complex, the legacy of an unreformed quota system may be profoundly undesirable. We argue that a refined IMF structure must accommodate a clearer separation of a member’s contributions to the IMF, its access to IMF resources, and its voting rights at the institution.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
H79|Estimating the Impact of State Policies and Institutions with Mixed-Level Data|Researchers often seek to understand the effects of state policies or institutions on individualbehavior or other outcomes in sub-state-level observational units (e.g., election results in statelegislative districts). However, standard estimation methods applied to such models do notproperly account for the clustering of observations within states and may lead researchers tooverstate the statistical significance of state-level factors. We discuss the theory behind twoapproaches to dealing with clustering clustered standard errors and multilevel modeling. Wethen demonstrate the relevance of this topic by replicating a recent study of the effects of statepost-registration laws on voter turnout (Wolfinger, Highton, and Mullin 2005). While we viewclustered standard errors as a more straightforward, feasible approach, especially when workingwith large datasets or many cross-level interactions, our purpose in this Practical Researcherpiece is to draw attention to the issue of clustering in state and local politics research.
H79|It's Parties That Choose Electoral Systems (or, Duverger's Laws Upside Down)|This article presents, discusses and tests the hypothesis that it is the number of parties what can explain the choice of electoral systems, rather than the other way round. Already existing political parties tend to choose electoral systems that, rather than generate new party systems by themselves, will crystallize, consolidate or reinforce previously existing party configurations. A general model develops the argument and presents the concept of 'behavioral-institutional equilibrium' to account for the relation between electoral systems and party systems. The most comprehensive dataset and test of these notions to date, encompassing 219 elections in 87 countries since the 19th century, are presented. The analysis gives strong support to the hypotheses that political party configurations dominated by a few parties tend to establish majority rule electoral systems, while multiparty systems already existed before the introduction of proportional representation. It also offers the new theoretical proposition that strategic party choice of electoral systems leads to a general trend toward proportional representation over time.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
H79|Enchevêtrement des espaces de régulation et gouvernance territoriale. Les processus d'innovation institutionnelle dans la politique des Pays en France|The economic literature dealing with the relationship between different levels of public authorities, uses a design of the institutional innovation traditionally limited to the capacity of the agents to improve incomplete contracts in case of their failure. Thus, it pains to account for the complexity of the regulation processes associated with the public policies, and more precisely with the institutional change. In this contribution, starting from the approach of dynamic of proximities, we intend to treat the comprehension of these mechanisms of innovation within public action devices and explain their impact on the regulation of the territories. The paper starts by an analysis of the complexity of institutional innovation mechanisms. Then, trough the concept of institutional hybridization, we take into account the overlap of territories governed by differentiated institutional devices. This theoretical thought is finally applied to the regional planning policy of Countries in France, and more precisely to the Coteaux Country located in the Hautes-Pyr?n?es County. Classification JEL?: H79, 018, R58
H79|Efectos de espacio sobre costos de provisión local. Un modelo de ecualización por bloques para los municipios bolivianos|Bolivia went through a very important territorial transformation following the approval of the Popular Participation Law in 1994, which led to generalised municipal opening. The benefits of this reform were accompanied by a number of negative effects, such as those regarding the system of State transfers to municipalities. This article proposes a new model of transfers to municipalities that would complement the current “system of per capita fiscal endowments to municipalities” with a model of “inter-municipal fiscal equalization by blocks”.
H79|The Effects of Campaign Finance Laws on Turnout, 1950-2000|Scholars have proposed many routes by which campaign finance laws may impact turnout. For instance, laws restricting campaign spending may decrease mobilization, resulting in lower turnout. Alternatively, such laws might increase the competitiveness of elections, resulting in higher turnout. Existing studies tend to focus on only one causal pathway, ignoring the net effects of campaign finance reforms on voter turnout. We exploit the variation in state campaign finance laws from 1950 to 2000 in order to estimate the reduced-form relationships between reform and turnout. Using both aggregate and individual-level data, we find that campaign finance laws on net have little impact on turnout in gubernatorial elections. There are two exceptions to this finding: Limits on organizational contributions are shown in an individual level analysis to increase turnout prior to a sea change in campaign finance ushered in by the Buckley v. Valeo decision in 1976, while public financing laws are shown to have an equally large negative impact on turnout in the post-Buckley era. These results strengthens the existing literature, which finds similarly perverse effects of public financing on the quality of democracy, and demonstrates the advantages of reduced-form analysis for understanding the influence of laws on behavior.
H79|On the origins of electoral systems and political parties. The role of elections in multi-member districts|The old, understudied electoral system composed of multi-member districts, open ballot and plurality rule is presented as the most remote scene of the origin of both political parties and new electoral systems. A survey of the uses of this set of electoral rules in different parts of the world during remote and recent periods shows its wide spread. A model of voting by this electoral system demonstrates that, while it can produce varied and pluralistic representation, it also provides incentives to form factional or partisan candidacies. Famous negative reactions to the emergence of factions and political parties during the 18th and 19th centuries are reinterpreted in this context. Many electoral rules and procedures invented since the second half of the 19th century, including the Australian ballot, single-member districts, limited and cumulative ballots, and proportional representation rules, derived from the search to reduce the effects of the ‘originating’ multi-member district system in favor of a single party sweep. The general relations between political parties and electoral systems are restated to account for the foundational stage here discussed.
H79|Forms of Participatory Democracy: An Analytical Framework Based on the Experiences of Bolivia, Brazil and Colombia|Based on the experiences of Colombia, Brazil and Bolivia, the paper proposes a general analytical framework for participatory mechanisms. The analysis is oriented to detect the incentives in each system and the ethics and behavior sustaining them. It investigates about the sustainability of participatory democracy, in the face of tensions with representative democracy. The article presents a theoretical framework built from these experiences of institutional design and political practice, and confronts it against the theoretical conceptualizations of participatory democracy in Bobbio, Sartori, Elster and Nino, among others. In this context, different ways in wich those schemes can be inserted in the political systems become apparent, along with the variables that result from combinig elements of direct, representative and participatory democracy.********************************************************************************************************A partir de la experienca de Colombia, Brasil y Bolivia, el artículo propone un marco de análisis general de esquemas de democracia participativa. El análisis está orientado a detectar los incentivos presentes en cada uno de los sistemas y la ética y el comportamiento que sostiene estas instituciones. Investiga además su sostenibilidad al enfrentar tensiones en su interacción con la democracia representativa. El artículo presenta un marco teórico a partir de estas experiencias de diseño institucional y prácticas políticas, y su comparación con las conceptualizaciones teóricas de la democracia participativa de Bobbio, Sartori, Elster y Nino, entre otros. En este análisis se resaltan las diferentes maneras en que tales sistemas políticos son introducidos, así como las variables que resultan de la combinación entre democraica directa, participativa y representativa.
H79|Компаративна економска анализа Македонија vs. Белгија<BR>[Macedonia vs. Belgium (Comparative Economic Analysis)]|The main objective of this paper is through comparative analysis of two at first sight similar, but in practice completely different European countries (Macedonia and Belgium) to show how different approaches in solving economic issues can lead to different dynamics in economic development. The paper is divided in six general sections. The first is a brief historical overview of both countries. The second and third section show the foreign trade development and models of strengthening Belgium’s competitive advantage over the years. Third part is actualy meant to be a guideline for Macedonia of how to develop its competitive advantages and thus to became more competitive od European markets and worldwide. Fourth section analyses Belgium’s educational system, where its competitive advantage actually begins. The fifth chapter is reserved for agriculture – one of Macedonia’s most important but extensive economic sectors vis-à-vis Belgian highly developed and unique agri-complex. At the end, the paper analyses both countries’ trade policies and gives directions of how can Macedonia use Belgian experience in foreign trade in future. The methods of statistical data analysis, historical analysis, comparative analysis and deduction are widely used in this paper.
H79|Effects of norms, warm-glow and time use on household recycling|The aim of this paper is to quantify the relative importance of motivations based on warm-glow, social and moral norms and cost of time used recycling on household recycling efforts. We also test for crowding-out of intrinsic motivations when recycling is perceived as mandatory. We find that the most important variable increasing household recycling efforts is agreeing that recycling is a pleasant activity in itself, which may be interpreted as a warm-glow effect. The most important variable reducing household recycling is the opportunity cost of time spent recycling. We find no evidence of crowding-out of intrinsic motivation when recycling is perceived as mandatory. On the contrary, we find that governmental legislation increases household recycling efforts on most materials.
H79|Unequal Provision of Local Public Services under the Threat of Secession|This paper studies to what extent it is possible to discriminate between two municipality parts by unequal public service provision when there is a threat of secession. The objective of the local politicians is to maximize utility for only one part of a municipality. The discriminated part is small and politically marginalized, but has the option to secede. The power of the small part's population is in this way entirely exercised through the threat of secession. It becomes their guarantee against being taxed too heavily or against obtaining too little of public services. The case of three recent secession attempts in Göteborg, Sweden, is discussed in light of the model.
H79|Principal-Agent-Probleme in internationalen Organisationen|Der Aufsatz zeigt anhand zahlreicher Beispiele und quantitativer Analysen, dass internationale Organisationen – mehr als alle anderen staatlichen Institutionen – ein extremes Kontrolldefizit aufweisen. Umfragen belegen, dass sie andere Interessen als die Bürger haben. Sie können diese Interessen auch durchsetzen, weil die Informationskosten der Bürger hoch, ihre Kontrollanreize gering und ihre Ausweichmöglichkeiten eingeschränkt sind. Die Parlamente können ihrer Kontrollfunktion nicht gerecht werden, weil sie von den nationalen und internationalen Exekutivorganen entmachtet werden. Von den nationalen Regierungen werden die internationalen Organisationen nur sehr unvollkommen kontrolliert, weil sie Agenda-Setting Macht besitzen und weil die Kontrollkosten der zuständigen Minister und ihre Kontrollanreize zu gering sind. Die von den Regierungen eingesetzten Kontrollgremien (Exekutivdirektoren, Rechnungshöfe, internationale Gerichtshöfe) können diese Probleme nicht wesentlich entschärfen. Außerdem teilen sie häufig die Interessen der internationalen Bürokratie, die sie kontrollieren sollen. Der Mangel an demokratischer Kontrolle stärkt den Einfluss der Interessengruppen.
H79|La réforme comptable dans les communes flamandes: une étude empirique des comptes annuels|This paper presents an overview of the current Belgian accounting reform. This reform treats the transition from a cameralistic/cash accounting to a system that integrates both the cameralistic and the accrual accounting in Flemish municipalities. The focus is on actual empirical outcomes of implementation and disclosure based on a sample of annual accounts. An important issue is the lack of a conceptual disclosing framework, which leads to a number of problems and shortcomings in the disclosed annual accounts. The empirical examination reveals that certain important information items such as pension provisions are not disclosed nor commented and that the disclosure considering non-monetary assets is questionable.
H79|Le recours au financement désintermédié par une collectivité locale et l'évaluation de la prime de risque obligataire: le cas de la ville de Marseille|With the case study of the city of Marseille over the period 1997-2000, this article attempts to analyze the motivation of the city for issuing guaranteed municipal bond and to identify the determining factors of the risk premium. The case study shows the existence of the juridical risk that explains that the premium of guaranteed municipal bond may be higher than a AAA rated bond. The results show the impact of default risk indicators (indebtedness, current receipts structure and socio-economics variables) on the risk premium; bond characteristics (call provision, amortization) are also significant.
H79|Multiple-task common agency with one fully-informed principal: implications for public policy|This paper verifies the robustness of Dixit's claim that common agency problems in the public sector can be solved by restrictions on the incentive schemes that government agencies can develop for the subordinates of other departments. In our model, the outside principal (for instance, an environmental agency) offers side payments to the hierarchical superior of a public servant. As suggested by Dixit, the side payment is based only on the output that is of direct relevance for the outside principal (for instance, environmental quality). The hierarchical superior, however, can impose an enforceable effort allocation. We show that the outside principal will bribe the hierarchical superior to impose a zero effort level in the task that constitutes the core mission of his department, unless there exist both lower and upper limits to the transfers that can be made. Thus, without exogenous restrictions on side payments, common agency will lead to a collapse of the division of labor within government.
H79|Možný vliv èinnosti krajù na veøejné rozpoèty - Odhad zadlužení novì vzniklého stupnì samosprávy na základì francouzských dat a zkušeností|Kraje, nový stupeò územní samosprávy, vznikly v roce 2000, zøizovatelské pravomoci k jednotlivým organizacím však získávaly až v prùbìhu roku 2001. I když novela zákona o rozpoètovém urèení daní urèuje krajùm nìkteré daòové pøíjmy (podobnì jako u obcí jde o sdílení urèitého procenta celostátnì vybíraných daní), pøevážná èást krajských výdajù bude financována dotacemi ze státního rozpoètu. Èlánek se pokouší naznaèit možné riziko zadlužení krajù plynoucí z jejich zvýšené investièní aktivity a souèasnì z nedostateèné vlastní pøíjmové základny. V èlánku jsou rovnìž provedeny výpoèty tempa rùstu celkových krajských výdajù a jejich srovnání s vývojem dotací ze státního rozpoètu. Tempa rùstu jednotlivých velièin vycházejí z francouzských údajù za období 1986?1994, tedy období, které následovalo po vytvoøení regionù a pøevodu nìkterých pravomocí z centra.
H79|Le Elezioni Galiziane al Reichsrat di Vienna, 1907-1911|This paper is a case study in the electoral history of Austria-Hungary, with special reference to province of Galicia. The Introduction illustrates the problems associated with the collection of historical data in East-Central Europe. Chapter 1 examines the connections between the Habsburg historical and constitutioonal context and Galicia. Chapter 2 provides a general overview of the Galician context in the late Habsburg epoch. Chapter 3 discusses the historical evolution of the electoral system in the Dualist era. Chapter 4 examines the electoral returns in six electoral districts in Galicia. The Conclusions briefly illustrate the possible use of electoral data in the study of ethnic groups.
H79|Crisis de la deuda en las empresas municipales de Cali y perspectivas|Emcali es una Empresa Industrial y Comercial del Estado, la principal entidad descentralizada del municipio de Cali; actualmente, y desde abril de 2000, se encuentra intervenida por la Superintendencia de Servicios Públicos Domiciliarios, por lo cual debe resolver antes de abril del año 2002 los problemas financieros que amenazan la viabilidad en su actividad económica, consistente en la prestación de los servicios de acueducto, alcantarillado, energía y telecomunicaciones.
H79|The Determination of a Migration Wave Using Ethnicity and Community Ties|If people come to live in a country different from their nation state, due to border shifts, expulsion, or migration, they adopt some of the new country’s habits after some time. This paper investigates their (return) migration decision when they have been restricted to live in the foreign country for some time and suddenly become free to return to the country of their original nationality. In our model, the population is located in small communities on a Hotelling line. The two poles represent the two nationalities. Utility depends on distance to the pole and to the center of the community someone is living in. Looking at ethnic German migration in the 1990s, we compare basic features of the migration wave with assumptions of the model, compare actual and predicted migration waves and discuss the impact of immigration restrictions.
H79|Tax Competition And Tax Harmonisation In An Urban Context|It is a standard prediction in the literature on tax competition that mobility of factors between jurisdictions causes local governments to choose too low tax rates and to underprovide public goods. This paper shows circumstances when the prediction may be false. The prediction may be false when workers live in one jurisdiction and commute to work in another. We show that in an urban setting land developers will make inefficient choices of both tax rates and public expenditures. Whether these are too high or too low from a social point of view is ambiguous. The only unambiguous prediction is that the non-cooperative payroll tax is inefficiently low. In our framework, the locational inefficiency is twofold, both residents and workers are inefficiently allocated across communities in equilibrium. We also show that tax harmonisation and/or voluntary inter-community transfers are not effective in restoring efficiency.
H79|La descentralización en Colombia|In the 1990’s descentralization in Colombia, a process which had begun a decade earlier, was sharply accelerated. The percentage of current Central Government revenues that are automatically transferred to the regional governments quickly jumped from about 20% to over 40%. Many analysts attribute the sharp fiscal deterioration experienced in the country to this decision. Regional governments, indeed, accumulated substantial amounts of debt and currently face serious financial difficulties. This paper is policy oriented. After a discussion of the central issues associated with descentralization in general, we turn to the specific case of Colombia. Our analysis highlights three aspects: (a) the rules that govern how a particular region’s transfers are defined. (b) the rules that govern how these resources must be spent and (c) the rules governing a regional government’s ability to issue debt. Rules governing how a region receives transfers from the central government have several problems. Firstly, they are not linked to any explicit and simple consideration of its contribution to total central government revenues, they lack simple redistributive criteria (from richer to poorer regions) and they do not sufficiently reward regional fiscal performance. Our proposals seek to correct these three deficiencies.
H79|A Principal-Agent Building Block for the Study of Decentralization and Integration|The architecture of public decision making in the world is being changed through processes of “economic integration” and of “decentralization”. Some policy decisions are now taken at a higher level (i.e., monetary policy in Europe, trade policy in part of South America), while others are taken by smaller political units “closer to the people” (i.e., health and education policies in many Latin American countries). We provide a building block for the study of such processes, emphasizing the trade-o¤ between the advantages of centralized decision making (internalization of externalities) and those of decentralized decision making (increased principal-agent control by the citizens). We do so within the context of a class of principal-agent models known as common agency.
H79|Minority representation and policy choices: the significance of legislator identity|Disadvantaged groups tend also to constitute population minorities. One consequence of this is that the policies implemented by electorally accountable governments often fail to reflect minority interests. A policy solution is to enhance the political power of minority groups as a vehicle for promoting their policy interests. This paper analyzes the success of an electoral law, which does so by reserving seats for minority groups in legislatures, in promoting minority interests. The paper develops a theoretical model of the political process to analyze the policy impact of such a law. The key theoretical assumption, that candidates cannot commit to policies, implies that identity is relevant to policy choices. The analysis identifies economic reasons why this may lead parties to never field minority candidates. In such cases the model predicts that an electoral law of political reservation will influence policies. The paper takes advantage of the existence of such a law in India to test this prediction empirically. The principal finding is that minority representation has increased transfers to minorities. This suggests that political representation is central to the design of strategies that aim at promoting minority interests. More generally, the results indicate that legislator identity influences policies, and provide some support for the contention that politicians cannot fully commit to policies.
H79|How Germany shouldered the fiscal burden of the unification|In the process of the German unification and especially after the formal unification in October 1990, Eastern Germany was supported by West Germany by a lot of measures. The main purposes were to improve the infrastructure, to stimulate private investment and to alleviate the adjustment process for the population by transfers to private households. The paper describes the measures in some detail. Many of these were decided upon in an ad hoc manner, in some cases experience (partly from the period of reconstruction in West Germany after World War II) was available. The methods of financing are described, too. Emphasis is laid on the policy in the field of social insurance. Finally, it is tried to draw some conclusions which might be helpful in case of a unification of South and North Korea.
H79|National Competition Policy and its Implications for Local Government|The objective is to analyse the effects of the Hilmer reforms and National Competition Policy (NCP) on Local Government Authorities (LGA's) and the State Local Government Grants Commissions (LGGC's) operations. The analysis is based upon a particular definition of microeconomic reform with an emphasis on those aspects which concern Local Government. Hilmer's place on the microeconomic reform agenda is described and the five basic principles of the NCP are outlined.
H79|Registering in Harmony: The Case for Pan-Canadian Corporate Registration|Canadian businesses face costly red tape when they want to do business across provincial borders; a problem that is hindering business expansion and economic growth, according to a report released today by the C.D. Howe Institute. In “Registering in Harmony: The Case for Pan-Canadian Corporate Registration,” authors Daniel Schwanen and Omar Chatur note that while harmonization of corporate registries is proceeding apace around the world, in Canada, incorporated companies are required in most cases to register separately in every province where they want to conduct business.
H79|Strategic Use of Debt in Flemish Municipalities|This paper discusses the literature on strategic use of debt models and tests the seminal models of Persson & Svensson (1989) and Alesina & Tabellini (1990) on a dataset of Flemish municipalities. The literature on strategic deficit and debt behaviour originates from the question whether or not incumbent policymakers run higher budget deficits than they would if they were confident of re-election. In this paper, we introduce a vote function to estimate the probability of electoral defeat and present evidence of strategic debt in line with Persson & Svensson (1989), but only for leftist governments with expected vote percentages below 49%. There is no indication that rightist governments without re-election prospects are sensitive to strategic debt behaviour.
