H80|A Heavy Hand or a Helping Hand? Information Provision and Citizen Preferences for Anti-Crime Policies|Welfarist justifications of democracy presume that citizens have policy preferences that are responsive to pertinent information. Is this accurate? This paper addresses that question by providing a model and empirical test of how citizens’ policy preferences respond to information in the arena of anti-crime policy. The paper’s model shows that preferences for anti-crime policy hinge on expectations about the crime rate: in high crime regimes punitive policies are preferred, whereas in low crime regimes social policies are. To evaluate the model, the authors employ an information experiment embedded in the 2017 LAPOP survey conducted in Panama. The evidence is partially consistent with the paper’s theory. As expected, a high crime message induced stronger preferences in favor of punitive policies. Unanticipated by the paper’s theory, though, is the finding that a low crime message did not induce stronger preferences in favor of social policies. These findings raise the possibility that political communication about crime may have an inherent punitive policy bias.
H80|Does the Internet cause polarization? -Panel survey in Japan-|There is concern that the Internet causes ideological polarization through selective exposure and the echo chamber effect. This paper examines the effect of social media on polarization by applying a difference-in-difference approach to panel data of 50 thousand respondents in Japan. Japan is good case for this research because other factors affecting polarization like huge wealth gap and massive immigration are not serious issue, thus it offers quasi natural experimental situation to test the effect of the Internet. The results show that people who started using social media during the research period (targets) were no more polarized than people who did not (controls). There was a tendency for younger and politically moderate people to be less polarized. The only case in which the Internet increased polarization was for already radical people who started using Twitter. However, since radical people represent only 20% of the population and there was no effect for Facebook or blogs, the overall effect of the Internet was moderation, not polarization.
H80|The Welfare Cost of Business Cycles at the States’ Levels|ucas (1987, 2003) calculates the potential welfare gains to stabilization of business cycles to be surprisingly small. Welfare gain is measured by a compensation parameter which makes a household indifferent between a deterministic lifetime stream and a compensated, risky lifetime stream of consumption. Using a constant relative risk aversion utility function and a coefficient of risk aversion of one, Lucas calculates that the welfare gain in real per capita consumption is in the order of one-twentieth of 1 percent. This is equivalent to an increase of about $18.33 in real per capita consumption per year for 1947 – 2001, stated in 2016 dollars. The main focus of this paper is to examine the welfare cost of business cycles for the 50 states using the same preference function as Lucas (1987, 2003). To our knowledge, this is the first paper that examines the welfare cost of business cycles at the state level. Our results support the findings of Lucas (1987, 2003) and Otrok (2001) that further welfare gain from stabilization of business cycles are very small, ranging from one-eighth of 1 percent for Wyoming to one-forty-fifth of 1 percent for Iowa. Further results from additional analysis also suggest that welfare cost of business cycles varies considerably across regions of the country.
H80|The Origins of Common Identity: Division, Homogenization Policies and Identity Formation in Alsace-Lorraine|We exploit the fact that disagreements in the German leadership after the Franco-Prussian War in 1870 led to a quasi-exogenous division of Alsace and Lorraine to provide rare evidence of group identity formation within historically homogeneous regions. In line with the rejection-identification hypothesis, people in the treated area which experienced a change in nation-status and were exposed to repressive homogenization policies express a stronger regional identity and support more regional autonomy today. On average, subjects with a stronger regional also express a stronger European identity, which we exploit in a regression discontinuity design at the municipal level to reveal whether these identity differences are causal. We find that support for the European Union is significantly stronger in two crucial referenda, a result that is robust across different specifications and bandwidths, and not driven by language differences, large agglomerations or distance to foreign countries. The effect seems to be the strongest for the first two age cohorts after World War II and diminishes for later generations.
H80|Top income shares in OECD countries: The role of government ideology and globalisation|This paper investigates how government ideology and globalisation are associated with top income shares in 17 OECD countries over the period 1970 to 2014. We use top income shares of the World Wealth and Income Database (WID). Globalisation is measured by the KOF index of globalisation. Static and dynamic panel model results show that the top income shares increased more under right wing governments than under left wing governments. The ideology‐induced effect was stronger when globalisation proceeded more rapidly. Globalisation was positively correlated with income shares of the upper‐middle class (P99–P90), but negatively with income shares of the rich (top 1%) in the overall sample. We show that the relationship differs between Anglo‐Saxon countries and other OECD countries. Globalisation was more pro‐rich in Anglo‐Saxon countries than in other OECD countries. Government ideology does not turn out to have a statistically significant effect on top income shares in Anglo‐Saxon countries after the 1980s, whereas ideology‐induced differences in the distributional outcomes continued in other OECD countries.
H80|Could/Should Jubilee Debt Cancellations be Reintroduced Today?|In this paper we recall the history of Jubilee debt cancellations, emphasizing what their social purpose was at that time. We note that it would not be possible to copy that procedure exactly nowadays, primarily because most debt/credit relationships are intermediated via financial institutions, such as banks, insurance companies, etc., rather than by governments or wealthy families directly. But we argue that the underlying social purpose of such Jubilees- to keep debt within the reasonable ability to be paid without social and economic polarisation - could be recreated via alternative mechanisms, and we discuss the politico-economic arguments for, and against, doing so
H80|Does Job Security Hamper Employment Prospects?|We investigate the effect of employment protection legislation (EPL) on the propensity to hire workers from unemployment and active labor market programs (ALMPs), utilizing a reform that decreased dismissal costs for small firms only. Using administrative data from Sweden, we find that less stringent EPL increased the share of workers hired from unemployment and some ALMPs. Our results suggest that there was less screening of new hires after the reform, and that liberalization of EPL mitigates the stigma associated with unemployment and participation in ALMPs.
H80|Could/should Jubilee debt cancellations be reintroduced today?|In this paper the authors recall the history of Jubilee debt cancellations, emphasizing what their social purpose was at that time. They note that it would not be possible to copy that procedure exactly nowadays, primarily because most debt/credit relationships are intermediated via financial institutions, such as banks, insurance companies, etc., rather than by governments or wealthy families directly. But the authors argue that the underlying social purpose of such Jubilees - to keep debt within the reasonable ability to be paid without social and economic polarisation - could be recreated via alternative mechanisms, and they discuss the politico-economic arguments for, and against, doing so.
H80|Governance and economic growth in Asia|The study utilizes a frequency domain approach to investigate whether a Granger causality running from governance to economic growth exists in twelve Asian countries, classified as “Free”, “Partly Free”, and “Not Free” countries, over the period of 1996–2014. The empirical results show that with the exception of South Korea, “Free” countries exhibited no significant causality running from most dimensions of governance to economic growth. For “Partly Free” countries, with the exception of Indonesia and Thailand, rule of law Granger causes economic growth. As for “Not Free” countries, there exists a significant causality running from most dimensions of governance, especially for government effectiveness and rule of law, to economic growth. Generally speaking, various dimensions of governance lead to more significant economic growth in “Not Free” countries when compared to “Free” and “Partly Free” countries. The findings of this study indicate that policy makers in “Not Free” countries should opt to pay more attention on the quality of governance, specifically around government effectiveness and rule of law, in order to promote the future growth rate of real GDP per capita.
H80|The anatomy of distributional preferences with group identity|The increasing diversity of societies raises questions about the consequences for redistributive preferences. This paper assesses the impact of social identity on distributional preferences in a modified dictator game. I estimate individual-level utility functions with two parameters that govern the trade-offs between equity and efficiency and giving to self and to other. Subjects on average put less weight on income of the out-group. The out-group treatment also changes the distribution of equity-efficiency concerns. However, the experiment also uncovers a large individual heterogeneity of preferences. An analysis of GARP violations reveals that choices in both treatments overwhelmingly stem from well-behaved, yet systematically different underlying utility functions. Hence, the evidence presented here suggests that the rational choice approach is a useful tool for understanding the effect of social identity on preferences.
H80|Portugal: a Paradox in Productivity|Portugal is experiencing a larger slowdown of productivity growth than the one occurring in advanced economies. This paper aims to help understanding why convergence in productivity levels is not happening by considering its main determinants. It presents a set of different reasons for this slowdown and divergence with developed economies since the mid-1990s that are associated with an increasing misallocation of capital, labour and skills both at a sectorial and firm level.
H80|Aging, social security design, and capital accumulation|This paper analyzes the impact of demographic aging on capital accumulation and welfare in economies with unfunded pensions. By using a two-period overlapping generations model with potentially endogenous retirement decisions, it shows that both the type of aging, i.e. declining fertility or increasing longevity, and the type of pension system, i.e. defined contributions or defined benefits, are important in understanding this impact. Results show that when aging is driven by an increasing longevity, unregulated retirement age systems lead to greater improvements in welfare. In contrast, with a decreasing fertility, mandatory retirement systems with defined contributions fare better.
H80|Wealth and Politics: Studies on Inter Vivos Transfers and Partisan Effects|Die Dissertation behandelt in sechs eigenständigen Studien Themen zu Vermögensübertragungen zwischen Generationen sowie zum Einfluss von ideologischer Orientierung und Wahlen auf Einkommensungleichheit, Haushaltskonsolidierung, Finanzplanung und Politikberatung. Die erste Studie untersucht die Einflussgrößen von Schenkungen von Betriebsvermögen. Die Ergebnisse zeigen, dass bei größeren Unternehmen und bei Unternehmen mit guter Geschäftslage die Schenkungswahrscheinlichkeit stieg. Auch durch die im Zuge der Erbschaftsteuerreform 2009 eingeführten Verschonungsabschläge für Betriebsvermögen ist die Schenkungswahrscheinlichkeit gestiegen. Die zweite Studie geht allgemeiner der Frage nach, wie die Steuerreform 2009 das Schenkungsverhalten der Deutschen beeinflusst hat. Im Ergebnis zeigt sich keine signifikante Steigerung der Wahrscheinlichkeit von Schenkungen innerhalb der Kernfamilie, wohingegen die Wahrscheinlichkeit von Schenkungen an andere nahe Verwandte und nicht verwandte Personen um ca. 30 Prozent gestiegen ist. Die dritte Studie behandelt das Zusammenspiel von Regierungsideologie, Globalisierung und dem Einkommensanteil der obersten Perzentile der Einkommensverteilung in OECD-Ländern. Die vierte Studie zeigt auf, dass Worte und Taten deutscher Landespolitiker und -regierungen in Bezug auf Haushaltskonsolidierung und Schuldenbremsen voneinander abgewichen haben. Die fünfte Studie beschreibt, wie deutsche Landesregierungen ihre mehrjährige Finanzplanung im Vorfeld von Wahlen strategisch gestaltet haben. In ostdeutschen Bundesländern wurde die Staatsquote in Vorwahljahren systematisch unterschätzt. Die sechste Studie untersucht, inwiefern unterschiedliche ideologische Orientierungen der deutschen Wirtschaftsforschungsinstitute die Politikberatung in der Gemeinschaftsdiagnose beeinflusst haben.
H80|Mögliche Auswirkungen der Transatlantischen Handels- und Investitionspartnerschaft (TTIP) auf Entwicklungs- und Schwellenländer|TTIP wird, aufgrund der schieren Größe der transatlantischen Volkswirtschaft, Auswirkungen auf Entwicklungs- und Schwellenländer haben. Einerseits sollten höhere Einkommen in der EU und den USA die Nachfrage nach Gütern und Dienstleistungen der Drittstaaten steigern, was letzteren zu Guten kommt. Anderseits ist damit zu rechnen, dass das Abkommen Handelsströme der TTIP Partner von den Drittstaaten weglenkt, was ihnen schadet. Per Saldo wird es unter den Entwicklungsländern Gewinner, aber auch Verlierer geben. Für beide Gruppen sind die Effekte allerdings klein. Und es existieren zahlreiche Stellschrauben, um die Gruppe der Gewinner möglichst groß werden zu lassen. In dieser Studie untersucht das ifo Institut München gemeinsam mit dem IAW Tübingen, wie Gefahren für Entwicklungsländer minimiert und Chancen maximiert werden können, so dass das Abkommens zum Keim eines neuen und fairen Welthandelssystems werden kann.
H80|Economic and political determinants of exchange rate regimes: The case of Latin America|This study examines the determinants of exchange rate regime choice between 1985 and 2010 for 20 Latin American countries. The study uses an ordered panel probit that takes into account economic, political and institutional factors. Results indicate that fixed exchange rate regimes in Latin America are associated with small and open economies with respect to trade and financial flows. The larger the tradable sectors are, the less likely it is that a government will peg its currency. Furthermore, the quality of political institutions, political strength and credibility have an influence on how exchange rate regimes are set. Democratic institutions and politically stable contexts are associated with flexible exchange rate regimes, while long tenured governments with more years left in the current term tend to peg their currency. These results seem to support the idea that governments are more concerned about their sustainability than using the exchange rate regime as a commitment device. Finally, results are robust to various specifications and methodologies.
H80|Economic and political determinants of exchange rate regimes: The case of Latin America|This study examines the determinants of exchange rate regime choice between 1985 and 2010 for 20 Latin American countries. The study uses an ordered panel probit that takes into account economic, political and institutional factors. Results indicate that fixed exchange rate regimes in Latin America are associated with small and open economies with respect to trade and financial flows. The larger the tradable sectors are, the less likely it is that a government will peg its currency. Furthermore, the quality of political institutions, political strength and credibility have an influence on how exchange rate regimes are set. Democratic institutions and politically stable contexts are associated with flexible exchange rate regimes, while long tenured governments with more years left in the current term tend to peg their currency. These results seem to support the idea that governments are more concerned about their sustainability than using the exchange rate regime as a commitment device. Finally, results are robust to various specifications and methodologies.
H80|Are Constitutional States Able to Drive the Global Technological Change?|The present paper aims at assessing the possible efficiency of the principle of national contributions, assumed in the 2015 Paris Framework Convention on Climate Change. Strong historical evidence indicates that any significant development of constitutional states used to take place, in the past, on the rising tide of demographic growth. Presently, we are facing global demographic slowdown, and contesters argue that constitutional states are not the right address to write to if we want breakthrough technological change. This paper assumes that the capacity of constitutional states to carry out the obligations declared in the Framework Convention, i.e. to carry out deep technological changes in the global economy, depends on their economic power, which can be estimated as their capacity to appropriate capital. Empirical data, examined in this article, indicates that since the 1980s, constitutional states have been losing their economic power, and that the overall technological progress is more and more disconnected from that economic power of governments. Moreover, constitutional states seem to be losing their capacity to experiment with their own institutions.
H80|An Economic Theory of 'Destabilization War' '- Compromise for Peace versus Conventional, Guerilla, or Terrorist Warfare|"How can a small group of insurgents believe they can overcome the government by turning violent, even if the government is strongly superior? When does a conflict develop towards a peaceful conflict resolution, terrorism, a guerilla war, or a widely spread conventional civil war? We develop a formal model for rebels and government and derive optimal choices. Further, we focus on three elements as important ingredients of a ""destabilization war"". All three of these - large random events, time preference (which we relate to ideology), and choice of duration of fight - are rarely considered in formal conflict theory. We can answer the above two questions with game theory analysis. First, insurgents rise up because they believe in the effect of destabilization through permanent challenging attacks. Large randomness is an important ally of rebels. While each single attack may have low impact, maybe at some time a large random event could lead to success. Hence, duration of activities is a constitutive element of this kind of violent conflict. Patience (low time preference), which may reflect the degree of ideological motivation of rebels, is crucial. Second, the mode of warfare or conflict resolutions that develops is generally path-dependent and conditioned on the full set of options (including compromise). Various conditions (level of funding, ease of recruitment, access to weapons) favor in a complex way different modes of warfare or a peaceful compromise. Unlike in a ""one battle war"" with no time dimension, in a ""continuing violent conflict"" economic instruments become very powerful in terms of guiding conflict resolution in a certain direction."
H80|Institutional distance and foreign direct investment|This paper studies the link between foreign direct investment (FDI) and institutional distance. Using a heterogeneous firms framework, we develop a theoretical model to explain how institutional distance influences FDI, and it is shown that institutional distance reduces both the likelihood that a firm will invest in a foreign country and the volume of investment it will undertake. We test our model using inward and outward FDI data on OECD countries. The empirical results confirm the theory and indicate that FDI activity declines with institutional distance. In addition, we find that firms from developed economies adapt more easily to institutional distance than firms from developing economies. Copyright Kiel Institute 2015
H80|Budgetary Dilemmas Related to Climate Change|ABSTRACT The global warming –either it is true or false hypothesis– has been built into the policy making both in national and international level. Public finances are recommended to be involved into the funding of mitigation and adaptation. The purpose of the paper is to gather the challenges and dilemmas implied by the climate change on fiscal spending and revenues, responsibilities and opportunities, balance and debt.******El calentamiento global, bien se trate de una hipótesis verdadera o falsa, ha sido incorporado en la elaboración de políticas tanto en el ámbito nacional como internacional. Se recomienda que las finanzas públicas participen en la financiación de la mitigación y la adaptación. La investigación explica los retos y dilemas que implica el cambio climático sobre el gasto fiscal y los ingresos, las responsabilidades y las oportunidades, el equilibrio y la deuda.
H80|Regional Crime Rates and Fear of Crime: WISIND Findings|"Many people are afraid of falling prey to crime. The present report investigates the extent to which this fear is in line with the actual regional crime rates. This analysis is based on data from a comprehensive database on the fear of crime, combined with police crime statistics (specifically, adjusted crime statistics which factor in the ""dark figure"" of unreported crime). No evidence was found to support the (occasionally voiced) contention that the fear of falling prey to crime is irrational in many cases and not representative of the actual level of safety within a given region. In fact, our data shows a clear statistical correlation between regional crime rates and the fear of crime, both of which are more pronounced in the north of Germany than in the south, for instance. The inclusion of cybercrime in crime statistics, however, has meant that the former, higher crime rates and greater fear of crime often recordedin urban areas as opposed to rural regions are no longer as pronounced."
H80|Gefährliche Nachbarschaft? Welches Bild von Kriminalität die deutsche lokale und regionale Tagespresse zeichnet: Ergebnisse einer standardisierten Inhaltsanalyse|Generally, crime cannot be perceived directly, but rather only indirectly through media coverage. In terms of the perceived threat, local and regional newspapers are of particular importance. Therefore, the focus of the present article is on how local and regional German newspapers report crime. To answer this question, a standardisedcontent analysis of 31 newspapers was conducted. The findings show that newspa- per articles about crime take up a small, yet clearly perceivable space relative to the total space allotted to local and regional coverage. Moreover, it is noteworthy that serious criminal offenses, such as acts of violence and homicides, are clearly overrepresented in comparison to the official statistics. Newspapers with urban and rural distribution areas diverge significantly when it comes to the frequency of coverage about specific offences. The findings of the study are discussed at the end of the paper. Kriminalität kann in der Regel nicht unmittelbar wahrgenommen werden, sondern nur mittelbar über die Medienberichterstattung. Im Hinblick auf die wahrgenommene Bedrohungslage kommt insbesondere den lokalen und regionalen Abonnementzeitungen eine hohe Bedeutung zu. Im Mittelpunkt des Beitrags steht deshalb die Frage,wie die deutsche lokale und regionale Tagespresse über Kriminalität berichtet. Um diese Frage zu beantworten, wurde eine standardisierte Inhaltsanalyse von 31 Abonnementzeitungen durchgeführt. Die Befunde zeigen, dass Artikel mit Kriminalitätsbezug im Vergleich zur gesamten Lokal- und Regionalberichterstattung zwar nur einen eher geringen, dennoch aber deutlich wahrnehmbaren Raum einnehmen. Bemerkenswert ist zudem, dass schwere Straftaten wie Rohheitsdelikte oder Straftatengegen das Leben im Vergleich zur offiziellen Statistik deutlich überrepräsentiert sind. Bezogen auf die Häufigkeit der Behandlung spezifischer Deliktsbereiche sind zum Teil merkliche Unterschiede zwischen den Zeitungsausgaben mit städtischem und ländlichem Verbreitungsgebiet erkennbar. Die Befunde werden abschließend diskutiert und eingeordnet.
H80|Regionale Kriminalitätsbelastung und Kriminalitätsfurcht: Befunde der WISIND-Studie|"Many people are afraid of falling prey to crime. The present report investigates the extent to which this fear is in line with the actual regional crime rates. This analysis is based on data from a comprehensive database on the fear of crime, combined with police crime statistics (specifically, adjusted crime statistics which factor in the ""dark figure"" of unreported crime). No evidence was found to support the (occasionally voiced) contention that the fear of falling prey to crime is irrational in many cases and not representative of the actual level of safety within a given region. In fact, our data shows a clear statistical correlation between regional crime rates and the fear of crime, both of which are more pronounced in the north of Germany than in the south, for instance. The inclusion of cybercrime in crime statistics, however, has meant that the former, higher crime rates and greater fear of crime often recordedin urban areas as opposed to rural regions are no longer as pronounced. Viele Bürger fürchten Opfer einer Straftat zu werden. Der Frage, inwieweit diese Furcht sich mit der regionalen Kriminalitätsbelastung deckt, versucht dieser Beitrag nachzugehen. Die Untersuchung basiert auf einer umfangreichen Datengrundlage zu Kriminalitätsfurcht und verbindet diese mit polizeilichen Daten zur Kriminalitätsbelastung (genauer: die um ihr Dunkelfeld korrigierte polizeiliche Kriminalstatistik). Die gelegentlich geäußerte Vermutung, die Furcht der Opferwerdung sei vielfach irrational und decke sich nicht mit der faktischen Sicherheit in einer Region lässt sich nicht bestätigen: In den Daten zeigt sich ein deutlicher statistischer Zusammenhang zwischen regionaler Kriminalitätsbelastung und Kriminalitätsfurcht. Beispielsweise sind beide im Norden Deutschlands höher als im Süden. Durch die Berücksichtigung von Delikten aus dem Bereich der Cyberkriminalität verschwindet jedoch tendenziell die früher oftmals dokumentierte höhere Kriminalitätsbelastung in städtischen gegenüber ländlichen Regionen."
H80|Lokale Kriminalitätsberichterstattung: Abbild oder Zerrspiegel von Kriminalität?|The present report analyzes crime reporting in newspapers and compares this to actual crime rates and fear of crime. One key finding is that crime-related issues play a comparativelyminor role in local editions of regional subscription newspapers. While this does not apply to the number of articles, it certainly does apply to the areas covered in these articles. It is often alleged that crime in the media is ubiquitous but this can only be confirmed to a limited degree in local reporting. A comparison of crime reporting with police crime statistics and the WISIND indicator on the fear of crime also shows a significant discrepancy, both geographically and in terms of specific offenses. First, there is clearly a disproportionately high focus in the print media on violent and sex offenses and, second, there is below-average reporting of more minor offenses. Consequently, cybercrime is relatively insignificant in the local media landscape even though it affects a broad cross-section of the population. The focus of crime reporting varies from one region to another and contradicts the official crime figures and fear of crime to some extent. Der vorliegende Bericht analysiert die Kriminalitätsberichterstattung in Zeitungen und vergleicht diese mit der tatsächlichen Kriminalitätsbelastung sowie der Furcht vor Kriminalität. Ein zentraler Befund ist, dass kriminalitätsbezogene Themen eine vergleichsweise geringe Rolle in den Lokalausgaben regionaler Abozeitungen spielen. Dies gilt zwar nicht in Bezug auf die Anzahl von Artikeln, aber sehr wohl für die Fläche, welche diese Artikel in der Gesamtberichterstattung einnehmen. Die häufig unterstellte Allgegenwart von Kriminalität in den Medien kann für die lokale Berichterstattung nur mit Einschränkungen bestätigt werden. Ein Abgleich von Kriminalitätsberichterstattung mit der Polizeilichen Kriminalstatistik und dem WISIND-Kriminalitätsfurchtindikator zeigt darüber hinaus eine erhebliche Diskrepanz sowohl in geographischer als auch deliktspezifischer Hinsicht: Deutlich wird einerseits eine in Printmedien auftretende überproportionale Fokussierung auf Gewalt-, Sexual- und Rohheitsdelikte und andererseits eine unterdurchschnittliche Berücksichtigung leichter Delikte. Die sich neu entwickelnde und die Bevölkerung in der großen Breite betreffende Internetkriminalität spielt in der lokalen Presselandschaft keine Rolle. Es lässt sich ein regional stark variierender Fokus auf Kriminalitätsberichterstattung belegen, der teilweise konträr zum offiziell bekannten Kriminalitätsgeschehen und zur Kriminalitätsfurcht steht.
H80|Expropriation risk, investment decisions and economic sectors|We build a Real Options model to assess the importance of private provision and the impact of expropriation risk on investment timing, business values, governmental costs and social welfare. We consider two types of businesses (essential and non-essential) and two stages (operating businesses and investment opportunities) and answer questions regarding three main topics: the firm's reaction to expropriation risk, the government drivers to expropriate, and the welfare costs of expropriation. Our results show that responding to expropriation risk the private investor is driven to suboptimal investment decisions. When we endogenize the reputational costs of expropriation, our results show that the decision of the government to expropriate largely depends on the type of business being targeted. In terms of welfare, our results show that expropriation is always associated with a loss.
H80|US Supreme Court unanimously chooses substance over form in foreign tax credit case: implications of the PPL decision for the creditability of cash-flow taxes|In a recent unanimous decision in the PPL case, the US Supreme Court ruled that a one-time retroactive British “Windfall Tax” levied on 32 public utilities that were privatized between 1984 and 1996 was eligible for the US foreign tax credit (FTC). The Court rejected the contention of the US Internal Revenue Service that eligibility for the FTC should be governed by the legislative form of the tax rather than its economic substance. This decision could have far-reaching implications for the creditability of taxes that are not ordinarily thought to be income taxes, including various cash-flow business taxes that are key elements of several proposals recommending replacement of the income tax with a consumption-based tax. This article examines these issues, arguing that one and arguably both of the most common forms of cash-flow consumption-based taxes should be creditable; it also discusses questions that remain about the interpretation of key regulatory requirements that govern creditability. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
H80|Sacred Values? The Effect of Information on Attitudes toward Payments for Human Organs|Are attitudes about morally controversial (and often prohibited) market transactions affected by information about their costs and benefits? We address this question for the case of payments for human organs. We find in a survey experiment with US residents (N=3,417) that providing information on the potential efficiency benefits of a regulated price mechanism for organs significantly increased support for payments from a baseline of 52 percent to 71 percent. The survey was devised to minimize social desirability biases in responses, and additional analyses validate the interpretation that subjects were reflecting on the case-specific details provided, rather than just reacting to any information.
H80|Economic Crisis and the New Paradigm of Public Support of the Patronized Goods|In this paper, we propose a new model of economic regulation of the patronized goods in the humanitarian sector of the economy, aimed at increasing the sustainability of the financial position of organizations of culture, science, and education and at reduction of their dependence on conjunctural, or opportunistic, decisions of the economic departments. The basis of this model is composed of three mechanisms of public support: 1) a system of financial performance standards that characterizes a minimum share of budget expenditures on the production of the appropriate types of patronized goods, reflecting state commitments to their accessibility for the population and the remuneration of labor of workers of culture, science and education; 2) the institution of individual budget appropriations which implements the right of citizens' participation in the selection of areas, or directions of spending a limited part of state income tax; 3) a system of endowment funds, allowing to accumulate receipts from the individual budget appropriations and labeled taxes, in order to extract the increasing investment income from the target capital, or the endowment, which is an additional source of financial support for the patronized goods in the humanitarian sector of the economy.
H80|Performance budgeting in Korea: Overview and assessment|This paper tries to shed light on the Korean performance budgeting (PB) system by analysing its strength and limitations by utilising the framework of the OECD 2011 PB survey. It provides an overview of the Korean PB system and describes the Korean system based on the OECD survey results. Lastly, current issues of the Korean PB system are discussed including its future directions. JEL classification: H61, H830 Keywords: Performance budgeting, performance information, budgeting, Korea
H80|Importance Of Applying Data Envelopment Analysis In Case Of Higher Educational Institutions|Today, the saying predominates better and better according to which a strong target rationalism has to characterize the higher educational institutions due to the scarce resources and the limitlessness of user demands. Now in Hungary, the funding of higher educational system goes through a total transformation thus the leadership has continuously to reckon with the changes of environment and, in tune with these ones, has to modify the goals existing already. Nowadays, it becomes more and more important to measure the effectiveness of the organizations – organizational units pursuing the same or similar activities relative to each other. Benchmarking helps this procedure. Benchmarking is none other than such a tool of analysis and planning which allows comparing the organizations with the best of the competitors. Applying the method with regard to the higher educational institutions is really nothing but a procedure which focuses on comparing processes and results of the institutions’ different functional areas in order to bring to light the opportunities for the rationality as well as the quality and performance improvement. Those benefits could be managed and used as breakthrough possibilities which have been already developed/applied by other organizations and are given by the way leading to a more effective management.The main goal of my monograph is to show a kind of application of Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA) method in the higher education. DEA itself is a performance measuring methodology which is a part of benchmarking and uses the linear programming as a method. By means of its application, the effectiveness of different decision-making units can be compared numerically. In our forcefully varying environment, the managerial decision making can be largely supported in each case by such information that is numerically able to identify which organizational units and activities are effective or less effective. Its advantage is that there is no need to know any of the function-like relations itself for applying this method. The method interprets the effectiveness as a quotient which is defined by the inputs used in the functioning and the outputs arisen from the inputs. The method is already applied in other countries because, beyond its main benefit (being able to work with small element number), it is also suitable for measuring effectiveness of the non-profit sector. In spite of this, DEA methodology has not been really wide-spread in our country yet. The performance measurement forms an important part of the institutions’ everyday operation since the resources are barely available and a targeted effective utilization helps to maintain a long-term and competitive functioning in the future.
H80|"Índice de Competitividad Municipal 2013: Metodología para su construcción basada en Análisis Factorial y su aplicación en municipios urbanos en México || Municipal Competitiveness Index 2013: Methodology of definition based on Factorial Analysis and application to Mexican urban municipalities"|"El documento presenta una descripción detallada de la metodología para construir el Índice de Competitividad Municipal 2013 para México. El índice es calculado utilizando una metodología basada en Análisis Factorial y compara el desempeño de 96 municipios pertenecientes a 24 zonas metropolitanas en diferentes estados de la República Mexicana. El índice incluye 61 variables agrupadas en cuatro dimensiones o subíndices: Económica, Institucional, Socio-demográfica y Urbano Ambiental. El Índice de Competitividad Municipal es el promedio de los cuatro índices. Los resultados muestran evidencia de que los municipios pertenecientes a la zona metropolitana de Monterrey son los que en general tienen más alta posición en el ranking de competitividad y resaltan la necesidad de una mayor cooperación y coordinación intermunicipal para mejorar la competitividad de aquellos municipios que pertenecen a una misma zona metropolitana. El estudio se enfoca particularmente en el análisis de los factores de cada dimensión de la competitividad para los municipios del Estado de Puebla incluidos en la muestra. || This paper presents a detailed explanation of the methodology to construct the Municipal Competitiveness Index 2013 for Mexico. The index is calculated using a methodology based on Factor Analysis and compares the performance of 96 municipalities belonging to 24 metropolitan areas in different States of the Mexican Republic. The index includes 61 variables grouped into four dimensions or sub-indexes: Economic, Institutional, Socio-demographic and Urban-environmental. The Municipal Competitiveness Index is the average of the four indexes. The results show evidence that municipalities of Monterrey metropolitan area are, in general, the ones with higher position in the competitiveness ranking, and highlight the need of inter-municipal cooperation and coordination in order to improve competitiveness of those municipalities belonging to a common metropolitan area. The study particularly focuses on the analysis of factors of each competitiveness dimension for municipalities in Puebla State included in the sample."
H80|Role of Instant Messenger in Turkish People Life|Instant Messaging is being widely adopted in modern people life and a number of IM applications are existing in the market. The number of functions and features increase in IM’s make it more popular every single day in human life. There are number of IM’s in the market and people prefer to use one or more than one of them according to their usage and preferences. This study focus on 2 aspects of Instant Messenger. The first aspect is the use of IM, including the activities people do with IM, the routines they use it, and collaboration. The second aspect is peoples’ preferences, including people’s perceived benefits of the application, problems they encounter, and ways in which they handle the problems. This study uses surveys as an evaluation method. The surveys are consisted of a consent form, demographic information part, and the questions part. Moreover, the surveys, which are created and launched by Kwik Surveys, are conducted online. Participants are provided with a link generated by the website to the survey. There are 65 participants in total who have taken part in the survey, and 49 participants have completed it. Most of the participants agree that they use IM frequently, have a good user experience, and it has improve their life. However, they also encounter some problems with IM which raise dissatisfaction. The report gives some key recommendations for redesign, such as improving the quality of service and system robustness, meliorate the current functions, add new functions, and integrate and interoperate with other software.
H80|Cultural Transmission of Civic Attitudes|In this empirical paper we attempt to measure the separate influence on civic engagement of educational attainment and cultural transmission of civic attitudes. Unlike most of the previous empirical works on this issue, we are able to observe both individuals' educational attainment and the transmission of civic attitudes. We observe that civic returns to education are overstated when the transmission of civic attitudes is ignored. Moreover, the transmission of civic attitudes significantly enhances civic involvement and reinforces civic returns to education (the interactions are significant).
H80|Evaluation der Förderung für das Ernährungshandwerk am Beispiel selbstschlachtender Metzger|Diese Studie analysiert und bewertet die Förderkulisse des Ernährungshandwerks im ländlichen Raum beispielhaft anhand der selbstschlachtenden Metzger. Dazu wurden leitfadengestützte Interviews mit Ministerien, Bewilligungsstellen, Handwerks- und Landwirtschaftskammern sowie Fleischerinnungen in ausgewählten Bundesländern durchgeführt. Zudem flossen ausgewählte Ergebnisse einer bundesweiten Fleischerbefragung, welche von der niedersächsischen Marketing Gesellschaft durchgeführt wurde, sowie Evaluationsberichte in die Analyse ein. Demnach sind Fördermaßnahmen in Deutschland aufgrund der sehr hohen Vielfalt an Fördermöglichkeiten sowie der Mehrebenenverflechtung äußerst unübersichtlich gestaltet. Es konnte ein potentieller Ziel-Aufwand-Konflikt der Bundesländer festgestellt werden, wobei diese einen Anreiz haben, bevorzugt Fördermaßnahmen zu konzipieren, die mit geringen Transaktionskosten für sie selbst verbunden sind. Solche Maßnahmen laufen jedoch Gefahr, die angestrebten Ziele nur unzureichend zu erreichen. Als Quintessenz kann festgestellt werden, dass die Fördermaßnahmen für das Ernährungshandwerk im ländlichen Raum zukünftig verstärkt in ein regionales Gesamtkonzept eingebunden werden müssten, welches ländliche Regionen als Ganzes berücksichtigt.
H80|Government Ideology, Globalization, and Top Income Shares in OECD Countries|I investigate how government ideology and globalization are associated with top income shares in 16 OECD countries over the period 1970 to 2010. I use the new World Top Incomes Database. Globalization is measured by the KOF index of globalization. The results show that the top 1% income share increased more under rightwing governments than under leftwing governments. The effect was stronger when globalization proceeded more rapidly.
H80|Estado, planejamento, gestão e desenvolvimento. Balanço da experiência brasileira e desafios no século XXI|"O artigo revisita a discussão sobre planejamento e gestão no Brasil e reflete sobre as possibilidades de conciliação entre essas duas importantes funções contemporâneas do Estado para a promoção do desenvolvimento nacional. A partir de breve resgate histórico, confirma-se a percepção de dissociação e primazia alternada entre planejamento e gestão no país. Durante parte do século XX, teria predominado o “planejamento sem gestão”, vale dizer: a busca de objetivos nacionais estratégicos sem a devida constituição de aparato administrativo para tanto. Já na década de 1990, ganha primazia a ""gestão sem planejamento"", isto é: a reforma gerencialista do Estado, desprovida, porém, de conteúdo estratégico mais geral. Para compreensão mais aprofundada do tema, realizou-se, então, esforço inédito de avaliação de documentos oficiais do governo brasileiro, representativos de certa retomada do planejamento público estatal entre 2003 e 2010. Buscou-se averiguar em que medida tais documentos seriam tributários do ciclo recente de crescimento, bem como em que medida poderiam induzir a sustentação de um ciclo mais longo e robusto de desenvolvimento no país."
H80|Political connections and operational performance of non-financial firms: New evidence from Poland|This study analyses the impact of political connections on the operational performance of non-financial firms in Poland. Using a data set covering the 2001–2011 period, we find that political connections lower firm profitability, as measured on the level of income from sales. The negative impact is the strongest when a firm possesses multiple connections, has politically connected members on its supervisory board, or employs ex-politicians with central government experience. Therefore, our findings do not support claims based on resource dependence theory. The Polish market's specificity is most likely related to the instability of the political scene.
H80|The Impact of Longevity on Health Care Systems|Population's ageing and the increasing longevity of life are not spontaneous processes. In reality, it is a society's achievement that people are given a chance to live longer. This state is obviously achieved only when citizens take this opportunity seriously and contribute to the overall conditions with their own interests and behavioral choices. More importantly, with people living longer, the overall picture of the society is changing. It even forces grand financial schemes to change, including the health care one which must comply with societal changes. In this regard we can clearly perceive that some of the aspects that we could have been relying on in the past are becoming obsolete and new concepts emerge, that have to betaken seriously. The paper will be based on the overall picture of determinants and factors that poses longevity on health care systems. Specific situation in the Czech health care system, is assessed and the financing schemes used will be described, including current trends caused by economic downturn. The arguments for maintaining and enhancing schemes of health care financing without individual risk assessment will be discussed and presented to the participants.
H80|A reexamination of state fiscal health and amnesty enactment|We use event history analysis to separately model a state’s first and then repeated tax amnesties and test the revenue yield versus the fiscal stress hypotheses using a panel of annual data from all 50 states for the period 1982–2010. We also split our sample into two sub-periods, 1982–1988 and 1989–2010, to more easily compare our results to other studies and to see if there is a significant difference between early tax amnesties and more recent ones. We find that state fiscal stress is more important than the potential yield from an amnesty, particularly for more recent amnesties. Our findings contrast with the existing literature which found evidence that states are likely to enact tax amnesties due to a revenue yield motive rather than a fiscal stress motive. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014
H80|Evaluating the capability of the UK Treasury, 1990-2013|The strength of the United Kingdom’s central finance agency (H.M. Treasury) has been attributed to its broad and powerful influence on policy issues; the high intellectual standards of its staff; the relatively clear division between the “official” treasury and the political level; and the important role played by the permanent secretary as an anchor and point of communication between officials and ministers. To maintain its power the Treasury has to adapt quickly to changing economic and political circumstances, most recently the global financial crisis. It has also engaged in two major reorganisations over the past 20 years, which have resulted in a substantial streamlining of the organisation, a flattening of the management structure, and a casting out of functions regarded as peripheral to its core finance and economic mandate. Some critics, however, have argued that the performance of the Treasury has failed, and that the department needs to be cut back to its traditional role as a budget and finance ministry. JEL classification: H50, H54, H80, H83. Keywords: Treasury, finance ministry, central finance agency, public finance, organisation, change management.
H80|Analysis Of The Financial Management Of The University Of Debrecen|Today, the general statement that due to the insufficiency of resources and the unlimited of user demands budgetary organisations have to act with strong, targeted rationalism becomes increasingly accepted. Hungary witnesses a full-scale transformation of the financing of its system of higher education, and therefore the management is required to monitor the changes of the environment continuously, and modify its objectives accordingly. A gradually emerging need is that these educational units have to frame operating structures that are suitable for flexibly following the changes occurring in their environment. This is a terrain where the management is supported by management control system, which is in fact means of regulating operations and driving preparations for decision-making. The purpose of this study is to examine to what extent the actual financial management data of the University of Debrecen coincide with the plans for the given budgetary year. The empiric research relies on the received reports, and embraces the years of 2008-2012; in this manner, a comprehensive view can be formulated in relation to the efficiency of planning in the past 5 years. To ascertain the correctness of operative management, mathematical, statistical and calculation methods are used. The study is conducted in view of the three major questions defined by the methodology of management control system; realistic grounds of the planned data, deviation analysis, identification of causes. The plan fulfilment indicator is used to present the efficiency of planning both on the institutional and the key budgeting levels. In the context of deviation analysis - supervision of the implementation of planned figures -, figures are prepared for better demonstrability. For the detailed identification of the underlying causes, structure analyses are performed for the income and expenditure sides alike. With respect to expenditures, it is examined whether there is any correlation between remunerations, tangible and other current expenses, because they are the two largest budgetary groups of expenditures, while the work of the personnel indeed necessitates the availability of tangible assets. My analysis has concluded that the obtained results confirm the University does not perform its planning operations appropriately. At the time of planning, historic experience and the available information are neglected. The completed analysis directs attention to the importance of the management control system, and the fact that by today this tool for the support of decision-making has become indispensable even for budgetary organisations.
H80|Development Of E-Governance Instruments In Public Administration Local Institutions In Bihor County|The concept of marketing applied in education offers a lot of possibilities of social innovation. It is a tool helping educational organization to acquire resources and to provide value. In this article presented a model of seven metaphors to be used by a universities in order to acquire resources and to provide value to its stakeholders and applied it in the case of a Romanian university called The University. The aim of the paper is to identify sources of social innovations by using this model in the field of educational marketing.
H80|An Evaluation of the Transparency in the Inspection Practices of the Turkish Government Auditing Units over General Budget Institutions|The purpose of this study is to evaluate the transparency problem of public auditing for general budget institutions in Turkey. In this study, transparency in the auditing operations of 47 general budget institutions was studied by searching the institutions’ web sites. Upon examination, it is seen that the general practice in these public organizations is to keep the audit reports and activity reports of the audit committees keep away from public access. Only exceptions to this general tendency are the Ministry of Culture and Tourism and General Directorate of Land Registry and Cadastre. These institutions open some of their audit reports and unit operation reports to the public. In regard to internal audit units, public organizations follow even more strict closeness. They do not share directly with the public the unit activity reports and audit reports but send them as a legal obligation to the Internal Audit Coordination Board. The public institutions which have been subject to external auditing also do not share the external auditing results. The internal inspection units of institutions send their reports to Internal Audit Coordination Board as a legal obligation. However, Turkish Court of Accounts has begun to publish its audit reports since December 2013. The results of the study point out that transparent auditing system could have not been constructed for fiscal management up to now. Turkish public auditing system need to be redesigned by legal modifications and institutional adjustments and it is suggested that new structure should include the boards of inspection. In order to improve the transparency and accountability of the administration and the auditing system, a convenient legal environment need to created. In addition to all these, it is remembered that fairness and transparency in auditing and its implementation in an efficient way require compatible changes in administrative and institutional mentality.
H80|Book Review Essay: Publicâ€“Private Partnering in Natural Resource Extraction|No abstract is available for this item.
H80|Military communication – form of human communication|Communication represents an indispensable and vital element in the optimal functioning for each human collectivity, regardless of its nature and size. It is the foundation of leadership process and the way that generates the unity of views and action, interests and behavior. In the military organization the communication process has the same components as for any communication process from any other organization, but presenting many specific characteristics, due to the structural, motivational and psycho-moral particularities related to military organism.
H80|Political Parties, Candidate Selection, and Quality of Government|This article explores empirically the relation between political parties’ institutions and quality of government. I focus on procedures used to nominate presidential candidates given the importance of candidate selection in party politics. Using a panel dataset of Latin American countries, I find robust evidence of a positive relation between the use of democratic procedures, such as primaries, and quality of government. To shed light on the mechanism, I examine why parties use primaries. I find evidence suggestive that the results are mostly driven by the increase in political competition and candidates’ pre-electoral incentives.
H80|Consumers' Complaints, the Nature of Corruption, and Social Welfare|"A primary means of bureaucratic oversight is consumer complaints. Yet, this important control mechanism has received very little attention in the literature on corruption. I study a model of corruption with incomplete information in which consumers require a government service from officials who may be corrupt. A victim of corruption can report corrupt officials to higher-ranking officials (supervisors) who may be corrupt or honest. I find that social welfare may be non-monotonic in the proportion of honest supervisors. In some cases, an increase in the proportion of honest supervisors increases social welfare only if there is a critical mass of honest supervisors. Under certain conditions, there is, surprisingly, an equilibrium in which no one reports corruption regardless of the proportion of honest supervisors although all lower-ranking officials are corrupt. The analysis shows that using an increase in consumer complaints as a measure of the success of an anti-corruption campaign may be wrong because the consumers may benefit in other ways (e.g., a fall in the equilibrium bribe). I also fill a gap in the literature by endogenizing an official's decision to engage in ""corruption with theft"" or ""corruption without theft"" as defined by Shleifer and Vishny (1993) and use the model to shed light on recent anti-corruption initiatives such as the Punjab Citizen Feedback Model in Pakistan and a recent proposal by Kaushik Basu (2012)."
H80|Identification for Development:The Biometrics Revolution|Formal identification is a prerequisite for development in the modern world. The inability to authenticate oneself when interacting with the state—or with private entities such as banks—inhibits access to basic rights and services, including education, formal employment, financial services, voting, social transfers, and more. Unfortunately, underdocumentation is pervasive in the developing world. Civil registration systems are often absent or cover only a fraction of the population. In contrast, people in rich countries are almost all well identified from birth. This “identity gap” is increasingly recognized as not only a symptom of underdevelopment but as a factor that makes development more difficult and less inclusive. Many programs now aim to provide individuals in poor countries with more robust official identity, often in the context of the delivery of particular services. Many of these programs use digital biometric identification technology that distinguish physical or behavioral features, such as fingerprints or iris scans, to help “leapfrog” traditional paper-based identity systems. The technology cannot do everything, but recent advances enable it to be used far more accurately than previously, to provide identification (who are you?) and authentication (are you who you claim to be?). Technology costs are falling rapidly, and it is now possible to ensure unique identity in populations of at least several hundred million with little error. This paper surveys 160 cases where biometric identification has been used for economic, political, and social purposes in developing countries. About half of these cases have been supported by donors. Recognizing the need for more rigorous assessments and more open data on performance, the paper draws some conclusions about identification and development and the use of biometric technology. Some cases suggest large returns to its use, with potential gains in inclusion, efficiency, and governance. In others, costly technology has been ineffective or, combined with the formalization of identity, has increased the risk of exclusion. One primary conclusion is that identification should be considered as a component of development policy, rather than being seen as just a cost on a program-by-program basis. Within such a strategic framework, countries and donors can work to close the identification gap, and in the process improve both inclusion and the efficiency of many programs
H80|The effects of Financial & Institutional Systems on International Trade, Specialization and Foreign Direct Investment|"This thesis examines the impact of institutions, especially the financial institutions, on international trade and foreign direct investments. The first four chapters study the financial institutions and their impact on trade and international specialization. Specifically, the first chapter examines these financial institutions and the determinants of their level of development. The second chapter examines how finance impacts bilateral trade. The third chapter builds a theoretical model and aims to explain the impact of finance on the sectoral trade as a function of the degree of financial intensity of each sector. The fourth chapter analyzes the heterogeneous impact of finance on the different manufacturing sectors. The last chapter of the thesis uses the term ""institution"" in a broader sense and studies theoretically and empirically whether the similarities and differences in institutional environments across countries explain the international patterns of foreign direct investment (FDI)."
H80|Socioeconomic Status of Scheduled Tribes|Social and economic justice, equality of status and opportunities, assurance of the individual’s dignity are insured by the Constitution of India for all the citizens among other things. The constitution of India is enriched with several provisions for schedule castes and schedule tribes to safeguard and promote their cultural, social, educational, and economic interests in order to bring them in the mainstream of the nation. This paper addresses the socioeconomic status of the scheduled tribes in Visakhapatnam district of Andhra Pradesh State (India). In the sample, the majority of the households is the tribe of Konda Dora. The majority of the sample households in the study area are Hindus and more than 70 percent of the sample population are illiterate. Cultivation is the primary occupation participated by the most heads of the sample households. Income from cultivation supports the majority of the sample population. More than 53 percent of the cultivators have farm income around ₹ 2,000.00 to ₹ 5,000.00. Even though the wage labourers are more in the sample population, the share of income derived from that is less when compared to cultivation. There is a need to put more attention on educational aspects of scheduled tribes, where this only can motivate them for future life.
H80|African Development,Partnership and Rationality Challenge:An Exposition|Since 1950s, most African nations have gained independence from their colonial powers. Fortunately, independence has brought many changes to these nations and these include multi-party democratic government and western education systems. Unfortunately, the Africa’s economy is the least developed of any continent after Antarctica. Yet, Africa is rich in natural resources and part of its economic base is the export of this wealth. With ethnic ties that often cross national boundaries and continual political upheavals, African national identity is not as strong as racial ties. However, every functioning social system is based on a consensus of values among its members while every society is at every point subject to processes of change that is ubiquitous. Thus, certain regularities of individual’s feelings, thoughts and predispositions to act towards some aspect of this environment are imperative. This paper therefore argues that GOD has created man and African society cannot develop together unless faithful leaders are in command to give effective direction and unity of purpose. Again, a renewed global partnership will require a new spirit from the national leaders as well as many other citizens to adopt new mindsets and change their behavior positively. Indeed, these changes will not happen overnight but with righteousness, it is possible for Africa prosperity to emerge in the 21st century.
H80|Empirische Forschung zum Personalmanagement in Kulturbetrieben: Ein Literaturueberblick (Empirical Research on Human Resource Management in Arts Organizations: a Review)|Ziel der vorliegenden Untersuchung war es, eine systematische Bestandsaufnahme zum Status quo der Personalforschung im Kulturbereich vorzunehmen. In die Untersuchung einbezogen wurden Studien, die sich empirisch mit dem Thema auseinandersetzen und im deutsch- und englischsprachigen Raum in Fachzeitschriften mit „peer review“-Verfahren erschienen sind. Insgesamt konnten in 15 Journals 23 Studien identifiziert werden, davon waren 17 in englisch- und 6 in deutschsprachigen Zeitschriften erschienen. Im Ergebnis zeigte sich, dass die Forschung noch in ihren Anfaengen steckt und Luecken aufzeigt. So dominiert in allen untersuchten Sparten das Thema Personalfuehrung, andere Aufgabenfelder werden nur ansatzweise diskutiert (Personalentwicklung) oder bleiben unberuecksichtigt. Auch beschraenken sich die Analysen vorrangig auf die Mitarbeitergruppen der Kuenstler und Fuehrungskraefte; die fuer die Leistungserstellung im Kulturbereich gleichfalls relevante Gruppe des Servicepersonals wird vernachlaessigt. Unter Beruecksichtigung von Guetekriterien empirischer Forschung wie Repraesentativitaet, Reabilitaet und Validitaet kann der Stand der Forschung nur fuer den Orchesterbereich als ausgereift bezeichnet werden; die Forschung sowohl im Museums- als auch im Theaterbereich ist derzeit noch rein explorativ ausgelegt. (The aim of the paper is to give a systematic survey on human resource management in the cultural secotr. The study includes research in German and English being published in peer-reviewed journals. Overall, there were 23 studies in 15 journals identified. The results showed that empirical research on human resources management in the cultural sector is still at its beginning. Additionally, it became evident that the dominant topic is leadership. Other relevant topics (i.e. human resource development) are still underrepresented or not considered at all. Also, the studies mostly concentrate on artists and managers. Other relevant employee groups (i.e. service or front line staff) are not examined so far. While research in the area of orchestra is rather developed research in the fields of museums and theatres is still entirely explorative.)
H80|La Domanda Di Sport Professionistico Nelle Leghe Minori: Analisi Comparata Lega Pro - Football League|Introduzione – 1. La Domanda di Sport Professionistico – 2. Attendance nei Campionati di Lega Pro: l’Analisi dei Dati – 3. Attendance e bacino di utenza nei campionati di Lega Pro – 4. Attendance e CB nei campionati di Lega Pro – Conclusioni – Bibliografia.
H80|Corruption and Income Inequality in Asian Countries: Bootstrap Panel Granger Causality Test|The purpose of this study is to investigate the causal relationship between corruption and income inequality experienced in ten Asian economies over the period 1995 to 2010. This study utilizes the bootstrap panel Granger causality approach, which allows both cross-sectional dependence and heterogeneity across countries, and is based on seemingly unrelated regressions (SUR) systems and Wald tests with country-specific bootstrap critical values. The empirical results show that there is a unidirectional causality from corruption to income inequality in China and the Philippines. Meanwhile, a one-way causal relationship running from income inequality to corruption exists in Indonesia, Japan, Korea, and Thailand.
H80|The international competitiveness and target markets of colombian blackberries|absTracTthis document analyzes the international competitiveness of colombianblackberries-raspberries between 2003-2007, as well as its potential marketsworldwide resulting from some theories and concepts related to internationalcommerce and competitiveness given by authors such as bela balassa(1964 y 1970), schwartz, m., et al. (2007), and the corporación colombiainternacional, among others. the result shows that this colombian producthas a worldwide productive and competitive potential that can motivateexporting it to potential countries like canada, usa, the united Kingdomand France.resUmenel documento analiza la competitividad internacional de la mora-frambuesacolombiana durante el período 2003-2007, así como sus mercadospotenciales a nivel mundial, a partir de algunas teorías y conceptosrelacionados con el comercio y la competitividad internacional aportadospor autores como bela balassa (1964 y 1970) y schwartz, m., et al. (2007),la corporación colombia internacional, entre otros. el resultado muestraque este producto colombiano posee un potencial productivo y competitivoa nivel mundial que puede motivar su exportación a países potenciales comocanadá, estados unidos, reino unido y Francia.resUmoo documento analisa a competitividade internacional da amora-frambuesacolombiana durante o período 2003-2007, assim como seus mercadospotenciais a nível mundial, a partir de algumas teorias e conceitosrelacionados com o comércio e a competitividade internacional fornecidospor autores como bela balassa (1964 e 1970) e schwartz, m., et al. (2007),a corporación colombia internacional, entre outros. o resultado mostraque este produto colombiano possui um potencial produtivo e competitivoa nível mundial que pode motivar sua exportação a países potenciais comocanadá, estados unidos, reino unido e França.rÉsUmÉLe document analyse la compétitivité internationale de la mûre-framboiseau cours de la période 2003-2007, ainsi que leurs marchés potentiels àtravers le monde, sur la base de certaines théories et des concepts liés aucommerce international et la compétitivité fournies par des auteurs tels quebela balassa (1964 et 1970) et schwartz, m., et al. (2007), la corporacióninternationale en colombie, entre autres. Le résultat montre que ce produitcolombien possède un potentiel productif et compétitif dans le monde. cepotentiel peut promouvoir son exportation vers des pays comme le canada,les états-unis, le royaume-uni et la France.
H80|Efectos de la corrupción sobre la criminalidad, el crecimiento económico y la pobreza: una evidencia para seis departamentos de Colombia|rEsumEnla corrupción afecta el crecimiento económico de los países, disminuye losrecursos efectivos destinados a la inversión social, genera desconfianza dela ciudadanía hacia las instituciones del estado. sin embargo, la mayoríade las investigaciones sobre el tema han utilizado metodologías basadasen encuestas. el principal aporte de este trabajo es la construcción de unmodelo estadístico en el cual la corrupción se mide a través de datos realesque se desprenden de los fallos de responsabilidad fiscal emitidos porla contraloría general de la república. el período de estudio es de diezaños (2000-2009) y abarca a los seis departamentos de colombia queen este lapso de tiempo registraron los mayores casos de corrupción. losresultados del modelo muestran una relación estadística importante entrela corrupción con los indicadores utilizados para cuantificar los niveles depobreza, crecimiento económico y violencia. no obstante, los efectos sobrelas variables seleccionadas no son estadísticamente significativos.abstractcorruption affects the countries´ economic growth, diminishes effectiveresources destined to social investment and generates mistrust ofthe citizenship towards the state´s institutions. however, most of theinvestigations about this topic have used methodologies based on surveys.The main contribution of this work is the construction of a statistical modelin which corruption is measured through real data resulting from the fiscalresponsibility sentences given by the republic´s general comptroller´soffice. This was a ten year study (2000-2009) that covered six colombiandepartments that during this period registered the highest number ofcorruption cases. The results of this study show an important statisticrelationship between corruption and the indexes used to quantify povertylevels, economic growth and violence. nevertheless, the effects over thechosen variables were not statistically significant.rEsumoa corrupção afeta o crescimento econômico dos países, diminui os recursosefetivos destinados ao investimento social, gera desconfiança da cidadaniaem relação às instituições do estado. porém, a maioria das pesquisas sobreo tema têm utilizado metodologias baseadas em entrevistas. a principalcontribuição deste trabalho é a construção de um modelo estadístico noqual a corrupção se mede através de dados reais derivados de sentençasde responsabilidade fiscal emitidos pela contraloría general de larepública. o período de estudo é de dez anos (2000-2009) e abrangeaos seis departamentos da colômbia que neste lapso de tempo registraramos maiores casos de corrupção. os resultados do modelo mostram umarelação estadística importante entre a corrupção com os indicadoresutilizados para quantificar os níveis de pobreza, crescimento econômico eviolência. não obstante, os efeitos sobre as variáveis selecionadas não sãoestatísticamente significativos.rÉsumÉla corruption frappe la croissance économique du pays, réduit les ressourcesefficaces pour l´investissement social, augmente la méfiance des citoyensà l´égard des institutions de l´etat. cependant, la plupart des recherchessur ce sujet ont utilisé des méthodes fondées sur l´enquête. la principalecontribution de ce document est de construire un modèle statistique danslequel la corruption est mesurée par des données réelles découlant del´échec de la responsabilité fiscale délivré par la Contraloría General dela República. la période d´étude est de dix ans (2000-2009) et couvreles six départements de la colombie qui dans cette période ont enregistréles plus hautes affaires de corruption. les résultats du modèle montrentune relation statistique significative entre la corruption avec les indicateursutilisés pour quantifier les niveaux de pauvreté, la croissance économiqueet la violence. Toutefois, les effets sur les variables sélectionnées ne sont passtatistiquement significatives.
H80|Modelos causales de indicadores en la información corporativa sobre sostenibilidad|"resuMenlos modelos basados en el enfoque presión - estado - respuesta"" han sidouna herramienta ampliamente utilizada en el contexto de la formulaciónde políticas públicas en materia ambiental, si bien su uso se ha extendidoa otros ámbitos como el social o el económico. en este trabajo sepresenta, a título introductorio, una adaptación de estos modelos para suimplementación en la empresa como un marco conceptual gracias al cualpoder diseñar metodologías para identificar y evaluar tanto el impactocorporativo sobre su entorno económico, social y ambiental, como lasacciones tendentes a reforzar o, en su caso, corregir, reducir o minimizardicho impacto.abstractthe models based on the ""pressure - state - response"" approach havebeen a widely used tool in the formulation of public policies in the contextof environmental topics and its use has been also extended to social andeconomic spheres. this work presents, as an introduction, an adaptationof these models for its implementation in Corporations as a conceptualframework that facilitates the design of methodologies to identify andassess the corporate impact on its economic, social and environmentalambiences, as well as the actions geared to reinforce, correct, reduce orminimize such impact.resuMoos modelos baseados no enfoque ""pressão - estado - resposta"" tem sidouma ferramenta amplamente utilizada no contexto da formulação de políticaspúblicas em matéria ambiental, se bem seu uso tem se extendido a outrosâmbitos como o social ou o econômico. neste trabalho apresenta-se, a títulode introdução, uma adaptação destes modelos para sua implementaçãona empresa como um marco conceitual graças ao qual pode-se desenharmetodologias para identificar e avaliar tanto o impacto corporativo sobreseu entorno econômico, social e ambiental, como as ações propensas areforçar ou, em seu caso, corregir, reduzir ou minimizar tal impacto.rÉsuMÉles modèles basés sur le concept de «pression - état - réponse» ont été unoutil largement utilisé dans le cadre de la politique publique par rapportaux questions environnementales, même si son utilisation s´est répandu àd´autres domaines tels que le social ou l´économique. dans cet article, àtitre d´introduction, nous présentons une adaptation de ces modèles pour lamise en oeuvre d´un cadre conceptuel pour développer des méthodologiesafin d´identifier et d´évaluer à la fois, l´impact des entreprises sur leurdéveloppement économique, social et environnemental comme actionsvisant à améliorer ou bien réduire ou minimiser cet impact."""
H80|Funding higher education and wage uncertainty: Income contingent loan versus mortgage loan|We propose a simple theoretical model which shows how the combined effect of wage uncertainty and risk aversion can modify the individual willingness to pay for a HE system financed by an ICL or a ML. We calibrate our model using real data from the 1970 British Cohort Survey together with the features of the English HE financing system. We allow for individual heterogeneity by considering different family backgrounds and occupations. We find that graduates from poor families, males and graduates working in the private sector are more willing to pay to switch to an ICL. Using the UK Labour Force Survey we evaluate the distributive effects of our model. We compute the repayment burdens and taxpayer subsidies for average, low and high earnings graduates. The results confirm the important insurance benefits of an ICL compared to a ML, with lower burdens and higher subsidies for poorer graduates.
H80|Agenda control in an unstable multiparty parliamentary democracy: evidence from the Israeli public sector|No abstract is available for this item.
H80|Heterogeneity of taxation in EA Member countries and some implications for EA fiscal governance|Notwithstanding the repeated efforts of the European Authorities to harmonize and coordinate countries’ taxation, and in spite of the effects of international tax competition, in 2009 EA taxation was still far from being homogeneous among Member Countries. Given this situation, the purpose of the paper is threefold. First of all, it is designed to provide a detailed overview of the existing differences, in terms of taxation, among EA Members. Secondly, it aims at examining whether these disparities could interfere with EA fiscal governance, the rules of which largely consist in single figures applicable to all the concerned countries. Finally, the analysis wants to ascertain whether the present EU Commission’s suggestions for fiscal consolidation and for tax reforms may differently affect specific countries, given the aforementioned differences in their tax systems. The conclusions include the traditional belief that greater harmonization and coordination of Europe’s tax systems could well improve fiscal governance within the EA.
H80|Economic Ideas of Rifa`ah al-Tahtawi|The present paper studies economic ideas of an Azharite graduate of the nineteenth century Egypt - Rifā‘ah Rāfi‘ al-Tahtāwī who was influenced by the French Scholars and Philosophers, Voltaire, Rousseau, and Mantesquieu. He wrote on significance of industry, productive and unproductive labor, importance of foreign trade, competition, and equal opportunity for all. According to him justice, freedom and human brotherhood are the foundations of economic welfare. He strived for women's economic empowerment. He was not simply a follower of Western economic ideas. He added to them human norms and Islamic values. Although born in an age of laissez faire, he advocated for a role of Government in economic matters.
H80|The Social Component Of The Community Justice Reform|The European Convention on Human Rights established an unprecedented system ofprotection of individual rights and freedoms applicable in the present, in almost all Europeancountries.The creation of a Permanent Court in 1988, was motivated essentially by the increasing the number ofindividual complaints the settlement of which was not possible under the old procedure. The number ofindividual complaints continued to increase on an accelerated rhythm and therefore the number ofcases in which settlement was required has increased considerably.The growing number of individual applications impose Community Justice System permanent reformand consideration of issues raised in the findings of this paper.
H80|Riqueza, pobreza e impuestos como factores de desarrollo|"La disertación que aquí se presenta trata el tema de la riqueza, la pobrezay los impuestos, como factores dialécticos en el desarrollo sostenible. Lainvestigación pretende formular una propuesta que permita a los entesterritoriales colombianos obtener recursos para atender programas orientadosa reparar el capital humano identifi cado como indigencia. No obstante, eneste avance se llegará hasta la demostración de interdependencia entreriqueza, pobreza e impuestos como factores de desarrollo. En un trabajoposterior se presentará la propuesta enunciada.Este avance es uno de los productos fi nales de un proyecto denominadoImpuesto de Fondo de Pobres, desarrollado en cinco fases, iniciado en elaño 2005 y que se espera concluir en el presente año 2011.ABsTRACTRICHNESS, POVERTY AND TAXES AS DEVELOPMENT FACTORSThis article deals with the topics of richness, poverty and taxes and dialecticfactors in sustainable development. This research pretends to propose aformula that allows Colombian territorial entities to obtain resources in orderto attend programs oriented to repair the human capital identified as poverty.Nevertheless, this advance will conclude in the interdependence betweenrichness, poverty and taxes as a development factor.This advance is one of the final products of a project called: Tax for the Fundof the Poor"", developed in five stages that started in 2005 and is expectedto end in 2011.ResumoRIQUEZA, POBREZA E IMPOSTOS COMO FATORES DE DESENVOLVIMENTOA dissertação que aqui se apresenta trata o tema da riqueza, a pobrezae os impostos, como fatores dialéticos no desenvolvimento sustentável. Apesquisa pretende formular uma proposta que permita às entidades territoriaiscolombianas obter recursos para atender programas orientados a reparar ocapital humano identificado como indigência. Não obstante, neste avançose chegará até a demonstração de interdependência entre riqueza, pobrezae impostos como fatores de desenvolvimento. Em um trabalho posterior seapresentará a proposta enunciada.Este avanço é um dos produtos finais de um projeto denominado Imposto deFundo de Pobres, desenvolvido em cinco fases, iniciado no ano de 2005que se espera concluir no presente ano de 2011.RésuméRICHESSE, PAUVRETE E IMPOTS COMME ELEMENTS DE DEVELOPPEMENTLa thèse présentée ici porte sur la question de la richesse, la pauvreté et lesimpôts, en tant que facteurs dialectiques dans le développement durable. Larecherche vise à élaborer une proposition que permet aux autorités localesobtenir des ressources pour répondre aux programmes colombiens deréparer le capital humain identifié comme indigence. Toutefois, cette avancearrivera à la manifestation de l´interdépendance entre la richesse, la pauvretéet les impôts en tant que facteurs de développement. Un document ultérieurprésentera la proposition contraire.Ce développement est un des produits finaux d´un projet appelé Fondsd´impôts des pauvres, développé en cinq phases, qui a débuté en 2005 etdevrait être achevée cette année 2011."""
H80|The paths of coffee: A brief economic history of coffee in Colombia|This paper develops a brief history of coffee in Colombia identifying the processes of change in the geography and populations. From the eighteenth to the twentieth century, coffee cultivation represented the basis of household income. Changes in rural and urban culture of the nineteenth century were influenced by the coffee trade, likewise the fundamental transformations of the Colombian economy during the first half of the twentieth century. The Colombian economy and the idiosyncrasy of its people still depend on coffee, especially in rural areas and the Andean ranges.
H80|Institutional Change And Inter-Institutional Cooperation – Challenge And Opportunity For Economic Growth And Innovation|The knowledge-based economy/society challenges and changes organisations, institutions and job contents generated by new requirements and the increasingly complex and dynamic environment in which they are compelled to act. Institutions and organisations, public or private, need to adjust rapidly and changes in their own action sphere and in environments surrounding them for ensuring sustainability, surviving and competitiveness. Assessment tools and analytical indicators should be developed as institutional analysis will become increasingly relevant for economy and society. Innovation turns into one of the key-concepts also for institutions and institutional change in increasing efficiency and effectiveness.
H80|Measures of corruption and determinants of US corruption|No abstract is available for this item.
H80|The Corruption Trend among Public Officials in Malaysia: An Overview|The war against corruption is vital to a nation. No one can dispute the negative consequences of corruption, but still, there are those who tend to condone its practice and view it as a necessary evil of economic development. Governments in several Asian and African countries tend to accept this as part and partial of economic development. However, the fallacy of this argument was exposed following the 1997 Asian financial crisis, which demonstrated how corruption had short-changed the countries. The example of Singapore was proof of the argument that a clean government is best positioned to handle an economic crisis. Corruption or bribery investigations should not be kept private but placed in the realm of public knowledge. To understand the main factors that lead to the increase of corruption among male officers as compared to women officers is of great importance as it may suggest the suitability of the Malaysian government or the federal government framework in controlling or curbing corruption for the Malaysian community which lay emphasis on traditional norms and values.
H80|ADMINISTRATIE PUBLICA SI TEHNOLOGIE INFORMATICA-PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (Romanian version)|The contemporary administrative phenomenon is undergoing a series of structural and functional changes which derive both from its legal and ideological conditionings, and from the computerization of the economy and of the public services. “The knowledge society” is a major challenge for the European authorities which, within several strategic plans (The Lisbon Plan, The Agenda 2020), have designed the reorganization of the whole social system according to the coordinates of digitalization and e-governing.
H80|China's Financial Sector Reforms|Reforms to modernise and strengthen the financial sector have continued in recent years. The cleaning-up of the stock of non-performing loans is largely completed and considerable progress has been made in improving commercial banks’ corporate governance structures and risk management systems. These reforms have given rise to stronger Chinese banks which have so far weathered the global slowdown well. Reform of capital markets has focused on phasing out trading prohibitions on non-traded shares and modernising securities market institutions. Efforts have also been made to improve credit access to underserved segments, notably small and medium-sized enterprises and rural China. Despite progress in opening up the financial sector to international investors and in allowing domestic investors to invest abroad, liberalisation has been slow and in most market segments the foreign share remains very small. Ownership of financial institutions remains dominated by the State, raising issues concerning the financial system’s ability to serve the private sector as well as the extent to which banks lending decisions are based purely on commercial considerations. Although the bond market has continued to grow, corporate bond issuance remains relatively small and this segment will need to be further developed in order to address the over-reliance on the banking system Les réformes financières en Chine Les réformes visant à moderniser et à renforcer le secteur financier ont continué dans les années récentes. L’assainissement des bilans a beaucoup avancé et on a assisté à une nette amélioration des systèmes de gouvernance et de gestion des risques dans les banques commerciales. Ces changements ont abouti à une consolidation des banques chinoises, qui jusqu’ici ont bien résisté au ralentissement mondial. La réforme des marchés de capitaux a privilégié la suppression progressive des restrictions concernant les actions non négociables et la modernisation des institutions opérant sur les marchés de titres. On a aussi pris des mesures pour faciliter l’accès au crédit des secteurs mal desservis, notamment les PME et le milieu rural. Malgré l’ouverture progressive du secteur financier aux investisseurs internationaux et l’autorisation postérieure donnée aux investisseurs nationaux d’opérer à l’étranger, la libéralisation a été lente et la part étrangère reste très réduite dans la plupart des compartiments du marché. L’État demeure le principal propriétaire des institutions financières, ce qui amène à s’interroger sur leur capacité à servir le secteur privé et sur le degré auquel les décisions de prêt des banques sont guidées par des considérations commerciales. Bien que le marché obligataire continue à se développer, l’émission de titres de sociétés est encore relativement limitée et devra s’accroître pour réduire le recours excessif au système bancaire.
H80|Romanian Public Marketing in Terms of Necessity,Collaboration and Mix|The paper carries out a short literature review on public sector and public marketing terms. The findings of the paper’s study shows that the Romanian public sector should give more importance to marketing activities, as 87% of the respondents sustained when asked about their necessity. Within a public institution, the marketing specialists should cooperate with research& development, sales and financial departments. The study results reaffirm the importance of the 4 P of the marketing mix when making an offer, and place them on the top positions.
H80|Мировой Экономический Кризис И Маркетинговая Деятельность В России<BR>[The global economic crisis and marketing activities in Russia]|Article on the impact of the crisis in the global economy on marketing strategy in Russia. The author substantiates the thesis of the decline in the value of methods of promoting the marketing mix and a gradual return to the dominance of the marketing concept of the distribution.
H80|The Sociological School of Italian Science of Finance: A Retrospective View|A recent book by McLure analyses Italian economic thought in the early 20th century with breference to the school of fiscal sociology, consisting of a number of Italian economists who shared the views of Vilfredo Pareto on public finance. These Italian economists sought ways to explain choices of public finance utilizing 12. Sull’evoluzione recente delle metodologie dell’analisi economica delle scelte collettive rimando a Di Majo e De Chiara (2009) e alla letteratura ivi richiamata. a paradigm other than the neoclassical approach. This phase ended in the 1930s, and mainstream public finance adopted a neoclassical approach. However the heritage of Italian unorthodox thinkers, associated with both the Paretian approach, can be found in the issues considered in more recent developments.
H80|Inequality of Opportunity in the Credit Market|Credit market imperfections can prevent the poor from making profitable investments. Under asymmetric information observable features, such as wealth and collateral, play an important role in determining who gets credit, in violation of the Equality of Opportunity principle. We define equality of opportunity as the equal possibility of getting credit for a given aversion to effort. We first establish that, due to larger cross subsidization in high collateral classes of borrow- ers, richer individuals are more likely to get credit for a given aversion to effort. Our second result is that Inequality of Opportunity is associated with an inefficient allocation of resources among classes of borrowers. The marginal borrower in classes that post more collateral exerts less effort in equilibrium (and therefore produces lower aggregate surplus) than the marginal borrower in lower collateral classes. This suggests that public credit policies should be targeted at poorer classes of would be borrowers both for equity and efficiency reasons, which rarely occurs in practice.
H80|An Examination of the Relation between State Fiscal Health and Amnesty Enactment|Assuming a normal distribution of hazards, Dubin, Graetz, and Wilde (1992) analyze state tax amnesties in the 1980s and conclude that states run amnesties in response to revenue yield motive. Given the increased frequency with which states enacted amnesties during and after the 2001 recession, we investigate if there is a possible shift from revenue yield motive to fiscal stress motive. We find that the normal distribution of hazards assumption along with the multicollinearity problem led prior research to an erroneous conclusion, and that fiscal stress is indeed the main determinant of initial and repeated tax amnesties enacted by states between 1982 and 2005.
H80|The Investment Activity And The Financing Problems During The Crisis In Romania|:This article treats the correlation between the investment projects and financing difficulties in a vicious circle during the crisis. First of all, Romania, as the whole world, should reconsider the planning problems, taking into consideration two problems: from one point of view, the nowadays economic and social difficulties; from another point of view, the negotiation between the economic boom and the financial imbalances. Secondly, the investment decisions should be close connected to possibilities financing. This paper has underlined that Romania is an emergent economy and it must elaborate strategically plans, on the large scale and on the long time, but, all participants – government, local administrations, large and small enterprises, and individuals have to head skills to estimate the financing resources. Thirdly, one lesson from the financial crisis is a Nobel winners΄ vision – E. Ostrom and O. Williamson - about our overconfidence in institutions that are important to the functioning of the economy and about the economic governance. Accepting the idea of an L-shaped recovery, during a long time, in this paper we consider that there are necessary small steps, but based on a performing management coordinated to the national and even international level, in function of the government financing possibilities for communities and individuals. The research is based on the statistical analysis and on the lessons of the financial crisis to prove the valid explanations and measures to support the real economy. Recently, European Union (EU) has underlined the numerous recovery measures to support the real economy during the economic crisis.
H80|A atuação das elites políticas regionais e sua repercussão no desenvolvimento do planalto médio gaùcho no brasil, 1930-1945|Este artigo procurou demonstrar como as elites políticas regionais gaúchas atuaram no cenário da poca abrangendo um recorte temporal entre os anos de 1930 a 1945. Efetuou-se uma abordagem referente aos fatores sociais, políticos e econômicos que possibilitaram o desenvolvimento e ou crescimento dessa região, preenchendo as lacunas deixadas pela história nacional com documentos, notícias, notas e inserções que demonstram as particularidades e a identidade local. Ainda analisamos através dos coeficientes locacionais as potencialidades dos municípios de Passo Fundo e Carazinho, e com base no Censo de 1940 elencamos os fatores de especialização em nível regional e local. Concluiu-se que as elites políticas faziam parte do contexto institucional de modo direto ou indireto, e davam suporte ao governo, especialmente ao federal, ao passo que as elites econômicas atuavam nos diversos segmentos da sociedade, destacando-se em diferentes ocupações e profissões.
H80|Intermediation in corruption markets|Purpose - Consider a government benefit that is earmarked for a group of people “deserving” the benefit. Corruption happens when undeserving candidates obtain the benefit with the help of corrupt officials. Often, such corrupt activities are mediated by professional touts who act as intermediaries between the undeserving candidates and the corrupt officials. The purpose of this paper is to analyze the equilibrium in such an intermediated market. Design/methodology/approach - A queuing model was theoretically analyzed where candidates wait in line to obtain the benefit. Undeserving candidates can also obtain the service – in exchange for a bribe – if they happen to wait at a counter with a corrupt clerk. The intermediary collects information to find out which clerks are corrupt, and charges a fee to direct candidates to an honest or corrupt clerk, as the candidate may choose. Findings - In a market with a single intermediary we show that, under fairly general conditions: the intermediary is active; both deserving and undeserving candidates use the service of the intermediary; welfare in an economy with an intermediary is lower than that in an economy without intermediaries; and under some conditions, an optimal response to corruption is to reduce the number of officials dispensing the benefit. Originality/value - This paper provides a framework within which intermediated markets for corruption can be analysed. The framework is easy to adapt and can accommodate social costs other than waiting costs. The conclusion suggests more complex scenarios that may be analysed using the approach in this model.
H80|The economic effects of direct democracy—a first global assessment|This is the first study that assesses the economic effects of direct democratic institutions on a cross country basis. Its results are based on up to six new measures produced to reflect the legislative basis for using direct democratic institutions as well as their factual use. In addition, a more general overall indicator is used. On the basis of these two different data sets only some of the results of the former intra-country studies are confirmed. An analysis based on the more general democracy index for 87 countries shows that a higher degree of direct democracy leads to lower budget deficits and higher government effectiveness. The effects on government expenditure, corruption and productivity have the expected signs but do not reach conventional levels of significance. A more fine grained analysis for a cross section of 88 countries based on the second data set shows that institutional detail matters a great deal. In particular, the mere possibility of drawing on direct-democratic institutions is often not sufficient to induce significant effects whereas the frequency of their factual use has a number of substantive effects on economic variables.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
H80|Political Economy and Social Welfare with Voting Procedure|Mathematical Economics, Social Science and Political Science are inter-related. In this paper, an attempt has been made to describe aspects of these subjects by introducing examples, definitions, mathematical calculations and discussions. Game Theory is included in this paper to study mathematical models in economics and political science especially to study Nash equilibrium. Success and failure of democracy are interpreted as different equilibria of a dynamic political game with cost of changing leadership. Unitary democracy can be frustrated when voters do not replace corrupt leaders. Federal democracy cannot be consistently frustrated at both national and provincial levels. Arrow?s theorem indicates that the aggregate of individuals? preferences will not satisfy transitivity, indifference to irrelevant alternatives and nondictatorship, simultaneously to enable one of the individuals becomes a dictator. In this paper both social welfare functions and social choice correspondence are considered in economical environments.
H80|Crime, Corruption and Institutions|This paper explores the link between crime and corruption, compares their magnitudes, determinants and their effects on growth rates. The study uses a large cross country data set containing individual responses to questions on crime and corruption along with information on the respondents’ characteristics. This data set is supplemented by country level indicators from a variety of sources on a range of macro variables and on institutions in the respondent’s country of residence. A methodological contribution of this study is the estimation of an ordered probit model based on outcomes defined as combinations of crime and bribe victimisation. The principal results include the evidence that while a male is more likely to be a corruption victim, a female is more exposed to crime, especially, serious crime. Older individuals and those living in the smaller towns and cities are less exposed to crime and corruption due presumably to their ability to form informal networks that act as protective mechanisms. With increasing levels of income and education, an individual is more likely to report both crime and bribe victimisation. A crime victim is more likely than a non victim to report receiving demands for a bribe. The results suggest that variables such as inequality, unemployment rate and population size have a strong effect on the country’s crime and corruption statistics though the sign and significance of the country effects are not always robust. However, the paper does provide robust evidence that a stronger legal system and a happier society result in a reduction in both crime and corruption. While the study finds that both crime and corruption rates decline as a country becomes more affluent, as measured by its per capita GNP at PPP, there is no evidence of a strong and uniformly negative impact of either crime or corruption on a country’s growth rate. There is limited OLS based evidence of a non linear relationship between growth and corruption rates, though the significance of the corruption effect on growth disappears on the use of IV estimation. The paper also provides evidence that there has been a decline in both crime and corruption during the latter half of the 1990s. This is true even after controlling for the individual and country characteristics.
H80|Nodokļu ieņēmumu modelēšana, izmantojot sistēmdinamikas metodi<BR>[Taxes income modeling with system dynamic method]|In the paper the author represents the system dynamic model of taxes income and it action results. The system dynamic is one from systems research methods, which analyses the systems in time depending from structure of system elements and their mutual influence, including reasons connections, feedback, reaction delay and so on. In Latvia this method used in building industry forecasting, estimated credit burden for Latvia and Latvian populations, for job market and labour migration, for mobile telephones market in Latvia. In paper method bases are described and shown its application possibilities in macroeconomics. In paper is declared, that the system dynamic model base is the macroeconomic circulating in model. In model basis is householders and firms. The blocks of savings and government complement model. In paper both graphic and equalization form shown it relations. One from novelty elements is constrained with form of the mathematical equalizations of these connections in the system dynamic model. A model allows estimate volumes of material stocks in the state, their changes, get GNP level from production and demand hands. Using a model, it is possible to simulate income of taxes and state budget. In paper state budget prognosis is given for 2009 for Latvia, as also estimated influence of crises and changes of taxes rates to taxes income. In paper offered use system dynamic method and produced model in teaching process, in macroeconomics studying.
H80|A Spatial Analysis On The Provision Of Urban Public Services And Their Deficiencies: A Study Of Some Selected Blocks In Khulna City, Bangladesh|In most of the cities in Bangladesh, there is a considerable lacking in providing public services comparing with the demand. This study aims to identify the deficiencies in providing public services in three selected blocks of Khulna city, Bangladesh. Blocks are considered here as an individual small administrative unit within the jurisdiction of Khulna City Corporation. First the study identified the spatial concentration of the services among the blocks. The comparative situation of the blocks in terms of public services was viewed by location quotient method and Gini coefficient and neighbourhood standard were consider to identify the deficiencies. The study found that two of the blocks are comparatively developed while the other one lag far behind the mean level of development of the city. Lastly on the basis of population and space standard, required facilities for each of the blocks were calculated.
H80|Evaluation Of Municipal Services In Selected Wards Of Dhaka City Corporation: Citizen’S Perspective|Dhaka city is the home of more than five million and is one of the most densely populated cities of the world. Dhaka City Corporation is responsible for providing various services to its citizen with its limited resources. ‘Citizen Report Card’ is one of the new methods to measure the performance of civic services provided by urban government. This study used this method to measure the performance of waste management, mosquito control and certification service offered by Dhaka City Corporation in some selected wards of Dhaka City. The performance of each of these services is ranked using The Urban Governance Indicator value. The study concluded that citizen of Dhaka ranked the waste management and certification service as fair while mosquito control service was identified as poor. The paper ended with a discussion on possible improvement of quality of services.
H80|Values from the principal axiological theories: A priori and independent qualities of things and human acts|In the framework of current concerns around reform and administration modernization, values from the main axiological theories (aprioristic qualities and independence of things and human acts) constitutes a subjective approach that departs from the idea that it is the human being, the subject, who assigns values to things. In this direction, the subject cannot be a different entity from valuations and the existence of valuations is only possible on the different human being reactions. Things do not have value by themselves; it is the human being who creates value with her valuations and it is from this that the motivation for this research is born. The theoretical framework of this paper rests on the works of Muñoz (1998), Frondizi (2001), and Marín (1976), amongst others, and under a interpretative symbolic approach by means of a qualitatively, descriptive, no experimental, and documentary analysis. In postmodern management, it is stablished the need of integrating values from democracy with institutional values. Thus, in the framework of etics of postmodern administration, democracy values comform the center of this last one and turn themselves into a guiding approach for the reaching of society´s well being.
H80|Cyclical Fiscal Policy, Output Volatility, and Economic Growth|This paper provides a comprehensive empirical assessment of the relation between the cyclicality of fiscal policy, output volatility, and economic growth, using a large cross-section of 88 countries over the period 1960 to 2004. Identification of the effects of (endogenous) cyclical fiscal policy is achieved by exploiting the exogeneity of countries’ political and institutional characteristics, which we find to be relevant determinants of fiscal cyclicality. There are three main results: First, both pro- and countercyclical fiscal policy amplify output volatility, much in a way like pure fiscal shocks that are unrelated to the cycle. Second, output volatility, due to variations in cyclical and discretionary fiscal policy, is negatively associated with economic growth. Third, there is no direct effect of cyclicality of economic growth other than through output volatility. These findings advocate the introduction of fiscal rules that limit the use of (discretionary and) cyclical fiscal policy to improve growth performance by reducing volatility.
H80|Lo público en la globalización|El significado de lo público es quizá difícil de concretarlo en las actuales condiciones políticas, económicas y sociales. Por ello, este artículo desarrolla algunas consideraciones histórico-teóricas sobre el concepto de lo público, desde la Antigüedad hasta la Modernidad, con el propósito de contraponerlo luego con algunas reflexiones sobre el proceso de globalización, para terminar mostrando la fuerte influencia de nuevos actores -políticos- en la esfera pública de hoy
H80|Why is the Military Draft Common? Conscription and Increasing Returns|It is well-known that if the required number of military personnel is large, paying the soldiers their hire may involve very high taxes. While conscription involves the inefficiency and unfairness of violating free choice, it may save significant distortionary costs of taxation. It is not well-known that, even in the absence of these distortionary costs, conscription may reduce the inequity of having very low marginal utilities for soldiers if they are paid enough to attract their voluntary services and very high marginal utilities for civilians if they have to pay very high taxes. Having all citizens serving an equal fraction of time may be inefficient as there are high degrees of increasing returns in military services due to both training costs and learning by doing. Conscription may then increase the expected utilities of all individuals.
H80|Social Quality and Precarity: Approaching New Patterns of Societal (Dis)Integration|The main issue of this article is to discuss the question of ‘precarity’ in the context of the theory of social quality (see Beck et al, 2001), with which to pave the way for developing further the theoretical foundation of precarity. Societal practice is the main challenge this concept tries to address. However, the danger is to introduce a new term, yet maintaining a discussion on traditional problems as poverty, marginalisation and exclusion. Our thesis is that these problems, far from being sufficiently tackled, are currently going along with and being adjunct to another challenge, namely precarity. Although the ‘old problems’ are not problems of individuals and expression of their ‘personal failure’, precarity – seen in the context of the theory of social quality – means a new stage of socialisation of the problems by further individualisation of the victims. In principle, we can say that this understanding of precarity is an expression of a further erosion of society, characterising especially periods of transformation of economic systems.
H80|Strengths And Weaknesses Of The New Public Management (NPM)- Cross-Sectional And Longitudinal Analysis|The paradigm of NPM, like its forerunners, has been trying to answer the same question for almost twenty years: how to implement policies, strategies, programs and projects, using the market-type mechanisms, so that the institutions of the state could achieve the desired results. The praises and criticism that have accompanied this paradigm along its evolution are fully justified. Indeed, the NPM has strengths and weaknesses as well, and one purpose of this paper is to identify them and to find answers to the following questions. Which components of the mechanism named NPM generate negative results? Why? What can be done? It is not easy to answer these questions, taking into consideration the multitude of factors influencing the public management, and especially the tremendous impacts of the accelerated process of globalization. The global problems of nowadays make any unilateral action of a government unconceivable, and this brings us to the concept of global public management (GPM). Nevertheless, the way forward will be the subject of another paper. The paper is structured in two main sections, as follows: The first section provides a conceptual framework, examining the multifaceted structure of the NPM and its mechanisms (the “state-of-the-art” of the “art of the state”). The second section suggests a theoretical framework on “measuring” the aggregate attribute of the NPM – the QoG – illustrated by practical cases, in a twofold perspective: longitudinal (variation in time) and cross-sectional (variation among countries).
H80|ICT Governance: Towards Federalized Structure and Solution|The ICT (Information and Communication Technology) Governance means actively identifying the service needs of the Government and her customers and to focus on planning and delivering these services to meet availability, performance, and security requirements. It also aims at managing service level agreements to meet agreed-upon security, quality and cost targets. Successful operation of an ICT unit of the government would require it to be fully integrated with the complete lifecycle of Government’s processes, improving service quality and Government agility. The paper identifies appropriate international standards for ICT Governance, and ICT Management around which solutions for ICT governance should be built.
H80|Il prestito della pace. Un progetto vaticano elaborato durante la grande guerra / ‘The loan of peace’: a Vatican project devised during World War I|During the First World War, Carlo Santucci was invited, on behalf of the Holy See, to elaborate a project for the creation of a single international bond, named ‘The Loan of Peace’. Its aim was twofold: i) to shift the control of war debts from the national level to an international committee, in order to reduce costs by increasing warranties; ii) to foster the return of the Holy See on the world diplomatic scene, after some years of isolation, through the presence of a pontifical representative in this committee. Possible reasons for the abandonment of the project include the United States’ intervention in the war, which reduced the effectiveness of eurocentric enterprises, and the failure of pontifical peace diplomacy.
H80|Determinants of Direct Democracy|This paper investigates on the demographic, economic, political and cultural determinants of direct democracy in 87 countries using an index of direct democracy. The test is interesting since there are important variations across these countries in the referendum and initiative use. We apply a number of estimation techniques. We find that per capita income, education and a larger share of Catholic population are positive determinants, whereas ethnic fractionalization is depending on the estimation technique. Political rights and stability also work as prerequisites to direct democracy. Direct democracy seems independent from the institutional structure.
H80|Corrupcion Y Concentracion Del Ingreso: Su Impacto En Las Empresas Latinoamericanas|Corruption and income inequality have developed into a threat throughout Latin America. Their expansion generates a sense of urgency to confront the problem. Both perversely influence business decisions despite inherently sound macroeconomic reforms. Empirical evidence for twenty Latin American countries confirms a relationship between a set of political and economic variables to explain business performance. The analysis provides support that mainly corruption, rather than income inequality, adversely affects business performance. However, when taken together, both corruption and income disparities exacerbate their negative effects. Business executives must take a stance to demand minimum levels of transparency and equity.
H80|Conflict and Conflict Managment with Asymmetric Stakes (The Bad-Cop and the Good Cop part II)|This paper considers a partial equilibrium model of conflict where two asymmetric, rational and risk-neutral opponents evaluate differently the contested stake. Differently from common contest models, agents have the option of choosing a second instrument to affect the outcome of the conflict. The second instrument is assumed to capture positive investments in ‘conflict management’ - labelled as ‘talks’. It will be demonstrated that, under some conditions, an asymmetry in the evaluation of the stake can lead to a concession from one agent to the other. In particular, the agent with the higher evaluation of the stake would make a concession, proportional to the optimal choice of ‘talks’ . The existence of a concession paves the way for establishing a feasible settlement region (FSR) given that both parties can be better off while expending resources in ‘talks’. Eventually the basic model is extended in order to consider the existence of asymmetries in technological capabilities. Whenever the agents exhibit sufficiently asymmetric productive characteristics a FSR can be established even if a concession is not ensured. However a concession can enlarge the FSR. Finally, throughout the paper, the concept of entropy is applied as a tool for the measurement and evaluation of conflict and
H80|La Dirección General|Desde tiempos inmemoriales ha existido la inquietud de abordar el tema de la Dirección General de una organización, y de hecho se ha realizado. En este artículo se pretende hacer una aproximación actual al concepto de la dirección de las empresas teniendo en cuenta las implicaciones para el líder cuando se hablaba de crear valor para los stackeholders como su principal responsabilidad, a través del gobierno corporativo con responsabilidad social, pensando como propietario. Para lo cual debe concebir su modelo de negocio, esto exige imaginar la empresa con base en su propia concepción, que incluye el pensamiento, la concepción, la formulación, y el proceso estratégico, que orienta el quehacer y hacer, motivando, inspirando, ejecutando y formando, ejecutando y controlando, con base en sus recursos y sus capacidades.
H80|Bribery: Who Pays, Who Refuses, What are the Payoffs?|We provide a theoretical framework for understanding when an official angles for a bribe, when a client pays, and the payoffs to the client's decision. We test this framework using a new data set on bribery of Peruvian public officials by households. The theory predicts that bribery is more attractive to both parties when the client is richer, and we find empirically that both bribery incidence and value are increasing in household income. However, 65% of the relation between bribery incidence and income is explained by greater use of officials by high-income households, and by their use of more corrupt types of official. Compared to a client dealing with an honest official, a client who pays a bribe has a similar probability of concluding her business, while a client who refuses to bribe has a probability 16 percentage points lower. This indicates that service improvements in response to a bribe merely offset service reductions associated with angling for a bribe, and that clients refusing to bribe are punished. We use these and other results to argue that bribery is not a regressive tax.
H80|Origins and Consequences of Child Labor Restrictions: A Macroeconomic Perspective|In this paper we investigate the positive and normative consequences of child-labour restrictions for economic aggregates and welfare. We argue that even though the laissez-faire equilibrium may be inefficient, there are usually better policies to cure these inefficiencies than the imposition of a child-labour ban. Given this finding, we investigate the potential political-economic reasons behind the emergence and persistence of child-labour legislation. Our investigation is based on a structural dynamic general equilibrium model that provides a coherent and uniform framework for our analysis.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
H80|Some Propositions on Intergenerational Risk Sharing, Social Security and Self-Insurance|This article describes, within a myopic intergenerational bargaining framework incorporating two discrete periods and binary states of risks, some new aspects regarding the mixture of intergenerational risk sharing and social security. Here, state-dependent utility under mortality risk proves to generate parents’ peculiar indifference curve regarding insurance contract, and self-insurance is shown to play a crucial role on the decision regarding social security holding and intergenerational transfer contract. This peculiar aspect, given for the first time in this article, also derives some novel features of insurance theory under lifetime uncertainty, where the current position in social security contract could adversely affect parents’ decision regarding intergenerational risk sharing with children. In addition, other basic results regarding the sensitivity to default risk and taxation in social security are summarized.
H80|Kharaj and land proprietary right in the sixteenth century: An example of law and economics|Kharaj (land-tax) has been a controversial subject since the formative period of Islamic jurisprudence. It is said that Muslim jurists have been very conservative while dealing with the subject of kharaj. But this is wrong perception or opinion. The Controversy have mainly been revolved around the kharaj-payer's relationship with the land he owned or cultivated. This nature of relationship was necessary, for in circumstances it alone determined what to do with the kharaji land. A host of problems surfaced over the centuries and the Muslim jurists dealt with them differently. The later jurists, specially during the Ottoman period, face situations which did not exist in early period. So they were compelled to develop their own thoughts over a number of issues and in so doing they had to differ from their predecessors. It may, therefore, be argued that the Islamic law on kharaj has never been rigid and static.
H80|Can we teach civic attitudes?|There is a large amount of evidence that shows higher levels of schooling are associated with a substantive increase in civic engagement. We empirically discuss this issue using Spanish data. In order to identify the existence of a possible causal link between schooling and civic attitudes, we use the discontinuity between compulsory schooling and minimum working age introduced in the 1976 law of employment regulation. We find that education has no significant causal effect on citizenship outcomes.
H80|Orientación de prácticas empresariales estudiantiles con base en técnicas administrativas|Como parte de la segunda etapa del proyecto de investigación sobre «Aplicación de un modelo decreatividad para actualizar la enseñanza de la gestión en sistemas empresariales agropecuarios colombianos»se estableció un objetivo destinado a reforzar adecuadamente la apropiada planeación y ejecución delas prácticas empresariales del último semestre de estudios de la Facultad de Administración de EmpresasAgropecuarias de la Universidad de La Salle, estrategia que empezó a ser desarrollada a partir del segundo cicloacadémico del año 2003. Con este propósito se planteó inicialmente un modelo de fortalecimiento empresarialque incluyera una metodología coherente basada en las técnicas más recientes de administración de empresas,cimentada sobre experiencias previas. A continuación se probó la aplicabilidad de este modelo en algunasempresas del sector agropecuario que solicitaron apoyo en su gestión y en la elaboración de planes de desarrollo.Por medio de un proceso de investigación acción se fue reajustando paulatinamente la metodología hasta llegara un modelo apto para ser usado por los estudiantes y egresados de la Facultad. Fue así como los resultadosobtenidos se aplicaron tanto en la orientación de las prácticas empresariales del décimo semestre de estudioscomo en la asignatura de Laboratorio Empresarial de noveno semestre, buscando preparar a los futurospracticantes empresariales en el adecuado ejercicio de apoyo a las empresas que apoyarían. De esta manera,más de cien estudiantes y más de doscientos productores agropecuarios se han beneficiado y han aplicado esteproceso entre junio de 2003 y julio de 2005. La metodología utilizada y los resultados obtenidos sepresentan en este artículo
H80|En la búsqueda de enfoques para el desarrollo. A propósito del debate entre el Consenso de Washington y el Fórum de Barcelona|Este artículo tiene por propósito mostrar como los modelos de desarrollo se han implementado pero nose han constituido en una solución a las necesidades para las que fueron creados. En la primera parte semuestra las concepciones dominantes del crecimiento económico, presentándolas como una necesidad parael progreso de las economías, pero no suficientes, lo que se constituye en una limitante de las reformaspromulgadas desde el Consenso de Washington.Posteriormente, se discuten algunos métodos alternativos para concluir con la idea que desde la diversidad y no con la búsqueda de modelos homogéneos, se podrían intentar alternativas dedesarrollo para la humanidad, idea que se constituye en el principal aporte del Forum de Barcelona.
H80|The impact of school choice on student outcomes: an analysis of the Chicago Public Schools|Current education reform proposals involve improving educational outcomes through forms of market-based competition and expanded parental choice. In this paper, we explore the impact of choice through open enrollment within the Chicago Public Schools (CPS). Roughly half of the students within CPS opt out of their assigned high school to attend other neighborhood schools or special career academies and magnet schools. Access to school choice dramatically increases student sorting by ability relative to neighborhood assignment. Students who opt out are more likely to graduate than observationally similar students who remain at their assigned schools. However, with the exception of those attending career academies, the gains appear to be largely spurious driven by the fact that more motivated students are disproportionately likely to opt out. Students with easy geographical access to a range of schools other than career academies (who presumably have a greater degree of school choice) are no more likely to graduate on average than students in more isolated areas. We find no evidence that this finding can be explained by negative spillovers to those who remain that mask gains to those who travel. Open enrollment apparently benefits those students who take advantage of having access to vocational programs without harming those who do not.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
H80|The Degree Of Competition In The European Football Leagues: A Statistical Approach|As a professional sport, professional football teams in a league compete in imperfect market conditions since every team in a professional football league may be known by their differentiated product (i.e. the quality of football they play). If the competition level increases, the quality of football being played may also increase. Thus, consumers`(i.e. football spectators) value of money spent on football should increase too. Thus, this paper tries to implement the above mentioned economic principle through a statistical method on nine European countries football leagues, in an individual and comparative manner. During the estimation period, it is calculated that, on average, the highest level of football competition took place in France, whereas Turkish football came last.
H80|Turkiye 1. Profesyonel Football Ligi Rekabet Duzeyi: 1958-1998 ( Degree of Football Competition in the Turkish First Division: 1958-1998) (In TURKISH)|This study is primarily concerned with the degree of professional football competition in the Turkish first division football since its establishment. Moreover, this article aims to find the optimal number of football teams in a league as well as presenting the effects of the changes in point system on the degree of football competition. Finally, the Turkish first division's football competition level is compared to the selected European leagues.
H80|The Determinants of Vote Intentions in Portugal|This paper offers new insights on the interactions between economics and politics in Portugal. We use two unexplored data sets consisting of monthly polls on vote intentions for the main political parties in Portugal and responses to a consumer survey containing a battery of questions on economic evaluations. The analysis covers the interval from 1986 to 2001. We find that: (1) right-wing governments are penalized for higher inflation while the left-wing ones are not, (2) left-wing governments are more penalized for increases in the unemployment rate; (3) voters base their evaluations of incumbents' performances on perceptions of past and current economic conditions, rather than on expected future economic outcomes.
H80|Estado ¿versus? Mercado/State ¿Versus? Market|El Estado y el mercado son instituciones imperfectas. La idealización tanto del uno como del otro ha llevado a pedirles más de lo que podían ofrecer. Además, una de las consecuencias de la idealización ha sido una perspectiva de enfrentamiento permanente entre Estado y mercado en la investigación económica durante muchas décadas. Sin embargo, en los últimos años la visión de muchos economistas ha superado el dualismo contradictorio entre Estado y mercado, y busca espacios de complicidad donde lo público y lo privado colaboren recíprocamente para cumplir los cometidos que les son propios. Es decir, espacios donde el Estado y el mercado puedan complementarse y donde eficiencia y equidad se ayuden para avanzar simultáneamente. The State and the Market are imperfect institutions. Nonetheless, both of them have been idealized by their strongest supporters. Consequently, demands on the State and the Market have been much stronger than these institutions could reasonably provide. Also, the economists have used for a long time to look at the relationship between state and market as if they were permanently in conflict and contradiction. Nonetheless, in the recent years many economists have overcome this strict dualism State versus marked and have put the emphasis on the cooperative dimension of the public and private relationship. That is to say, economists’ research progressively seeks fields where the State and the Market can complement each other to properly do what each one is entitled to do.
H80|Theoretical framework of public policies for welfare maximization|The welfare state concept, which is related to welfare economics, has taken place in economics literature once again in recent years. The theories and theoretical supports are various. In this study, at first the concept of welfare economics was applied and then addition of Smith were added in the historical period. On the other hand , the welfare economics which is based on Pareto, Pigou and Hicks-Kaldor’s theories and also The social welfare function theory were examined. At the end of the last part of study, the reasons of the government’s interference on economics is appraised aorund the framework of the pareto optimal deviations
H80|Good governance in microcredit strategy for poverty reduction: focus on western Mindanao, Philippines|The study argues for the integration of good governance principles in developing financially viable, effective and social equity-laden microcredit strategy for the impoverished agrarian reform beneficiaries in Western Mindanao. It particularly examines the program design and implementation strategies of the Enterprise Development Credit (EDC) sub-component of the Western Mindanao Community Initiatives Project (WMCIP). The study aims to provide lessons and insights for the planning and implementation of comprehensive and integrated Official Development Assistance (ODA)-funded government programs for poverty reduction and rural development. The data and information were generated from combined descriptive and field studies covering a sample survey, group discussions, interviews, field visits and observations, official documents and other secondary sources. The respondents were officials and field personnel of WMCIP, line agencies, local government units (LGUs), and non-government organizations (NGOs); officers and members of cooperatives and people’s organizations (POs); religious leaders and informal moneylenders; and WMCIP beneficiaries. Overall, microcredit is applicable only to the enterprising poor. The application of microcredit to other poverty groups who actually need subsidies and social safety nets would be a mistake. Thus, the EDC sub-component should be reformulated and revitalized following the program design of the Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee (BRAC). Its graduated strategy for helping the poor should be applied to the poverty pyramid by categorizing the WMCIP beneficiaries into four poverty groups: (1) micro-enterprise operators or the less poor, (2) enterprising or moderately poor, (3) laboring or very poor, and (4) poorest of the poor and most vulnerable or the ultra-poor. The results further reveal that based on the poverty pyramid, the credit program designs of the Credit Assistance Program for Program Beneficiaries Development (CAP-PBD) and Quedan Rural Credit and Finance Corporation (QUEDANCOR) are readily applicable to the credit needs and financial capabilities of the enterprising poor. Beyond QUEDANCOR’s microcredit facility, the non- enterprising poor may actually opt for financial assistance from cooperatives or CAP- PBD to help finance their agriculture-and fishery-related production activities. On the other hand, the beneficiaries and their “not-so-strong” organizations that could not readily comply with the minimum credit standards should be provided with farm production subsidies, capability-building services and social safety nets under a special poverty alleviation project. This will enable them to pass minimum credit standards within a transition period of six months to one year. In view of WMCIP’s EDC sub-component, the study further identifies the factors that enable or limit successful design and implementation of microcredit program and the provision of public support services. The enabling factors are vital to planning and decision-making that will eventually make the program effective and appropriate. The limiting factors, on the other hand, facilitate the identification of strategies to manage and control credit risks and other circumstances that may hinder participation and adversely affect the attainment of objectives and desired outcomes. On the whole, the application of good governance will improve program design and will make the implementation strategies acceptable to all organized stakeholders and individual end-beneficiaries. This will also improve the administrative capabilities of partner organizations and enable them to be effective and responsive to the differentiated poverty conditions, credit needs, preferences and financial capabilities of the impoverished target beneficiaries. These are consequently geared towards the attainment of the long-term vision of sustainable human development for the impoverished WMCIP beneficiaries. The integration of good governance into microcredit intends to improve its program design, implementation strategies and processes. However, support services are actually necessary so as to simultaneously attain the desired social equity and financial viability objectives. The program should be orchestrated within a comprehensive and integrated approach to poverty reduction and rural development. The good governance of microcredit requires multiple organizational partnerships among the different government agencies, business sector and the civil society. Most importantly, the financial and technical support programs of the international donor community are absolutely necessary in the light of Philippine economic and fiscal challenges.
H80|Teaching in Public Choice Courses How Direct Democracy Can Influence Voting Behavior|"This study seeks to expand the scope of that portion of Public Choice courses that involves voting behavior. The study broadens the interpretation of the ""rational voter model"" so as to include the potential effects of ""direct democracy"" on the voter participation rate. Direct democracy is assumed here to take three forms: statewide initiatives, statewide popular referenda, and statewide legislative referenda. This study presents the hypothesis that greater numbers of such initiatives and/or referenda may increase voter turnout because they may elevate the expected gross (and hence net) benefits of voting by empowering voters, despite any accompanying information costs that may tend to elevate the expected gross costs of voting. The empirical evidence to address the net overall effect of these forms of direct democracy on voter turnout is provided."
H80|Why don’t we do what we want? Non-consumers and the public dilemma in cultural promotion|We deal with tastes and preferences, revising the linkages between both in order to analyse the special case where we express preferences to goods that do not appeal to us. We deduce the concept of a deconstructed demand and define two types of goods (embarrassing and reputable). With the help of this structure we build a demand function for cultural promotion, where the non-market-expressed non-consumers’ preferences are the basis of the “demand for cultural policies”. Finally, in this framework the State faces a dilemma that could be solved in different ways.
H80|Análisis de la Eficiencia en el Sector de las Artes Escénicas: El Caso del ‘Circuït Teatral Valencià’ (1995-1999)|The performing arts sector is also capable of being studied from the point of view of economics. Having this into account we focus on its relation resources/products and on the concept of efficiency as one of the components of the productivity, analyzing the period 1995-1999 in order to determine if the process of performing arts programming in the 'Circuït Teatral Valencià', a Spanish theaters regional network, has been efficient from a technical point of view.
H80|Constrained egalitarianism in a simple redistributive model|We extend the theory of constrained egalitarianism initiated by Dutta and Ray (1989) with a view of making it more widely applicable to normative and public economics. The paper is concerned with redistributive systems in which what the individuals get depends on what they receive or pay qua members of generally overlapping groups.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
H80|The New International Architecture|no abstract available.
H80|Government Deficits, Political Inefficiency, and Fiscal Reconstruction in Japan|We investigate the behavior of government deficits and fiscal reconstruction movement in Japan both theoretically and empirically. We first develop a dynamic framework of fiscal reconstruction process using the dynamic game theory among various interest groups. The distribution of a tax increase, that is, contribution of taxes to reducing public debt and raising privileges, depends on the political efficiency of lobbying activities. We also investigate empirically the relationship between the political inefficiency and the outcome of fiscal reconstruction process in the Japanese (national) general account.
H80|Municipal finance and governance in Poland, the Slovak Republic, the Czech Republic, and Hungary|The recent process of political and economic transformation in eastern European countries has not only contributed to the decentralisation of political structure but also significantly enhanced the fiscal autonomy of municipalities belonging to these countries. Although the degree of self-governing ability of municipalities seems to vary from one country to another, many similar types of public activities have recently been assigned to local governments, and some taxes were also declared to be so-called local taxes. To be sure, this type of fiscal decentralisation has caused some additional problems, particularly for safeguarding the quality of publicly provided goods and services and for coordinating intergovernmental fiscal transfers between the central and local governments in an efficient way. For instance, some criticise that a large number of small-sized municipalities in the transition economies have suffered from financial bottleneck and have not been able to receive financial support from the central government that was necessary for their economic development. However, such a fiscal devolution trend appears to continue, in parallel to the ongoing democratisation and decentralisation. This study primarily deals with crucial issues surrounding the impact of national fiscal policy and the regulatory framework on local governments' expenditure behaviour and their ability to mobilise necessary revenues (i.e. tax income, grants and municipal borrowings) under the particular consideration of the institutional and administrative cooperation with the central government and of the (still existing) lesswell developed financial market in Poland, the Slovak Republic, the Czech Republic and Hungary.
H80|Stuck in the Tunnel: Is Globalization Muddling the Middle Class?|Our objective in this paper is to assess how middle-income groups are faring with the global turn to the market. We suggest some simple measures of the middle-the size and income shares of households around the median (75/125%)-and their income status relative to wealthier counterparts. Our results point to genuine distributional stress for middle-income households, as well as public perceptions of such stress. They also suggest the need for new measures to capture distributional trends that are masked by aggregate measures. We posit that the fate of those in the middle merits new attention, as their political support and economic participation are critical to sustainable, market-oriented growth and poverty reduction in the long-term.
H80|Globalization and Redistribution: Feasible Egalitarianism in a Competitive World|A reduction of impediments to international flows of goods, capital and professional labor is thought to raise the economic costs of programs by the nation state (and labor unions) to redistribute income to the poor and to provide economic security. But some of the more politically and economically successful examples of such policies--for example Nordic social democracy and East Asian land reform--have occurred in small open economies which would, on the above account, provide a prohibitive environment for egalitarian interventions. I present a model of globalization and redistribution to answer the following question: in a liberalized world economy, what programs of egalitarian redistribution and social insurance are implementable by democratic nation states acting independently?
H80|The Economics of Vouchers|This paper aims to provide a swift tour of the economic issues presented by vouchers and thus to fill an apparent gap in the literature for a basic survey of the subject. Among the issues it considers are: factors determining a voucher's cash-equivalence; reasons (such as paternalism, externalities, and distribution) for giving beneficiaries non-cash-equivalent vouchers rather than cash; optimal tax issues involved in the design of vouchers and the choice between vouchers and other delivery mechanisms, including factors determining the optimal marginal reimbursement rate (MRR) in a voucher program, and the similarity between this question and that of determining optimal marginal tax rates (MTRs) under the income tax; the incentive effects of voucher eligibility criteria, such as income or asset tests; factors determining the allocative and price effects of vouchers, both in the short run when unexpectedly enacted and at equilibrium; and factors relevant to the choice between private and public supply that may often overlap with the decision whether to adopt a voucher program.
H80|Intergenerational Redistribution with Short-Lived Governments| The authors study the politics of intergenerational redistribution in an overlapping generations model with short-lived governments. The successive governments--who care about the welfare of the currently living generations and possibly about campaign contributions--are unable to precommit the future course of redistributive taxation. In a stationary politico-economic equilibrium, the intergenerational transfer in each period depends on the current value of the state variable and all expectations about future political outcomes are fulfilled. The authors find that there exist multiple stationary equilibria in many political settings. Steady-state welfare is often lower than it would be in the absence of redistributive politics.
H80|Is Nominal Public but de Facto Private Land Ownership Appropriate? A Comparative Study among Cambodia, Laos, Vietnam; Japan; Taiwan Provice of China; South Korea; China; Myanmar; and North Korea|In the transition from the centrally planned economy to a market-oriented rural development, Cambodia, Laos and Vietnam established a nominal state - but de facto private - land ownership. As a result, both new landlessness and inefficient land-holding immediately appeared. How to prevent these problems while still achieving market-oriented rural development? The Chinese model - a third way between the centrally planned economy and free market system - provides a useful example, which may be relevant not only to these three countries as well as Myanmar and North Korea, but also to many other economies.
H80|Agricultural Credit Under Economic Liberalization and Islamization in Sudan|This study uses survey data to examine the operations of the agrarian credit market, formal and informal, in Sudan uder conditions of recent economic liberalization and islamization ; the later does not allow interest rate fixing.
H80|Experimental Estimates of Education Production Functions|This paper analyzes data on 11,600 students and their teachers who were randomly assigned to different size classes from kindergarten through third grade. Statistical methods are used to adjust for nonrandom attrition and transitions between classes. The main conclusions are (1) on average, performance on standardized tests increases by four percentile points the first year students attend small classes; (2) the test score advantage of students in small classes expands by about one percentile point per year in subsequent years; (3) teacher aides and measured teacher characteristics have little effect; (4) class size has a larger effect for minority students and those on free lunch; (5) Hawthorne effects were unlikely.
H80|Subsidy-Allocation Rules for Infant Industries|"The optimal subsidy allocation mechanism is studied for a benevolent public-policy-decision maker faced with the task of assisting a domestic ""infant"" firm in its attempt to become established in an international industry.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
H80|The Challenges of Globalisation: Lessons from Australian Experience|Although this paper has a particular focus on fiscal federalism -and on the nature of Intergovernmental Relations that shape and reshape fiscal arrangements - it is important to view these issues within the context of the boader challenges the globalisation is posing for economic and political structures and relationships.
H80|Subsidy-Allocation Rules for Infant Industries|"The optimal subsidy allocation mechanism is studied for a benevolent public-policy-decision maker faced with the task of assisting a domestic ""infant"" firm in its attempt to become established in an international industry."
H80|La Fiscalía General de la Nación|“No hay duda de que la Fiscalía General de la Nación aún no ha podido despegar con la eficiencia que espera el país y ello obedece, muy posiblemente, a que no se le ha dado desarrollo a las Unidades de Policía Judicial, distrayendo los recursos de la Fiscalía en la realización de investigaciones que no son de su competencia. Tampoco en la etapa del sumario hay la eficacia que se esperaría, pues los índices de procesos que se quedan en el año sin tramitar son muy elevados. Ello puede obedecer, en gran medida, a desorden administrativo, pues el número de procesos que sale de un despacho por falta de competencia es muy elevado. Hay que tener en cuenta que la Fiscalía reasignó la totalidad de procesos que tenían los jueces de instrucción para tramitarlos en grupos especializados por tipos de delito, lo que inicialmente implicó un traumatismo serio en la distribución de los mismos. Hay, sin embargo, síntomas alentadores como son el incremento significativo de los sumarios que terminan con resolución acusatoria, y el bajo índice de los que salen del sistema por prescripción. Igualmente, se nota un cambio sustancial en la acción de la justicia, que ahora esta? operando más eficientemente con relación a la delincuencia organizada y a la de cuello blanco.”
H80|Tendencias organizativas en la ciudad de Medellín|“En la dinámica social, política y cultural de la ciudad de Medellín, las organizaciones sociales, cívicas y comunitarias -tanto las de mayor tradición como los nuevos mecanismos de participación, aquellas que han contado con reconocimiento jurídico y las que no lo han tenido, las de orientación liberal y conservadora y las de izquierda, de oposición o independientes, sean de sectores populares o de sectores medios, tienden a configurar un tejido organizativo que en los años recientes pugna por expresarse en forma más orgánica y articulada. Se buscan alternativas a una crisis de la cual buena parte de Colombia no ha alcanzado a ver sino la punta del iceberg representada en la violencia. La organización ciudadana es un indicador sociocultural, que refleja las reservas culturales de la cooperación, la ayuda mutua, los intereses comunes y la solidaridad. La participación y la organización ciudadana son indicadores sociales y políticos básicos cuando se trata de definir estrategias en función de una calidad de vida digna para el conjunto de los pobladores de las grandes ciudades. En nuestra ciudad, las propuestas actuales de las organizaciones comunitarias y ciudadanas tienden hacia un balance autocrítico y crítico respecto a la situación difícil de convivencia y a los problemas sociales. Levantan estrategias particulares que ahora empiezan a difundir y que pronto buscan hacer coincidir con otras estrategias generales provenientes de otros sectores y grupos de la población, oficiales y privados.”
H80|Labor Quality in a General Equilibrium System: Some Initial Notes|No abstract is available for this item.
H80|Экономический Кризис И Новая Парадигма Общественной Поддержки Опекаемых Благ<BR>[Economic Crisis and the New Paradigm of Public Support of the Patronized Goods]|В работе предложена новая модель экономического регулирования опекаемых благ в гуманитарном секторе экономики, направленная на повышение устойчивости финансового положения организаций культуры, науки, образования и снижение их зависимости от конъюнктурных решений экономических ведомств. Основу данной модели составляют три механизма общественнойподдержки: 1)система финансовых нормативов, характеризующих минимальные доли расходов бюджета на производство соответствующих видов опекаемых благ, отражающих государственные обязательства по их доступности для населения и оплате труда работников культуры,наукииобразования; 2)институт индивидуальных бюджетных назначений, реализующий право участия граждан в выборе направлений расходования ограниченной части налоговых доходов государства; 3) система эндаумент - фондов, позволяющих накапливать поступления от индивидуальных бюджетных назначений и маркированных налогов с целью извлечения возрастающего инвестиционного дохода от целевого капитала, являющегося дополнительным источником финансовой поддержки опекаемых благ в гуманитарном секторе экономики. In this paper,we propose a new model of economic regulation of the patronized goods in the humanitarian sector of the economy,aimed at increasing the sustainability of the financial position of organizations of culture,science,and education and a treduction of their dependence on conjunctural, oropportunistic,decisions of the economicdepartments. Thebasis of this model is composed of three mechanisms of public support: 1) a system of financial performance standards that characterizes a minimumshareofbudgetexpendituresontheproductionoftheappropriatetypesofpatronizedgoods, reflectingstate commitments to their accessibility for the population and the remuneration of labor of workersofculture,scienceandeducation; 2)theinstitution of individual budget appropriations which implements the right of citizens’ participationin the selection ofareas, ordirections of spendinga limited part of state income tax; 3)a system of endowment funds,allowing to accumulate receipts from the individual budget appropriations and labeled taxes,in order to extractthe in creasing in vestment in comefrom the target capital,or the endowment, which is an additional source of financial support for the patronized goods in the humanitarian sector of the economy.
H80|Voter Turnout, Information Acquisition and Education: Evidence from 15 European Countries|This article examines the impact of education on political participation in 15 European countries. We use data from the European Social Survey and find that education is positively associated with voter turnout and information acquisition about politics and currents affairs. However, when we use exogeneous changes in compulsory schooling to instrument education, we observe a statistically significant causal relationship in the case of information acquisition but not voter turnout.
H80|Partners in Crime: Collusive Corruption and Search|This paper analyzes corruption as a collusive act which requires the participation of two willing partners. An agent intending to engage in a corrupt act must search for a like-minded partner. When many people in the economy are corrupt, such a search is more likely to be fruitful. Thus when an agent engages in a search, he raises the net benefit of searching for other similar agents in the economy, creating an externality. This introduces a non-convexity in the model, which consequently has multiple equilibria. The economy can be in stable equilibrium with a high or low level of corruption.Starting from the high-corruption equilibrium, a sufficient increase in vigilance triggers a negative cascade, leading the economy to a new equilibrium in which no agent finds it profitable to search for corrupt partners. The no-corruption equilibrium continues to be stable if vigilance is then relaxed. This suggests that the correct way to deal with corruption is to launch a ``big push'' with large amounts of resources. Once the level of corruption declines, these resources can be withdrawn.
