H82|Russia’s public sector and privatization policy in 2018|From 2016, statistical data began to be published in the framework of the System of Public Property Management Efficiency Estimates. It was approved by Decree of the RF Government No 72 dated January 29, 2015, and introduced by way of replacing the public sector monitoring data, collected and released by the Federal State Statistics Service (Rosstat) since the early 2000s in accordance with the provisions stipulated in RF Government Decree No 1 dated January 4, 1999 (as amended on December 30, 2002). Among other things, the System contains data on the number of federal state unitary enterprises (FSUEs) and joint-stock companies (JSCs) with RF stakes in their capital. Previously, such data were usually published as part of government privatization programs (from 2011 – for three-year period, and prior to 2011 – for one-year period). In the current Forecast Plan (Program) of Federal Property Privatization and the Main Directions of Federal Property Privatization for 2017–2019, relevant data are available only as of early 2016 (Table 1), and so in order to describe the processes taking place over the period 2016–2018, one must rely on data in the System of Public Property Management Efficiency Estimates.
H82|The housing market in Russian cities in 2018|The preliminary results of the Russian economy’s development in 2018 appear to be rather controversial. On the one hand, the growth rate of GDP gained 2.3 percent; on the other, the consumer inflation index increased significantly, to 4.3 percent, from its record low of the entire period since the onset of market reforms (2.5 percent), achieved in 2017. The movement pattern of personal disposable income, which is a much more significant factor determining the situation in the real estate market, was quite volatile throughout the course of last year, with multiple trend reversals. In spite of the positive results of the first two quarters, probably achieved thanks to the current electoral cycle, in the end the personal disposable income index stayed roughly at the same level as in 2017. The RF Central Bank twice reduced its key rate over the course of H1 2018, to 7.25 percent per annum in early autumn. However, over the next few months it was once again hiked twice, and so returned to its level of late 2017 (7.75 percent). The tricky movement pattern of the key rate pushed down the interest rates on bank loans and notably improved the position of borrowers.
H82|Mieten, Modernisierung und Mieterstruktur - Vermietergruppen in Großstädten im Vergleich: Eine Analyse auf Basis des Sozio-oekonomischen Panels|Angesichts stetig steigender Mieten in den Großstädten stehen zunehmend Vermieter im Fokus öffentlicher und politischer Diskussionen. Selbst eine Enteignung großer privater Wohnungsgesellschaften in Berlin wird mittlerweile von einer Bürgerinitiative gefordert. Durch die Überführung der Unternehmen in staatliches Eigentum erwarten sich die Initiatoren geringere Mietpreisdynamiken und weniger kostentreibende Modernisierungen. In dieser Studie, die auf Daten des Sozio-oekonomischen Panels beruht, wurden Vermietergruppen in den Großstädten mit mehr als 500.000 Einwohnern miteinander verglichen. Bezogen auf den subjektiven Renovierungsbedarf und das Modernisierungsverhalten sind keine wesentlichen Unterschiede zwischen kommunalen, genossenschaftlichen und privaten Wohnungen erkennbar. Sowohl bei kommunalen als auch privaten Wohnungsgesellschaften sehen rund 40 Prozent der Mieter Handlungsbedarf, wobei 10 Prozent der Mieter kommunaler Wohnungsgesellschaften ihre Wohnungen sogar als vollständig renovierungsbedürftig ansehen - deutlich mehr als bei den anderen Wohnungsgesellschaften. Vergleichbar ist auch die Zahl der durchgeführten Modernisierungen, und auch bezüglich der Zufriedenheit der Mieter gibt es kaum Unterschiede. Lediglich am aktuellen Rand hat die Zufriedenheit der Mieter kommunaler Wohnungen etwas zugenommen, bei den übrigen Vermietergruppen sind die Werte seit 2013 relativ konstant. Unterschiede gibt es aber bei der Mietpreisdynamik. Während die Mieten in kommunalen Wohnungen seit 2013 kaum und bei Genossenschaften sehr moderat gestiegen sind, gab es starke Mietpreiszuwächse bei privaten Eigentümern und vor allem Wohnungsunternehmen. Private Vermieter reagieren daher stärker auf die anhaltende Wohnungsknappheit und die daraus resultierende stärkere Konkurrenz um Wohnungen. Aus dieser Perspektive ist es verständlich, dass Mieter sich von einem kommunalen / öffentlichen Eigentümer ein geringeres Mietpreiswachstum versprechen. Aus Sicht der Gesellschaft sind mit unterlassenen Mietpreissteigerungen aber Einnahmeverluste verbunden, was u. a. die Finanzierung von Sozialprogrammen oder Infrastruktur erschwert. Sozialpolitisch ist es daher wichtig zu prüfen, wer die Nutznießer sind. Im Fall der privaten Wohnungsunternehmen zeigt sich, dass 57 Prozent der Mieter über mehr als 80 Prozent des Median-Einkommens verfügen und 44 Prozent sogar mehr als 100 Prozent. Die unterlassenen Mietsteigerungen würden damit zu einem wesentlichen Teil Haushalten zu Gute kommen, die ansonsten keinen Rechtsanspruch und auch keinen Bedarf an staatlicher Unterstützung haben. Berücksichtigt man darüber hinaus die hohen Kosten einer Enteignung bzw. die Signalwirkung einer Enteignung ohne vollständige Kompensation, ist von einer Enteignung privater Wohnungsgesellschaften dringend abzuraten.
H82|Does Political Affiliation Matter On Post-Parliamentary Careers In The Boards Of Public Enterprises?|Research on post-parliamentary careers has so far neglected the effect of political affiliation on the appointment of ex-members of Parliament to public firms boards of director. This article intends to fill this gap by conducting an empirical analysis on a sample of 1,419 deputies of Italian Parliament elected over the period 1994-2001. The regression discontinuity estimates show that the probability of being appointed to the board of public enterprises of center-left ex-deputies is about 15 percentage points higher than that of center-right ex-deputies. This result brings to light the politicization of Italian public firms, put in place through the appointment of ex-deputies in managerial positions.
H82|Public Assets: What's at Stake? An Analysis of Public Assets and their Management in the European Union|Based on a study conducted by a private consultant, this paper sheds light on a large selection of public assets across the EU and compares their management practices. The paper shows that these assets amount to around €16.5 trillion in 2015, of which 60% are non-financial assets while the rest consists of financial assets in the form of public stakes. A large number of these stakes are in fully public, domestic and unlisted firms and consist of public services and utility providers. As regards non-financial assets, after acknowledging important data gaps, the paper provides evidence on selected fixed assets and natural resources. A review of managerial practices reveals that central governments tend to maintain control of strategic decisions for most assets - although ownership can be shared with private investors and/or local governments - and that operational decisions may be taken by local governments or public companies. Regarding investment strategies, while financial asset portfolios are being reduced, the paper indicates that public investments in some strategic non-financial assets continue. As policy implications the paper underlines the need to improve data availability as well as enhance transparency in the management of these assets.
H82|The public sector of the Russian economy: it’s size and dynamics|Two main channels can be pointed out whereby the state participates in value added chains: through the operation of companies with state stakes, and through the services (in a broader sense of the work) produced by enterprises with state stakes and budget-funded organizations. Consequently, the assessment of the state sector scope inside the national economy consists, as a rule, of two components: an analysis of the relative share of biggest companies with state stakes – state-owned enterprises (SOE) in a country's aggregate economic statistics (the scope of state ownership); and an estimation of the input of the general government sector (GGS) in GDP.
H82|Federal property and privatization policy|2016 saw first publication of data from a performance measures framework for federal property management that was adopted on January 29, 2015 by Russian Government’s executive order No. 72 in lieu of performance measures for a public sector monitoring conducted by Rosstat in the early 2000s in pursuance of the Russian Government’s executive order No. 1 dated January 4, 1999 (as further amended on December 30, 2002). The performance measures framework contains data for the number of federal state unitary enterprises (FSUEs) and joint-stock companies (JSCs) with government equity participation that were previously published in privatization programs over a 3-year period (since 2011) and one-year period (prior to 2011). A new Forecast Plan (Program) for Federal Property Privatization and Guidelines for Federal Property Privatization for 2017–2019 adopted early in 2017[1] contains data dated only as of early 2016 (Table 1). As of early 2017, according to the Report of the Federal Agency for State Property Management (hereinafter Rosimushchestvo) on the implementation of privatization program for 2017–2019, the Russian Federation owned 1108 FSUEs and held an interest of 11 and 17 percent in 1416 JSCs and LLCs, respectively, marking a decline from the previous year’s number of economic agents with the same legal form of business. However, developments and processes that took place in 2017 only can be described using data from the performance measures framework for federal property management.
H82|The housing market in Russia's cities in 2017|The actual development pattern displayed by the Russian economy in 2017 only in part answered the expectations voiced by the expert community in late 2016. First of all, last year there was no sustainable recovery at the macroeconomic level. Although the year-end GDP growth rate amounted to 1.5 percent, it still demonstrated rather strong volatility of its index over the course of the year. However, the professional participants of the real estate market, as well as Russian businesses in general, usually look not at GDP or industrial output indices, but at the exchange rate of the national currency, the movement of wages and salaries, and consumer demand, because the latter better describe the existing risks, while the movement pattern of GDP serves only as a background indicator.
H82|Argumente für den Verkauf kommunaler Wohnungen|Die kommunalen Wohnungsgesellschaften in Deutschland verfügen noch über einen Bestand von 2,3 Millionen Wohnungen. Diese Wohnungen befinden sich vor allem in Großstädten, womit auch der kommunale Wohnungsbestand vom Immobilienmarktboom seit 2000 profitiert. In den 2000er Jahren wurde der öffentliche Wohnungsbestand reduziert, was damals zu zahlreichen Protesten führte und noch heute Gegenstand der politischen Diskussionen ist. Angesichts der stark gestiegenen Preise sollte aber erneut über Verkäufe nachgedacht werden. Mit einem Verkauf könnten sich zahlreiche Kommunen auf einen Schlag entschulden oder zumindest ihre Schulden deutlich abbauen. Damit könnte die Zinslast gesenkt und Mittel für Investitionen in die soziale Infrastruktur freigesetzt werden, namentlich für die Sanierung von Schulen, die Einrichtung von Kitas, den Erhalt und Ausbau des ÖPNV oder auch für die Feuerwehr und die Polizei. Das Gegenargument, kommunale Wohnungsunternehmen leisteten einen wichtigen Beitrag zur Sozialpolitik, greift nicht, da viele kommunale Wohnungsgesellschaften längst zu ähnlichen Konditionen vermieten wie große, ehemals öffentliche Wohnungsgesellschaften. Und selbst wenn unterhalb des Marktniveaus angeboten wird, profitieren hiervon nur zu einem geringen Teil bedürftige Haushalte: Nur 16,9 Prozent der Mieter kommunaler Wohnungen in Berlin verfügen über ein Einkommen von weniger als 60 Prozent des Median-Einkommens und gelten damit als armutsgefährdet, aber über 20 Prozent verfügen über mehr als 120 Prozent des mittleren Einkommens. Auch die unter dem Begriff der Stadtrendite subsummierten Leistungen der Wohnungsgesellschaften für die Stadt sind nicht überzeugend. Schließlich engagieren sich auch private Wohnungsunternehmen aus Eigeninteresse für die soziale Stabilität und Attraktivität ihrer Stadtviertel, da hiervon auch ihre Rendite abhängt. Angesichts gleichgerichteter Interessen bestehen somit genügend Ansätze für Kooperationen von Kommunen und privaten Wohnungsunternehmen. Ein Verkauf kommunaler Wohnungsunternehmen oder zumindest einzelner Bestände sollte daher geprüft werden, um die wirtschaftlichen Rahmenbedingungen der Städte und damit schluss-endlich die Lebensbedingungen deren Bewohner zu verbessern.
H82|The targets of state capitalism: evidence from M&A deals|Over the last decade, particularly after the Great Recession, state-owned enterprises (SOEs) have been expanding their role in the global economy, including through merger & acquisitions (M&As). What are the characteristics of the firms targeted by SOEs? Are they different from firms controlled by private investors? By looking at a unique sample of around 25,000 M&As occurred over the period 2005–2012, we find that only SOEs controlled by means of minority of stakes (state-invested enterprises, SIEs) do not show any statistically significant difference in their targeting strategy compared to private enterprises. Conversely, majority-owned SOEs, and in particular financial SOEs buy lower performing firms compared to private acquirers. We interpret this fact as evidence of the internalization of political objectives by fully controlled and financial SOEs, but not by SIEs.
H82|Dynamics of prices on residential real estate|The paper deals with the issues of price dynamics on residential property on secondary and primary markets.
H82|The public sector and privatization policy|In 2016, statistical data began to be published in the framework of the newly introduced System of Public Property Management Efficiency Estimates. It was approved by Decree of the RF Government of 29 January 2015, No 72 and introduced by way of replacing the public sector monitoring data, collected and released by the Federal State Statistics Service (Rosstat) since the late 1990s in accordance with the provisions stipulated in Decree of the RF Government of January 4, 1999, No 1 (as amended as of December 30, 2002). Among other things, the System of Public Property Management Efficiency Estimates contains data on the number of federal state unitary enterprises (FSUEs) and joint-stock companies (JSCs) with RF stakes in their capital, which previously were published as part of government privatization programs (from 2011 – for three-year period, and prior to 2011- for one-year period.
H82|The impact of state-controlled banks on the Russian banking sector|This paper examines the structure, governance, and balance sheets of state-controlled banks in Russia, which accounted for over 55 percent of the total assets in the country’s banking system in early 2011. The author offers a credible estimate of the size of the country’s state banking sector by including banks that are indirectly owned by public organizations. Contrary to some predictions based on the theoretical literature on economic transition, he explains the relatively high profitability and efficiency of Russian state-controlled banks by pointing to their competitive position in such functions as acquisition and disposal of assets on behalf of the government. Also suggested in the paper is a different way of looking at market concentration in Russia (by consolidating the market shares of core state-controlled banks), which produces a picture of a more concentrated market than officially reported. Lastly, one of the author’s interesting conclusions is that China provides a better benchmark than the formerly centrally planned economies of Central and Eastern Europe by which to assess the viability of state ownership of banks in Russia and to evaluate the country’s banking sector.
H82|Структурные Или Институциональные Сдвиги? Попытка Измерения На Примере Банковского Сектора<BR>[Structural change, institutional change and their measurement: The case of banking]|The paper attempts measuring institutional change, taking the case of the Russian banking industry in 1991-2016. I put forward a set of metrics featuring the actors and the relevance of banking for the economy. At the first stage, the communist-era credit system falls apart, and so do coordination mechanisms between monetary and real sectors of the economy. After the 1998 crisis, evolution goes in the direction of greater government involvement in banks and centralized allocation of financial resources. Structural change has not yet led to a fully different modus operandi of the banking industry. The contribution of this paper is that it tackles the interplay between structural and institutional change in a particular economic sector.
H82|Schools and public buildings in decay: the role of political fragmentation|Abstract It is a widespread concern that schools and other public buildings are in poor conditions. A popular explanation is that maintenance is given too little priority in the budgetary process because politicians are shortsighted. In this paper we investigate this hypothesis using two novel survey data sets on school and general building conditions in Norwegian local governments. We use political fragmentation as a proxy for myopic behavior and provide strong empirical evidence that a high degree of political fragmentation is associated with poor building conditions, both for schools and for buildings in general. The finding is robust to handling of controls, outliers, and estimation method. We also provide evidence that lack of maintenance is the channel for poor building conditions.
H82|Properties of the Combinatorial Clock Auction|The combinatorial clock auction has become popular for large-scale spectrum awards and other uses, replacing more traditional ascending or clock auctions. We describe some surprising properties of the auction, including a wide range of ex post equilibria with demand expansion, demand reduction, and predation. Our results obtain in a standard homogeneous good setting where bidders have well-behaved linear demand curves, and suggest some practical difficulties with dynamic implementations of the Vickrey auction.
H82|Bailouts and the Preservation of Competition: The Case of the Federal Timber Contract Payment Modification Act|We estimate the value of competition in United States Forest Service (USFS) timber auctions, in the context of the Reagan administration's bailout of firms that faced substantial losses on existing contracts. We use a model with endogenous entry by asymmetric firms, allowing survivors to respond to the exit of bailed-out firms by entering more auctions and for these marginal entrants to have lower values than firms that would choose to enter in any event, a selective entry effect. Observed asymmetries and selective entry contribute to us finding that the bailout may have increased USFS revenues in subsequent auctions quite substantially.
H82|The Reversal of the Privatisation Logic in Central European Transition Economies (An Essay)|The main ambition of this study is to explain the unexpected change in the transition process of some Central and Eastern European (CEE) countries starting in the second half of the 2000s. Special attention is paid to changes in and the attitudes of governments toward state ownership. Although statist approaches gained momentum in the economic policy of various states in and after the 2008/2009 crisis, this did not mean a fundamental reorientation expressed in changes in the main economic conditions such as ownership patterns. Nevertheless, governments in some CEE countries seem to flirt with such ideas too in the general policy of increasing state economic intervention. The privatisation process was stopped and in a number of cases, formerly privatised assets were re-nationalised. Governments strengthened their influence in the governance structure in mixed-ownership companies. The main body of the present paper provides a better understanding of this change in state property policies. We also call attention to the risks of a reversal of the privatisation logic. An increasing role of the state as proprietor may today strengthen similar negative political and economic consequences and risks as the ones against which the privatisation agenda of the 1990s was suggested. It can reduce competition, give way for political and personal rentseeking, and weaken the functions of market economic institutions.
H82|Investment, Adverse Selection and Optimal Redistributive Taxation|I study a credit market with adverse selection as a signalling game. I show that in the least-costly separating equilibrium, entrepreneurs of high-quality projects may over-or under-invest compared to the social optimum to signal their type. I then examine a simple budget-balanced tax-subsidy scheme applied by the government. At a first sight, the tax-subsidy scheme seems to benefit entrepreneurs of low-quality projects and harm entrepreneurs of high-quality projects because the former are cross-subsidised by the latter. Nonetheless, this result does not necessarily hold if entrepreneurs can pledge the subsidy as collateral. In that case, taxes can improve social welfare by either decreasing or increasing aggregate investment depending on whether entrepreneurs of high-quality projects over-or under-invest in equilibrium. Keywords : Adverse selection investment taxes welfare
H82|Public-Private Partnership in Agribusiness|Reformation of the country’s agribusiness fundamentally changes the approach to establishing the competitive enterprises in the agrarian sector, which is so far the problem of realization of the agrarian policy in conditions of ensuring economic and food security of the country. State aid to agriculture leads to increased competitiveness of the sector, the emergence of additional resources that create the corresponding part of the demand for factors of production, increase the attractiveness of the sector for credit, investment and other institutions. The transition to innovative development and modernization of the economy provides an active search for tools to encourage innovation and investment activity of private funds, while ensuring the most effective balance of interests of the state and business structures. The mechanism of public-private partnership (PPP) is used as such a tool. The main objective of the research is to study the mechanism of realization of the state-private partnership in the Russian and foreign practice of development of the agrarian sector, as well to develop of priority directions of its improvement. The authors of the article substantiated the necessity of the use of new financial tools to ensure the innovative development of the agrarian sector, such as technology platforms, venture capital funds, agro-industrial parks and rental leasing relationship. Realization of these measures will contribute to the effective development of PPP in the Russian agribusiness in the modern conditions of the unstable environment
H82|Price dynamics on residential property in Russia in 2015|The paper deals with the issues of price dynamics on residential property on secondary and primary markets
H82|The situation in the public sector and privatization in Russia in 2015|The paper deals with the issues of public sector and privatization in Russia in 2015.
H82|New Amendments To Russia’S Privatization Legislation: Cosmetic Measures Or Further Deregulation?|Analysis of recent updates to the Russian privatization legislation in 2015 allows saying that the 2015 amendments as a whole aim to boost the process of privatization. The suggested enhancements for the information system of privatization of government-owned and municipal property and for the mechanism of selling such property are intended to render the entire privati - zation process more transparent while counteracting occurrences of corrup- tion and criminality. It has not gone unnoticed that the practice of narrowing the scope of the privatization legislation continues. Since the legislation came into force late in 2001, the number of property categories whose disposal goes beyond the scope of the provisions thereof has nearly doubled (to 20 from 11), some of which have been given a broader interpretation. The next few years will show what kind of eff ect the potential of the foregoing amendments has on the effectiveness of this process, bearing in mind the contribu- tion to meeting the federal budget defi cit and generating budget revenues at other levels of public authority.
H82|Privatization Program For 2014-2016: Formal Shifts And Uncertain Prospects|The outcome of the current privatiza on program, to be completed this year, will strongly depend on the general situation in the Russian economy, and in particular on the behavior of the domestttc stock market. In the explanatory documents a ached to the draft law on federal budget for 2016 submitted to parliament by the government, it is stated that the revenues from privatiza on are expected to amount to more than Rb 33.2bn. This goal does not appear to be quite realistic, though. The planned sum of budget revenue to be generated by this source in 2016 is comparable to the total amount of revenue generated by the privatiza on program for 2011–2013 over the entire 3-year period of its implementa on. However, the economic and political situation then was very diﬀerent from what we have been experiencing over the last two years (massive capital outflow, the introduction of economic sanctions, the ruble’s plummeting exchange rate, and the probability of protracted recession in the national economy).
H82|State Property Management: Statistical Portrait Novelties|A new indicator framework for the performance measurement of state property management was adopted early last year. Basic characteristics of state property and of economic entities that are in state ownership have been presented on the basis of the initial data gathered from the framework. Transition to providing data in terms of legal forms, which was not the case under the old indicator framework for public sector monitoring, as well as a special focus on property (real estate, land, stakes (interest) of any size) given the value and liquidity thereof is the main novelty that the new framework offers.
H82|Новации Российского Приватизационного Законодательства: Косметические Меры Или Ускорение Разгосударствления?|Анализ изменений, появившихся в приватизационном законодательстве в 2015 г., позволяет говорить, что в целом правовые новации, сделанные в минувшем году, должны способствовать активизации приватизационного процесса. Предлагаемое улучшение информационного обеспечения приватизации государственного и муниципального имущества, и механизма его продажи в электронной форме призвано обеспечить большую прозрачность приватизационного процесса в целом, противодействуя явлениям коррупции и криминалитета. Нельзя не отметить продолжающееся расширение практики изъятий из приватизационного закона. С момента появления в конце 2001 г. количество категорий имущества, при отчуждении которого не применяются его нормы, выросло почти вдвое (с 11 до 20) при том, что часть из них получила расширенную трактовку. Ближайшие годы должны показать, насколько потенциал этих поправок к закону о приватизации скажется на результативности данного процесса, имея в виду вклад в покрытие дефицита федерального бюджета и пополнение бюджетной системы на других уровнях публичной власти.
H82|Приватизационная Программа 20142016 Гг.: Формальные Сдвиги И Неопределенные Перспективы|Итоги действующей приватизационной программы, которая завершается в текущем году, находятся в тесной зависимости от того, как будет складываться ситуация в российской экономике в целом и конъюнктура фондового рынка в частности. В сопроводительных документах к правительственному законопроекту о федеральном бюджете на текущий год общие поступления средств от приватизации прогнозируются в 2016 г. в объеме более 33,2 млрд руб. Достижение таких величин представляется весьма проблематичным. Предполагаемая к получению бюджетом сумма приватизационных доходов сопоставима с аналогичной величиной за все 3 года действия приватизационной программы 2011–2013 гг. Однако тогда была совершенно другая экономико-политическая ситуации, радикально отличающаяся от ситуации последних двух лет (массированный отток капитала, введение разнообразных санкций, снижение обменного курса рубля, вероятность затягивания рецессии в отечественной экономике).
H82|Управление Государственным Имуществом: Новации Статистического Портретирования|В начале прошлого года была принята новая Система показателей для оценки эффективности управления государственным имуществом. На основе ее первых данных могут быть представлены базовые характеристики государственной собственности и относящихся к ней хозяйствующих субъектов. Основным новшеством новой системы является переход к представлению данных в разрезе организационно-правовых форм, чего не было в рамках прежней системы показателей мониторинга госсектора, а также больший акцент именно на имуществе (недвижимость, земля, пакеты акций различной величины) с учетом его стоимости и ликвидности.
H82|The FDI-led development model revisited? The case of Hungary|Countries of East-Central Europe underwent fundamental economic and political changes in their transition process. Their economies were restructured and modernized, became integrated part of the world’s most competitive value chains. Although, benefits of the FDI-led development process did not spread spatially evenly, moreover, they might be smaller than what was expected the achieved economic and political results were remarkable. Yet, in some of these countries acknowledgement of benefits have been started to be overshadowed by strong criticism that sometimes queries the advantages of the FDIled development at large. The main question of the paper is if this criticism is reflected in (both positively and negatively) discriminating policies of the Hungarian state towards foreign companies? The main finding of the paper is that the main aim of changing FDI-related policies is not a decisive break with the model, but rather to split the strong networks of multinational business in order to increase the room of selective and arbitrary advantage and disadvantage measures of the government. This means first of all a departure from the concept of “competition state” towards “patronage state”.
H82|The emergence of patronage state in Central Europe. The case of FDI-related policies in Hungary|Despite of profound development success of Central European economies of the past 25 years Hungarian and Polish governments have started openly query the applicability of various elements of the “competition state”. They took measures to curtail the activity of multinational firms that have played important role in the successful modernization process of the region. The paper makes an attempt to explain the rationale of this policy using political economy approach. It defines economic policy changes as shifts in the power relations of national elites. It is highlighted that the selective advantage and punishment measures taken are labelled economic patriotism. Yet, economic patriotism is interpreted in this paper as the application of covert discrimination policies applied for the benefit of spatially defined interest groups. The discussed policies are targeted rather at closely defined companies. They are therefore not regarded as tools of economic patriotism but rather of state clientism, or a departure from competition state towards patronage state.
H82|From party state capture to party business capture - Model feature of Visegrád countries?|The FDI-led development path of the Visegrád countries has been queried most recently. The paper analyses one of the potential reasons of this strategic turn: the struggle between political elites. One elite was bound to the strong presence of multinational business and the institutions of the “competition state”. Their positions were challenged by another political elite that allied mainly with local bourgeoisie. One main arena of conflicts is the economy where political elites try to widen their influence in order to gain financial support. New forms of rent seeking and corruption became possible after the V4 accession to the EU when the flow of financial aid increased. Aid was channeled to partisan firms in public procurement tenders that made legal corruption possible. Political and social control over this practice declined with the demise of classic program parties’ role in politics and the raise of populist “business firm” political parties.
H82|State-owned enterprises in the Russian market: Ownership structure and their role in the economy|This article analyzes the ownership structure of state-owned companies and their role in the Russian economy. Using a sample of 114 of the largest Russian companies, we estimated direct and indirect state participation as a percentage of shareholdings for direct and indirect federal property during the time period of 2006–2014. We used two methods to estimate the role of state-owned enterprises (SOEs), which allowed us to compare our results with OECD and Rosstat statistics for a broader sample of Russian companies owned by the public sector. This study revealed a decline in SOEs’ share in the capitalization of the Russian stock market and a slight increase in their share of total revenues and employment. The results indicated that public SOEs demonstrated significantly higher productivity compared to non-public SOEs and private companies had a distinct advantage in productivity compared with public SOEs. Despite the significant advantages in productivity of private companies over the SOEs, over a 9-year period, we observed that this gap narrowed. This may be due to conditions of high financial volatility and stagnation of the economy that result in certain advantages for SOEs in terms of access to sources of long-term funding and other forms of state support. However, SOEs with indirect state control experienced a rapid growth in revenue and productivity compared to other firms. This may indicate the presence of a specific stock selection mechanism for transferring more effective SOEs from direct state ownership to indirect control as an alternative to privatization.
H82|State-owned enterprises in the Russian market: Ownership structure and their role in the economy|This article analyzes the ownership structure of companies with state participation and their role in the Russian economy. Using a sample of 114 largest companies we have estimated direct and indirect state participation as percentage of shareholdings which are in direct and indirect federal property in 2006—2014. We have used two methods for estimating the role of state-owned enterprises (SOEs), which allowed us to compare our results with those of OECD and Rosstat statistics for the broader sample of Russian companies in the public sector. This article reveals the decline of SOEs’ share in the capitalization of the Russian stock market as well as a slight increase of their share in total revenue and employment. The results show that public SOEs, demonstrate significantly higher productivity compared to non-public SOEs and private companies have a distinct advantage in productivity compared with public SOEs. Despite the significant advantages in productivity of private companies over the SOEs, over 9-year period we observed a reduction of this gap. This may be due to the fact that in conditions of high financial volatility and stagnation of the economy SOEs had certain advantages in terms of access to sources of long-term funding and other forms of state support. However, SOEs with indirect state control had a rapid growth in revenue and productivity in comparison with the rest of them. This may indicate the presence of a specific stock selection mechanism for transferring more effective SOEs from direct state ownership to indirect control as an alternative to privatization.
H82|Analýza vývoje ekonomické kondice a efektivnosti privatizačního procesu bank v České republice<BR>[Analysis of the Development of the Economic Condition and Efficiency of the Privatization Process of Banks in the Czech Republic]|Banks which underwent the privatization process in the Czech Republic, i.e. Česká Spořitelna, a.s., Československá Obchodní Banka, a.s., Investiční a Poštovní Banka, a.s., Komerční Banka, a.s., Živnostenská Banka, a.s., have been very widely discussed by both professional and lay public from several perspectives. Namely, what the actual economic condition of these banks was on the date of completion of the privatization, as well as the transfer of graded loans, or rather lowperforming assets, which the state took over and reimbursed to the banks through consolidation institutions (hereinafter CI), and all this obviously in relation to the purchase price obtained within the scope of privatization. The aim of this article, within the possibilities stipulated by its scope, is: 1) To analyse the development of the banks' economic condition in the time interval of 1990-2010; 2) To identify factors that determine the volume of income from the sale of the state's investments in privatized banks; 3) To confirm or refute the hypothesis that the bank rescues before the completion of the privatization process were excessive; 4) To analyse the overall balance of the privatization process, or rather the efficiency of the sale of the banks; 5) To test the practical applicability of the economic theories connected to the issue in question. With regard to the above, the article is structured in the following manner. Firstly, literary research of articles on the theme of The Privatization Of Commercial Banking in reputable economic impact magazines is processed. This is followed by the actual economic analysis of the privatized banks in the Czech Republic, where economic parameters are examined in an interval of approximately 20 years - total assets, costs, revenue, profit, capital adequacy, etc. The conclusion firstly evaluates the development of the economic condition, then identifies factors that determine the volume of income from privatization, the excessiveness of the banks' rescue, the overall balance of the privatization process, and the practical applicability of the economic theories in question.
H82|No country for neoliberalism: a topic modeling approach to protean discourses to resist privatizations in Italy|This paper analyzes the resistance to the neoliberal discourse supporting privatizations in the Italian sociopolitical field: we address the change from a state control over economy to a situation where most of the state owned enterprises are sold and neoliberal principles are widely adopted and accepted. We focus on resistance, which builds on two frames that differ according to the period when they arise, the words they are composed of, the meanings they bear upon. The first one, which is more prevalent in the period 1984-2000, and that we called Òvalues of developmental stateÓ, opposes privatizations from a technical point of view: it is used in quotes that rationally support state intervention in economy. The second frame, that we called Òstigma privatizationsÓ, becomes prevalent starting in 2000 and appears mainly in articles that deal with societal issues, literature, movies and the wider sociocultural debate. Here influential speakers blame privatizations as something that eroded societal cohesion. To explain the transformation, we mobilize the concept of capital as described by Bourdieu: as economic capital attached to delegitimized institutions erode, discourse on resistance does not disappear but is framed within the fields that are less dependent on economic capital. As a connected contribution, the key role played by cultural capital in preserving areas of resistances revives the debate on the role of intellectuals within power dynamics as described by Antonio Gramsci. From a technical point of view, we study the evolution of the vocabulary of privatizations by analyzing almost 70.000 articles in the period 1984-2014. we use Topic Modeling, that is an automated text analysis technique that elicits topics, which are the sets of words that constitute discourses. We then reconstruct frames starting from these topics.
H82|Non-optimal Mechanism Design|The optimal allocation of resources in complex environments—like allocation of dynamic wireless spectrum, cloud computing services, and Internet advertising—is computationally challenging even given the true preferences of the participants. In the theory and practice of optimization in complex environments, a wide variety of special and general purpose algorithms have been developed; these algorithms produce outcomes that are satisfactory but not generally optimal or incentive compatible. This paper develops a very simple approach for converting any, potentially non-optimal, algorithm for optimization given the true participant preferences, into a Bayesian incentive compatible mechanism that weakly improves social welfare and revenue. (JEL D82, H82, L82)
H82|A Long Way Coming: Designing Centralized Markets with Privately Informed Buyers and Sellers|We discuss the economics literature relevant to the design of centralized two-sided market mechanisms for environments in which both buyers and sellers have private information. The existing literature and the history of spectrum auctions, including the incentive auction currently being designed by the FCC, can be employed to analyze such mechanisms. We compare the revenue-efficiency trade-off in an environment with private information on one side of the market versus the trade-off with private information on both sides of the market; we provide an impossibility theorem for the efficient allocation of goods using a deficit-free mechanism when there is private information on both sides of the market; we discuss practical deficit-free mechanisms for various environments with two-sided private information; and we provide a synthesis to guide market design efforts and related research going forward. (JEL D44, D47, D82, H82)
H82|Corruption and socially optimal entry|The paper investigates the effects of corruption in the entry-certifying process on market structure and social welfare for a Cournot industry with linear demand and costs. To gain entry, a firm must pay a bribe-maximizing official a fixed percentage of anticipated profit, in addition to the usual set-up cost. This would lead to a monopoly, but only in markets without pre-existing or shadow-economy firms. A benevolent social planner may preempt the harmful effects of corruption by either manipulating the number of pre-existing firms in the market, or by setting up two independent (corrupt) licensing authorities. A socially optimal number of firms in the market may be reached by choosing the right number of pre-existing firms or by having exactly two licensing authorities. These mechanisms may be seen as restoring second-best efficiency in settings characterized by two major sources of distortion: Imperfect competition and corruption. We also show in an extension that the basic insights carry over in a qualitative sense to a model with quadratic costs and first best entry regulation.
H82|The Situation in the Public Sector and Privatization in Russia in 2014|The main developments over the past year in the sphere under consideration were the launch of the second three-year privatization program for the years 2014–2016; the approval of the new government program Federal Property Management until 2018; the transfer, by a court ruling, of JSC Bashneft back to Russian Federation ownership; the continuation of the active process of creation of integrated structures in the defense industry and related sectors; absence of any significant deals completed on the corporate control market with the participation of state companies; and the expansion, at the level of approved model documents, of the set of available instruments to be applied in the management of entities belonging to the public sector of the national economy.
H82|Issues of RF State Treasury Property Management in Russia in 2014|Due to the radical character of market transformations that took place in the Russian economy in the 1990s, including reform of the ownership relations oriented to prompt privatization, for a long time there was no interest in the issues of public property management in Russia. Some progress in that sphere occurred after the crisis period of 1997–1998, when a certain shift in the government property policy priorities could be seen. The onset of a new phase in the ownership relations reform in Russia was triggered by the approval, by Decree of the RF Government No 1024 of 9 September 1999, of the Concept of State Property Management and Privatization in the Russian Federation (hereinafter – Concept). It was probably a symbolic event, in that for the first time since 1992 the issues of state property management were given priority over formal alterations to ownership forms.
H82|Government Program ‘Federal Property Management’ Its Initial Implementation Phase|As can be concluded on the basis of the data released by the RF Federal Agency for State Property Management (Rosimushchestvo) in its 2014 year-end report, the majority of targets set in the Government Program (GP) ‘Federal Property Management’ for the year 2014 were met and even surpassed – in many cases signifi cantly. In the light of the achievements of 2013–2014, the future prospects for implementing the Government Program ‘Federal Property Management’ can be estimated as rather favorable. However, certain complications associated with planned budget cuts cannot be rules out altogether, because in the spring of 2015 some downward adjustments were made to the federal budget for 2015–2017. These cuts aff ected not only this GP, but also the related Government Program ‘Government Finance Management and Financial Markets Regulation’ (subprogram ‘Normative and Methodological Backing for, and Organization of the Budgetary Process’) and ‘Economic Development and Innovation Economy’ (Federal Target Program (FTP) ‘Development of a Single State System for Registration of Titles and Cadastre Immovable Property Records (2014–2019)’. Another example of how the economic crisis has infl uenced the targets set in the Government Program is the announcement made by the Government’s head of the reassignment, on a temporary basis, of civil servants to the managerial bodies of state companies in order to exercise closer control over them (without specifying the scale and timelines of these measures).
H82|Поступление И Выбытие Федерального Имущества: Некоторые Количественные Тенденции|Анализ Годового отчета об изменениях в реестре федерального имущества, связанных с возникнове- нием и прекращением права собственности Российской Федерации на недвижимое и движимое иму- щество за 2013 г. позволяет сделать следующие выводы. В целом за 5-летний период поступление объектов недвижимости в собственность РФ превысило их выбытие более чем в 5 раз, но выбытие хозяйственных обществ с участием государства превысило поступление примерно в 1,6 раза. Можно предположить, что такие результаты отражают, с одной стороны, продолжающийся приватиза- ционный процесс, затрагивающий, прежде всего, готовый для продажи актив в виде госпакетов ак- ций, а с другой стороны, продолжающийся уже около 10 лет процесс перераспределения собственно- сти между различными уровнями публичной власти.
H82|Динамика Приватизации И Состояние Имущественных Отношений В 2014 Г.: Основные Тенденции|Прошедший год стал первым годом реализации Прогнозного плана (программы) приватизации федерального имущества и основных направлений приватизации федерального имущества на 2014–2016 годы. Серьезное воздействие на ход реализации приватизационной программы оказывали негативные тенденции, которые начали складываться еще в I кв. 2014 г. В начале декабря прошлого года, когда принимался федеральный бюджет на 2015–2017 гг., поступления в него средств от приватизации федерального имущества прогнозировались в 2015 г. в объеме 158,5 млрд руб. Однако в скорректи- рованным в апреле текущего года федеральном бюджете предусмотрено радикальное сокращение поступлений средств от приватизации федерального имущества до 15,0 млрд руб. Сокращение на порядок делает роль этого источника для финансирования дефицита федерального бюджета сугубо вспомогательной на фоне предполагаемого использования средств Резервного фонда.
H82|"Государственная Программа ""Управление Государственным Имуществом"": На Начальной Фазе Реализации"|По данным недавно опубликованного отчета Росимущества о деятельности ведомства по итогам 2014 г. можно сделать вывод, что по большинству индикаторов госпрограммы «Управление феде- ральным имуществом» в 2014 г. наблюдалось явное, во многих случаях существенное опережение со- держащихся в программе ориентиров. Дальнейшие перспективы государственной программы «Управ- ление федеральным имуществом» в свете итогов ее реализации в 2013–2014 гг. можно оценить, как довольно благоприятные. Однако нельзя исключить и некоторых осложнений из-за сокращения бюд- жетных ассигнований вследствие корректировки федерального бюджета на 2015–2017 гг. весной те- кущего года. Она затронула не только данную ГП, но и сопряженные с ней госпрограммы «Управление государственными финансами и регулирование финансовых рынков» (подпрограмма «Нормативно- методическое обеспечение и организация бюджетного процесса») и «Экономическое развитие и ин- новационная экономика» (ФЦП «Развитие единой государственной системы регистрации прав и када- стрового учета недвижимости (2014–2019 годы)». Другим примером влияния кризисных явлений в эко- номике на достижение показателей госпрограммы может служить заявление главы правительства о временном возврате госслужащих в органы управления госкомпаний в целях осуществления более плотного контроля (без уточнения масштаба и сроков таких шагов).
H82|Current managerial topics in public real estate asset management|In recent years, public administrations in modern economies have been deeply transformed. Government units have been granted extensive competences, including ownership and/or control over properties in order to fulfil their obligatory tasks relating to public services in a better way. Real estate has evolved from a source of costs to a source of revenues, as well. This complex asset class requires proper management respecting its operational and strategic needs and requirements. The article focuses on current issues of public real estate asset management (PREAM) and on the real estate assets in local governments in particular. It is a voice in the discussion about current problems with regard to the efficiency and effectiveness of PREAM. We propose directions for further research and development as the principles of asset management in modern democratic societies seem to be universal. The paper is based on a literature study and the authors’ observations.
H82|Államosítás, privatizáció és gazdaságpolitika - a főirány széttöredezése<BR>[Nationalization and privatization - in the shadow of changing paradigms of economic policy]|Az állami tulajdon kiterjedésének módosítása a gazdasági válságok kezelésének mindig fontos - de nem kizárólagos - eszköze volt az elmúlt évszázad európai és egyesült államokbeli történetében. Az utóbbi évek ebből a szempontból nem kivételesek. Csakhogy míg korábban vagy a közkézbe vétel, vagy az eladás irányzata volt meghatározó, a közelmúlt folyamatai furcsa együttmozgást mutatnak. A tanulmány a nagy léptékű államosítási és privatizációs hullámok alapvonásainak fényében elemzi az elmúlt évek új fejleményét, a változási irányok széttöredezését. Bemutatja azokat az indokokat, amelyek alapján az állami tulajdon kiterjesztése és szűkítése egyaránt alkalmasnak látszott a válság enyhítésére, szoros kapcsolatban más válságkezelő intézkedésekkel. Amellett érvel, hogy a köztulajdonra vonatkozó felfogás elbizonytalanodása részben a korábbi hullámok tapasztalataival és ennek nyomán a közvélekedés változásával függ össze, részben az elméleti és gazdaságpolitikai paradigma elbizonytalanodására vezethető vissza: most sem az államosítás, sem a privatizáció mögött nem áll egységes, határozott nézetrendszer.* Journal of Economics Literature (JEL) kód: H82, L32, P26.
H82|Long-Term Development Programs of State Owned Enterprises: Preliminary Results of Strategic Documents' Development Using Key Performance Indicators|This article reveals some of the specific features of long-term development programs of state owned enterprises that were developed according to the Russian Government decisions taken in January 30, 2014. Also the strategic long-term programs and key performance indicators were discussed and the main roles of the programs in corporate management and public administration systems were shown.
H82|Improving the Business Climate in Russia|Economic growth is below what would be needed to resume rapid convergence to average OECD living standards. On-going efforts to improve the business climate are laudable, but need to be widened and strengthened. Much progress has been achieved in reducing red tape, but it is only recently that the authorities have visibly become more energetic in fighting corruption. Adverse interactions between politics, business and law enforcement generate obstacles for the rule of law and remain a major risk for potential investors. High entry barriers lead to weak competition. Reducing the role of the state in the economy and WTO membership should be viewed as opportunities to strengthen competition, and hence provide incentives for productivity improvements, which are urgently required to ensure stronger growth in Russia because of a shrinking labour force. This Working Paper relates to the 2013 OECD Economic Survey of the Russian Federation (www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/economic-survey-russian-federation.htm). Améliorer le climat des affaires en Russie La croissance économique est inférieure à ce qui serait nécessaire pour assurer une convergence rapide du niveau de vie vers ceux observés en moyenne dans les pays de l'OCDE. Les efforts en cours pour améliorer le climat des affaires sont louables, mais ils doivent être élargis et renforcés. Beaucoup de progrès ont été accomplis dans la réduction des formalités administratives, mais ce n'est que récemment que les autorités sont visiblement devenues plus énergiques dans la lutte contre la corruption. Des interactions indésirables entre la politique, les affaires et l'application de la loi génèrent des obstacles pour l'État de droit et constituent un risque majeur pour les investisseurs potentiels. Des barrières élevées à l'entrée conduisent à une faible concurrence. Une réduction du rôle de l'État dans l'économie et l’adhésion de la Russie à l'OMC devraient être considérée comme une occasion de renforcer la concurrence et d’inciter à améliorer la productivité. Ces incitations sont urgemment nécessaires en Russie afin d’assurer une croissance plus forte dans un contexte de contraction de la main-d'oeuvre. Ce document de travail se rapporte à l’Étude économique de l’OCDE 2013 sur la Fédération de Russie (www.oecd.org/fr/eco/etudes/etude-economique-russie.htm).
H82|Russia: Progress in Structural Reform and Framework Conditions 2011-13|Since 1995 when OECD began conducting Economic Surveys of the Russian Federation many policy recommendations relating to structural reform and framework conditions have been made. This paper is an update of an earlier paper that described actions taken up to October 2011 (Vaziakova et al., 2011). It expands the Annex A.1 of the 2013 OECD Economic Survey of the Russian Federation and provides a summary table of the policies implemented. This Working Paper relates to the 2014 Economic Survey of the Russian Federation www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/economic-survey-russian-federation.htm Russie : Progrès des réformes structurelles et des conditions-cadres 2011-13 Depuis 1995, date à laquelle l'OCDE a commencé à mener des Études économiques de la Fédération de Russie, un grand nombre de recommandations politiques relatives aux réformes structurelles et aux conditions-cadres ont été mises en oeuvre en Russie. Ce document est une mise à jour d'un document de travail antérieur qui décrit les mesures prises jusqu'en Octobre 2011 (Vaziakova et al., 2011). Il élargit l'annexe 1.A1 de l’Étude économique de la Fédération de Russie 2013 et fournit un tableau récapitulatif des politiques adoptées. Ce document de travail se rapporte à l’Étude économique de l’OCDE 2014 sur la Fédération de Russie www.oecd.org/fr/eco/etudes/etude-economique-russie.htm.
H82|Národohospodářské efekty privatizačního procesu v České republice<BR>[National Economics Effects of the Privatization Process in the Czech Republic]|The transformation of centrally planned economy to a market economy has confi rmed that the basic premise for the economic policy, characterized by liberal market economy, is democratically established property rights. This text analyzes the National Economic effects of one of the most complex transformation processes, which is the process of privatization. This publication examines all three legal regimes through which were the entire privatization process implemented. These are “The Small Privatization“ according to the Act no. 427/1990 Coll., “The Large-scale Privatization“ according to the Act no. 92/1991 Coll. and “The privatization of agricultural and forestry property“ according to the Act no. 229/1991 Coll. and the Act no. 95/1999 Coll., with respect to the: affected economic theories, theory of property rights in particular, transaction costs theory, theory of interested groups, rent-seeking theory, theory of government failure, etc.; macroeconomic analysis of the process itself; macroeconomic analysis of the use of the proceeds from the privatization process; evaluation of the National Economic effects, whether positive or negative, of the privatization process in the Czech Republic. The aim of this text is to provide professional and comprehensive overview of the National Economic effects of the privatization process as a whole, which has not been published until now by any author in view of the fact that the perception of the privatization process of the professionals and the general public has been narrowed to a process implemented by the National Property Fund and the Ministry of Finance (by selling shares through vouchers). Finally, the aim of this publication is to analyze the application of economic theories within the privatization process in the Czech Republic which describes the pros and cons of this unique economic and national economy “experiment“.
H82|Property management of the state treasury of the Russian Federation: some of the current trends<BR>[Управление Имуществом Государственной Казны Рф: Некоторые Актуальные Тенденции]|The article analyzes the current problems of the property management of the state treasury as part of the public sector of the Russian economy. Focus is on the property complex of the treasury in the narrow sense (excluding the budget funds, securities and land), that is, the area of ??property relations, which, despite the considerable scale, until the mid-2010s remain outside as a coherent state regulation, and detailed investigation. The authors analyze the quantitative parameters of the property of the treasury in the structure of federal property in the 2000s, the formation and limited approach to the management of treasury assets in government programs. The principles and directions of the further implementation of the state policy in this sphere.
H82|Realizing the Cooperative Advantage at the Atkinson Housing Co-operative: The Role of Community Development to Improve Public Housing|The cooperative model has become a reliable option to correct or soften the alienating features and dominance of private and public orientations to individual and social development. Proponents advocate that greater cooperation can build stronger communities that foster social cohesion and inclusion. On April 1st, 2003 the Alexandra Park Housing Project became Canada’s first public housing project to convert into a housing cooperative, now known as the Atkinson Housing Cooperative. The conversion means that the residents will not only have the opportunity to develop policies that directly affect their lives but they will also be able to decide how to implement such policies reflecting a community development focus of solidarity and agency. The purpose of this paper is to describe the central role that community development had on the outcome of converting public housing to cooperative housing. In this paper I explore community development activities that transfer the principles and values of cooperation into organizational and community settings as the primary means to discover the “cooperative advantage”.
H82|Redistributive Policies for Sustainable Development: Looking at the Role of Assets and Equity|Analyses of redistributive policies often focus on income flows to examine the nexus between redistribution and economic growth. With strengthening signs of growing economic inequality in many countries, an increasing number of economists investigated the existence and nature of a hypothetical trade-off between economic growth and equity. As signs of unsustainable development are strengthening more generally, this paper proposes to look at the broader nexus between redistribution, equity and sustainable development, emphasizing its social and environmental dimensions. It does so by first proposing an analytical framework defining the role of redistributive policies in shaping the private income cycle as well as the public revenue-expenditure cycle. This framework distinguishes between the stock of income-generating assets (such as human capital and wealth, including land and industrial and financial capital) and deriving income flows in order to clarify the difference between the two sides of in-equity (i.e. in-equality of opportunity and in-equality of outcome), which remain intertwined in the growth-equity trade-off debate. This stock-flow approach is then used to outline key linkages between redistributive policies, in-equity and un-sustainable development. Contrasting the potential scope of redistributive policies with the more narrow set of policies that have been implemented in most countries/regions over the last 30 years, the paper discusses 14 avenues for redistributive policies to promote greater equity, economic empowerment and sustainable development.
H82|Public Sector and Privatisation in Russia in 2013|The core events which took place last year and which are related to the issues under consideration are the approval of a new three year privatisation programme for 2014–2016, including corporate control of market transactions associated with Rosneft and Gazprom, as well as the restructuring of the space industry, which is similar to that performed in relation to the aerospace and ship building industries.
H82|Federal Property Management: Factors Determined By Targeted Programs And Budget Potential|The prospects for implementing the Federal Property Management government program depend on the amount of financial backing, as determined by the budget system’s actual potential. The approved federal budget for 2014–2016 envisages a gradual reduction, over the next few years, in the amount of expenditure earmarked for the implementation of this government program, while the requests of the RF Federal Agency for State Property Management (Rosimushchestvo) for some additional funding have not been satisfied.
H82|The Progress Of Privatization And The Situation In Regard Of Ownership Relations In 2013|The most important event of 2013 was the approval of the Forecast Plan (Program) of Federal Property Privatization and the Main Directions of Federal Property Privatization for 2014–2016. Its most significant distinctive feature, in which it differs from the previously issued document of the same type, was the introduction of some serious alterations to the privatization plans for biggest companies. The list of assets earmarked for privatization remained essentially the same as before. However, in contrast to the privatization program for the period of 2011–2013, the reduction of state participation in the capital of many biggest companies will by no means imply that the government is going to lose the right of corporate control, or at least the possibility to influence corporate governance procedures. The aggregate volume of federal budget revenue generated by privatization (or sale) transactions and use of state property in 2013 will drop on the previous year by nearly one-third, and by more than half when adjusted by the amount of revenue generated in 2012 by the RF Central Bank (the Bank of Russia) from the sale of a stake in Sberbank. Nevertheless, the revenue figure for 2012 in this budget item was the third highest since the early 2000s following the record high of 2012 and the 2011 indices.
H82|Property Management Issues Faced By The Rf Treasury, And Implementation Of The Government Program ‘Federal Property Management’|This paper deals with the issues of managing state property owned by the treasury, and analyzes the main trends in property acquisition by and withdrawal from the treasury, as well as some quantitative results achieved as a result of the government policy implemented in 2011–2014, its prospects and limitations.
H82|Управление Федеральным Имуществом: Программно-Целевые И Бюджетные Факторы|Перспективы реализации государственной программы «Управление федеральным имуществом» зависят от финансового обеспечения, определяемого возможностями бюджетной системы. В принятом федеральном бюджете на 2014–2016 гг. в погодовом измерении запланировано уменьшение расходов на реализацию данной госпрограммы, а запросы Росимущества в отношении дополнительного финансирования остались неудовлетворенными.
H82|Проблемы Управления Имуществом Государственной Казны И Реализация Государственной Программы >|В статье рассматриваются проблемы управления имуществом государственной казны, анализируются основные направления поступления и выбытия имущества казны, некоторые количественные итоги политики 2011–2014 гг., ее перспективы и ограничения.
H82|The Fundamental Privatization Theorem: Ideology, Evolution, Practice|The article focuses on the analysis of the evolution of contemporary theoretic approaches to the choice of an optimal form of ownership, and the corresponding estimation of privatization in the context of the advantages and disadvantages of the public and private sectors of the national economy. Various interpretations of the fundamental privatization theorem are considered: based on the principal-agent relationship; based on the comparison of the structure of information flows; the combination of ownership rights and contractual rights; consideration of sociopolitical factors, etc. The latest trends in Russia’s de-statization policy in 2010-2013 are analyzed in the context of ‘reluctant privatization’, with special emphasis on the asymmetry between the statization and privatization processes.
H82|Privatization and state property management in post-transition economies|Privatization was a centerpiece of the Central and Eastern European (CEE) transition process, the main drivers of which were the desire to increase the role of private business, the need for economic restructuring and increasing of efficiency and ambitions to crush the economic might of the communist regime and establish the basis of a new political elite. Until the mid-2000s the main transition goals of CEE economies were largely achieved, which is also expressed in their EU-accession. However, the transition process did not create economic systems fully comparable with more established market economies of the EU. After successful stabilization and large scale de-nationalization of state property the first two drivers of privatization lost importance. Furthermore external pressure from international organizations such as the World Bank or the European Commission declined. After becoming members of the “club” only the third driver remained intact and CEE governments started to rethink their relationship towards state property using it as an “uncontrolled tap of public money”. Weak civil and political control institutions enabled these processes. This development is illustrated by the examples of Hungary and Poland. This paper aims at contributing to the development of the theory of CEE capitalism models with the analysis of the changing role of state ownership and privatization.
H82|The Rationality of Real Estate Management: the Aims of Ownership in the Private and Public Sector|The aim of this article is to present the problem of assessment of the rationality of property management in the context of different ownership goals. Due to a small number of research which are dealing with public sector, the main goal of this work is to present the nature of assessment of real estate management in the public sector and present indicators related to the assessment of real estate management in a commune. In conclusions it is necessary to emphasize that the assessment should have a multi-criterion character, not only a short-term but also a long-term perspective, and take into account various (financial and social) aspects of real estate management, remembering that the assets which are at the disposal of a public unit are one of the most important instruments to The discussion is based on literature review.
H82|Can There Be Too Much Privatization? The Role of Political Incentives|Generally, privatization of state-owned enterprises is believed to enhance economic efficiency and competitiveness and to improve the overall economic performance of a country. So, can there be too much privatization? We show that this depends on the political objectives that are pursued with a privatization policy. We study two types of government: a budget-oriented one which aims at generating revenues and which shows some similarities to the governments of the GIIPS countries (Greece, Italy, Ireland, Portugal, and Spain); and a citizen-oriented one which aims at maximizing the income of its citizens and which bears some resemblance to the East European transition countries. In accordance with the empirical literature, the budget-oriented type shows a larger propensity to privatize than the citizen-oriented type. But for both types of government, we identify instances where they privatize too much relative to the social optimum. It follows that privatization programs must be designed with the necessary caution. (JEL codes: L33, D72, D73, H82)
H82|Asset-Centred Redistributive Policies for Sustainable Development|The objective of this discussion paper is to propose an asset-centred analytical framework for (i) mapping the most important redistributive policy tools that shape the distribution of income and income-generating assets (such as human capital and wealth, including land, industrial or financial capital) across individuals as well as between the private and the public sector and (ii) outlining key linkages between redistributive policies, equity and sustainable development by looking at how they can shape a socio-economic context and incentives that are conducive to financial stability and economic development, political inclusion, gender equality and social mobility, as well as environmental sustainability. The paper further aims at (iii) contrasting the potential scope of redistributive policies with the more narrow set of policies that have been implemented in most countries/regions over the last 30 years in order to (iv) derive recommendations for redistributive policies in support of greater equity and sustainable development in the post-2015 context. Conceptualizing redistributive policies from a stock-flow perspective reveals an artificial blind spot of the prevailing approach to redistribution and development: wealth redistribution. The prevailing approach generally covers income redistribution and the provision of public goods as a means to foster human capital accumulation (e.g., the MDGs approach), but it ignores wealth redistribution. This omission impoverishes the understanding of redistribution and hampers the design of redistributive policies in pursuit of development objectives (e.g., efficient taxation, progressive and increased revenue mobilization, poverty reduction, equality of opportunity, etc.). Furthermore, conceptualizing redistributive policies in light of their linkages to equity and sustainable development is increasingly needed given the upcoming transition from the MDGs to SDGs in a context characterised by sustainability challenges, such as rising income inequality, wealth concentration and growing carbon emissions. In this regard, an asset-centred model allows thinking beyond redistributive policy options affecting production and consumption incentives (e.g., progressive environmental taxes) in order to consider possible asset transfers between the private and public sector (e.g., socialization of natural resource ownership, etc.). Based on these premises, this paper suggests a number of steps for developing a more comprehensive approach to redistribution and moving towards a framework enabling asset-centred redistributive policies for greater equity, economic democracy and sustainable development.
H82|China and Russia: Institutional Coherence between the Banking Systems|We use statistical data from 2000 to 2013 to compare the macro-level structure and the core institutions of the banking systems in China and Russia. Our main hypothesis is that, differences in the absolute size and socio-cultural features notwithstanding, these two systems are typologically similar. We consider the institutional structure, the market structure and concentration, the industrial policy of the government, and the banksâ€™ involvement in the financing of the non-financial economy. We find both similarities and differences, however in dynamics the trend towards convergence prevails. In both countries, we see a hierarchical multi-tier banking system headed by a few core state-controlled banks. These combine commercial activities with the activity of a development institution. Regardless of the nominal form of bank ownership, the government exerts influence on the lending decisions and market behavior of banks. We argue that the case of banking in China and Russia provides empirical proof to the macrosociological theory of institutional matrices. We refer in particular to the needed proportion between the dominant and complementary institutions. Whereas China has been carefully seeking a sustainable balance, Russia in the 1990s grossly overshot with liberalization and now reverts to the underlying long-term trend. China has currently become Russia's donor for institutional innovations in the credit system design.
H82|Wladza organizacyjna w spolkach Skarbu Panstwa (Corporate authority in State Owned Companies)|The paper refers to the problem of the corporate authority in Polish State Owned Companies. The aim of the article is to respond to research problems. Firstly, if the real corporate authority in State Owned Companies belongs to the entities that posses formal authority (i.e. the authority that is based on regulations). Secondly, if the real corporate authority is possessed by the entities that are responsible for companies’ results and are appropriately informed about companies’ situation. All findings are based on classic functional research and consists of regulation analysis and large sample analysis conducted among SOCs’ management and supervisory boards’ members and officials of Polish Ministry of Treasury that supervise SOCs.
H82|Dekonstrukcja struktury spolki kapitalowej. Wplyw urzednikow na spolki Skarbu Panstwa (Deconstruction of the company’s structure. The influence of government officials on State Owned Companies)|State Owned Companies (SOCs) should in general operate according to the same rules as privately owned companies. However, the fact that the state is the shareholder enables government officials to influence both management and supervisory boards. The aim of the research is to identify the influence of government officials on SOCs’ management and supervisory boards and the determinants of government officials decisions’ concerning SOCs, in particular the problems that refer to the operation of Polish Ministry of Treasury. The main question here is if the influence of government officials is constructive or destructive for the companies as the entities that undertake commercial activity and that should achieve their business aims. The research carried out by the author is interdisciplinary and consists of regulation analysis and large sample analysis conducted among SOCs’ management and supervisory boards’ members and officials of Polish Ministry of Treasury that supervise SOCs.
H82|Measuring the Efficiency of an FCC Spectrum Auction|We propose a method to structurally estimate the deterministic component of bidder valuations in FCC spectrum auctions, and apply it to the 1995-1996 C block auction. We base estimation on a pairwise stability condition: two bidders cannot exchange two licenses in a way that increases the sum of their valuations. Pairwise stability holds in some theoretical models of simultaneous ascending auctions under intimidatory collusion and demand reduction. Pairwise stability results in a matching game approach to estimation. We find that a system of four large regional licenses would raise the allocative efficiency of the C block outcome by 48 percent. (JEL D44, D45, H82, L82)
H82|Corruption In The Land Sector| The corruption is both a major cause and a result of poverty around the world. Corruption in the land sector can be generally characterized as pervasive and without effective means of control. In this paper we analyze the risks and forms of corruption in the land sector citing some documented examples from the world and from Serbia. The paper concludes that all countries facing a problems with land administration needs the rebuilding of land administration institutions to provide access to land as essential to rekindle economic growth and social stability. It can also be concluded that Serbia is on the path of mild progress in planning land administration and land management.
H82|The retreat of the state from entrepreneurial activities: A convergence analysis for OECD countries, 1980–2007|In this paper, we measure the extent and dissemination of the retreat of the state from entrepreneurial activities in 20 OECD countries during the 1980–2007 period using a three-dimensional concept and a new dataset, the REST database. We consider privatization, deregulation in network-based services, and the cutback of subsidies. Though the empirical analysis confirms a clear trend towards diminishing state influence in all three dimensions, the analysis of both sigma and conditional beta convergence indicates convergence only for privatization (measured by public employment) and for subsidization, indicating that OECD countries have become similar and have converged to a common equilibrium with respect to these dimensions.
H82|Public Sector and Privatization in Russia in 2012|Russia’s Government has adopted no other privatization programs over the last two years, as it did in the 2000s, since the Forecast Plan (Program) for the Federal Property and the Guidelines of Federal Property Privatization for 2011-2013 was adopted in November 2010. However, it is these documents that contained numerical data on federal state unitary enterprises (FSUEs) and joint stock companies (JSCs) in which the Russian Federation had a participating interest as of the beginning of a calendar year. Therefore, there is no sufficient information for making an impartial assessment of the dynamics of the foregoing components in the public sector in 2012.
H82|PRIVATISATION IN RUSSIA: Hard Choice, First Results, New Targets|The privatisation wave that spread all over the world in the 1980s at last reached the shores of Russia in the 1990s and near the bastions of the administrative system it came to rest in a rather indecisive way. If in the 1980s the issue of privatisation was of real interest only for a narrow circle of academics, and again only as it was applicable to the nations of the West and the developing nations, the autumn of 1990 in Russia was a starting point for extremely vigorous deliberations over an acceptable model of privatisation for domestic needs.
H82|The Dynamics Of The Privatization And The State Of Property Relations In 2012|The results of 2012 clearly pointed to the fact that the classical set of problems specifi c to the Russian privatization – justifi cation of the fair price for assets to be privatized, real motivation of the participants, determination of the criteria of selection of the buyer, ensuring of transparency and claims of regulating authorities – remain topical. Also, there has been no analysis of the potential effects of the privatization with its expediency, alternative costs, possible risks and effects on individual markets, industries, regions and the country’s economy as a whole taken into account.
H82|A New Turn In The Privatization Policy|The Forecast Plan (Program) for the Privatization of Federal Property and the Main Guidelines for the Privatization of Federal Property in 2014–2016 were approved by the Russian Government’s Executive Order dated July 1, 2013, No. 1111-r. This is already a second 3-year privatization program developed with consideration for the planning period of the Forecast Plan (Program) for the Privatization of Federal Property (from one year to three years) based on the amendments which were made to the applicable law on privatization in the spring of 2010
H82|Новый Поворот Приватизационной Политики|1 июля 2013 г. распоряжением Правительства РФ от № 1111-р утвержден Прогнозный план (программа) приватизации федерального имущества и основных направлений приватизации федерального имущества на 2014–2016 гг. Это уже вторая 3-х летняя приватизационная программа, разработанная с учетом увеличения планового периода действия прогнозного плана (программы) приватизации федерального имущества (от одного года до трех лет), исходя из изменений, внесенных в действующий закон о приватизации весной 2010 г.
H82|Államosítás, privatizáció, államosítás<BR>[Nationalization, privatization, nationalization]|A magyar állam részvénytulajdona három év alatt megduplázódott. Állami kézbe kerültek energetikai óriások és kisebb bankok, nagy közszolgáltatók és apró boltok, nyereséges és a csőd szélén álló cégek, teljes pakettek és kisebbségi részesedések. A lezáratlan folyamatról készült pillanatfelvétel azonban nem káoszt, hanem egységbe rendeződő képet exponál: a köztulajdon kiterjesztése a gazdaság működéséről alkotott kormányzati felfogás szerves része, fontos, bár nem kizárólagos eszköze az állami szerepvállalás módosításának, a vagyonok és jövedelemszerzési lehetőségek átrendezésének. Az elemzés szerint az állami tulajdon nagyságának változása, ha az beágyazódik az egész gazdaság működési módjának átformálásába, akkor olyan jellegzetességeket mutat, amelyek a politikai berendezkedéstől, sőt a lépések irányától is függetlenül jelentkeznek: a közkézbe vételnek és a privatizálásnak vannak hasonló vonásai. Journal of Economic Literature (JEL) kód: H82, L32, P26.
H82|Déterminants et perspectives de la privatisation des infrastructures à Djibouti : Leçons tirées de trois études de cas|This paper questions the determinants of infrastructure privatization in Djibouti and seeks to explain why this policy is still implemented today. Through case studies, the paper analyses the privatization processes of the port, electricity, and railway sectors. The paper shows that privatization has four major determinants: the presence of favourable contingent elements; the presence of political interests; the extent to which the contractual arrangements conform to government expectations, and the existence of alternative solutions. Furthermore, the paper explains that privatization is still considered today because the change of its target makes the interests of the government, donors, and private investors compatible
H82|On Control of the Ownership Structure|Efficiency of privatization depends on the transformation cost and the quality of the state as well as the quality of the market. An analysis of these and some other factors allows to explain diversity of privatization outcomes in different countries and to formulate general principles of the ownership structure control.
H82|Economic Turnovers and Financial Vacuum Cleaners|The paper considers different types of financial flows in the form of turnovers to imply the return to the starting point with direct or indirect losses. The dynamic schemes, volumes and losses of turnovers are examined: the financial turnover between federal budget, financial markets for budget surplus investments­ and financial markets for the budget deficit borrowings; pension turnover between the State Pension Fund, financial institutions for pensions’ savings and federal budget; the property turnover and the tax turnover for raw materials export. The total volume of turnovers is estimated as 15—19% of GDP with losses equal to 35% of federal budget expenditures.
H82|Temporary Premises In The Management Of Municipal Property Resources|The article discusses the issue of the obligation on municipalities to provide temporary living quarters (temporary residential premises) to people who have not been granted the right to social housing or substitute accommodation by the court. This obligation, implemented as part of the municipality’s own task, has been characterised by a broad outline of its legal background and a practical presentation of the problems of managing municipal property resources. Statutorily prescribed ways of creating housing resources of the municipality contributed to presenting the discussed issues as one of the aspects of the management of municipal property resources
H82|Приватизация И Рациональная Структура Собственности. Часть 2. Рационализация Структуры Собственности<BR>[Privatization and the rational ownership structure. Part 2: rationalization of the ownership structure]|In the first part of the paper, it was shown that decisions on privatization have to be considered in the context of more general problem of finding a rational property structure in an economy. The second part demonstrates that public enterprises fulfill a number of special functions which are particularly important for developing resource abundant countries. Particularly, they can play a role of the modernization agents which initiate large scale projects in the frameworks of public-private partnerships. A concept of stationary property structure is introduced. A set of stationary structures exists under given conditions; the ”volume” of the set depends on transformation costs of privatization. This explains path-dependence of the observed structures. Some principles of the governance of the property structure are suggested which are supported by the analysis of the Norway experience. The causes of the cyclicity of the privatization policies are discussed, and the reasons of the coming mass privatization in Russia are analyzed. Recommendations are formulated to increase the efficiency of the Russian state sector governance.
H82|Приватизация И Рациональная Структура Собственности. Часть 2. Рационализация Структуры Собственности<BR>[Privatization and the rational ownership structure. Part 2: rationalization of the ownership structure]|In the first part of the paper, it was shown that decisions on privatization have to be considered in the context of more general problem of finding a rational property structure in an economy. The second part demonstrates that public enterprises fulfill a number of special functions which are particularly important for developing resource abundant countries. Particularly, they can play a role of the modernization agents which initiate large scale projects in the frameworks of public-private partnerships. A concept of stationary property structure is introduced. A set of stationary structures exists under given conditions; the ”volume” of the set depends on transformation costs of privatization. This explains path-dependence of the observed structures. Some principles of the governance of the property structure are suggested which are supported by the analysis of the Norway experience. The causes of the cyclicity of the privatization policies are discussed, and the reasons of the coming mass privatization in Russia are analyzed. Recommendations are formulated to increase the efficiency of the Russian state sector governance.
H82|Les entreprises chinoises sous la tutelle directe du gouvernement illustrées par leur investissement en Afrique|La majorité des études sur la présence chinoise en Afrique tendent par la force des choses à privilégier une approche par les entreprises publiques. Dans cette recherche nous nous focaliserons sur une catégorie spécifique d’entreprises publiques, celle des entreprises sous la tutelle directe du gouvernement central (les « entreprises centrales ») puisque celles-ci détiennent en moyenne 80 % du stock d’investissement direct chinois à l’étranger. C’est leur importance économique — tant en Chine qu’à l’étranger — conjuguée à leur proximité avec le pouvoir central qui justifient que ces entreprises soient distinguées des autres entreprises publiques et soient spécifiquement interrogées sur leur rôle comme vecteur effectif de la politique chinoise en Afrique. Successivement donc, nous évoquerons la résurgence du concept stratégique d’« entreprise centrale », puis nous nous interrogerons sur le degré d’autonomie de ces entreprises centrales tel que l’exprime leur stratégie d’investissement direct à l’étranger et plus spécifiquement en Afrique. En définitive, le gouvernement chinois a une stratégie africaine qu’il entend mettre en œuvre grâce à ses entreprises centrales lesquelles disposent toutefois d’une plus grande autonomie qu’il n’apparaît d’emblée.
H82|Doradcza rola rad nadzorczych spolek Skarbu Panstwa (Advisory role of State Owned Companies’ supervisory boards)|The article’s objective is to establish if State Owned Companies’ (SOC’) supervisory boards perform an advisory role. The regulations in force do not decide if companies’ supervisory boards may also advise management boards apart from supervising them. Nevertheless, the research conclusion is that supervisory boards may in practice advise management boards or their advisory role may constitute the form of management boards’ supervision. Moreover, supervisory boards may also advise companies’ general meetings and officials of the Ministry of Treasury. The advisory role may be performed by supervisory board that operates in gremium but also by the sole members of the boards. This kind of the members’ activity may be determined by various factors, in particular, the interests of entities that decide to appoint concrete member to the board. The common determinant of supervisory boards’ members decisions should be the interest of the company. The interdisciplinary research carried out by the author bases on regulation analysis and large sample analysis conducted among SOCs’ management and supervisory boards’ members.
H82|Fishing industry borrows from natural capital at high shadow interest rates|Fish stocks can be considered as natural capital stocks providing harvestable fish. Fishing at low stock sizes means borrowing from the natural asset. While fishing a particular quantity generates immediate profits and income, an interest rate has to be paid in terms of foregone future fishing income, as the fish stock's reproductive capacity remains low and fishing costs stay high. In this paper we propose to apply the concept of shadow interest rate to quantify the degree of overfishing. It incorporates the relevant biological and economic information and compares across fish stocks. We calculate the shadow interest rates for 13 major European fish stocks and find these rates to range from 10% to more than 200%. The concept of the shadow interest rate can be used to make the economic consequences of overfishing transparent and to evaluate the profitability of short-term catch reductions as investments in natural capital stocks.
H82|Public housing units vs. housing vouchers: Accessibility, local public goods, and welfare|We develop a general equilibrium model of residential choice and study the effects of two housing aid policies, public housing units and housing vouchers. Land is differentiated by both residential accessibility and local public goods, and the provision levels of local public goods are determined by property tax revenues and neighborhood compositions. Households differ in their incomes and preferences for local public goods. Housing aid policies are financed by general income taxes. We discuss how the location of public housing units is a fundamental policy variable, in addition to the numbers and sizes of units, and argue that vouchers not only cause less distortion for social welfare compared to public housing, but may also improve overall welfare.
H82|State and Denationalization: Risks and Constraints of a “New Privatization Policy”|It will be some time before we can fully appreciate the radical nature of the socio-economic effects produced by the global crisis of the end of the first decade of the twenty first century. However, it is already evident that the two leading market economic systems of the Western world – that of the USA, based on an ideology of free market competition, and the socially oriented system of Europe, were unable adequately to respond to the initial phase of the crisis. Moreover, the only measures that proved capable of preventing financial and economic collapse were those taken by states that possessed powerful levers for acting upon the economy as the crisis unfolded. Russia was one of these states, though circumstances in Russia were not typical.
H82|The cost of registering property: does legal origin matter?|There is a large literature that finds that common law countries perform better than civil law countries in various aspects of the institutional environment. This article extends these findings to another dimension of institutional quality--the cost of registering property. In a sample of 121 countries, we find that the cost of registering property is lower by 26 percent of the world average in common law compared with civil law countries, a result largely driven by differences in non-notary costs of registering property. We provide plausible explanations for these findings.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
H82|Board composition, political connections, and performance in state-owned enterprises| This article analyses the effects of board composition on the behavior of a sample of 114 Italian local public utilities, for which information about 1630 directors during 1994--2004 has been collected. This period is particularly interesting because of the legal changes that forced many firms to alter their juridical form and accommodated the entrance of private investors. We investigate whether board size and/or board composition do affect decisions about employment and how they ultimately impact performance. Our main findings indicate that politically connected directors, who dominate boards of directors in Italian public utilities, exert a positive and significant effect on employment, and have a negative impact on performance. Copyright 2012 The Author 2011. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Associazione ICC. All rights reserved., Oxford University Press.
H82|Приватизация и рациональная структура собственности (Privatizatsiya i ratsional’naya struktura sobstvennosti)<BR>[Privatization and the Rational Ownership Structure]|The costs and benefits of privatization are considered, focusing on the current Russian conditions. The experience of many countries, as well as econometric and theoretical studies, a review of which is given in the paper, show that relative efficiency of privatized enterprises in comparison with the state depends on the stage of economic development and quality of institutions. State-owned enterprises may have a number of special functions which are particularly important for developing or resource abundant economies. In particular, they can play the role of agents of modernization to initiate large-scale projects as public-private partnerships. It is shown that the decision on privatization should be considered in the context of a more general problem of finding a rational ownership structure in an economy. Factors affecting the comparative efficiency of public and private enterprises are analyzed. A number of hypotheses are proposed about the shape of dependence of the rational ownership structure on the level of development, the quality of government, and the quality of markets. Recommendations on improvement of the public sector management are formulated.
H82|Приватизация И Рациональная Структура Собственности. Часть 1. Приватизация: Проблема Эффективности<BR>[Privatization and the rational ownership structure. Part 1: privatization: the effeciency problem]|The problem of public sector governance is considered as the task of improving the ownership structure of the economy. In this regard, the first part of the paper provides a brief overview of the theory of privatization. The arguments of supporters and opponents of privatization are confronted with the results of the privatization campaigns in the developing as well as developed countries, including their contemporary and past experience. The costs and potential benefits of privatization are analyzed, focusing on the current Russian conditions. The analysis shows that the costs and benefits depend on the quality of governance and the quality of the market; the effectiveness of privatization increases in both variables. The negative impact of privatization campaigns on both business performance and economic growth occurs in developing countries more often than in developed countries. Thus, the decision on privatization should be considered in the context of a more general problem of finding a rational structure of ownership in the economy.
H82|Приватизация И Рациональная Структура Собственности. Часть 1. Приватизация: Проблема Эффективности<BR>[Privatization and the rational ownership structure. Part 1: privatization: the effeciency problem]|The problem of public sector governance is considered as the task of improving the ownership structure of the economy. In this regard, the first part of the paper provides a brief overview of the theory of privatization. The arguments of supporters and opponents of privatization are confronted with the results of the privatization campaigns in the developing as well as developed countries, including their contemporary and past experience. The costs and potential benefits of privatization are analyzed, focusing on the current Russian conditions. The analysis shows that the costs and benefits depend on the quality of governance and the quality of the market; the effectiveness of privatization increases in both variables. The negative impact of privatization campaigns on both business performance and economic growth occurs in developing countries more often than in developed countries. Thus, the decision on privatization should be considered in the context of a more general problem of finding a rational structure of ownership in the economy.
H82|Development of a Comprehensive System for Municipal Real Property Classification|In the last decades the organization and management of public sector institutions have become increasingly concerned with the issue of the efficient use of its resources. This paper explores the possibilities to use the multi-criteria analysis techniques for municipal real property management and the proposals regarding the indicators that will be employed in this respect. We propose a model designed so as to take into consideration the goals of the municipalities, contributing to an effective municipal real property management by the proposed optimization and standardization decision-making procedures.
H82|Multi-Criteria Analysis As A Tool For Municipal Property Management|The management of municipal properties represents a major component of the public management and for the well-functioning and development of municipal property the creation of a strategic portfolio of municipal property is necessary. This paper discusses the employment of the multi-criteria analysis in the municipal property management, with the aim of finding the most convenient destinations of municipal assets. It includes the results obtained up to now in the on-going project “Municipal Property Management in South-Eastern Cities (PROMISE)”, which concentrates on the development of a comprehensive system for municipal property classification and assessment, so as to find an appealing combination between the use of properties for their own needs and for attracting investment and promoting sustainable development of their cities and regions as well.
H82|Taxes, permits and costly policy response to technological change|In this paper we analyze the e ects of the choice of price (taxes) versus quantity (tradable permits) instruments on the policy response to technological change. We show that if policy responses incur transactional and political adjustment costs, environmental targets are less likely to be adjusted under tradable per- mits than under emission taxes. This implies that the total level of abatement over time might remain unchanged under tradable permits while it will increase under emission taxes.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
H82|The Economics of Contingent Re-auctions|"We consider an auction environment where an object can be sold with usage restrictions that generate benefits to the seller but decrease buyers' valuations. In this environment, sellers such as the FCC have used ""contingent re-auctions,"" offering the restricted object with a reserve price, but re-auctioning it without restrictions if the reserve is not met. We show that contingent re-auctions are generally neither efficient nor optimal for the seller. We propose an alternative ""exclusive-buyer mechanism"" that can implement the efficient outcome in dominant strategies. In certain environments, parameters can be chosen so the seller's surplus is maximized across all selling procedures. (JEL D44, D82, H82)"
H82|Vietnam's SCIC: a gradualist approach to sovereign wealth funds| Vietnam's State Capital Investment Corporation (SCIC) was established in 2005, with the primary goal of helping the authorities to make, under market conditions, the most of state capital investments in business enterprises. To date, SCIC has had to grapple mainly with facilitating the ‘equitization’ (that is privatization) of large numbers of state-owned enterprises. As yet it is still too early to make a firm assessment of SCIC's performance with regard to either of the above objectives. Nevertheless, a discernable picture has begun to emerge, in which SCIC appears to have been a typical example of Vietnam's gradualist approach in transitioning to a more market-oriented economic system: the pace of change may have been slow and uneven, but there are clear indications of movements toward the end goal.
H82|A Case Study of Privatization without Consideration: The Failure of Voucher Privatization in the Czech Republic|The theory of coupon privatization was developed by Milton Friedman in the 1970s as a quicker alternative to stock privatization. According to this theory, several transformed Central and Easter European countries have provided their state entrepreneurial assets – to various degrees – to private ownership. The largest voucher asset transmission took place in the Czech Republic, where more than half of the total privatization value was transferred to private ownership by this institutional method. The current study presents the socioeconomic motivations, achievements, and failures of this radical privatization model and finally, it draws lessons and conclusions regarding the Bohemian application of this extremist (in an economic-political sense) privatization technique. The study will be part of a dissertation including the comparative analysis of European privatization models.
H82|Corporate Governance and Performance in Local Public Utilities|This paper analyses the effects of corporatization, mixed ownership and board composition on the behaviour and performance of a sample of 114 Italian local public utilities, for which information about 1,630 directors during 1994-2004 has been collected. Our main findings indicate that, while the corporatization process and the presence of private investors are positively correlated with profitability, the presence of politically connected directors, who dominate boards of directors in the Italian public utilities in the period under investigation, exerts a negative impact on performance.
H82|Product Market Regulation in Russia|This paper uses the OECD’s indicators of product market regulation (PMR) to assess the extent to which the regulatory environment in Russia supports competition and to draw attention to the areas where further reform efforts would pay dividends. The indicators show that, despite improvements in some areas, many aspects of Russia’s regulatory framework are still restrictive, which provides considerable scope for reaping gains from bringing regulation into line with international best practice. In particular, the scores suggest that Russia’s economic performance would greatly benefit from a reduction in the role of the state enterprise sector in markets that are inherently competitive and reinvigorated efforts to liberalise foreign trade and direct investment regimes. In some network sectors, recent regulatory changes have significantly improved the scope for competition. However, ongoing work needs to focus on separating competitive and monopoly market segments and eliminating barriers to entry. In addition, the authorities need to develop the capacity and strengthen the hands of the sectoral regulators. Introducing an overarching competition policy would also help bring the issue of competition to centre stage and spread a competition ethos through different levels of government.
H82|Russia: Progress in Structural Reform and Framework Conditions|In the 16 years since the OECD began conducting Economic Surveys of the Russian Federation, a great many policy recommendations relating to structural reform and framework conditions have been made. This paper, expanding on Annex 1.A1 in the 2011 OECD Economic Survey of the Russian Federation, provides a summary tabulation of the state of implementation of a large number of these past Survey recommendations. Russie : Progrès des réformes structurelles et des conditions-cadres Au fil des 16 ans depuis la première Étude économique de la Federation Russe de l’OCDE, il y a eu beaucoup de recommandations portant sur la reforme structurelle et les conditions-cadres de l’économie. Cette étude, qui représente une élaboration de l’Annexe 1.A1 de l’Étude économique de la Federation Russe 2011, fournit un sommaire de l’état de la mise en oeuvre d’un grand nombre de ces recommandations.
H82|Current Issues in Managing Government Debt and Assets|The management of government debt and assets has important implications for fiscal positions. Debt managers aim to secure non-interrupted funding at lowest medium-term costs subject to risks. Massive crisis-related increases in government debt in most OECD countries and increased risks on the asset side of government balance sheets may imply attaching a larger weight to avoiding risk than prior to the crisis, suggesting to extend debt maturities, possibly above pre-crisis levels. There are a number of trade-offs. Choices on the debt maturity structure interact with unconventional monetary policies. By driving down longer-term yields, the latter increase incentives to extend debt maturities which could counteract the initial monetary policy goal. High debt raises the temptation for eroding it via inflation, but the effectiveness of such policy seems to be limited and might be costly in the long run. Moreover, debt management needs to contribute to ensuring appropriate liquidity and functioning of government bond markets. Building financial assets can be appropriate for some purposes, such as prefunding future temporary spending or transferring wealth to future generations, but the risks are that accumulated funds might be used for current spending or tax reductions. In addition, assets might do little to hedge risks associated with debt servicing costs. Non-financial asset sales can help improve the fiscal situation, but purely revenue-driven privatisations without appropriate regulatory provisions addressing potential market failures should be avoided. Successful balance sheet management requires transparent, accurate and comprehensive measures of not only current but also future assets and liabilities. Problèmes actuels dans la gestion de la dette et des actifs gouvernementaux La gestion de la dette et des actifs gouvernementaux a des implications importantes sur les situations budgétaires. Les gestionnaires de la dette ont pour but de sécuriser un financement ininterrompu au plus bas coût à moyen terme et en contrôlant les risques. Les augmentations massives de la dette publique liées à la crise dans la plupart des pays de l’OCDE ainsi que l’augmentation des risques sur les actifs du compte du patrimoine public peuvent se traduire par un poids plus élevé donné au contrôle des risques par rapport à la période antérieure à la crise, suggérant d’étendre le délai de remboursement des dettes, peut-être au dessus des niveaux prévalant avant la crise. Il y a un certain nombre d’arbitrages. Les choix sur la structure par échéance de la dette interagissent avec les politiques monétaires non conventionnelles. En réduisant les rendements à long terme, ces dernières accroissent les incitations à étendre le délai de remboursement des dettes ce qui peut neutraliser le but initial de la politique monétaire. Des niveaux élevés de dette accentuent la tentation de les éroder par de l’inflation, cependant l’efficacité de telle politique semble limitée et peut même être coûteuse sur le long terme. En outre, la gestion de la dette doit contribuer à assurer une liquidité appropriée et un bon fonctionnement des marchés d’obligations d’État. Développer des actifs financiers peut être adéquat dans certains cas, par exemple pour provisionner des dépenses temporaires futures, ou pour transférer de la richesse aux générations futures, mais le risque est que ces fonds accumulés soient utilisés pour des dépenses courantes ou pour baisser les impôts. De plus ces actifs ne vont sans doute pas permettre de se couvrir des risques associés au service de la dette. La vente des actifs non financiers peut améliorer la situation budgétaire, mais des privatisations uniquement orientées par la recherche de recettes sans dispositions réglementaires adaptées aux éventuelles défaillances des marchés doivent être évitées. Une gestion réussie du patrimoine public exige de la transparence ainsi que des mesures précises et complètes non seulement des actifs et passifs actuels mais aussi de leurs valeurs futures.
H82|Old Questions – New Answers? A Few Notes on the New State Property Act|Let there be no illusions: in the legal regulation of state asset management - on account of the complexity of the state's institutional system, the differentiation of the assets managed and the necessarily contradictory system of objectives of the state's exercising of owner's rights - there are no perfect solutions. All proposals and decisions can only weigh advantages and disadvantages. With this in mind, the study formulates a few discussion points based on research experience from a researcher's perspective. Of these, it considers it extremely important to review the justification for state ownership based on a theoretical reflection of the scope and means of efficiently attending to public tasks and, taking this as a starting point, the filtering of the current portfolio and the extension of state property, a more detailed regulation of the aims, methods and evaluation criteria of asset management, as well as annual reports based on reliable records. The latter can only be credible if they cover all state property, take into account all related financial expenditures and handle changes to the composition of the property separately.
H82|Trade sustainability impact assessment (SIA) on the comprehensive economic and trade agreement (CETA) between the EU and Canada: Final report|Commissioned by the European Commission, the Final Report for the EU-Canada Sustainability Impact Assessment (SIA) on the EU-Canada Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) provides a comprehensive assessment of the potential impacts of trade liberalisation under CETA. The analysis assesses the economic, social and environmental impacts in Canada and the European Union in three main sectors, sixteen sub-sectors and across seven cross-cutting issues. It predicts a number of macro-economic and sector-specific impacts. The macro analysis suggests the EU may see increases in real GDP of 0.02-0.03% in the long-term from CETA, whereas Canada may see increases of 0.18-0.36%. The Investment section of the report suggests these numbers could be higher when factoring in investment increases. At the sectoral level, the study predicts the greatest gains in output and trade to be stimulated by services liberalisation and by the removal of tariffs applied on sensitive agricultural products. It also suggests CETA could have a positive social impact if it includes provisions on the ILO’s Core Labour Standards and Decent Work Agenda. The study also details a variety of impacts in various “cross-cutting” components of CETA. It finds CETA would stimulate investment in Canada, and to a lesser extent in the EU; and finds costs outweigh the benefits of including controversial NAFTA-style investor-state dispute settlement (ISDS) provisions in CETA. It predicts potentially imbalanced benefits from a government procurement (GP) chapter. The study assumes CETA will lead to an upward harmonisation in intellectual property rights (IPR) regulations, particularly in Canada, which will have a number of effects. It predicts some notable impacts in terms of competition policy, as well as trade facilitation, free circulation of goods and labour mobility.
H82|From national monopoly to multinational corporation: How regulation shaped the road towards telecommunications internationalisation| One of the consequences of major regulatory reform of the telecommunications sector from the end of the 1970s -- particularly, privatisation, liberalisation and deregulation -- was the establishment of a new business environment which permitted former national telecommunications monopolies to expand abroad. From the 1990s, a number of these firms, particularly those based in Europe, joined the rankings of the world's leading multinational corporations. Their internationalisation was uneven, however: while some firms internationalised strongly, others ventured abroad much slower. This article explores how the regulatory framework within which telecommunications incumbents evolved over the long-term shaped their subsequent, uneven, paths to internationalisation. Two case studies representing ‘maximum variation’ are selected: Telefónica, whose early and unrelenting expansion transformed it into one of the world's most international of multinational corporations, and BT, whose overseas ventures failed and, with eroding domestic market share, forced the firm to partially retreat, becoming the least international of the large European incumbents. Long-term ownership, access to capital, management style and exposure to liberalisation strongly influenced firms' approaches to internationalisation.
H82|Online Advertising: Heterogeneity and Conflation in Market Design|No abstract is available for this item.
H82|The 1/d Law of Giving|We combine survey data on friendship networks and individual characteristics with experimental observations from dictator games. Dictator offers are primarily explained by social distance, giving follows a simple inverse distance law. While student demographics play a minor role in explaining offer amounts, individual heterogeneity is important for network formation. In particular, we detect significant homophilous behavior; students connect to others similar to themselves. Moreover, the network data reveal a strong preference for cliques, students connect to those already close. The study is one of the first to identify network architecture with individual behavior in a strategic context. (JEL D44, H82)
H82|An Experimental Test of Flexible Combinatorial Spectrum Auction Formats|This paper reports laboratory experiments that evaluate the performance of a flexible package bidding format developed by the FCC, in comparison with other combinatorial formats. In general, the interest of policy makers in combinatorial auctions is justified by the laboratory data. When value complementarities are present, package bidding yields improved performance. We find clear differences among the combinatorial auction formats both in terms of efficiency and seller revenue, however. Notably, the combinatorial clock provides the highest revenue. The FCC's flexible package bidding format performed worse than the alternatives, which is one of the main reasons why it was not implemented. (JEL D44, H82)
H82|Greece’s Interdependence with the European Union and her Loss to Society Function|This paper explores the Greek economy since 1974, before and after joining the Economic and Monetary Union and some of the problems that the current global and European debt crises have created to Greek and to all European citizens. A social loss function and a partial equilibrium model are used to determine interdependence and social cost (or benefits) for the country. The most severe problems of Greece are the social chaos, which is increasing every day, due to the current financial crisis and the worst recession since the great depression of 1940s, the economic and political corruption, which are underrated by the officials, and the tremendous uncertainty that the Union has generated to its weak member-nations and their citizens. Europe has a seven thousand years old history, which comes from ancient Greek civilization and is complemented by Christianity. Greece experienced many difficulties, conflicts, and invasions by barbarians and other neighbouring countries, which had and continue to have tremendous negative effects on her economy. But at the same time, many good periods with tremendous contribution to the global scene are recorded. After World War II the nation and citizens enjoyed a huge growth, a stable development, a multiple improvement, and a preservation of their traditional social values. Lately, the European integration, the debt crisis, and the €110 billion loan from the Troika have destroyed the sovereignty of Greece and it is ruling undemocratically an entire continent and Greece, as a member of the EU and EMU. European Union’s economic and social policies cannot satisfy the welfare functions for the Europeans, like justice, fairness, allocation, equity, stability, distribution, efficiency, full employment, homogeneity, security, sovereignty, independence, self-sufficiency, certainty, and democracy. Unfortunately, Greece has lost her public and trade policies, which have increased instability and reduced growth and sustainability inside the country.
H82|Municipal reform in the republics of the Southern Federal Okrug|The study addresses the processes relating to the implementation of municipal reform in the republics of the North Caucasus and the Republic of Kalmykia. The authors analyze some formal parameters of implementing municipal reform: the rate of reforming, the territorial organization of local self-government, the formation of municipal authority, the division of powers, the organization of financing of municipal formations, etc. Besides, they assessed the impact of reform on the whole spectrum of economic, national, and socio-cultural relations in these territories, and in particular on the various conflicts typical of the North Caucasus. The study was completed before the creation, by the President of the Russian Federation, of the North Caucasian Federal Okrug in January 2010.
H82|Privatization, Foreign Acquisition, and Firm Performance: A New Empirical Methodology and its Application to Hungary|This study examines the effects of ownership transformation from the state to the private sector on firm performance in the post-privatization period using annual census-type data of Hungarian enterprises for the early 2000s. The empirical methodology designed to overcome the data limitations arising from an insufficient observation period effectively captured restructuring efforts by new owners and company managers and provided strong empirical evidence of the close relationship between ownership transformation and firm performance
H82|"""Loans for Shares"" Revisited"|"The ""loans for shares"" scheme of 1995-6--in which a handful of well-connected businessmen bought stakes in major Russian companies--is widely considered a scandal that slowed subsequent Russian economic growth. Fifteen years later, I reexamine the details of the program. In light of evidence available today, I concur with the critics that the scheme's execution appeared corrupt. However, in most other regards the conventional wisdom was wrong. The stakes involved represented a small fraction of the market; the pricing in most cases was in line with international practice; and the scheme can only explain a small part of Russia's increasing wealth inequality. The biggest beneficiaries were not the so-called ""oligarchs,"" but Soviet era industrial managers. After the oligarchs consolidated control, their firms performed far better than comparable state enterprises and companies sold to incumbent managers, and helped fuel Russia's rapid growth after 1999."
H82|Foreign State Immunity and Foreign Government Controlled Investors|Discussions at the “Freedom of Investment” Roundtables, hosted by the OECD Investment Committee, have stressed that increased investments by foreign State-controlled investors can bring significant benefits to home and host societies, but have also noted that they can raise concerns. This paper examines two principal issues concerning foreign State-controlled investors: whether the doctrine of foreign state immunity may make it difficult for private parties to pursue legitimate claims against them and whether that doctrine creates regulatory enforcement gaps for host countries. Although the restrictive approach to immunity is now widely recognised, important issues, such as whether the financial investment activities of a sovereign wealth fund are commercial or sovereign acts, remain uncertain. In the area of regulation, the paper analyses state policies in the area of tax, competition law and criminal law, and notes key factors that may influence immunity in such cases.
H82|Opportunities to Reduce Expenses in Local Public Administration|The approached theme tackles the opportunities that the local public administration has to improve the expenditure based on modern scientific Public expenses clasify as : functional expenses and economic expenses. Functional expenses are reflected in the classification of financial indicators that apply in the public sector. Thus, functional expenses are grouped into chapters and subchapters which indicate a particular function performed by state institutions: public authorities, other general public services, government debt and borrowing transactions, public order and national security, education, culture, religion, sports, social welfare, environment and water, fuel and energy, transport and communications. methods. In terms of the current economic crisis that our country is facing too, the local public administration should consider these opportunities. In this work, there is a short presentation of the steps to be taken and the management analysis techniques which can contribute to achieving a program on expenses control within the local public administration.
H82|Is the European Union ready for foreign direct investment from emerging markets?|This chapter asks whether the European Union Member States are ready for inward Foreign Direct Investment from the Emerging Markets. It concludes that European Union Member States have relatively open Foreign Direct Investment regimes in the international context, and yet instances of protectionism have been apparent in the recent period. However, protectionism has occurred both vis-a-vis Foreign Direct Investment from the Global South as well as from within the European Union, particularly in the so-called 'strategic' industries.
H82|Monetizing Housing Equity to Generate Retirement Incomes|The public housing program and the unique way of financing housing through the mandatory savings system in Singapore have created a class of homeowners. This paper compares the instruments available to different flat owners to monetize their assets, including the Lease Buyback Scheme (LBS), subletting, downsizing and reverse mortgage. We estimate the present value of retirement incomes derived from these options by incorporating the survival probability which is forecasted using the Lee-Carter demographic model. We compare the monthly payouts that can be unlocked and discuss the tradeoffs of adequate retirement with the elderly preference for leaving a bequest and ageing in place. Our results show that LBS is the most attractive option. It allows the elderly to age-inplace while generating a steady stream of monthly drawdown and possibility of leaving a bequest. Subletting releases housing equity while retaining the asset. This helps the elderly to fulfill their bequest motive. Reverse mortgage is the least attractive option, yielding the lowest retirement income due to high loading factors.
H82|Mixed oligopoly equilibria when firms' objectives are endogenous|We study a vertically differentiated market where two firms simultaneously choose the quality and price of the good they sell and where consumers may also care for the average quality of the goods supplied. Firms are composed of two factions whose objectives differ: one is maximizing profit while the other maximizes revenues. The equilibrium concept we model, called Firm Unanimity Nash Equilibrium (FUNE), corresponds to the Nash equilibrium between firms when there is efficient bargaining between the two factions inside both firms. We first show that such equilibria are inefficient, with both firms underproviding quality. We then assume that the government takes a participation in one firm, which introduces a third faction, bent on welfare maximization, in that firm. We study the characteristics of equilibria as a function of the bargaining weight of the welfare-maximizing faction. We show that equilibrium welfare increases with this bargaining weight, especially if consumers care a lot for the average quality of the goods provided.
H82|Explaining Telecoms and Electricity Internationalization in the European Union: A Political Economy Perspective|One consequence of the liberalization of certain services in the European Union was that a number of formerly inward-looking incumbents in telecommunications and electricity rapidly transformed themselves into some of the world’s leading Multinationals. However, the precise relationship between liberalization and incumbent internationalization is contested. This article tests three persuasive arguments derived from the political economy literature on this relationship. The first claims that those incumbents most exposed to domestic liberalization would internationalise most. The second asserts the opposite: incumbents operating where liberalization was restricted could exploit monopolistic rents to finance their aggressive internationalisation. The third argument claims that a diversity of paths will be adopted by countries and incumbents vis-à-vis liberalization and internationalization. Using correlation and cluster analysis of the sample of all major EU telecoms and electricity incumbent Multinationals evidence is found in favour of the third hypothesis. Internationalization as a response to liberalization took diverse forms in terms of timing and extent and this is best explained using a country, sector and firm logic.
H82|Monetizing Housing Equity to Generate Retirement Incomes|The public housing program and the unique way of financing housing through the mandatory savings system in Singapore have created a class of homeowners. This paper compares the instruments available to different flat owners to monetize their assets, including the Lease Buyback Scheme (LBS), subletting, downsizing and reverse mortgage. We estimate the present value of retirement incomes derived from these options by incorporating the survival probability which is forecasted using the Lee-Carter demographic model. We compare the monthly payouts that can be unlocked and discuss the tradeoffs of adequate retirement with the elderly preference for leaving a bequest and ageing in place. Our results show that LBS is the most attractive option. It allows the elderly to age-inplace while generating a steady stream of monthly drawdown and possibility of leaving a bequest. Subletting releases housing equity while retaining the asset. This helps the elderly to fulfill their bequest motive. Reverse mortgage is the least attractive option, yielding the lowest retirement income due to high loading factors.
H82|Sintetiche considerazioni qualificatorie in ordine alla dismissione dei beni immobili pubblici mediante cartolarizzazione ai sensi del D.L. 25 settembre 2001, n. 351|Sintetiche considerazioni qualificatorie in ordine alla dismissione dei beni immobili pubblici mediante cartolarizzazione ai sensi del D.L. 25 settembre 2001, n. 351 - The securitization of governmental real estate is the object of a renewed and intense interest, mainly on the plan of economical and financial policy, as it is a fundamental instrument in order to find liquid assets for public finance. Nonetheless this particular structured finance process sets intricate problems of qualification, which necessarily influence the concrete configuration of the process of securitization de quo and, at the same time, the modality and typologies of legal actions which can be undertaken by the subjects of securitization. The present essay analyses in detail the ontology of the securitization of governmental real estate, assessing the fiduciary nature of the property right upon the real estate, sold to SPV (special purpose vehicle) or, better, SPC (special purpose company); then the private or public characterization of this particular kind of companies and, consequently, of the their acts and transactions and, moreover, the disposition of the public interests to conform the ontology and the teleology of the complex process of securitization of governmental real estates. JEL H27, H82, K11, K12
H82|Mixed Ownership in Corporative Sector: Evolution, Management, Regulation|The main objective of this publication is to analyze the system of governance of companies with mixed ownership, reveal issues and contradictions arising as a result of this sector reform, evaluation of their place and prospects in the light of Russia's economy modernization. The authors analyze the dynamics and structure of economic entities with the state capital participation. They evaluate the normative and legal basis that regulate their activity, analyze the influence of the gouvernments on economic entities of this type being their joint owners, ðrovide policy proposals regarding public ownership policy with respect to improving the system of governance of such companies including potential privatization. Review of law enforcement in the sphere of mixed ownership (ch. 4.2, 4.3) was done by E. Apevalova. Review of the Canadian experience in this sphere (ch. 5) was prepared by Harry Swain.
H82|Gli immobili pubblici…ovvero, purché restino immobili|The Italian government has succeeded neither in employing nor in disposing of its unused, abandoned and decaying stock of properties over the last twenty years. The legislation on it has been changed continuously even more than once in one year. Policy changed direction yet again this year in the 2007 Finance Act. Is there any hope something will happen? I think there are three main causes to this fiasco. -No one single office has ever been identified as responsible for implementing the objectives of the legislator. -They have not succeeded in creating the necessary co-operation between the many levels of government involved in the policy decision-making process. -They have been unable to reconcile the desires of local communities with public and private sector resources necessary for achieving these goals. If we examine the history of bad rules combined with the wrong policies we can perhaps learn to do better, especially if account is also taken of the best practices employed by others and there is the political will to experiment with significant pilot projects.
H82|Die Finanzierung von Sportarenen – Optionen für große und mittelgroße Projekte<BR>[Financing sports arenas - options for large and middle-size projects]|Hosting the 2006 FIFA World Championship induced a boom in stadium investments in Germany. A second wave of smaller arena constructions can currently be observed across the country. These projects are promoted by smaller clubs of the first and the second Bundesliga, aiming not to fall behind the top clubs. The present paper gives an overview over recent financing models for large stadiums and then focuses on the special case of middle-size arenas.
H82|A note on privatizations and public sector net worth: what (not) to learn from the UK experience|The paper shows that privatisation can contribute to the decrease of net public debt, but at the same time can decrease the Public Sector Net Worth. This is defined as the difference between public sector assets and liabilities. The UK in the 1980s and 1990s is an example of parallelism between divestiture and worsening of the PSNW. The paper is divided into four short sections. In the first we refer to the general concept of Public Sector Net Worth (PSNW). In the second section we present some data for the UK experience of privatization. In the third section we develop a simple conceptual model that shows which variables are at stake and how they are related. We conclude with some implications for economic policy
H82|Fiscal transparency from central banks’ perspective: off-budget activities and government asset funds|This paper reviews how central banks in emerging market countries assess fiscal positions, and discusses two aspects of fiscal transparency that have recently gained importance from central banks’ perspective: off-budget activities and special fiscal funds. By increasing uncertainty about the true fiscal position of the government, these activities are of concern both to central banks that set monetary policy on their own, taking fiscal policy as given, and to those that have adopted an institutional framework for coordinating monetary and fiscal policies.
H82|"From ""Clientelism"" to a ""Client-Centred Orientation""? The Challenge of Public Administration Reform in Russia"|The inefficiency, corruption and lack of accountability that afflict public administration in Russia impose substantial direct costs on both entrepreneurs and ordinary citizens. This paper examines the major weaknesses of Russia’s public administration and assesses the government’s recently revised programme of administrative reform. It lays particular stress on the relationship between public bureaucracies and the larger institutional environment within which they operate, as well as on the need for far greater transparency of public bodies and stronger non-judicial means of redress for citizens wishing to challenge bureaucratic decisions. Many of the problems of Russia’s public administration are aggravated by the fact that the Russian state often tries to do too much: the paper therefore explores the link between administrative reform and the scope of state ownership and regulation. Du « clientélisme » à une culture administrative orientée vers le « client »? Le défi de la réforme de l'administration publique en Russie Le manque d’efficacité, la corruption et la déresponsabilisation de l’administration publique en Russie imposent un lourd fardeau à la fois aux entreprises et aux particuliers. Cette étude examine les principales faiblesses de l’administration publique russe et évalue le programme gouvernemental de réforme administrative, récemment révisé. Un accent particulier est mis sur les liens entre l’administration publique et l’environnement institutionnel dans lequel elle opère ainsi que sur la nécessité d’une bien plus grande transparence des organes publics et de voies de recours extrajudiciaires renforcées pour les citoyens contestant une décision administrative. Beaucoup des problèmes de l’administration publique russe sont aggravés par le fait que, souvent, l’État russe est enclin à trop intervenir ; pour cette raison, l’étude analyse les interactions entre la réforme administrative d’une part et l’étendue de la propriété publique et de la réglementation d’autre part.
H82|Die Finanzierung von Sportarenen - Optionen für große und mittelgroße Projekte|Hosting the 2006 FIFA World Championship induced a boom in stadium investments in Germany. A second wave of smaller arena constructions can currently be observed across the country. These projects are promoted by smaller clubs of the first and the second Bundesliga, aiming not to fall behind the top clubs. The present paper gives an overview over recent financing models for large stadiums and then focuses on the special case of middle-size arenas.
H82|Mixed Oligopoly Equilibria When Firms' Objectives Are Endogenous|No abstract is available for this item.
H82|Public Sector Transparency and Tourism Real Estate Investments in Greece|This work aims to elucidate constraints in foreign investments in the Greek tourism sector, in relation to market transparency, by placing a public sector company opposite the Public Sector. The paper draws on scientific research, government documents, and professional standards to explain the dimensions of the weak form transparency of the real estate market and its effects in international investments in tourism property development in Greece. It stresses the contradiction between the State’s professed goals for tourism development and the effects of the lack of transparency in developing State-owned and private tourist properties.
H82|Özelleştirme uygulamalarında kural hakimiyeti|Özelleştirme mevcut idari yapılanma ve süreç içerisinde gerçekleştirilmeye uygun bir işlem olmasa da, kural hakimiyeti altında gerçekleştirilmesi gerekmektedir. Kural hakimiyeti ise özelleştirme kararlarının hukuka uygun olmasını ve bağımsız, tarafsız ve yetkin mahkemelerce denetlenmesini gerektirmektedir.
H82|Works On Public Finance By The Sixteenth Century Muslim Scholars| The subject of public finance and taxation marked the beginning of systematic and rather exclusive writing on economic issues in Islamic scholarship in its earliest period. Within a few centuries, a large number of works came out on the subject. This trend continued in the later centuries but with a difference in quantity, quality and style. Their number decreased, coverage contracted and they increasingly tended to deal with specific issues. Writings in the later centuries were characterized by imitation and repetition. In the sixteenth century the major works on the subject included the works of al-BalOEtunus¥ “Tahr¥r al-MaqOEl F¥ mOE Yahull wa Yahr´m min Bayt al-MOEl” and Ibn Nujaym’s “RisOElah fi’l-kharOEj” and “Fi Mas’alOEt al-JibOEyah wa’l-RatibOEt wa’l- Mu’sharOEt al-DiwOEniyyah.” From the Persian speaking East, Fadl-Allah Khunji discussed the Islamic provision of public finance in much detail in his work Sul´k al-Mul´k, a very comprehensive treatment of the subject in that period. In Safawid Iran the issue of kharOEj was a very controversial topic and centered on whether the acceptance of a stipend from kharOEj income was permissible for religious scholars.
H82|The Determinants of Asset Stripping: Theory and Evidence from the Transition Economies|During the transition from plan to market, managers and politicians succeeded in maintaining control of large parts of the stock of socialist physical capital. Despite the obvious importance of this phenomenon, there have been no efforts to model, measure, and investigate this process empirically. This paper tries to fill this gap by putting forward theory and econometric evidence. We argue that asset stripping is driven by the interplay between the firm's potential profitability and its ability to influence law enforcement. Our econometric results, for about 950 firms in five transition economies, provide support for this argument.
H82|Reforma dos bancos federais brasileiros: programa, base doutrinária e afinidades teóricas|This article focuses on the reform of the Brazilian federal banks throughout the nineties. Preliminarily, the measures compounding the reform and their impacts on the credit supplied by those financial institutions are presented. The existence of a program conducting that set of measures, so far insufficiently taken in account, is then put in evidence. Next, the article identifies some antecedents of the ´doctrinal´ basis of the program and points out the ones concerned with public provincial banks and federal ones. Based on these results, the article recovers the economic theory background associable to each stage of the reform.
H82|Fiscal Gimmickry in Europe: One-Off Measures and Creative Accounting|Accounting conventions usually leave some room for judgment, which governments may be tempted to take advantage of, especially when fiscal rules bite or threaten to do so. The European experience over the past decade -- documented here in great detail -- illustrates that fiscal gimmicks come in many different guises, but also that some are less mischievous than others. Logit regression analysis confirms that when deficit rules or, to a lesser extent, debt thresholds tend to become more binding, recourse to gimmicks is more likely. It also suggests that more centralised budget systems are less prone to such gimmickry. The policy implications are clear as regards the virtues of transparent and consistent accounting practices, but more ambiguous regarding the merits or otherwise of one-off measures ... Astuces budgétaires en Europe : Mesures non récurrentes et créativité comptable En général, les conventions comptables sont sujettes à interprétation, et les gouvernements peuvent être tentés d’en profiter, notamment lorsqu’ils sont contraints, ou en voie de l’être, par des règles budgétaires. L’expérience européenne au cours de la décennie écoulée -- décrite ici avec force détails -- montre que les astuces budgétaires sont protéiformes, mais aussi que certaines posent moins de problèmes que d’autres. Des régressions logit confirment que lorsque les règles sur les déficits ou, dans une moindre mesure, les seuils d’endettement deviennent plus contraignants, la probabilité d’un recours à des astuces augmente. Elles corroborent également l’idée que les astuces tendent à être moins employées dans des systèmes budgétaires plus centralisés. Les implications de politique économique sont claires s’agissant des vertus de la transparence et de la cohérence des comptes, mais plus ambiguës concernant les mérites ou inconvénients des mesures non récurrentes ...
H82|The missing shock: the macroeconomic impact of British Privatizations| In this paper the impact of privatization on macroeconomic performance in the United Kingdom is tested using quarterly data from 1979 to 1999. Privatization proceeds have been included in a simple analytical framework dealing with both demand and supply-side of the economy. Multivariate cointegration techniques have been used in order to consider the nonstationarity of the time series involved. The empirical results show that privatizations have no long-run effects on output in the UK. This result is consistent with microeconomic evidence that shows that in the UK ownership change per se had little impact on long term productivity trends. Moreover it is found that privatization proceeds have contributed to sustaining public expenditures.
H82|Socialist Privatization: Response|In earlier papers on “Socialist privatization” Feige proposed a sequential set of stabilization, privatization and liberalization policies designed to provide the necessary, albeit not sufficient conditions, for a transition from a planned to a market economy. An important component of the proposed policy package was an equalitarian distribution of a portion of “state” wealth to private citizens by means of a voucher program whose aim was to establish a social safety net of private wealth composed of “citizen shares” to cushion the disruptions and lessen the hardships of the transition process. This paper estimates the value of the proposed “citizen shares” and finds that they would have provided a significant social safety net as well as a powerful incentive for Soviet citizens to support the reform program. The problem with the proposed voucher program was not that it provided too little incentive. The problem was that the government failed to provide the relevant information to the public and that government information was not likely to be viewed as credible by its citizens. Reference: Comparative Economic Studies. Vol. XXXII No. 3, Fall, 1990
H82|The Political Economy of Privatization: Why Do Governments Want Reforms?|International organizations promote privatization as precondition for economic development. But is there really too little privatization? This political economy model asks for the incentives of governments to privatize or restructure a state-owned firm. Different government types are compared to identify the political and institutional determinants of privatization. Under privatization, governments commit not to in influence the profit-maximizing employment choice by private investors. With respect to the social optimum, both voter-oriented and egoistic governments can have inefficiently high incentives to privatize. When this is the case, outside pressure to privatize is detrimental. An improving institutional environment reduces these inefficiencies.
H82|Reforming Unitary Enterprises in Russian Economy: the Sectoral and Regional Aspects|The research focuses on an analysis of the course of the unitary enterprises reform and studying challenges and conflicts arising during the process and assessment of its prospects in the context of the challenges associated with modernization of the national economy Russia faces today. The paper studies practical aspects of functioning and reforming of unitary enterprises at the level of single agencies, sectors and regions. The authors also identify main economic and organizational and legal; constraints that affect the process and provide assessments of its prospects.
H82|Cross-Border-Leasing. Ein neuer Ansatz zur Stadionfinanzierung?|After a long period of stagnation many sport stadiums have been built during the last years across Germany and other are still under construction or reconstruction. This boom was induced by the application for the FIFA Football World Championship 2006 (which was won, at the end) and seemed necessary, given the obsolete stadium infrastructure of German clubs. While in the past stadiums were wholly financed by public expenditure, current financial difficulties of the German government and especially of the municipalities, joint with the changes of the legal form of German football clubs, make it necessary and possible to search for alternative financing forms. This paper analyzes Cross-Border-Leasings between Germany and the U.S. as such an innovative form and tests its suitability for financing stadium building projects.
H82|The German 3G Licence Auction: Did the Government's Stake in Deutsche Telekom Influence the Outcome?|The spectrum for third generation (3G) mobile communications for the German market was alloted to operators by means of an auction. This resulted in a highly competitive outcome: six operators were given rights to provide 3G services. Government revenues from this auction were a staggering EUR 50.8 Bn. As the German government stands as majority shareholder in one of the strongest participants, Deutsche Telekom (DT), it was argued that DT had an incentive to push prices to higher levels than had otherwise been motivated, thereby servicing the interest of the majority shareholder. This paper provides a theoretical model which shows that the German auction rules were indeed vulnerable to such a conflict of interests. However, the only equilibrium of the model consistent with observed behaviour corresponds to a conflict of interest (in the context of the model) too small to have any impact on the behaviour of DT.
H82|Social Willingness to Pay, Mortality Risks and Contingent Valuation|The Willingness-to-Pay approach is the basic justification for the use of the Contingent Valuation method to evaluate public mortality risk reduction programs. However, aggregating unweighted willingness-to-pay is a valid method only when individuals have the same marginal value of money, an unrealistic assumption in the presence of heterogeneity. We show that heterogeneity on wealth and baseline risk (respectively on risk reduction) leads to systematically overestimate (respectively underestimate) the social value of a risk reduction program. Using a recently published Contingent Valuation analysis, we find this overestimation to be quite modest though, approximately 15% in an upper bound case.
H82|The Political Economy of Privatization|International organizations promote privatization as precondition for economic development. But is there really too little privatization? This political economy model asks for the incentives of governments to privatize or restructure a state-owned firm. Different government types are compared to identify the political and institutional determinants of privatization. Under privatization, governments commit not to influence the profit-maximizing employment choice by private investors. With respect to the social optimum, both voter-oriented and egoistic governments can have inefficiently high incentives to privatize. When this is the case, outside pressure to privatize is detrimental. An improving institutional environment reduces these inefficiencies.
H82|Asset Strippers| During the transition from plan to market, managers and politicians succeeded in maintaining de facto ownership of assets. This paper puts forward a theoretical model and econometric evidence on asset stripping in transition. We argue that it is driven by the value of the stripped assets, the probability of punishment and political power (the latter proxied by firm size). Using 1997 survey data for about 950 firms in five countries, we find that (1) firm size is a chief determinant of asset stripping and (2) there is strong support for the predicted non-linear relationship between potential profitability and the use of stripped assets.
H82|The missing shock: the macroeconomic impact of British privatisation|The privatisation policy pursued in the UK by Mrs Thatcher's government (1979-1990) and subsequently by Mr Major's government (1990-1997) was the largest experiment in public divestitures among capitalist economies. It had a deep impact on economic policy-making worlwide, and was vastly imitated, in Western Europe, in the former planned economies, in a number of less developed countries. In this paper we test the impact of privatisation on macroeconomic performance in the United Kingdom using quarterly data from 1979 to 1999. In the econometric model, we use privatisation proceeds as an explanatory variable and we control for several other variables. Testing for cointegration the results show that there is a long run equilibrium relationship between GDP growth and the variables used in the model. However, in our empirical analysis we find a weak evidence that privatisation generated an aggregate shock on output in the UK. This result is consistent with empirical literature on microecononmic evidence that shows that in the UK ownership change per se had little impact on long term productivity trends.
H82|An investigation of education finance reform; graduate taxes and income contingent loans in the Netherlands|In this paper we analyse the consequences of replacing government subsidies with a graduate tax (GT) or income contingent loan (ICL) system for the financing of higher education. Both these systems are directed towards solving capital and insurance market failures. We constructed an empirically based simulation model to analyse loans, GT's and ICL systems of education finance. We considered various financing regimes that differ in: i) the extent to which non-repayment or default risks are pooled or shifted towards society; and ii) the level of education subsidies. We show that the switch to a GT or ICL system can significantly reduce the income risks that graduates would experience under an artificially constructed loan system. A reduction in government outlays of about 2.5 billion euro would result if education subsidies are dropped to zero. The tax rate in a GT would then have to be about 6% on average. In an ICL system with full risk pooling the repayment rate would be higher, ranging from 10% - 6%, depending on the size of the default/solidarity premium on the interest rate. If default risks are shifted to society the repayment rate may be lower, but this goes at a cost of a smaller reduction in government outlays. Under a risk-shifting regime, the government encounters diminishing savings on outlays because reducing ex ante subsidies on education subsidies, increases the costs of default (ex post subsidies). Replacing ex ante subsidies with ex post subsidies makes the resulting distribution of incomes more equal because only those with low life-time incomes benefit from ex post subsidies. We discuss behavioural responses and policy implications.
H82|The Finnish Generational Accounting Revisited|One of the special features of the Finnish economy has turned out to be a high real growth rate and employment volatility. Another special feature is that a large share of public wealth is invested in domestic and foreign financial markets. The consequences of these features for generational accounting are shown and discussed. The intergenerational balance has improved remarkably according to generational accounting results of the year 2000 compared to the results of the year 1995. The improvement is due to favourable macroeconomic development as well as ambitious fiscal policy. However, part of the improvement is based on the soared market values of assets and firm profits, and the paper raises the question how to handle this kind of variables in generational accounting.
H82|Existence and Nash implementation of efficient sharing rules for a commonly owned technology|Suppose that a group of individuals owns collectively a technology which produces a consumption good by means of a (possibly heterogeneous) input. A sharing rule associates input contributions with a vector of consumptions that are technologically feasible. We show that the set of allocations obtained by any continuous sharing rule contains Pareto efficient allocations. We also present a mechanism that implements in Nash equilibrium the Pareto efficient allocations contained in an arbitrary sharing rule.
H82|Transformation of Ownership Relations and Comparative Analysis of the Russian Regions|The main objectives of the present research are the identification of main regularities of the emergence of a new property rights system within privatization process in the conditions of transitional economy in Russia and its single regions (on the basis of evaluation of privatization models of the ‘90s), the identification of the crucial challenges of theoretic and applied nature from the perspective of government regulation, and the elaboration of the respective applied recommendations for improvement an economic policy at the federal an regional level. The empirical evaluation is focused on the problems of a comparative research into the dynamics of the non-government sector in the Russian regions and finding out the correlation between the level of its development and some indices of economic and political development in the regions. It should be noted that Chapters 4-7 of the present research should be considered together, because to avoid duplication, the authors do not repeat the findings of the qualitative evaluation and allow themselves only a brief interpretation of empirical output (wherever possible), implying a detailed analysis presented in other Chapters. All the data bases and the majority of calculations have been put in Annexes for chapters 5-6 that are available in Russian version of the publication, at the IET web-site.
H82|Privatizáció helyett újraelosztás. Az állami vagyon sorsa 1998 és 2001 között<BR>[Privatization instead of redistribution. The fate of the state's assets between 1998 and 2001]|A kormánynak 1998 nyara óta nincs meghirdetett privatizációs politikája. Az utólagos a központi vagyonkezelő szervezet hivatalos kiadványaira, sajtóközleményekre és számos résztvevővel folyatatott beszélgetésre építő elemzés szerint a legutóbbi parlamenti választás óta eltelt időszak több szempontból is megtörte a korábbi trendeket. A központi privatizációs szervezet vagyona nem csökkent, hanem nőtt, kiadásai meghaladták az eladásokból szerzett bevételeket. Az Állami Privatizációs és Vagyonkezelő Rt. nem gyarapította, hanem fogyasztotta a közpénzeket, legfontosabb tevékenységévé az állami jövedelmek költségvetésen kívüli újraelosztása vált. Feltételezésünk szerint mindez nem egy átfogó, de titokban tartott terv eredménye. Az erősen központosított döntések sorozatát a korábbról is ismert irányítási reflexek, rövid távú sokszor a pártpolitika által megszabott érdekek , a többfajta kísérlet eredményeinek kreatív értelmezése, néha a kényszerek, máskor azok hiánya terelgette. Az események és következményeik jól tükrözik a hivatalban lévő kormány általános felfogását, más területeken is érvényesülő magatartásmintáit.
H82|Government Ownership of Banks|In this paper, we investigate a neglected aspect of financial systems of many countries around the world: government ownership of banks. We assemble data which establish four findings. First, government ownership of banks is large and pervasive around the world. Second, such ownership is particularly significant in countries with low levels of per capita income, underdeveloped financial systems, interventionist and inefficient governments, and poor protection of property rights. Third, government ownership of banks is associated with slower subsequent financial development. Finally, government ownership of banks is associated with lower subsequent growth of per capita income, and in particular with lower growth of productivity rather than slower factor accumulation. This evidence is inconsistent with the optimistic development' theories of government ownership of banks common in the 1960s, but supports the more recent political' theories of the effects of government ownership of firms.
H82|Telecommunications Privatization in Developing Countries: The Real Effects of Exclusivity Periods|Since World War II, developing nations have embarked on two massive changes in telecommunications policy. The first was the wave of nationalization of private companies that took place mostly in the 1950s and 1960s, and the second is the now ongoing process of re-privatization and, to a lesser degree, the introduction of competition. The purpose of this essay is to set forth the problems of contemporary neoliberal policy reform within the historical, economic and political context of these countries to assess the success of reform to date and to suggest future directions for research that might improve the performance of the sector. The existing literature well documents the decline in performance during the nationalization era and the improvements that reform usually brings; however, relatively little is known about the relationship between the details of reform and subsequent performance, or about the institutional factors that contribute to the stability of reform.
H82|Partial Privatization and Incomplete Contracts: The Proper Scope of Government Reconsidered|In this paper it is argued that privatization is not the only alternative to public ownership. Adopting the incomplete contract approach, it is shown that partial privatization may well be the optimal ownership structure. While in the standard incomplete contract model joint ownership is usually suboptimal, it is shown here that joint ownership in the form of partial privatization can be optimal since it mitigates the disadvantages of public ownership (no incentives to improve quality if the manager invests or too strong incentives if the government invests) and of rivatization (too strong incentives for the manager to reduce costs).
H82|Privatisation et gouvernement d'entreprise dans les economies en transition|Pres de dix ans apres la mise en route du processus de privatisation en Europe centrale et dans l’ex-URSS, quels enseignements s’en degagent aujourd’hui ? Sans pretendre dresser un bilan exhaustif, cet article analyse plus particulierement deux defaillances de ce processus tel qu’il a ete conduit dans cette region : l’apparition de structures inefficaces de gouvernement d'entreprise et le maintien d'une propriete residuelle de l'Etat dans le capital des firmes privatisees. Ces deux caracteristiques renvoient a l'analyse economique classique des privatisations, fondee en particulier sur le modele principal-agent : dans le contexte herite de l'effondrement de l'ancien systeme planifie, le recours a ce modele etait-il pertinent ?
H82|"On the economic premises of the ""restructuring"" by liquidation"|At the ends of 1990’s under the pressure of the international financial institutions, Romania agreed to close some state-owned firms with significant and durable loses and limited perspectives. In this context, the present paper intends to offer an economic analysis of the main issues regarding the liquidation of state-owned companies. We discus on: the impact on macroeconomic results, on aggregate production, as well as on other industries production and supply; consequences on market competition; the influence of financial result of the firm on others, on its economic environment; economic perspectives of the unit and its market; effects and efforts for state budget and the alternative of privatization at any price.
H82|A theory of the optimal amount of public ownership of land|A major issue in reforming previously planned economies is the creation of assets markets. In this paper, it is argued that the mere characteristics of the assets to be privatized matter. Indeed, private ownership of land. It is the purpose of this paper to provide a theory of such rate. We make use of a two-sectors overlapping generations model economy with land and capital. We find a version of the second welfare theorem : the command optimum can be decentralized using one and only one instrument, i.e. the rate of land publicly held. We call such a rate the optimal rate of public ownership of land.
H82|Mobility and the Return to Education: Testing a Roy Model with Multiple Markets|" Self-selected migration presents one potential explanation for why observed returns to a college education in local labor markets vary widely even though U.S. workers are highly mobile. To assess the impact of self-selection on estimated returns, this paper first develops a Roy model of mobility and earnings where workers choose in which of the 50 states (plus the District of Columbia) to live and work. Available estimation methods are either infeasible for a selection model with so many alternatives or place potentially severe restrictions on earnings and the selection process. This paper develops an alternative econometric methodology that combines Lee's (1983) parametric maximum order statistic approach to reduce the dimensionality of the error terms with more recent work on semiparametric estimation of selection models (e.g., Ahn and Powell (1993)). The resulting semiparametric correction is easy to implement and can be adapted to a variety of other polychotomous choice problems. The empirical work, which uses 1990 U.S. Census data, confirms the role of comparative advantage in mobility decisions. The results suggest that self-selection of higher educated individuals to states with higher returns to education generally leads to ""upward"" biases in OLS estimates of the returns to education in state-specific labor markets. While the estimated returns to a college education are significantly biased, correcting for the bias does not narrow the range of returns across states. Consistent with the finding that the corrected return to a college education differs across the U.S., the relative state-to-state migration flows of college- versus high school-educated individuals respond strongly to differences in the return to education and amenities across states. Copyright The Econometric Society 2002."
H82|The Princeton Macro Model of the Labor Market: Rational and Efficiency of the Estimation Procedure|No abstract is available for this item.
