I19|Incorporating Inequality Aversion in Health-Care Priority Setting|Although measures of sensitivity to inequality are important in judging the welfare effects of health-care programmes, it is far from straightforward how to elicit them and apply them in health-care decision making. This paper provides an overview of the literature on the measurement of inequality aversion, examines some of the features specific of the health domain that depart from the income domain, and discusses its implementation in health system priority-setting decisions. We find evidence that individuals exhibit a preference for more equitable health distribution, but inequality aversion estimates from the literature are unclear. Unlike the income-inequality literature, standard approaches in the health-economics do not follow a â€˜veil-of-ignoranceâ€™ approach and elicit mostly bivariate (income-related health) inequality aversion estimates. We suggest some ideas to reduce the disconnect between the income-inequality and health-economics literatures.
I19|Eficiencia del gasto en salud en la OCDE y ALC: un análisis envolvente de datos|Este artículo mide la eficiencia del gasto en salud en sesenta y dos países de América Latina y el Caribe (ALC) y de la Organización para la Cooperación y el Desarrollo Económico (OCDE), a partir de la relación entre el nivel de gasto total (como porcentaje del PIB) y algunos resultados en salud (esperanza de vida en años y mortalidad en menores de cinco años por cada mil nacidos vivos). Con este fin, se aplicó el método no paramétrico de análisis envolvente de datos, usando para cada grupo datos de 1995, 2005 y 2014. Los resultados permiten identificar la eficiencia y la posición relativa del conjunto de países dentro de ambos grupos. Para el año 2014, los países más eficientes de ALC fueron Chile, Cuba, República Dominicana, Venezuela y Jamaica, y de la OCDE fueron Japón, Luxemburgo y Turquía. El promedio de la eficiencia de los países de ALC fue inferior a la de los países la OCDE (0,938 y 0,974, respectivamente).
I19|Success Factors of Crowdfunding Campaigns in Medical Research: Perceptions and Reality|Crowdfunding in medical research is becoming more popular due to the shrinking and increasingly competitive government funding. In order to inform researchers applying for this complementary source of research funding, we investigate the determinants of successful crowdfunding campaigns in medical research. We find that establishing and maintaining professional contacts through social media is of major importance for successful crowdfunding campaigns; an additional tweet or retweet significantly increases the success of crowdfunding campaigns. In contrast to the stated preferences of prospective donors, we document that crowdfunding campaigns might achieve their fundraising goal regardless of the disease characteristics. Scientists thus may ask funding for any kind of project, including therapies for rare diseases and diseases with lower mortality rate.
I19|Challenges Faced by Malaysian Parents in Caregiving of a Child with Disabilities|Objective - Caregiving of a child with special needs can increase the cost of raising the child and parent's stress. These two issues are commonly experienced by a parent who care for their special needs child themselves and the thought of challenges are different based on the disability of the child. Methodology/Technique - The challenges of raising a child with disability make it necessary for parents to work harder to to meet the cost of treatment. Meanwhile, levels of stress among those parents are understandably increased. Finding - Parents caring for a child with disability need to place greater emphasis on achieving a balance between their work, caring for their child and stress. Further, this paper includes a discussion on the cost of raising a disabled child and the increased levels of stress experienced by these parents. Novelty - The findings of this paper contribute to conceptual model on the challenges faced by Malaysian parents in caregiving for a child with special needs.
I19|Legacies of Loss: The intergenerational outcomes of slaveholder compensation in the British Cape Colony|Can wealth shocks have intergenerational health consequences? We use the partial compensation slaveholders received after the 1834 slave emancipation in the British Cape Colony to measure the intergenerational effects of a wealth loss on longevity. Because the share of partial compensation received was uncorrelated to wealth, we can interpret the results as having a causal influence. We find that a greater loss of slave wealth shortened the lifespans of the generation of slaveholders that experienced the shock and those of their children, but not those of their grandchildren. We speculate on the mechanisms for this intergenerational persistence.
I19|Accessibilité aux soins et attractivité territoriale : proposition d’une typologie des territoires de vie français|Cet article présente la méthodologie et les résultats d’une typologie socio-sanitaire des espaces français à l’échelle des territoires de vie. Cette typologie ambitionne d’offrir un cadre d’étude à l’analyse des soins de premiers recours en France et à l’évaluation d’un certain nombre de dispositifs pour améliorer la répartition de l’offre de soins. A partir de la littérature, nous identifions les dimensions et indicateurs pertinents pour répondre à ces enjeux. Nous réalisons ensuite une Analyse en composante principale (ACP) des 32 variables retenues puis une Classification ascendante hiérarchique (CAH). Nous obtenons de la sorte six groupes de territoires de vie dont la répartition spatiale est parfois fortement contiguë (littoraux, « diagonale du vide », départements homogènes), plus hétérogène avec des départements ayant tous les types de territoires de vie ou encore une répartition illustrant des oppositions entre centres et périphéries.
I19|"Questioning the stereotype of the ""malingering bureaucrat"" absence from work in the public and private sector in Germany"|"Public sector employees are often said to have excessive rates of absence from work. Using representative survey data for Germany, we indeed find absenteeism of employees to be higher in the public than the private sector. The differences in the incidence and days of absence showing up in descriptive statistics are substantially reduced and partly disappear in our estimates of hurdle regression models controlling for individuals' socio-demographic characteristics, health status, professional activities, and for many workplace-related factors. Nevertheless, the probability of staying home sick at least once a year is still 5.6 percentage points higher in the public sector, ceteris paribus. This finding refutes popular assertions that differences in absence rates between the sectors are mainly due to structural factors like different compositions of the workforce. We show that the same observable factors play a role for absenteeism in the public and private sector, but we cannot rule out that shirking may play a more important role in the public sector. Nevertheless, we conclude that the stereotype of the ""malingering bureaucrat"" seems to be an exaggeration, at least for Germany."
I19|A Semi-Parametric Approach to the Oaxaca–Blinder Decomposition with Continuous Group Variable and Self-Selection|This paper presents an extension to the Oaxaca–Blinder decomposition with continuous groups using a semiparametric approach known as varying coefficients model. To account for potential self-selection into the continuum of groups, the use of inverse mills ratios is expanded upon following the literature on endogenous selection. The flexibility of this methodology may allow detecting heterogeneity when analyzing endogenous dose treatments effects, as well as correcting for endogeneity when analyzing the heterogeneous partial effects across the continuous group variable. For illustration, the methodology is used to revisit the impact of body weight on wages, using body mass index (BMI) as the continuum of groups, finding evidence that body weight has a negative, but decreasing impact on wages for both white men and women.
I19|Body Mass Index and Social Interactions from Adolescence to Adulthood|We apply a dynamic linear-in-means model to analyze the importance of social ties for the body-weight-related behavior of US youth. Our methodology shows how to estimate peer effects free of the “reflection problem” in a dynamic context where individual- and group-specific unobservable effects are controlled for. Our results show that the main drivers for the body-weight-related behavior are past and peer effects. For individuals who were normal-weight or obese during adolescence, past and peer effects are shown to be both relevant. Peer effects, instead, explain more the variation in the BMI for individuals who were over-weight during adolescence, showing in this way the importance of social interactions for body-weight-related behavior.
I19|Stillbirths: How should its rate be reported, its disability-adjusted-life-years (DALY), and stillbirths adjusted life expectancy|Background A 2016 study standardized the definition of stillbirths. It estimated the rate as a proportion of total births. A 2015 paper addressed the problem of disability-adjusted life-years (DALY) for stillbirths. There has been no adjustment of life expectancy at birth to account for stillbirths. Methods and Results We follow mathematical and computational methods, use algebra to derive relationships, and large databases. We express the rate as a proportion of live births and use this rate to adjust life expectancy at birth for stillbirths. We then use the difference between the traditional life expectancy and stillbirths adjusted life expectancy (SALE) to obtain DALY for stillbirths for 194 countries, the Millennium Development Goal regions, and income groups. We show defining stillbirths’ rate as a proportion of live births enhances stillbirths’ importance, especially in poorer countries; negates some of its under-statement vis-a-vis neonatal mortality rate, accentuates its decrease; and permits inference about relative magnitudes of stillbirths and neonatal mortality from the two rates. Using it, we derive stillbirths adjusted life expectancy, and suggest it reflects a more complete and accurate measure of comparative life expectancies of different countries. Its difference from the traditional life expectancy is used to measure DALY for stillbirths that totals 165.3 million years worldwide. Conclusion Stillbirths almost equals neonatal mortality yet have not received almost equal attention. We hope highlighting them and adjusting life expectancy for it will spur health interventions so that grand convergence of health outcomes in different countries can be more rapidly achieved. We also believe SALE is a more complete and accurate measure of comparative life expectancies.
I19|Artificial Intelligence Applications & Venture Funding in Healthcare|Abstract Venture Capital (VC) funding raised by companies producing Artificial Intelligence (AI) solutions is on the rise. In healthcare, VC funding is distributed unevenly and certain technologies have attracted significantly more funding than others. The funding decisions made by VC companies also work as a technology driver for the industry. We analyzed a database of 106 Healthcare AI companies collected from open online sources to understand factors affecting VC funding of AI companies operating in different areas of healthcare. Companies acting as R&D catalysts have been most succesful in raising VC funding. The results suggest that there is a significant connection between higher funding and having research organizations and pharmaceutical companies as the customer of the product or service. In addition, focusing on AI solutions that are applied to direct patient care delivery is associated with lower funding. We discuss the implications of our findings on health technology research and development, and on the barriers of platform data markets in healthcare industry.
I19|A Model of Self-Development for Enhancing Psychological Immunity of the Elderly|The purpose of this study was to examine the effectiveness of an intervention of self-development for enhancing psychological immunity of the elderly. The psychological immunity intervention (PI) was based on an integration of mindfulness, self-efficacy, and optimism approaches. The study was a quasi-experimental design, including pretest and posttest with a control group. The sample was recruited from senior clubs in Bangkhunthian District, Bangkok Thailand. Participants were divided into 2 groups: 1) the intervention group (24 participants) participated in the PI intervention activities and the control group (24 participants) did not receive any intervention. The PI intervention consisted of 10 sessions for 5 weeks which lasted for two hours per session. Participants from both groups completed the questionnaire at the beginning and at the end of the intervention. Results showed that elders in the PI intervention group scored significantly higher on psychological immunity and psychological well-being than did the control group. More specifically, elders receiving the PI intervention showed significantly greater psychological immunity in the domains of resilience, mindfulness, and hope than did the control group. The findings suggest that the intervention is beneficial for elder people and senior clubs to improve psychological immunity and well-being.
I19|An Approach to Fujimmon?s Growth Curve from Scammon ?New proposal for human growth curve model|Why do the proportions of the human body change with age? The essential meaning of that question cannot be understood without unraveling the process of human evolution. Moreover, even if the mechanisms of evolution were to be elucidated, the reasons why proportions must be changed or why we must evolve in that way and how far humans will continue evolving are likely to remain mysteries. However, the mechanisms for the changes in human body proportions can be explained. The present study explains not only the mechanisms for changes in body proportion but also, to construct a standard growth system for humans, confirms the reverification process of the growth curves proposed by Scammon almost 90 years ago and seeks to solve problems by offering the Fujimmon growth curves proposed by the author. In addition, the Fujimmon and Scammon growth curves are described on the same scale and the two are compared. The results indicate the basic ambiguity of curves described freehand and the clarity from the exactness provided by the mathematical functions described by the wavelet interpolation model. The validity and efficacy of the Fujimmon growth curves are then shown.
I19|Annual Trend of Physical Growth in Infant and Japanese High Economic Growth|The Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare has published measurement records on height, weight, chest circumference, and head circumference in 0 to 6 year-old children from 1960 to 2010 as indicators of physical development in early childhood in Japan. Physical development evaluation charts have been developed from these records using percentile methods, but reports on the trends in physical development over time are limited. This is because no method has been established to scientifically analyze physical growth. Even more difficult is investigating secular trends in physical growth and linking those trends to economic growth. In this study, we identified the first largest peak velocity (FLPV) during the year after birth in infant physical growth records (height, weight, chest circumference, head circumference), and applied the wavelet interpolation model to the variations over time in the identified FLPV. Next, we applied the wavelet interpolation model to the secular variations in GDP for the same years. We then applied a cross correlation function to the relationship between the curves of FLPV and GDP variations over time, and investigated how high economic growth acts as a controlling factor variations in physical development of young children over time. The speed of variation in the physical development of children over time was the greatest around 1980. By synchronizing GDP to that time, the results suggest that high economic growth is a controlling factor in the physical development of young children.
I19|Tracking Phenomenon of Physical Development during elementary School|The method generally used to assess motor ability in elementary school is the 10-step assessment in the new physical fitness test advocated by the by the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology (MEXT) of Japan. However, no method of assessing physical fitness and motor ability has been established that considers changes with age in schoolchildren, who are in the growth stage. Specifically, no method to evaluate physical longitudinal data for individual children has been created. In this study, we constructed an aging span evaluation chart of motor ability using the wavelet interpolation method and applied it to longitudinal development data for motor ability in the physical ability of first to sixth grade elementary school students. Motor ability tracking was then examined with the application of this evaluation method. The results confirmed that motor ability tracked closely in first to sixth grade elementary school students. Therefore, this suggests that there is a trend for individuals with high motor ability in childhood to follow the same high level course afterward. Also, children with poor motor ability in particular may need early educational attention.
I19|Construction of Standardization System in Judgment for Young Children Obesity and Leanness|Body composition in children can be measured until about the age of 6 years using the impedance method, but in children below that age the findings are often treated as reference values. However, information on body composition is needed to verify body fatness in early childhood. In this study, we investigated the validity of obesity and leanness Judgment using a simple impedance analysis in young children, by comparing body fat percentage derived with the impedance method and body fatness judged from standard height and weight curves, with the aim of constructing a standardized system for judging obesity and leanness in young children. we constructed a 5-step mean evaluation together with body fat percentage statistics and judged levels of obesity and leanness. For judgments of obesity with regression evaluation of weight against height, we constructed a 5-step regression evaluation chart after deriving valid order regression polynomials, and determined levels of obesity and leanness based on them. The results of comparisons of the distributions of obesity and leanness judgments obtained with the two evaluations using the ?2 test showed no significant differences in all subjects from 3 to 5 years old.
I19|Issues in physical fitness of contemporary Japanese boys judged with evaluation criteria for the past|In this study, evaluation criteria for physique and physical fitness in early childhood were constructed with consideration of age-related changes. The wavelet interpolation model was used for data from young children in 1979, when physical fitness was at a high level in postwar Japan. This evaluation chart was then used to investigate the kinds of problems that could be indicated in the physical development of young children today, by evaluating their physique and physical fitness. Physical fitness was evaluated in 2,014 boys in Aichi Prefecture, Japan. Height, weight, 20 m dash, standing long jump, and tennis ball throw were measured from April to June, 2009. In constructing evaluation criteria for the past, data collected in 1979 for the same items as above were used. The subjects were 2,397 boys in Aichi Prefecture. An age-related change curve with a 5-step evaluation by age was drawn for the collected measurement data using the wavelet interpolation model, and an evaluation chart was constructed. The results showed that height was shorter at 3 years of age in 2009 than in 1979, but that later there was a tendency for height to catch up with that in 1979 with age. It is conjectured that this shows a faster maturation speed in boys compared with 30 years ago. There was more scattering in the lower level of the running and jumping ability aspects of physical fitness, while in throwing ability the level was obviously low at all ages. The results of this study indicate that issues related to the growth and development of young children today are underdevelopment in relation to the continuous display of leg muscle strength and innervation for alternating right and left movement of the arms and legs, immaturity in coordinated movement between the arms, trunk and legs, and low instantaneous muscle strength of the arms.
I19|Recent Trends in Physical Fitness and Motor Ability of Preschool Children -Trends in Japan since 2000-|In recent years, there has been concern in Japan of declining physical strength in early childhood. Consideration of lifestyle in modern society may provide suggestions on the appropriate level of physical strength and motor ability for modern children. Therefore, it may be necessary to show the physique and motor ability suitable for the generational background. The purpose of this study was to clarify the trends since 2000 in body shape, physical strength, and motor ability in early childhood in Japan. The data used were physique and motor ability data from 1969 to 2009 for young boys and girls in kindergartens and nursery schools in Aichi Prefecture surveyed by the Children?s Growth and Development Society. The study subjects were kindergarten and nursery school girls (age 3?5 years old) in Aichi Prefecture, Japan. Physique (height and weight), quantitative motor ability (20 m dash, standing long jump, tennis ball throw, side step, one-leg hop, jump rope, hanging from a horizontal bar, one-leg standing, and ball bouncing), and general motor ability (jump over and under) were compared in the 1999 and 2009 school years. The results revealed that, compared with ten years earlier, height was approximately 0.9 cm shorter in 4-year-old girls and weight was approximately 0.3 kg lighter in 3- and 4-year-old girls in 2009. In physical strength and motor ability, the time for jump over and under was shorter in 3-year-olds, the number of times a rope jumped was higher and the time hanging from a horizontal bar was longer, and the time for jump over and under was shorter in 4-year-olds. In 5-year-olds, only an increase in the number of times a rope jumped increased. The tennis ball throw and side steps were not significantly different from 10 years earlier in any of the ages. Although physique, strength, and exercise improved with growth, it was found that many items decreased or remained the same in all age groups compared to those 10 years ago.
I19|Construction of Anxiety Propagation Network and Estimation Method of STAI Score for of the Anxiety Propagation Network and Estimation Method of the STAI Score for State Anxiety by the NIRS|Recently, research has been conducted to estimate STAI (State-Trait Anxiety Inventory) score, an index of stress evaluation, by NIRS (Near-Infrared Spectroscopy). However, few studies related to STAI have considered the network structure of the brain, despite the importance of analyzing how information is propagated through brain networks. In this study, we define an anxiety propagation network structure from cerebral blood flow, and propose an STAI score for a state anxiety estimation method based on the network.In the proposed method, we assume that anxiety is propagated via an anxiety propagation network, and that cerebral blood flow in the prefrontal area is affected by this propagation. We construct a dynamic Bayesian anxiety propagation network based on blood flow measured by multi-channel NIRS in the prefrontal area. In the constructed network, anxiety is propagated between nodes, and dependence relationships between nodes are represented by edges. The degree of dependence between nodes is expressed as the probability. To decrease the effect of the distance between nodes, probabilities are weighted according to Euclidian distance, and features are calculated by summing the weighted probabilities for each node. Finally, the STAI score for state anxiety is estimated by applying the features to a multiple regression analysis as the explanatory variables. We conducted the validation experiment with 24 male and 24 female subjects. All subjects were scored by the STAI test. After scoring, the subjects set the wearable topography with ten channels to the prefrontal area. Each subject was asked to rest for 120 seconds to measure blood flow. The dynamic Bayesian network was created for all 48 data points, and its features were calculated. To evaluate effect to the blood flow due to gender and hormone difference, we compared four cases of the gender gap combination of the training data and test data for the multiple regression analysis. In all cases, the accuracy of the proposed method was evaluated by the correlation coefficient. In the training data for males, the correlation coefficients for male and female test data were 0.66 and 0.63, respectively. When training data were for females, the correlation coefficients for male and female test data were 0.52 and -0.65. We found that when the training data were for males, the correlation coefficient was larger, even if the test data were for females.
I19|Unconstrained Systolic Blood Pressure Estimation Method Considering the Ultradian Rhythm Time Dynamics of the Blood Pressure during the Night|Hypertension is a very common disease in the modern world. It requires daily measurements of blood pressure to reduce the risk of developing other associated diseases. It is especially difficult to measure blood pressure at night because the present measurement method requires compressing the patient?s arm using a cuff, which cannot be performed during sleep. In this study, we propose an unconstrained systolic blood pressure estimation method that considers time dynamics of blood pressure change during sleep on the basis of a transfer function model. In the proposed method, 12 features that relate to stroke volume, heart rate, blood vessel diameter, and vascular hardness are calculated in an unconstrained manner from the heartbeat signal measured by the pneumatic method. Taking time dynamics into account, a transfer function is constructed using the 12 features calculated from the heartbeat signal as inputs to estimate blood pressure at the current time. The features are measured for the past 70 minutes considering the ultradian rhythm.We conducted a validation experiment in six healthy subjects. The subjects were asked to sleep during the night on an ordinary bed equipped with a pneumatic bio-signal measurement system. To obtain the true systolic blood pressure as a reference, the subjects wore the cuff of an automatic sphygmomanometer around the left arm. True systolic blood pressure was measured every 10-minutes. The heartbeat signal of the subject was obtained by applying a band-pass filter with a range of 0.8?6 Hz to the output signal from the pneumatic method. The 12 features were then calculated from the heartbeat signal. To obtain the transfer function model, we performed subspace identification with the 12 measured features as input signals, and one output signal corresponding to blood pressure. Leave-one-subject-out cross-validation was applied to evaluate the accuracy of the proposed method; i.e. the transfer function was identified using five subjects? heartbeat signal data, and the blood pressure of the left-out-subject was estimated by the transfer function. Finally, we calculated the correlation coefficient between all estimated blood pressure and true blood pressure measurements. The correlation coefficient between the systolic blood pressure estimated by the proposed method and the true blood pressure measured by the sphygmomanometer was 0.81. This shows that systolic blood pressure estimated by our method is comparable to true measures of blood pressure using a sphygmomanometer. This method may be useful for monitoring blood pressure at night without disturbing sleeping patients.
I19|Method for Discriminating the Mode of Operation of the Steering Wheel during Car Driving|Most traffic accidents in Japan are caused by a lack of attention by drivers. One of the main factors contributing to this is ?driving fatigue?. Previous research based on electromyographic evaluations has indicated that the optimal driving methods for reducing the upper limb load on drivers are an ?underside? grip position and the ?push?pull? steering operation technique. This previous research developed the systems that estimate the upper limb load during car driving. However, the systems developed only estimate the upper limb load based on a driving route assumed before driving a car: the problem being that actual driving operation is not considered. Therefore, we previously proposed a method for discriminating the grip position when steering on a straight road to estimate the upper limb load based on steering wheel operation during actual driving. This study now proposes a method for discriminating the modes of steering operation during turns to the right and left. First, we conduct an experiment with a motion sensor and a simple driving simulator to detect the two modes of steering-wheel operation (hand-over-hand steering and push?pull steering) on turning a corner. The 10 subjects (5 males and 5 females) perform the steering operation for each mode according to driving videos. It is found that the modes of steering operation can be discriminated because there are differences in the measurement results of the motion sensor for the two modes Second, using the experimental results, the method of steering operation is discriminated through machine learning with a support vector machine (SVM), supplying the SVM with the average value, standard deviation, maximum value, and minimum value of the measurements taken during steering operation. The discrimination accuracy rate of the test data is found by 5-fold cross-validation to be 97.5%.
I19|Proposal for Quantitative Evaluation Method of the Complexity of Inspection Surface in Appearance Inspection|To assume the appearance quality of industrial products, appearance inspection is conducted by humans in numerous manufacturing industries. Previous studies have proposed appearance inspection method utilizing peripheral vision, and the effectiveness of the inspection method has been verified in the case of simple inspection surfaces. However, it is unclear whether the method can be applied for complex inspection surfaces. Although a previous study assumed the complexity of inspection of surfaces sensuously, a quantitative evaluation method of inspection surfaces is required. This study considers such an evaluation method and applies it on the actual products. Specifically, the evaluation method uses definitions with two indexes: color complexity and structure/shape complexity. The former uses information entropy, which is an index indicating the uncertainty of each item. It is defined by H = -? _(i = 1)^n?p(i)*log p(i) ? and takes values from 0 to 8. The latter uses the fractal dimension, which is an index considering expansion of the phase dimension. It is defined by -D = ( log N(a) ? log ?a ) - C and takes values from 0 to 2. Furthermore, the complexity of the inspection surface is evaluated using various pictures captured by manufacturers.
I19|Method of Predicting Urinary Volume by Utilizing the Absorption Spectrum of Urine|Urinary incontinence is one of the serious problems encountered while providing nursing care to older patients. In clinical situations, caregivers use ultrasonic sensors for monitoring accumulated urinary volume in the bladder so that they can take older patients to the toilet before urinary incontinence. However, if the caregiver is delayed in checking the accumulated urinary volume, the patient may experience urinary incontinence. While making nursing schedules for excretion management, caregivers may find it useful if they could predict the accumulated urinary volume in the bladder immediately after urination. Hence, in this study, we propose a prediction method based on the urinary accumulation model and absorption spectrum of urine. The urinary accumulation model contains three parameters: the time when urine starts to accumulate after urination; the amount of urine that can be accumulated in the bladder; and the time constant of urine accumulation. Thus, if these parameters can be determined immediately after urination, the accumulated urinary volume can be predicted using this model. To determine the values of these three parameters, we used the absorption spectrum of urine, as an explanatory variable, in the ridge regression technique. The values of the three parameters (as objective variables in the ridge regression) were obtained from output signals of the ultrasonic sensor using the internal point method. To evaluate the proposed method, we performed a validity experiment with a male subject in his 20s. The ultrasonic sensor was attached to subjects to measure accumulated urinary volume in the bladder. The subject was asked to rest during measurement. Urine samples were collected at arbitrary intervals. Absorption spectrum analysis was performed with the urine samples. The volume of the sampled urine was measured using the measuring cup. After urination, the subject was asked to drink 300 ml of water and rest again. The above procedure was repeated. In this experiment, we obtain 42 datasets in total from the subject. We calculated the rate of error between volume of the collected urine and the urinary volume predicted by the proposed model at the time of urination. Our results showed that the average error rate for the proposed method was 22.22% and for the ultrasonic sensor was 24.14%. This result indicates that the proposed method may be useful for predicting the accumulated urinary volume in the bladder.
I19|Unconstrained Apnea Detection System Utilizing Compressed Time-Frequency Distribution by an Autoencoder|Currently, ischemic heart disease is the most common cause of death worldwide, with 9.48 million people dying of the disease. More than 30% of ischemic heart disease patients have sleep apnea syndrome. Since it is difficult to detect whether a patient has sleep apnea syndrome; the consultation rate remains at 15%. Hence, routine monitoring is necessary to identify suspected patients. Many kinds of research on apnea detection have been conducted so far. The authors have also proposed a pneumatic method to measure a respiration signal unconstrainedly. In this study, we propose an unconstrained system to detect each occurrence of an apnea event by applying an autoencoder with two layers to the respiration signal. In the proposed method, we measure a signal from a pressure sensor placed under a mattress on which a person is lying. To obtain the respiration signal, a digital band-pass filter with cut-off frequencies ranging from 0.15 to 0.45 Hz is applied to the output signal from the pressure sensor. Wavelet transform is applied to the filtered respiration signal to obtain time-frequency distributions that represent frequencies characteristic for each time step. Then, the time-frequency characteristic sends inputs to an autoencoder with two layers and the dimensions of the time-frequency distribution is compressed. The proposed method consists of two phases: a training phase and a detection phase. In the training phase, the compressed data with supervised data that is expressed as 0 or 1(0: respiration, 1: apnea) is used to train a classification model including softmax function. In the detection phase, to detect an apnea event, the compressed data without supervised data is applied to the trained classification model.In the verification experiment, we prepared five subjects with variations in height and weight and acquired each subject?s data in four recumbent positions. Data obtained was a total of 20 (five subjects×four recumbent positions). The dimension of time-frequency distribution was set to 113. In the first layer, the dimension was compressed to 75 dimensions; and in the second layer, 75 dimensions were compressed to 50. The performance of the proposed method is evaluated by the leave-one-subject-out and leave-one-recumbent-position-out cross-validations. Based on results of cross-validations on all 20 data, the average correct answer rate was 0.90 for both the subjects and the recumbent positions. These results demonstrate that the proposed system was not susceptible to the subject and the recumbent position.
I19|Non-Invasive Method for Estimating Blood Glucose Level Utilizing Harmonic Distortion of Pulse Pressure|In this paper, a non-invasive method for estimating blood glucose level is proposed. We investigate blood viscosity and harmonic distortion using a model with the assumption that high blood viscosity caused by high blood glucose level generates turbulence in blood flow. This consequently leads to the distortion of fundamental frequency of pulsation. Therefore, the harmonic components appear owing to the pressure on the vascular wall. Using the proposed non-invasive method, we calculate the amplitude of the harmonic components. The blood glucose level is estimated with a single regression model whose explanatory variable is the calculated harmonic component. Through validation experiment with 33 measured data, the third harmonic component achieved the highest estimation accuracy with 60% of the data meeting the ISO criteria.
I19|Multigroup Causal Relationship Model of Health literacy and Behavior on Family Well-being among Thai Adults at Risk of NCDs|The 9th Global Conference on Health Promotion, 2016 focused on health risks and wellbeing for sustainable development. Study design: Multi-group structural equation model study aims to develop a causal model of family well-being by mediating health literacy (HL) and to compare models between spouses in men and women and in urban and rural communities Methods: The samples included 2,000 spouses at risk of NCDs by stratified random sampling. Data were collected by Likert questionnaires with reliability of 0.79-0.93, using to analyze via CFA, and Multi-group SEM Results: A causal model of social norm and psychology capital affected to health behavior and family well-being by mediating HL in overall group was consistent with an empirical data. Causal factors had direct effects on health behavior including social norm, positive attitudes, psychology capital, and HL (?=0.11, 0.14, 0.30, and 0.41, *p
I19|Incorporating Inequality Aversion in Health-Care Priority Setting|Although measures of sensitivity to inequality are important in judging the welfare effects of health-care programmes, it is far from straightforward how to elicit them and apply them in health-care decision making. This paper provides an overview of the literature on the measurement of inequality aversion, examines some of the features specific of the health domain that depart from the income domain, and discusses its implementation in health system priority-setting decisions. We find evidence that individuals exhibit a preference for more equitable health distribution, but inequality aversion estimates from the literature are unclear. Unlike the income-inequality literature, standard approaches in the health-economics do not follow a ‘veil-of-ignorance’ approach and elicit mostly bivariate (income-related health) inequality aversion estimates. We suggest some ideas to reduce the disconnect between the income-inequality and health-economics literatures.
I19|"Questioning the Stereotype of the ""Malingering Bureaucrat"": Absence from Work in the Public and Private Sector in Germany"|"Public sector employees are often said to have excessive rates of absence from work. Using representative survey data for Germany, we indeed find absenteeism of employees to be higher in the public than the private sector. The differences in the incidence and days of absence showing up in descriptive statistics are substantially reduced and partly disappear in our estimates of hurdle regression models controlling for individuals' socio-demographic characteristics, health status, professional activities, and for many workplace-related factors. Nevertheless, the probability of staying home sick at least once a year is still 5.6 percentage points higher in the public sector, ceteris paribus. This finding refutes popular assertions that differences in absence rates between the sectors are mainly due to structural factors like different compositions of the workforce. We show that the same observable factors play a role for absenteeism in the public and private sector, but we cannot rule out that shirking may play a more important role in the public sector. Nevertheless, we conclude that the stereotype of the ""malingering bureaucrat"" seems to be an exaggeration, at least for Germany."
I19|Short-Run Health Consequences of Retirement and Pension Benefits: Evidence from China|This paper examines the impact of the New Rural Pension Scheme (NRPS) in China. Exploiting the staggered implementation of an NRPS policy expansion that began in 2009, we use a difference-in-difference approach to study the effects of the introduction of pension benefits on the health status, health behaviors, and healthcare utilization of rural Chinese adults age 60 and above. The results point to three main conclusions. First, in addition to improvements in self-reported health, older adults with access to the pension program experienced significant improvements in several important measures of health, including mobility, self-care, usual activities, and vision. Second, regarding the functional domains of mobility and self-care, we found that the females in the study group led in improvements over their male counterparts. Third, in our search for the mechanisms that drive positive retirement program results, we find evidence that changes in individual health behaviors, such as a reduction in drinking and smoking, and improved sleep habits, play an important role. Our findings point to the potential benefits of retirement programs resulting from social spillover effects. In addition, these programs may lessen the morbidity burden among the retired population.
I19|Product patents and access to innovative medicines in a post-trips-era|This WTO working paper studies availability and affordability of new and innovative pharmaceuticals in a post-TRIPS era. The WTO's TRIPS Agreement (TRIPS) makes it obligatory for WTO members − except least-developed country members (LDCs) - to provide pharmaceutical product patents with a 20-year protection term. Developing country members, other than LDCs, were meant to be compliant with this provision of TRIPS by 2005. This study investigates two questions in this context: (1) How does the introduction of product patents in pharmaceuticals affect the likelihood of pharmaceutical firms to launch new and innovative medicines in those markets? (2) For launched new and innovative medicines, how much do patent owners or generic pharmaceutical firms adjust their prices to local income levels? Using launch data from 1980 to 2017 covering 70 markets, the study finds that introduction of product patent for pharmaceuticals in the patent law has a positive effect on launch likelihood, especially for innovative pharmaceuticals. However, this effect is quite limited in low-income markets. Also, innovative pharmaceuticals are launched sooner than non-innovative ones, irrespective of the patent regime in the local market. Using a panel data set of originator and generic prices from 2007 to 2017, the study finds evidence of differential pricing for both originator and generic products. Overall, originators differentiate by about 11% and generics by about 26%. Differential pricing is larger for pharmaceuticals to treat infectious diseases, particularly for HIV/AIDs medicines, than for non-communicable diseases. However, pharmaceutical prices are far from being fully adjusted to local income levels in either case. However, competition, especially that within a particular medicine market, can effectively drive down prices in both originator and generic markets.
I19|The Impact of Paid Maternity Leave on Maternal Health|We examine the impact of the introduction of paid maternity leave in Norway in 1977 on maternal health. Before the policy reform, mothers were eligible for 12 weeks of unpaid leave. Mothers giving birth after July 1, 1977 were entitled to 4 months of paid leave and 12 months of unpaid leave. We combine Norwegian administrative data with survey data on the health of women around age 40 and estimate the medium- and long-term impacts of the reform using regression discontinuity and difference-inregression discontinuity designs. Our results suggest paid maternity leave benefits are protective of maternal health. The reform improved a range of maternal health outcomes, including BMI, blood pressure, pain, and me mntal health, and it increased health-promoting behaviors, such as exercise and not smoking. The effects were larger for first-time and low-resource mothers and women who would have taken little unpaid leave in the absence of the reform. We also study the maternal health effects of subsequent expansions in paid maternity leave and find evidence of diminishing returns to leave length.
I19|How season of birth affects health and aging|We investigate how the season of birth affects human health and aging. For this purpose, we use five waves of the Survey of Health, Aging, and Retirement in Europe (SHARE) dataset and construct a health deficit index for 21 European countries. Results from log-linear regressions suggest that, on average, elderly European men age faster when they were born in spring and summer (compared to autumn). At given age, they have developed about 3.5 percent more health deficits. The bulk of the season effect is neither mediated through body height nor through education. In a subsample of Southern European countries, where the seasonal variation of sunlight is smaller, the season of birth plays an insignificant role for health in old age. In a subsample of Northern countries, in contrast, the season or birth effect gets larger. At given age, elderly Northern European men born in spring have developed on average 8.7 percent more health deficits than those born in autumn. In non-linear regression we find that the season effect increases with age suggesting that the speed of aging is also influenced by the season of birth.
I19|Fachkräftemangel in der Pflege: Kritische Situationsbewertung und Skizzierung einer Handlungsalternative|Das Bundeskabinett hat am 01.08.2018 das Pflegepersonal-Stärkungsgesetz beschlossen. Unter anderem ist darin die Einstellung von 13.000 zusätzlichen Pflegefachkräften vorgesehen. Angesichts der derzeitigen Mangelsituation in diesem Berufsfeld bestehen starke Zweifel, ob diese Stellen adäquat besetzt werden können. Zukunftsprojektionen für das Jahr 2030 zeigen, dass sich die Pflegekraftlücke noch deutlich vergrößern wird. Auch der Zugriff auf bislang unerschlossene Arbeitskräftepotenziale wird zur Schließung nicht ausreichend sein. Die soziale Dramatik dieses Problems verbietet eine abwartende Haltung. Bisher beschlossene Maßnahmen sind zu kleinteilig und zu reaktiv angelegt. Es sind kurzfristig Handlungen erforderlich, die einen aktiven Lösungsbeitrag in einer substanziellen Größenordnung leisten. Vorgeschlagen wird in einem stark fokussierten Handlungsansatz die Errichtung einer groß dimensionierten Pflegefachschule (10.000 Plätze) in einem Drittland. Es wird ein begründeter Kriterienkatalog für die Auswahl geeigneter Länder vorgestellt. Als potenziell geeignetes Land wird Vietnam diskutiert.
I19|Health Effects of Instruction Intensity: Evidence from a Natural Experiment in German High-Schools|A large literature aims to establish a causal link between education and health using changes in compulsory schooling laws. It is however unclear how well more education is operationalized by marginal increases in school years. We shed a new light on this discussion by analyzing the health effects of a reform in Germany where total years of schooling for students in the academic track were reduced from nine to eight while keeping cumulative teaching hours constant by increasing instruction intensity. .e sequential introduction of the reform allows us to implement a triple difference-in-differences estimation strategy with data from the German Socio-Economic Panel. We find that increased weekly instruction time has negative health effects for females while they are still in school. However, a.er graduation, females even seem to benefit from reduced school years. We find no effects on males’ health.
I19|Human Resources in Healthcare and Health Outcomes in India|The paper examined the growth and adequacy of the workforce engaged in health care sector in India for two decades based on Census data along with the association between health workers density and educational development and then selected health outcome (i.e. IMR). Despite the remarkable improvement in health workers density particularly during 2001-11, the country is falling short of the same. It is observed that there is a significantly positive association between density of health workforce and educational development. There is a significant and strong positive relationship / association between the density of health workers and health outcomes.
I19|Health Information Systems in India: Challenges and way forward|Universal Health Coverage (UHC) now endorsed by all UN member state as a part of their sustainable development goals, ushered in an era of improved governance and further development of health care systems. For the seamless functioning of health care systems and for their future development and sustainability, complete and reliable information is essential. The role of Health Information System (HIS) is to ensure recording, analysis, dissemination and use of re- liable and timely data by decision-makers at all levels of the health system. Information is used in a wide range of situations: when developing national strategies and plans; when monitoring progress against national priorities; or when responding to public health emergencies. Information is also needed for greater accountability for results. Given India's commitment to UHC, this paper explores the current HIS of India and understands its completeness and usefulness given the international standards. Article further describes various issues pertaining to data collection, definition, analysis and dissemination at national, sub-national and institutional level, where do India lags and what can be done to develop a seamless HIS for India.
I19|Mental Health before, during and in the aftermath of the Great Recession in Canada|Using province level panel data from the Canadian Community Health Survey (2007-2014), this study compares the mental health of Canadian before the 2008-2009 Great Recession with that of during the recession and after the recession. Mental health is measured using following indicators: self- reported mental health status, self-perceived life stress, and mental health care utilization. In the estimation, the study utilized following econometric techniques: ordered probit method, OLS method, panel data fixed effects method, logit method and conditional fixed effects logit method. The study found that self-reported mental health declined during recession and it remained at a lower level even after the end of recession. Similarly, self-perceived life stress increased during recession and it remained at a higher level in the aftermath of recession. Compared to pre-recession level, mental health care utilization increased during recession and after the end of recession. The study divided sample on the basis of gender, age categories and employment status. In all cases, the findings are similar: compared to pre-recession level, mental health declined during recession and mental health did not recover to pre-recession level even after the end of recession. The results of the study have important policy implications. The results suggest that recession not only has direct economic costs in terms of loss of employment and production, but it also has indirect costs in terms of its adverse impact on mental health.
I19|Positive psychology: A pathway to flourish employee well-being and productivity|The ability to work in a fast-paced and high-pressure work environment is one of the required skills set by many employers in different industries (Evolve Organic 2018; ME Bank 2018; NetYourJob 2018; NSW Government 2018; Skillforce Recruitment 2018). Some job candidates believe that they are able to cope with such work environment, but in reality, they may be easily triggered by external environment resulting in depression and severe anxiety. Organisations around the world have developed and implemented stress management and intervention programmes to reduce workplace stress; however, studies found that work-related suicide has been increasing in Australia (Reynolds 2017; Routley & Ozanne-Smith 2012), France (Waters 2015), Japan (North 2011), and China (Chan & Ngai 2010). Positive psychology focuses on how people optimise their strengths and values to flourish their life satisfaction and happiness (Lilienfeld, Lynn, Namy, Woolf, Jamieson, Haslam & Slaughter 2012). Hence, this research aims to critically review how positive psychology is used as a stress prevention and management strategy so as to improve employee well-being and productivity and ultimately work-related suicide. The research outcomes demonstrate that although there were criticisms of the positive psychology (Lazarus 2003), many studies (e.g. Lyubomirsky 2008; Seligman et al. 2005; Sergent & Monfrain 2011) found that the application of positive psychology exercises resulted in the improvements of the research participants? depressive personality styles or no improvement over time. In brief, positive psychology helps employees eliminate negative self-talk or self-critics and change themselves from being pessimistic to optimistic. It also tailors a stress prevention and management strategy to each employee by changing their mindset to effectively prevent and manage their work stress which is one of the causes of work-related suicide.
I19|Crossover Designs for drug development|In clinical trials, an issue of paramount importance is that of determining the best treatment for an ailment, from among a class of competing treatments. Crossover designs have been widely used in clinical trials for drug development and recent years have seen a surge in research on these designs. In crossover trials, different drugs are applied to each patient over a sequence of time periods, observations being taken at each period. However, since the same patient is exposed to a sequence of drugs over time, the observation taken at any particular time period is influenced by the effect of the drug applied at that period, called the direct effect of a drug, together with an effect of the drug applied in the immediately preceding period, called the carryover effect of the drug. The presence of these two types of drug effects makes the design and analysis of these experiments difficult. Moreover, an observation is also influenced by an effect of the time period and effect of the patient. So, the key issues here include (a) adequate modelling of the observations, (b) estimation of direct and carryover effects, (b) derivation of efficient or optimal design for inference and (c) construction of this efficient design for experimental use.There are results available for efficient estimation for direct and carryover effects separately. However, a designed experiment finally recommends a single treatment for use over longer time periods, and when this treatment is used, an effect of utmost importance is the total of the direct effect and carryover effect of the same treatment, or the total drug effect. However, no results are available in the literature for this total effect. In this paper we focus on this issue and we develop a rigorous framework for studying the total effects under a non-circular model. Next, we derive the best design for use in this context. Some numerical results are also presented.
I19|The evaluation and policy direction of an allergy prevention and management project in Seoul, Korea|Since 2009, Seoul has annually performed an allergy prevention and management project to educate, promote and consult about allergies and operate atopy?asthma friendly school project. This paper intends to find problems with this project, which has marked its 9th anniversary this year, present how to resolve these problems, and utilize them in the project?s future policy direction in establishing its vision and mid- and long-term development plan. In order to assess the effectiveness of the allergy prevention and management project, this study developed a questionnaire to examine the perception of working-level personnel (healthcare and childcare teachers, ordinary teachers, those responsible in district health centers, and etc.) and Seoul citizens (citizens and parents in atopy?asthma friendly school) and conducted a questionnaire survey on those in charge of the project in 25 district health centers, teachers and parents in 691 atopy?asthma friendly school as of 2017, and 2,000 citizens in Seoul. All groups thought was most important in the project was ?education for each group.? More specifically, the participation rate of ?education for parents,? a group who demanded it most, was very low at 13.6%. Among the reasons they did not participate in the education program, ?I did not know the education program was provided? accounted for most with 53.5%, followed by ?I was not able to take part because I was busy? with 29.9%. In this regard, the education program needs to be promoted first and foremost, and the participation rate would increase if the program is developed in various forms including not just classroom courses but also notices, school websites, and broadcast education so that working parents can also take part in.Obstacles to education in atopy and asthma reassured institutions included ?lack of time? (16.5%), ?lack of understanding about diseases? (15.9%), and ?lack of personnel? (14.1%).While the satisfaction of participants with education was high, the participation rate was not. It is therefore needed to find a way to promote education in order to increase the participation rate increase in the future.Obstacles to education such as lack of time, lack of understanding about diseases, and lack of personnel could have an effect on education participation and effectiveness. The project needs to be pursed in a direction that addresses those obstacles.
I19|Emotions related to the process of eating behaviour change. The measurement scale|World Health Organization (2018) provides statistics showing that obesity has tripled across the world between 1975 and 2016. The global prevalence of obesity stimulates research on the causes and consequences of overweight and obesity, as well as on the determinants of effective behaviour change. The process of behaviour change is difficult, as it requires ? among others - coping with emotions accompanying the process. Many previous studies have shown that most people who try to change their eating habits fail to achieve their objective. Medical and social scientists try to understand the underlying reasons in order to optimise treatment (both time and cost efficient), both for the patient and for the health care system.To achieve this objective a new scale to measure emotions experienced in the process of behaviour change (Scale on Emotions Related to the Behaviour Change, SEBeCh) has been developed. The psychological theory of emotions by Mehrabian and Russell (1974; Bakker et al., 2014) has been selected as the theoretical background of the scale. The new scale consisted of subscales that referred to various aspects of: 1) cooperation with a health professional (satisfaction with dietary advice, quality of the relationship and the level of freedom in making choices), and 2) diet-related emotions (attributes of a new diet, difficulty to manage the new diet, effectiveness of a new diet, attitude toward a new diet, and satisfaction with a progress and with herself/himself).The aim of this study was to test and validate the newly developed SEBeCh scale. An online study, with 300 participants (50% women and men), who declared passing through the process of eating habits change (40% with support of a health professional) was conducted. Positive and negative emotions related to the cooperation with a health professional reflect two-factor structure (75% of explained variance), elicited in the principal component analysis. The internal consistency of the scales is very high (Cronbach alpha equals respectively 0.98 and 0.97). The scales correlate with Health Care Climate Questionnaire used for validation purposes. Also for the diet change related emotions two factors were found (67% of explained variance), Cronbach alpha for positive and negative emotions subscales equals respectively 0.94 and 0.98. The subscales correlate highly with goal directed emotions (listed by Bagozzi, et al., 1998), which confirms validity of the scales.
I19|You Can Do It! A Mhealth Intervention For Smoking Cessation|This paper intends to approach mHealth interventions and their effectiveness when it comes to smoking cessation. Smoking is a problem not only in Romania, but it?s a worldwide issue. This topic needs to be further studied because applying technology in medical treatments is not a tackled issue in Romania. Our paper aims at analyzing the effectiveness of mHealth interventions on smoking cessation, having recourse to several methods: the focus group and the Discrete Choice Experiment. The Discrete Choice Experiment will focus on finding out the factors that drive the individuals to choose an mHealth intervention in order to quit smoking, despite the traditional types of interventions (medical patches, pills). The focus group completes our approach, outlining how individuals perceive the effectiveness of mHealth interventions for smoking cessation and what a mobile app should contain to be effective when ceasing this behavior. Our findings suggest that individuals tend to turn to a mHealth intervention instead of a traditional one when they can receive rewards or incentives or if they need a quick and accessible solution. What is more, the focus group?s results demonstrate the fact that individuals perceive mHealth interventions as not being effective. Also, mobile interventions should be tailored considering the needs of every individual and should contain a section with medical counseling. Considering these results, we believe that the Romanian medical system must introduce mHealth interventions in order to ease individuals? access to health and have a more patient-oriented system.
I19|Economics of obesity ? case studies|"The paper deals with the economics of obesity and consumer decision-making. This paper aims to suggest measures to reduce obesity. The author links economics and some other scientific disciplines, for example, physiology, endocrinology, genetics, etc. Three economic case studies show how all these disciplines play a crucial role in the causes of obesity. Based on the economic case studies, the author suggests the ""treatment"" of obesity. It includes 1) the tax on unhealthy food (artificial sugar or fructose syrup); 2) sports subsidies or support of sport by public health insurance; and 3) restriction on the use of antibiotics. A secondary result of the paper is that individual preferences are not stable due to the changeable set of body and processes inside."
I19|Inequidad en el acceso a los servicios de salud en Uruguay|En el año 2007 Uruguay comenzó una reforma del sector salud tendiente a la construcción de un Sistema Nacional Integrado de Salud, basado en un seguro público con provisión privada y pública, con el objetivo, entre otros, de universalizar el acceso a los servicios de salud. A partir de la primera Encuesta Nacional de Salud, realizada en 2014 en Uruguay, analizamos la inequidad horizontal en la utilización y el acceso a servicios médicos de la población de 18 años y más, y para diferentes subgrupos. Los resultados muestran inequidad horizontal a favor de las personas de mayor nivel socioeconómico en la realización de consultas médicas, uso de medicamentos y falta de acceso por motivos de costos. De la descomposición de los Índices de Concentración se destaca que el tipo de cobertura es de las variables que más impacta sobre la desigualdad, encontrando que la cobertura privada tiende a aumentarla y la pública a disminuirla. Finalmente, otro aspecto a destacar es que se encuentra inequidad para algunos estudios preventivos, como la realización del PAP en las mujeres y del examen de próstata en los hombres, estando concentrados este tipo de estudios entre los de mayor nivel socioeconómico.
I19|The determinants of health care expenditure growth|Understanding the drivers of growth in health care expenditure is crucial for forecasting future health care requirements and to ameliorate inefficient expenditure. This paper considers the detailed breakdown of hospital inpatient expenditures across the period 2007/08 to 2014/15. Decomposition techniques are used to unpick the observed rise in expenditure into a component due to a change in the distribution of characteristics, for example, greater prevalence of morbidity, and a component due to structural changes in the impact of such characteristics on expenditures (coefficient effects, for example, due to technological change). This is undertaken at the mean using standard decomposition techniques, but also across the full distribution of expenditures to gain an understanding of where in the distribution growth and its determinants are most relevant. Decomposition at the mean indicates a larger role for a structural change in characteristics rather than a change in coefficients. A key driver is an increased prevalence of comorbidities. When considering the full distribution we observe a decrease in expenditure at the bottom of the distribution (bottom two quintiles) but increasing expenditure thereafter. The largest increases are observed at the top of the expenditure distribution. Where changes in structural characteristics dominate changes in coefficients in explaining the rise in expenditure. Increases in comorbidities (and the average number of first diagnoses) across the two periods, together with increases in non-elective long stay episodes and non-elective bed days are important drivers of expenditure increases.
I19|Does social isolation affect medical doctor visits? New evidence among European older adults|We have used panel data (2004-2015) from the Survey of Health, Ageing and Retirement in Europe (SHARE) to examine the impact of social isolation on general practitioner health care use. Socio-demographic, health and social isolation measures are analysed. Differences by welfare regimes have been also considered. Using two definitions of social isolation (Alone and Help), we have found that a sizeable proportion of those aged 50 years and older in Europe reported social isolation. Differences by welfare regimes are highlighted. Our findings provide several implications in current debates on the sustainability of welfare states.
I19|Unmet health care needs among the working-age population. Evidence from the great recession in Spain|In this paper we tested the hypothesis that unmet health care needs can be interpreted in terms of employment status of individuals. The latest cross-sectional health surveys for Spain (2006 and 2011-2012) were used. The econometric approach is based on a Probit model estimation. When controlling for differences in other socioeconomic characteristics, our results for Spain supported stronger association for health status than for employment status. Moreover, empirical evidence was found that working-age people reported less unmet needs in the Great Recession than previously. Findings should be considered first in light of the Spanish National Health Service, completely decentralized to regions, which provides universal coverage for all residents. Second in terms of the likely worsening health-care-attendance experienced throughout the crisis.
I19|The Triple Aim framework in the context of primary healthcare: A systematic literature review|No abstract is available for this item.
I19|A Study of Recreation Flow Experience and Spiritual Health in Road Running Participants|Objective - The purpose of this study is to investigate the relationship between the flow experience in road running participants and spiritual health. Methodology/Technique - The questionnaires were issued in purposive sampling and measured by intentional sampling. The participants are road runners in Taiwan. A total of 350 questionnaires were distributed and 300 were returned. Six invalid questionnaires were removed, and a total of 294 valid questionnaires were obtained, with a response rate of 98%. Then, the data was obtained and analyzed using exploratory factor analysis (EFA), descriptive statistics, and multiple regression analysis. Findings - The research results show that the flow experience in each dimension significantly and positively affects spiritual health, and the higher the degree of flow experience, the higher the degree of spiritual health. Based on the conclusions of this study, suggestions are made for further research in the future. (Mistry of Education, 2013).
I19|Factors Affecting the Decisions of West Kalimantan Society to Use Hospital in Sarawak Malaysia|Objective - The purpose of this research is to examine and analyze the factors that influence the decision of West Kalimantan citizens to use hospital services in Sarawak Malaysia, which includes: quality of service with dimensions of tangibles, reliability, responsiveness, assurance and empathy, word of mouth, cultural homogeneity, price value, and location. Methodology/Technique - This study is a causality research with the population of respondents who have used hospital services in Sarawak Malaysia. The sampling was conducted using a purposive sampling method and snowball sampling, and the number of samples used is 150 people. The data is analyzed using multiple regressions. Findings - The results of the F significance test is 0.000 and the adjusted test results show R2 = 0.678. The t test results show that tangibles, reliability, assurance, word of mouth, cultural homogeneity, price value, and location have a significant effect on decisions, while responsiveness and empathy have no significant effect. Novelty - Price value has the most significant influence on the decision to use hospitals in Sarawak, Malaysia. Price value can be interpreted as costs incurred in accordance with the benefits obtained.
I19|Reducing the anchoring bias in multiple question CV surveys|The elicitation format is a crucial aspect of Contingent Valuation (CV) surveys and can impact their reliability. This paper contributes to the extensive debate on WTP (Willingness To Pay) elicitation formats by assessing whether the Circular Payment Card (CPC) can reduce anchoring on respondents' previous answers under multiple elicitation questions. This new format uses a visual pie-chart representation without start or end points: respondents spin the circular card in any direction until they find the section that best matches their WTP. We used a CV survey based on two ways of reducing risks associated with flooding, each randomly presented first to half of the respondents, to test the absolute performance of CPC. We presented a second survey on two social insurance schemes for subjects currently uninsured to respondents randomly split into three subgroups. Each group's WTP was elicited using one of three formats: Open-Ended (OE), standard Payment Card (PC) and the new CPC. The two insurance schemes were always proposed in the same order, and we assessed the relative performance of CPC by comparing anchoring across respondents. Our results provide evidence that CPC is likely to reduce anchoring in multiple elicitation questions and that respondents may rely on different heuristic decisions when giving WTP in the OE and in the two PC formats.
I19|Why People Hate Health Economics – Two Psychological Explanations|Rationing decisions based on health maximization are likely to conflict with the view of the general public. We argue that health economics at large has been oblivious to the core aspects of human nature and this has limited the use of health economics as a productive input in health policy. We present a psychological account for why the outcomes of health economic evaluations are unlikely to be compatible with public views and discuss implications for health policy. This psychological account emphasizes the occurrence of taboo-tradeoffs and compassion fade, two emotional phenomena that are especially likely to bias judgments about health care priority setting. Health economics as a tool for priority setting is also very much blind for the needs of the individual since it has an impersonal focus which gives little or no concern for individual needs. Given the disconnect for how people think and make decisions about the individual versus how people think and make decisions about aggregated groups this further helps to explain why people hate health economics.
I19|Public health, healthcare, health and inequality in health in the Nordic countries|All five Nordic countries emphasize equal and easy access to healthcare, assuming that increased access to healthcare leads to increased health. It is the purpose of the present study to explore to which extent the populations of these countries have reached good health and a high degree of socio-economic equality in health. Each of the five countries has established extensive public health programmes, although with somewhat different measures to increase health of the populations. We compare these countries to the UK and Germany by using data from the European Social Survey for 2002 and 2012 in addition to OECD statistics for the same years. Health is measured by self-assessed health in five categories, which is transformed to a cardinal scale using Swedish time trade-off (TTO) weights. As socio-economic measures we use household income and length of education. Socio-economic inequality in health is elicited in two ways. First, we show social gradients by comparing the percentage of respondents in the lower income group reporting good or very good health to the corresponding rates in the upper income group. Second, we show concentration indices of socio-economic related inequality in health. Everything else kept equal, good health and the size of the concentration index are negatively associated by definition. In 2012, mean health, based on Swedish weights applied to all countries, is above 0.93 in all the Nordic countries and the UK, but lower in Germany. Each of the Nordic countries have introduced centrally initiated comprehensive public health programmes to increase health and reduce socio-economic inequalities in health. In general, the Nordic countries have achieved good health for their populations as well as a high degree of socioeconomic equality in health. Improvements in life-style related determinants of health are possible, however.
I19|Maternal Stress during Pregnancy and Early Childhood Development|There is a consensus in the literature on the relevance of the first 1,000 days since conception in the development of a child's cognitive and non-cognitive skills. However, little is known of the determinants of these skills at that age, as previous literature has focused on the effect of in utero and early childhood shocks on outcomes at birth or at age 7 and beyond. In this paper, we analyze the impact of prenatal stress on cognitive and non-cognitive development of the child by age 2. By exploiting a longitudinal dataset of children and their parents, we find that children who were exposed in-utero to maternal stress do not have different birth-weight relative to those who were not exposed, yet by age 2, exposed children had a lower level of development, cognition skills, and more attention problems relative to children not exposed to in utero stress. We also find that the negative impacts are observed if in-utero stress occurs during the first trimester of pregnancy. The negative impact on cognitive skills and development is concentrated on lower-income children and attention problems occur among high-income children, and boys suffer lower development and worse attention problems, while girls' cognition is negatively affected by in-utero stress.
I19|Status and Progress in Cross-Border Portability of Social Security Benefits|The importance of cross-border portability of social benefits is increasing in parallel with the rise in the absolute number of international migrants and their share of the world population, and perhaps more importantly, with the rising share of world population that for some part of their life is working and/or retiring abroad. This paper estimates how the rising stock of migrants is distributed over four key portability regimes: those with portability through bilateral social security arrangements (regime I); those with potential exportability of eligible benefits from abroad (regime II); documented workers with no access to national schemes but no contribution payment either (regime III); and undocumented workers with no access to any scheme (regime IV). Estimates for 2000 and 2013 are compared. The results indicate a modest but noticeable increase in the share of migrants under regime I, from 21.9 percent in 2000 to 23.3 percent in 2013. The biggest change occurred under regime III, which almost doubled to 9.4 percent. Regime II reduced by 3.0 percentage points but remains the dominant scheme (at 53.2 percent). The estimates suggest that the scope of regime IV (informality) reduced by 2.9 percentage points, accounting for 14.0 of all migrants in 2013. This trend is positive, but more will need to be done to progress on benefit portability.
I19|Shocking news and cognitive performance|We study how shocking news affects cognitive performance. Identifying these effects makes societies more resilient by helping to adjust policy responses to reduce indirect costs of future atrocities. Our analysis is based on a school shooting that coincided with national matriculation exams, allowing a difference-in-differences analysis. We find a substantial negative effect on males: their average performance dropped by seven percent. The average performance of females was unaffected. Our findings suggest that a shocking event may call for psychological support for young people even in communities that are not directly affected.
I19|The economics of patient safety in primary and ambulatory care: Flying blind|Building on published patient safety research literature, this paper aims to broaden the existing knowledge base on safety lapses occurring in primary and ambulatory care settings.The findings of this paper show that safety lapses in primary and ambulatory care are common. About half of the global burden of patient harm originates in primary and ambulatory care, and estimates suggest that nearly four out of ten patients experience safety issue(s) in their interaction with this setting. Safety lapses in primary and ambulatory care most often result in an increased need for care or hospitalisations. Available evidence estimates the direct costs of safety lapses – the additional tests, treatments and health care – in primary and ambulatory care to be around 2.5% of total health expenditure. Safety lapses resulting in hospitalisations each year may count 6% of total hospital bed days and more than 7 million admissions in the OECD.
I19|Does unmet health care lead to poorer health outcomes?|Using the National Population Health Survey, a nationally representative longitudinal data set spanning 16 years, we analyze if the presence of perceived unmet health-care (UHC) needs affects health outcomes paying close attention to the potential endogeneity of this problem. Five different health-related outcomes are examined. We find clear and robust evidence that the presence of UHC either two-years previously or anytime in the past, affects negatively the current health of the individual – controlling for a host of other influences. The age of the individual does not affect this relationship.
I19|Caregivers in the Family: Daughters, Sons and Social Norms|"Daughters are the principal caregivers of their dependent parents. In this paper, we study long-term care (LTC) choices by bargaining families with mixed- or same-gender siblings. LTC care can be provided either informally by children, or formally at home or in an institution. A social norm implies that daughters suffer a psychological cost when they provide less informal care than the average child. We show that the laissez-faire (LF) and the utilitarian first-best (FB) differ for two reasons. First, because informal care imposes a negative externality on daughters via the social norm, too much informal care is provided in LF. Second, the weights children and parents have in the family bargaining problem might differ in general from their weights in social welfare. We show that the FB allocation can be achieved through a system of subsidies on formal home and institutional care. Except when children and parents have equal bargaining weights these subsidies are gender-specific and reflect Pigouvian as well as ""paternalistic"" considerations."
I19|Health effects of instruction intensity: Evidence from a natural experiment in German high-schools|A large literature aims to establish a causal link between education and health using changes in compulsory schooling laws. It is however unclear how well more education is operationalized by marginal increases in school years. We shed a new light on this discussion by analyzing the health effects of a reform in Germany where total years of schooling for students in the academic track were reduced from nine to eight while keeping cumulative teaching hours constant by increasing instruction intensity. The sequential introduction of the reform allows us to implement a triple difference-in-differences estimation strategy with data from the German Socio-Economic Panel. We find that increased weekly instruction time has negative health effects for females while they are still in school. However, after graduation, females even seem to benefit from reduced school years. We find no effects on males' health.
I19|Is it vulnerability or economic insecurity that matters for health?|This paper contrasts the mental and physical health impacts of vulnerability and economic insecurity. An individual is vulnerable if they are at risk of future absolute material deprivation, while they are insecure if they are threatened by losses in relative status. Using data from the first eleven waves of the Australian HILDA panel, we generate four alternative measures of real or perceived downside economic risk and employ panel data models to estimate their impacts on SF-36 mental and physical health indices. We test our hypotheses using a series of polynomial interactions which allow the effect sizes to vary non-linearly with income. Baseline estimates show that economic risks have consistently negative consequences for both mental and physical health, with the former effect being around three times the size of the latter. However our main finding is that increasing incomes do little to mitigate the sensitivity of health to these risks. This suggests it is mostly the prospect of loss rather than deprivation that impacts upon wellbeing. The finding is important as it helps distinguish between competing models (i.e. Beveridge vs Bismarck) for social insurance.
I19|Nudging to prudence? The effect of reminders on antibiotics prescriptions|Antibiotic resistance is a large and growing global health threat with important consequences. Prudent use of antibiotics is vital to delay the spread of resistance. In this study I use a randomized controlled trial to test the effect on antibiotics use of reminders to primary care patients. The intervention was implemented across 31 clinics during the flu season in Stockholm. A two-level randomization was used, with randomization at clinic level as well as at individual patient level. With reminders antibiotics use fell by 12.6 per cent relative to the control clinics. The effect is at clinic level, suggesting that doctors or doctor – patient interactions, not individual patients, are affected. Results from a follow-up experiment further suggest that an effect on the interactions between doctor and patient is the primary driver of the main results. Behavioural interventions targeting these interactions have the potential to reduce antibiotics use. More research is needed, though, as monitoring and adherence may also play a role.
I19|"""Even I Have a Negative Gaze"": How Depressive Patients Conceptualize Stigma Experiences"|"""Objective – This study aims to explore the differences in mental health stigma experiences between male and female patients while undertaking the mental health care. Methodology/Technique – The study employs phenomenology and gender lens on 29 patients with depression, who were consulting the outpatient psychiatric clinics in Kedah and Pulau Pinang states. An in-depth interview conducted and the data was then transcribed and analyzed using Atlas.ti software, version 7.5. The study presented informed consents to each participant, and had obtained the university ethical clearance. Using thematic analysis, the significance of labelling emerged in two sub-themes, there were ""Even I have a negative gaze"", and ""They don't know what psychiatric is!"". Findings – The results revealed that being gazed upon disgracefully by others is one of the discriminating factors that hampers their help-seeking effort. Nevertheless, the misconception about mental illness by the society and fear of the unknown potentially discourages them to enrol into psychiatric treatments and causing stigma on mental health. The result, however, uncovered the differences in experiences of mental health stigma in male and female patients lie on the distinctive territory of both sexes, where men usually feel stigmatized in public spheres, while women in both public and private domains. The result was clearly illustrated when intersected with socio-demographic profiles. Female participants who have domestic responsibilities and are financially dependent on their spouses were found to be more vulnerable than male participants Novelty – The study analyses original data."""
I19|The Mediating Role of Adherence on the Relationship between Health Locus of Control and Quality of Life in Adults with Asthma|Objective – It was previously assumed that the relationship between HLOC and quality of life may be mediated by adherence. HLOC plays a role in determining a person's behavior, including adherence to medical regimens. Methodology/Technique – HLOC was measured by the Multidimensional Health Locus of Control Scale, adherence was measured by the 8-item Morisky Medication Adherence Scale (MMAS-8), and quality of life was measured by the Quality of Life Scale. Findings – The results indicate that Internal HLOC (ß = 0,497, p
I19|How Can Contingent Valuation Inform the Bioethics Debate? Evidence from a Survey on Hereditary Cancers in France|BRCA1/2 carriers have a higher risk of developing breast and ovarian cancer at a younger age.?Preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD) and prenatal diagnosis (PND) are two of the few options available to avoid transmitting the mutation.?To inform the bioethics debate about authorization, a contingent valuation survey elicited preferences regarding access to PGD and PND from a sample of 460 unaffected by cancer BRCA1/2 carriers (GENEPSO cohort).?We find that the respondents can be classified into three groups: one opposed to PGD/PND (28.3%), one strongly in favour of PGD/PND (45.8%), and one in an intermediate position (25.9%).?We look for the determinants of these preferences, especially of the willingness to pay for PGD/PND.?Overall, we find that BRCA1/2 carriers support access to PGD/PND, which has implications for recommendations to decision-makers. JEL Codes: C01, C83, D04, D79, I19.
I19|Does Religion Make You Sick? Evidence of a Negative Relationship between Religious Background and Health|Religious beliefs and practices influence individual lives and societies in many ways. We study how religion affects self-assessed health, which in turn is important for both individual well-being and productivity. A religious background predicts worse health. As the previous literature has not been able to rule out reverse causality, we apply a novel method that does. The health of the children of immigrants in 30 European countries is related to different measures of religiosity in their mothers’ birth countries. Since religiosity in the mothers’ birth countries predicts children’s religiosity (through transmission in the family), we can use the former as a measure of the latter. Moreover, the children’s health arguably cannot affect the religiosity of their mothers’ home countries (measured several decades earlier). Furthermore, the negative relationship between religious background and health is robust to accounting for a range of individual and ancestral country characteristics, to excluding the most and least religious ancestral countries, and to accounting for systematic differences across ancestral continents. The negative relationship, which we also find in U.S. data, suggests that the positive correlations between health and religiosity in the earlier literature are not due to religion promoting health.
I19|Health and inequality in health in the Nordic countries|All five Nordic countries emphasise equal and easy access to healthcare. It is the purpose to explore to which extent the populations of these countries have reached good health and high degree of socio-economic equality of health. Each of the five countries has established extensive public health programmes, although with somewhat different emphasis on the causes of ill-health, such as individual behaviour or social circumstances. Attitudes have changed over time, though. We compare these countries to the UK and Germany by using data from the European Social Survey 2002 and 2012 in addition to OECD Statistics from the same years. Health is measured by self-assessed health in five categories, transformed to a cardinal scale using Swedish time trade-off weights. As socio-economic variable we use household income or length of education. Mean health, based on Swedish TTO weights applied to all countries, is above 0.93 in all the Nordic countries and the UK in 2012, while lower in Germany. Rates in good or very good health in the lower income half of the samples are above 0.6 in most countries and even higher in Iceland and Sweden, but below 0.5 in Germany. However, when displayed in a graph the concentration curves nearly follow the diagonal implying almost no income- or education related inequality in self-assessed health weighted by TTO based preferences. The difference is a natural consequence of using different methods. We compared four key life-style related determinants of ill health and found that while there were differences in relative levels between the countries, Germany had a relatively high level of three of these, followed by the UK. We found no association between level of resources used and health status. In general, the Nordic countries have accomplished good health for their populations and high degree of socioeconomic equality in health. Improvements in life-style related determinants of health would be possible, though.
I19|Mental Healthcare Delivery in Contemporary Russia: Past and Present. A Qualitative Analysis of Policy Documents and Professional Journals|This paper examines the effects of reforms in Russian mental health care (MHC) delivery since 1991, namely how it has developed; how priorities, targets and means of delivery have changed; which problems were considered the main ones; and how ongoing changes have affected the system of delivery. An analysis of policy documents and of psychiatric journals was used in conducting this research and also in understanding any changes that had occurred. The results indicate that some transformations in MHC organization took place, while others, mainly regarding patient related issues, were still being neglected by policy makers
I19|Legal Status and Deprivation in India's Urban Slums: An Analysis of Two Decades of National Sample Survey Data|"In India, 52–98 million people live in urban slums, and 59% of slums are ""non-notified"" or lack legal recognition by the government. In this paper, we use data on 2,901 slums from four waves of the National Sample Survey (NSS) spanning almost 20 years to test the hypothesis that non-notified status is associated with greater deprivation in access to basic services, thereby increasing vulnerability to poor health outcomes. To quantify deprivation for each slum, we construct a basic services deprivation score (BSDS), which includes variables that affect health, such as access to piped water, latrines, solid waste disposal, schools, and health centers. In a regression analysis, we find a robust association between non-notified status and greater deprivation after controlling for other variables. Our analysis reveals a progressive reduction in deprivation the longer a slum has been notified. In addition, data from the 2012 NSS show that, despite suffering from greater deprivation, non-notified slums were much less likely to receive financial aid from government slum improvement schemes. Our findings suggest that legally recognizing non-notified slums and targeting government aid to these settlements may be crucial for improving health outcomes and diminishing urban disparities."
I19|Does Daughter Deficit Promote Parental Substance Use? Longitudinal Evidence on Smoking from Rural China|China and some other Asian countries have experienced skewed sex ratios, triggering intense competition and pressure in the marriage market. Meanwhile, China has more smokers than any other country, with half of men smoke while few women smoke. Men are the major income earners in most Chinese families and thus bear much of the financial burden in preparation for children's marriage. This paper investigates how a demographic factor Ã¢â‚¬â€œ a large number of surplus men in the marriage market in China Ã¢â‚¬â€œ affects their fathers' smoking behavior. We utilize two household longitudinal surveys as well as a random subsample of the China Population Census to examine fathers' smoking in response to skewed sex ratios. Strikingly, fathers smoke more for families with a son living in communities with higher sex ratios. In contrast, those with a daughter do not demonstrate this pattern. Coping with the marriage market pressure is a more plausible pathway linking the observed skewed sex ratios among children and intense smoking among fathers. Considering worsening sex ratios and highly competitive marriage market in the coming decade as well as lasting health impacts due to smoking, policies suppressing unbalanced sex ratios could lead to welfare gains.
I19|Caregivers in the family: daughters, sons and social norms|"Daughters are the principal caregivers of their dependent parents. In this paper, we study long-term care (LTC) choices by bargaining families with mixed- or same-gender siblings. LTC care can be provided either informally by children, or formally at home or in an institution. A social norm implies that daughters suffer a psychological cost when they provide less informal care than the average child. We show that the laissez-faire (LF) and the utilitarian first-best (FB) differ for two reasons. First, because informal care imposes a negative externality on daughters via the social norm, too much informal care is provided in LF. Second, the weights children and parents have in the family bargaining problem might differ in general from their weights in social welfare. We show that the FB allocation can be achieved through a system of subsidies on formal home and institutional care. Except when children and parents have equal bargaining weights these subsidies are gender-specific and reflect Pigouvian as well as ""paternalistic"" considerations."
I19|Retirement and Informal Care-giving: Behavioral Patterns among Older Workers|This paper uses panel data from the Survey of Health, Aging and Retirement in Europe (SHARE) to study the effect of care-giving on retirement. The findings suggest that care- and support-giving contributes to the retirement decision, in particular for men. While the frequency of care activities is more influential in the male retirement decision, the most important factor for both genders turns out to be out-of-household care.
I19|Revising Infant Mortality Rates for the Early 20th Century United States|Accurate vital statistics are required to understand the evolution of racial disparities in infant health and the causes of rapid secular decline in infant mortality during the early twentieth century. Unfortunately, infant mortality rates prior to 1950 suffer from an upward bias stemming from a severe underregistration of births. At one extreme, African-American births in Southern states went unregistered at the rate of 15 to 25 percent. In this paper, we construct improved estimates of births and infant mortality in the United States for the 1915-1940 period using recently released complete count decennial census microdata combined with the counts of infant deaths from published sources. We check the veracity of our estimates with a major birth registration study completed in conjunction with the 1940 Decennial Census, and that the largest adjustments occur in states with less complete birth registration systems. An additional advantage of our census-based estimation method is the extension back of the birth and infant mortality series for years prior to published estimates of registered births, enabling previously impossible comparisons and estimations. Finally, we show that underregistration can bias effect estimates even in a panel setting with specifications that include location fixed effects and place-specific linear time trends.
I19|Obesity and Household Financial Distress|Obesity provides a potentially informative signal about individualsâ€™ choices and preferences. Using National Longitudinal Survey of Youth (NLSY) data, we estimate that debt delinquency is 20 percent higher among the obese than the non-obese after controlling for an extensive set of financial and economic credit risk factors. The economic significance of obesity for delinquencies is comparable to that of job displacements. Obesity is particularly informative about delinquencies among those with low credit risk. In terms of channels, we find that the conditional obesity effect is partially mediated through health, but is not attributable to individualsâ€™ attitudes, time and risk preferences, or cognitive skills.
I19|The economics of patient safety: Strengthening a value-based approach to reducing patient harm at national level|About one in ten patients are harmed during health care. This paper estimates the health, financial and economic costs of this harm. Results indicate that patient harm exerts a considerable global health burden. The financial cost on health systems is also considerable and if the flow-on economic consequences such as lost productivity and income are included the costs of harm run into trillions of dollars annually. Because many of the incidents that cause harm can be prevented, these failures represent a considerable waste of healthcare resources, and the cost of failure dwarfs the investment required to implement effective prevention. The paper then examines how patient harm can be minimised effectively and efficiently. This is informed by a snapshot survey of a panel of eminent academic and policy experts in patient safety. System- and organisational-level initiatives were seen as vital to provide a foundation for the more local interventions targeting specific types of harm. The overarching requirement was a culture conducive to safety.
I19|Alcohol Expenditure, Generosity and Empathy|Existing studies suggest that alcohol dependency (or recovery from alcohol dependency) is associated with lower levels of empathy and generosity. We present results from a charitable donation experiment which shows that in a student population, higher levels of alcohol expenditure are associated with significantly less generosity. However, there is no significant association between alcohol expenditure and empathy (as measured by the Empathy Quotient Scale), which suggests that the relationship between alcohol expenditure on generosity is mediated through some other channel.
I19|Factors associated with the delay in seeking inpatient and outpatient care services in the Philippines|Despite the country's policies and programs towards universal health care, health is not improving as well as expected, which suggests that households still face significant barriers to their choice of and access to health care, and their timing of use of health services. Using a nationally representative sample of households, we investigate the factors that affect the timing of outpatient care and inpatient care utilization. We define two indicators of delay in seeking care, namely: one for outpatient care, as the number of days from onset of symptom until visit of a clinic or provider, and another for inpatient care, as the number of days from doctor's advice until hospital confinement. Given our dependent variables are measured in terms days until visit, we estimate proportional hazard models (Cox, Weibull and Gompertz) to identify the significant factors associated with delay in seeking health care services. The factors associated with delay are classified in terms of health needs, financial access, physical access, opportunity costs, other household factors and location. Our findings suggest health needs and opportunity costs are the main factors associated with the delay in seeking outpatient and inpatient care services among Filipinos in need of medical attention. Perhaps more importantly from a policy perspective, we also find that physical and financial access variables do not significantly affect timing of care. We draw some implications from the results on increasing access to health care, through improvements in awareness of social health insurance and in the actual quality of health facilities. We also identify directions for future research.
I19|Physician emigration: should they stay or should they go? A policy analysis|Physician emigration can either function as an escape valve to help the health labour market clear from a supply surplus, or aggravate the problem further in case of a shortage. Either way, policy-makers should be particularly aware and devise policies to minimize the occurrence of an imbalance in the physician workforce, which may require physician retention policies if barriers to entry and other market rigidities can not be removed. To this purpose we have developed an agent-based computational economics model to analyse physician emigration, and used it to study the impact of potential short-term and long-term retention policies. As a real case study we have calibrated it with data from Portugal, which features a very particular health system with many rigidities. Results show that all policies are capable of increasing the workforce size, but not all reduce migration. Furthermore, the welfare impact of the policies varies considerably. Whether policies to retain physicians should be enacted or whether policy makers should let physicians go will depend on the type of imbalance present in the health system.
I19|A Correlation between Workplace Stress and Organizational Commitment: Doctors response from Public and Private Hospitals in Karachi, Pakistan|The study inspects the correlation between occupational stress and organizational commitment among doctors working in public and private sectors of Karachi. The self-constructive survey questionnaire is circulated through convenience sampling techniques and gathered 1039 responses (public hospital=549 and private hospitals=490). A five-point likert scale measured response ranges from strongly agree (1) to strongly disagree (5) while 10-item scale was used to evaluate occupational stress. Additionally, dimensions of organizational commitment; affective, normative and continuance commitment were evaluated on a scale containing 6-items. The data was analyzed through SPSS 23. As interpreted from results, there is a weak positive linear relationship between AC and personal factor and organizational factor. Likewise, NC shares a weak positive linear relationship with personal resources and organizational factor. Similarly, CC has a weak positive linear relationship with personal factor and personal resources. However, AC has a strong negative relationship with personal resources while NC also has a strong negative relationship with personal factor. In a similar manner, CC has a weak negative linear relationship with organizational factor. Moreover, level of stress and commitment among doctors working in public hospitals is relatively low in contrast to private hospitals. In addition, males are under more stress. However, AC and NC are relatively high in females while CC is more in males.
I19|Patients Compliance and Follow-Up Rate after Tooth Extraction|Abiding to post-operative instructions properly may help rapid recovery from surgical procedure. The study aims to check the follow-up rate and compliance of patients who sternly follow the post-operative instructions after non-surgical permanent tooth extraction through health status of the socket. Study Design: This cross-sectional study involved 100 consenting patients was performed at dental OPDs of DOW University of Health Sciences Karachi. One week after procedure information about health status of socket was obtained through questionnaire and clinical examination. Data (age, gender, socket status) analyzed using Pearson’s chi square test with P-value ≤0.05 was considered significant. Out of 100 patients, 66 appear for follow-up where 34 remain absent. 66 patients who completed the study include 31 male and 34 female, with the mean age of 43.06±16.19 years from which 18 cases report poor socket status and 48 cases report good socket hygiene. No significant difference between age, gender, and socket status was reported (P › 0.05). This study showed no statistical association of age and gender with the health status of socket. Additionally, it highlights the need to properly educate patients on the effect of compliance and the various complications and factors affecting, after tooth extraction due to non-compliance.
I19|Prevalence of neuro-musculoskeletal complications in patients with T2DM|Diabetes mellitus affects normal metabolizing body function and causes long term organs dysfunctions like blindness, kidney failure, neuropathy and autonomic dysfunction. The musculoskeletal is also affected by T2DM and causes pain, dysfunctions, and disabilities. Thus, this study is to find the prevalence of neuro-musculoskeletal complications in patients with T2DM. This cross sectional survey was conducted in various public and private sector hospitals of four major cities of Pakistan (Islamabad, Karachi, Lahore, and Sargodha) from 1st May to 31st December 2015. The patients of type II diabetes mellitus with both gender and age above 40 were included, and patients with active systemic disease of bones and soft tissues were excluded. A self-structured questionnaire was developed, reviewed by experts, and finalized after calculating their recommendations. The questionnaire was distributed among 600 patients, out of whom 500 patients responded. The non-probability convenient sampling technique was used for data collection. The data was analyzed by SPSS and percentages were calculated to estimate the neuro-musculoskeletal complications in patients with T2DM. The prevalence of neuro-musculoskeletal complication in type II Diabetes mellitus was 100 %, while the frozen shoulder, tingling sensations and ants crawling sensations (61%) were equally the most common neuro-musculoskeletal complications followed by knee pain (53%), low back pain (43%).The most involved age group was 61 to 65 years and 58% patients were with positive family history. The most commonly used way of treatment was medications (90%) and physical therapy (10%). It was proved in study that frozen shoulder, altered sensations, knee pain and back pain have high association with long duration of T2DM.There is association between long duration of diabetes mellitus and neuro-musculoskeletal complications. It is concluded that the prevalence of neuro-musculoskeletal complications is high among patients of T2DM and commonly affects shoulder, back, knee and altered sensation in legs. These are most commonly managed with medications followed by physical therapy.
I19|Awareness about Diabetes Risk Factors and Prevention Strategies among Women of Punjab|Objective: Diabetes is a huge challenge to country’s health and economy. It has been widely debated that in order to reduce the incidence and consequences of diabetes, its awareness among the masses is pre-requisite. Thereby, in the present paper an attempt has been made to examine the awareness of the risk factors and preventive strategies of diabetes among women. Materials and Methods: The study was based on primary data collected from 200 women from Jalandhar. The analysis of the data has been made with the help of frequencies, percentages and weighted average score. Results: It has been found that 96 percent of the women were aware of diabetes. However, only 42 percent, 30 percent, 22 percent, 13 percent and 29 percent were aware of prevention of diabetes, vaccine for diabetes, complete cure for diabetes and susceptibility of diabetes. Conclusion: These figures are compelling enough to stimulate government to decide to take corrective actions to address the awareness of diabetes among women. It was also found the awareness of the risk factors and preventive measures was low among the sampled respondents. Need of the hour is to create awareness of diabetes, risk factors and lifestyle changes which can prevent or delay diabetes.
I19|Energy deprivation of Indian households: evidence from NSSO data|This study examines the patterns of domestic energy consumption of households in India over the period of past two and half decades. The analysis shows that the use of energy varies across rural and urban households and also across the categories of low and high income groups. Although increase in income is accompanied with the change in household’s fuel mix but total disappearance of fuel-wood for cooking purpose is uncommon. Households wait for threshold level of income in order to change their cooking energy preferences but their lighting energy preferences change constantly with income. Further, a puzzling pattern is noticed that monthly per capita consumption expenditure (MPCE) and average calorie intake from energy sources move in opposite directions in the considered second decade of the study which this paper intends to explain. Further, this paper makes an attempt to estimate Gini Coefficients to measure energy inequality in terms of energy consumption and expenditure. This is revealed that inequality is high in the consumption of LPG in rural areas and that of electricity in urban areas. In addition to this, various methods for estimating the energy poverty are also examined. Each one leads to the conclusion that energy poverty was sharply declined in India in the period 1999-00 and then suddenly increased in 2011-12.
I19|Non-separable Models with High-dimensional Data|This paper studies non-separable models with a continuous treatment when the dimension of the control variables is high and potentially larger than the effective sample size. We propose a three-step estimation procedure to estimate the average, quantile, and marginal treatment effects. In the first stage we estimate the conditional mean, distribution, and density objects by penalized local least squares, penalized local maximum likelihood estimation, and penalized conditional density estimation, respectively, where control variables are selected via a localized method of L1-penalization at each value of the continuous treatment. In the second stage we estimate the average and the marginal distribution of the potential outcome via the plug-in principle. In the third stage, we estimate the quantile and marginal treatment effects by inverting the estimated distribution function and using the local linear regression, respectively. We study the asymptotic properties of these estimators and propose a weighted-bootstrap method for inference. Using simulated and real datasets, we demonstrate the proposed estimators perform well in finite samples.
I19|Experiences of full-time working mothers who exclusively breastfeed for six months|This research was conducted with the objective of investigating the experiences of full-time working mothers who exclusively breastfeed for six months. This study employed phenomenology in line with the concept of Husserl. The informants for the study comprised thirteen full-time working mothers who with exclusive breastfeeding experience over the past two years and success in exclusive breastfeeding for six months. Data was collected by conducting in-depth interviews and content analysis under the method of Colaizzi (1978).The findings on the experiences of the full-time working mothers who exclusively breastfed for six months were categorized into the following three groups: 1) The meaning of breastfeeding exclusively for the first six months was a) exclusively breastfeeding for six months is symbolic of the perfect family; b) exclusively breastfeeding for six months is best for the baby; c) exclusively breastfeeding for six months is a maternal role and duty, combined with feelings of maternal pride, breastfeeding joy, mother-child contentment, maternal kindness, self-worth and attachment; 2) the reasons for exclusively breastfeeding for six months were three-fold a) intention and determination; b) previous experience and witnessing examples; c) supportive encouragement and motivation and 3) the management of exclusively breastfeeding for six months comprised the following: a) planning for exclusive breastfeeding; b) period of return to work; c) management of problems and barriers to exclusive breastfeeding occurring during the preparation period for returning to full-time work. These research findings provide understanding about the perceptions, feelings and experiences of full-time working mothers who exclusively breastfeed for six months, which may be used as a guideline for the development of a holistic nursing practice guideline aimed at effectively promoting successful exclusive breastfeeding for six months.
I19|Shareholding Networks for Care in Rural Thailand: Experiences of Older Persons and Their Family Members|Most members of the older population in Thailand live in rural areas whiletheir children live in cities. With the joint family system separated, elderlyThai persons often have to care for themselves, and opportunities for them toget involved in community care remain limited. In response, the aim of thisstudy was to describe older persons? and their family members? experienceswith shareholding networks for the care of older people in rural Thailand.Paired interviews with five older persons and five of their family memberswere conducted, and collected data were subjected to content analysis, whichyielded results organized around two themes: older persons? outsider statusand disregard for older persons? individuality. Whereas the theme of outsiderstatus describes shortcomings in health care encounters, the theme of disregardfor individuality describes the lack of engagement of authorities and caregiversin older persons? care. In that sense, the concept of participationemerged as a framework for understanding interviewees? experiences. Givenfindings from local authorities, older individuals and their family membersshould engage in dialogue in order to support healthcare based on shared understanding.
I19|A Brief History of the Care of Those with Mental Disorders and Developmental Disabilities in the United States|Over the course of more than 250 years in the United States, approaches to the treatment of those with severe mental disorders and developmental disabilities have undergone significant changes. These shifts have sometimes been driven by public will, sometimes by financial constraints, and sometimes by legal interventions; occasionally the changes have reflected clinically sound considerations. In brief overview this paper will examine the evolution of the role of asylums, the reliance on and eventual turning away from long-stay institutions as key custodial and treatment facilities, and the benefits and failures of deinstitutionalization. The documentation of abuses in many institutions, the reallocation of resources through cost shifting, and the transfer of sometimes vulnerable persons to community settings will be discussed. The impact of legislation and judicial rulings, scientific advances in the understanding of mental and developmental disorders, and the current funding uncertainties facing those with chronic conditions will be explored. Finally, examining the development of the patients? rights and recovery movements, the strategic focus on advocacy and anti-stigma campaigns, and the building of alliances in the context of inclusion will highlight the centrality of the persons affected by the many legal, economic, medical, educational, and quality of life concerns to be discussed.
I19|Validation and comparison of the psychometric properties of the EQ-5D-3L and EQ-5D-5L instruments in Greece|Abstract Purpose To validate and compare the psychometric properties of the EQ-5D-3L with the EQ-5D-5L classification systems in Greece. Methods Participants (n = 2279) over 40 years old, sampled from the greater area of Athens using a multistage stratified quota sampling method, completed both EQ-5D versions, while information was also collected on socio-demographics and health-related characteristics. The EQ-5D-5L and EQ-5D-3L were evaluated in terms of agreement, ceiling effects, redistribution and inconsistency, informativity, and convergent and known-groups validity. Results The agreement between the EQ-5D-3L and EQ-5D-5L was high (ICC = 0.85). Ceiling effects decreased significantly in the EQ-5D-5L in all domains (P
I19|The Impact of Obesity on Wages: The Role of Personal Interactions and Job Selection|We estimate the effects of obesity on wages accounting for the endogenous selection of workers into jobs requiring different levels of personal interactions in the workplace. Using data from the National Longitudinal Survey of Youth 1979 combined with detailed information about occupation characteristics from O*Net, we confirm the results from the literature finding a wage penalty for obese White women. This penalty is higher in jobs that require a high level of personal interactions. Accounting for job selection does not significantly change the estimated wage penalty.
I19|Health effects of instruction intensity: Evidence from a natural experiment in German high-schools|A large literature aims to establish a causal link between education and health using changes in compulsory schooling laws. It is however unclear how well more education is operationalized by marginal increases in school years. We shed a new light on this discussion by analyzing the health effects of a reform in Germany where total years of schooling for students in the academic track were reduced from nine to eight while keeping cumulative teaching hours constant by increasing instruction intensity. The sequential introduction of the reform allows us to implement a triple difference-in-differences estimation strategy with data from the German Socio-Economic Panel. We find that increased weekly instruction time has negative health effects for females while they are still in school. However, after graduation, females even seem to benefit from reduced school years. We find no effects on males' health.
I19|How We Fall Apart: Similarities of Human Aging in 10 European Countries|Abstract We analyze human aging—understood as health deficit accumulation—for a panel of European individuals, using four waves of the Survey of Health, Aging and Retirement in Europe (SHARE data set) and constructing a health deficit index. Results from log-linear regressions suggest that, on average, elderly European men and women develop approximately 2.5 % more health deficits from one birthday to the next. In nonlinear regressions (akin to the Gompertz-Makeham model), however, we find much greater rates of aging and large differences between men and women as well as between countries. Interestingly, these differences follow a particular regularity (akin to the compensation effect of mortality) and suggest an age at which average health deficits converge for men and women and across countries. This age, which may be associated with human life span, is estimated as 102 ± 2.6 years.
I19|Hungry children age faster|We analyze how childhood hunger affects human aging for a panel of European individuals. For this purpose, we use six waves of the Survey of Health, Aging, and Retirement in Europe (SHARE) dataset and construct a health deficit index. Results from log-linear regressions suggest that, on average, elderly European men and women developed about 20 percent more health deficits when they experienced a hunger episode in their childhood. The effect becomes larger when the hunger episode is experienced earlier in childhood. In non-linear regressions (akin to the Gompertz-Makeham law), we obtain greater effects suggesting that health deficits in old age are up to 40 percent higher for children suffering from hunger. The difference of health deficits between hungry and non-hungry individuals increases absolutely and relatively with age. This implies that individuals who suffered from hunger as children age faster.
I19|Do Skewed Sex Ratios Among Children Promote Parental Smoking? Longitudinal Evidence from Rural China|China and some other Asian countries have experienced skewed sex ratios, triggering intense competition and pressure in the marriage market. Meanwhile, China has more smokers than any other country, with half of men smoke while few women smoke. Men are the major income earners in most Chinese families and thus bear much of the financial burden in preparation for children’s marriage. This paper investigates how a demographic factor – a large number of surplus men in the marriage market in China – affects their fathers’ smoking behavior. We utilize two household longitudinal surveys as well as a random subsample of the China Population Census to examine fathers’ smoking in response to skewed sex ratios. Strikingly, fathers smoke more for families with a son living in communities with higher sex ratios. In contrast, those with a daughter do not demonstrate this pattern. Coping with the marriage market pressure is a more plausible pathway linking the observed skewed sex ratios among children and intense smoking among fathers. Considering worsening sex ratios and highly competitive marriage market in the coming decade as well as lasting health impacts due to smoking, policies suppressing unbalanced sex ratios could lead to welfare gains.
I19|From dusk till dawn - Are nights a dangerous time for hospital admissions?|This paper addresses the question whether patients have a higher risk of death if they are admitted to a hospital during the night rather than during the day. Since hospital resources are reduced at nights, night admissions might be more dangerous. The empirical analysis is based on matching. Although the results show that patients admitted during the night have a higher risk of death, sensitivity analyses suggest, that this result is likely to be driven by unobserved patient heterogeneity.
I19|What Explains The Difference In The Effect Of Retirement On Health? Evidence From Global Aging Data|This paper analyzes the reasons for differences in the estimated effect of retirement on health in previous studies. We investigate these differences by focusing on the analysis methods used by these studies. Using various health indexes, numerous researchers have examined the effects of retirement on health. However, there are no unified views on the impact of retirement on various health indexes. Consequently, we show that the choice of analysis method is one of the key factors in explaining why the estimated results of the effect of retirement on health differ. Moreover, we reâ€ estimate the effect of retirement on health by using a fixed analysis method controlling for individual heterogeneity and endogeneity of the retirement behavior. We analyze the effect of retirement on health parameters, such as cognitive function, selfâ€ report of health, activities of daily living (ADL), depression, and body mass index in eight countries. We find that the effects of retirement on selfâ€ report of health, depression, and ADL are positive in many of these countries.
I19|Coming to work while sick: an economic theory of presenteeism with an application to German data|Presenteeism, i.e. attending work while sick, is widespread and associated with significant costs. Still, economic analyses of this phenomenon are rare. In a theoretical model, we show that presenteeism arises due to differences between workers in the disutility from workplace attendance. As these differences are unobservable by employers, they set wages that incentivize sick workers to attend work. Using a large representative German data set, we test several hypotheses derived from our model. In line with our predictions, we find that stressful working conditions and bad health status are positively related to presenteeism. Better dismissal protection, captured by higher tenure, is associated with slightly fewer presenteeism days, whereas the role of productivity and skills is inconclusive.
I19|The effect of In Utero Exposure to Asian Flu (1957-58) on future earnings|The “fetal origin hypothesis” predicts that the exposure to unfavorable environments early in life negatively affects future health and non-health (e.g. income) outcomes. This paper evaluates this theory by examining the effect of in utero exposure to influenza pandemic of 1957-58, the 2nd biggest of the 20th century, on the future earnings of exposed cohort. Using data from National Longitudinal Survey of Youth 1979 (NLSY79), a difference-in-differences model is estimated for four demographic groups: white and non-white males and females. While the effect of this exposure on earnings of white individuals is statistically insignificant, the effect is both (economically and statistically) significant and contradictory for non-whites. Non-white females experienced a $6100 loss in their yearly wage while the wage of non-white males increased by about $11900.
I19|The Causal Effect of Education on Health Behaviors: Evidence from Turkey|This study provides causal effect of education on health behaviors in Turkey which is a middle income developing country. Health Survey of the Turkish Statistical Institute for the years 2008, 2010 and 2012 are used. The health behaviors considered are smoking, alcohol consumption, fruit and vegetable consumption, exercising and one health outcome namely, the body mass index (BMI). We examine the causal effect of education on these health behaviors and the BMI Instrumental variable approach is used in order to address the endogeneity of education to health behaviors. Educational expansion of the early 1960s is used as the source of exogenous variation in years of schooling. Our main findings are as follows. Education does not significantly affect the probability of smoking or exercising. The higher the education level the higher the probability of alcohol consumption and the probability of fruit and vegetable consumption. Higher levels of education lead to higher BMI levels. This study provides a baseline for further research on the various aspects of health behaviors in Turkey.
I19|Violence within organizations in the health and medico-social sectors, comparative analysis France-Romania|Violence at work constitutes a social problem at the international level and, according to WHO (2002), is a global challenge. In the health and medico-social sector, it is increasingly expressed in political, institutional and professional concern. This is the case in France and Romania. However, the figures which covers this phenomenon in each of these two countries, are they identical? So that's a comparison we're looking at. The aim of this article is to present the theoretical and methodological framework of the comparison, specifying the segments studied, after identifying possible national particularities in the way of apprehending violence in the health and medico-social sector.In order to avoid falling into the trap of ethnocentrism, we choose to construct a definition of violence not from predefined categories, but the experience of the individual, in this case caregivers, which will be the focus of this comparative research. The thesis of the research is that the experience of violence of the health professionals is related to the specificities of the organization (which requires to study the social relations of work) and the relation of service (which leads to analyze the Relations between users and professionals), whose transformations are specific to each of the national contexts. The first objective of this research is an objective of knowledge: what is the prevalence of the phenomenon in each of the two countries selected? How is it reflected in each national context? What are the patterns of violence from one country to another? Can we identify common figures? Do national specificities appear? The second objective is explanatory; We will seek to identify the factors by which the experience of professional violence varies. We hypothesize that the experience of violence is all the stronger (at the individual level) and more widespread (at the level of a service, a unit or an institution) than the relationship with the profession of caregivers Is distant from the conditions of practice on the one hand and institutional expectations on the other. We hypothesize that the experience of violence varies according to the type of response the organization gives to violence, the lack of response exacerbating the feeling of violence. Our third hypothesis is that the victim's expression varies in the opposite direction to the sense of institutional and professional recognition of caregivers. In order to understand the caregivers' experience, and in line with the epistemological approach adopted, we will carry out a victimization survey asking the respondents what they experience as violence in the exercise of their profession while collecting data on their profession (work, professional ideology), relations within the service and with users and their families, and data on the organization (service, unit, establishment) and its functioning.
I19|Likelihood Estimation of the Systemic Poison-Induced Morbidity in an Adult North Eastern Romanian Population|Purpose - Acute exposure to a systemic poison represents an important segment of medical emergencies. We aimed to estimate the likelihood of systemic poison-induced morbidity in a population admitted in a tertiary referral center from North East Romania, based on the determinant factors. Methodology - This was a prospective observational cohort study on adult poisoned patients. Demographic, clinical and laboratory characteristics were recorded in all patients. We analyzed three groups of patients, based on the associated morbidity during hospitalization. We identified significant differences between groups and predictors with significant effects on morbidity using multiple multinomial logistic regressions. ROC analysis proved that a combination of tests could improve diagnostic accuracy of poison-related morbidity. Main findings - Of the 180 patients included, aged 44.7 ± 17.2 years, 51.1% males, 49.4% had no poison-related morbidity, 28.9% developed a mild morbidity, and 21.7% had a severe morbidity, followed by death in 16 patients (8.9%). Multiple complications and deaths were recorded in patients aged 53.4 ± 17.6 years (p .001), with a lower Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score upon admission and a significantly higher heart rate (101 ± 32 beats/min, p .011). Routine laboratory tests were significantly higher in patients with a recorded morbidity. Multiple logistic regression analysis demonstrated that a GCS
I19|Early treatment in HCV: is it a cost-effective option from the Italian perspective?|Background: The aim of this study is to perform an economic analysis to estimate the cost-utility of the early innovative therapy in Italy for managing HCV-infected patients. Methods: The incremental cost-utility analysis was carried out to quantify the benefits of the early treatment approach in HCV subjects. A Markov simulation model including direct and indirect costs and health outcomes was developed from Italian National Healthcare Service and societal perspective. 5,000 Monte Carlo simulations were performed on two distinct scenarios: Standard of Care (SoC) which includes 14.000 Genotype 1 patients in Italy treated with innovative interferon-free in the Fibrosis stage 3 and 4 (F3-F4) vs Early-treatment Scenario (ETS) where 2.000 patients were additionally treated with simeprevir plus peginterferon and ribavirin in the Fibrosis stage 2 (F2) (based on AIFA reimbursement criteria). A systematic literature review was carried out to identify epidemiological and economic data, which were subsequently used to inform the model. Furthermore, a one-way probabilistic sensitivity was performed in order to measure the relationship between the main parameters of the model and the cost-utility results. Results: The model shows that, in terms of Incremental Cost Effectiveness Ratio (ICER) per QALY gained, ETS appeared to be the most cost-effective option compared from both perspective Societal (ICER = €11.396) and NHS (ICER = €14.733) over a time horizon of 10 years. The cost-effectiveness of ETS is more sustainable as it extends the time horizon analysis (ICER = € 6.778 per QALY to 20 years and € 4,474 per QALY to 30 years). From the societal perspective the ETS represents the dominant option at a time horizon of 30 years. If we consider the sub-group population of treated patients (16.000 patients of which 2.000 not treated in the SoC), the ETS scenario was dominant after only 5 years horizon and cost-effective at 2 years of simulation. The one-way sensitivity analysis on the main variables confirmed the robustness of the model for the early-treatment approach. Conclusions: In conclusion, our model represents a tool for policy makers and health care professionals provide information on the cost-effectiveness of early-treatment approach in patients HCV-infected in Italy. Starting innovative treatment earlier regimens keeps HCV-infected patients in better health and reduces the incidence of HCV related events; this generating a gain both in terms of health of the patients and correct resource allocation.
I19|Factors associated with decreasing prevalence of dementia in the community-dwelling elderly in suburban Tokyo|Yamamoto?s previous study showed that the prevalence of dementia in the community-dwelling elderly of 65 years and older in City A of Tokyo was decreasing during a six-year follow-up 2001-2007, suggesting that there should be some factors specific to City A. The purpose of this study is to clarify City A?s specific factors in decreasing prevalence of dementia. Health status of the analysis subjects was examined in terms of ratios of approval for long-term care insurance, proportions of the elderly who had a family dentist, habits of smoking and alcohol intake, educational attainment (years of education) and interest in health issues. The analysis results were discussed reviewing official statistics and the results of previous studies. The analysis subjects showed lower ratio of approval for long-term care insurance than City A?s and National statistics. More than 70% of them had a family dentist even in 2001. Proportions of smokers in male analysis subjects were decreasing over years. As for educational attainment, 38.9% had more than 13 years of education and 24.7% had more than 16 years in the 2004 survey. The higher educational attainment, interest in health and health literacy observed in the analysis subjects seem to have been specific factors which might have promoted their health status and contributed to decreasing the prevalence of dementia. Education might be a key to decrease the prevalence of dementia.
I19|Spiritual Support During The Active Aging|The main purpose of the study is to investigate the contribution of spiritual support in order to increase old people's life quality and help them take active roles during active aging period. In the study, data was analyzed by reviewing the litrature on what to be done to ensure old people's participation in the active ageing period and the literature about why they should be provided with spiritual support during this period. When the related literature was reviewed scanned, it was found that there have been many studies on active ageing while there are few studies on spiritual support/care during old age. The most distictive feature of this study is that this is the first study aiming at analyzing the spiritual care during active ageing. Conclusion; In order for the old to take part in the active ageing life and this participation to be continuous, there is a need to offer the old who demand spiritual support services besides providing proper accomodation, working, health, solving psychological and economical problems and establishing solidarity environment. Considering the fact that the difficulties the elderly people experience including physical, mental or health collapse and that they feel densely that they have one foot in the grave, it's an indispensible need to satisfy their mind, logic and soul. Spiritual support service is the only solution for such psychological difficultis as well as physical ones. Spiritual support services should be used and provided for the old in order to help them involved in active ageing,to take part in the active ageing process continuously so that they feel the need for an active life and stay motivated for an active life.
I19|Understanding the healthy lifestyle behaviors and life satisfaction of students and staff in a university|Being healthy is an important aspect in life satisfaction. The factors that effect the health status of an individual are named as the environmental factors, economical factors, socio-cultural factors, genetic factors, access to health services and life style. Since it can be controlled by the individual, lifestyle is a topic with great importance. Healthy lifestyle is defined as ?the individual?s control over her/his behaviors which can affect her/his health status and while orginising the daily activities, choosing the behaviors that are appropriate to her/his health status?. Healthy lifestyle behaviors are healthy nutrition, stress management, regular exercise, spiritual wellbeing, high quality interpersonal relations and taking the health responsibility. So, understanding the healthy lifestyle level and life satisfaction of individuals is important for health and education institutions, companies and governments to define their strategies accordingly. This quantitative study involves 205 Turkish individuals (students, academic staff and administrative staff) from a university in Istanbul. Data were obtained from self-administered questionnaires with 26 questions. The study examines the characteristics of the respondents regarding demographics, healthy lifestyle behaviors and life satisfaction. Some differences in sample?s healthy lifestyle dimensions were determined according to demographic variables after factor analysis, T-test, ANOVA and regression analysis. This research presents the opportunity for further qualitative research in healthy lifestyle habits among university students.
I19|Organophosphate and Carbamate Residual Levels in Vegetables of Trang Municipality|This experimental research design aimed to study residual levels of organophosphate and carbamate in 360 samples of a vegetable widely consumed in Trang Municipality, located in southern province of Thailand. Three kinds of vegetables were most eaten vegetables, organic vegetables and locally grown vegetables. 190 samples of the most eaten vegetables included cilantro, kale, Chinese cabbage, cabbage, cauliflower, chili, spring onion, celery, yard long bean, cucumber, tomato, lettuce, egg plant, Thai egg plant, Chinese morning glory, white radish, devil?s fig, asparagus, lemon. 50 samples of the organic vegetables included Chinese morning glory, Chinese cabbage, kale, cabbage and yard long bean. 120 samples of the locally grown vegetables included morning glory, curry leaf, Liang vegetable, star gooseberry, Thai basil, chili, Gotu kola, bird lettuce, bitter bean, fresh pod color (red yard long bean). The most eaten vegetables were collected from 3 wholesale markets and 200 grams for each vegetable was randomly collected from 3 areas (top, bottom and middle). The organic and locally grown vegetables were collected from 3 retail sale markets and 200 gram for each vegetable was randomly collected from 3 areas (top, bottom and middle). The residual level of organophosphate and carbamate was examined with GPO-M kit of Medical Science Department, Ministry of Public Health. The samples were collected during April ? July 2015.The results revealed that unsafe level (cholinesterase inhibitor level of 50-70%) of organophosphate and carbamate were found in most eat eaten vegetables 79 samples (41.58%) from 190 samples. Kinds of vegetables found pesticide residuals included cilantro, kale, Chinese cabbage, cabbage, cauliflower, chili, celery, spring onion, yard long bean, cucumber, tomato, Thai egg plant, white radish and lemon. All organic and locally grown vegetables were found safe residual level of organophosphate and carbamate. Based on the results of this study, public health authorities should encourage consumer to eat organic or locally grown vegetables and should properly wash vegetable before cooking. In addition, gardeners should be aware of the dangers of chemical pesticides for good quality and food safety of Thai vegetables. Meanwhile, authorities should work proactively to advise the use of chemical pesticides correctly and monitored continuously among gardeners throughout the country.
I19|Employability practices in the healthcare sector: an evidence from Poland|Topic and purposeHuman capital is considered as an essential driver of achieving competitive advantage in the healthcare sector. However, employment relationships in the Polish healthcare sector are changing and long-term relationships are replaced with more temporary relationships. Contrary to the situation in other sectors, this is favorable for employees of healthcare entities what stems from a growing demand for medical services. Healthcare entities attempt to attract and retain valuable employees. The possibility of employability enhancement becomes an important factor deciding about the attractiveness of the employer for many employees who look for opportunities for further career development. However, knowledge about competencies determining employability and practices of its enhancement in this sector is still poor. This paper tries to answer the questions: what are key employability competencies of employees in the healthcare sector and what are the conditions of their enhancement in healthcare organizations?MethodThe aims of the paper are realized by presenting the results of semi-structured interviews carried out with top management of 11 public healthcare entities*. Healthcare entities operating in Southern, Northern, Central, Eastern and Western Poland were targeted in order to get a more complete view of the situation. On the basis of the interviews carried out with managers of healthcare entities key employability competencies of employees and the practices of employability enhancement applied in healthcare entities are analyzed.Findings and implicationsDespite the fact that generally professional knowledge and skills were considered as the most important factor of employability in healthcare organizations the significance of some generic competences was also emphasized. It has been found that although the employees? employability enhancement is a vital concern of the management in the examined healthcare entities, activities undertaken in this area are rather limited and primarily focused on trainings. To conclude, assuming that people and their competences are the most important capital of healthcare organizations, activities aimed at employability enhancement acquire crucial importance in healthcare entities and they should become an inherent element of HRM policy. They have to focus not only on the development of employees? professional knowledge and skills but also generic competences which today become a significant factor determining employability in the healthcare sector.* The project was funded from the resources of the National Science Centre (Poland) granted by the decision no. DEC-2013/11/B/HS4/00561.
I19|Cost of Caesarean Section Rates in Turkey and Their Burden in the Turkish Health Economics|Caesarean section is generally recommended when it is not possible to confidently complete the vaginal birth or there is a certain risk of increase in the morbidity and mortality rates of mother and/or infant due to vaginal birth. Even though caesarean section is recommended only under certain conditions, the rate of caesarean sections has shown a significant tendency of increase in recent years in Turkey. The increase of caesarean sections, which are more costly compared to normal births, causes an unnecessary cost for the national economy. The objective of this study is to give information about the rates of caesarean sections in Turkey, make assumptions about the approximate costs of normal births and caesarean sections and their postpartum outcomes in our country, and propose solutions for decreasing the rates of caesarean sections and thus, the economic burden it causes in our country.
I19|Integration of Precision Medicine into Family and Community Medicine Practice: Problems and Challenges|Introduction: Doctors have long observed that their patients vary in their symptoms, their side effects from medications, and their responses to treatments. Therefore, guidelines for treatment and medication were based on what worked for the average person. Precision Medicine (PM), on the other hand, matches each patient with the treatment that will work best for them. It takes individual variation into account: variation in genes, environment, lifestyle, and even in the microscopic organisms. Beyond treating diseases, PM includes approaches to diagnostics, prevention, and screening. PM includes the concept of individualized or personalized medicine at a more exact level through advances in science and technology, such as genetics and genomics sequencing. The technology to undertake Precision Medicine Initiative (PMI) exists today, but many scientific, legal, economic and ethical problems and challenges about its practice remain unanswered. The active role and participation of family and community medicine specialty must be emphasized in regarding to big data management, geographical information systems, quality biomedical information and population based studies.Study Objectives: The study aimed to identify, describe and prioritize major implementation and challenges of PM model integration into family and community medicine practice.Materials and Methods: Internet literature survey has been conducted to identify and define the pertinent study independent (6 main physicians ?characteristics) and dependent variables (28 problems and 15 challenges). A cross-sectional analytical design was adopted in which the multi-stage random sampling technique has recruited 300 physicians from 3 different medical colleges and 6 hospitals and they were requested to complete a self-administrated pre-coded questionnaire. The simple scoring system was used for priority assignment of PM implementation problems and challenges. The quality of the collected data was ensured and sufficient descriptive and analytic statistical analyses were done.Results: Top priority PM problems were pharmaceutical industry (1st), PM costs (2nd) and regulation of diagnostic tests (3rd). Meanwhile, the most important challenges were research issues (1st), knowledge systems (2nd) and ethical practice (3rd).Conclusion: The future of medicine based on PM is promising and a value-based healthcare model. While there is much optimism, there is also a great need for changing the current health system, solving most of the existing problems and meeting the facing challenges. What is needed now is a broad research program to encourage creative approaches to PM, test them rigorously, and ultimately use them to build the evidence base needed to guide clinical practice.
I19|Stoneworking Health Risks: Silica And Total Dust|The popularity of colored gemstone is skyrocketing. The grinding process produces dust and silica that will expose the workers. Thus, will impair the workers? health particularly in their respiratory system. NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods 0500 and NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods 7602 are used for total dust and silica. There were two workers that were being sampled with personal sampling method ? one for total dust and one for silica. The results of this sampling are 2.22 mg/m3 and 0.4981 mg/m3 for total dust and silica. Both of the results are below OSHA PEL, but exceeding ACGIH TLV for silica.
I19|The location of public maternal health care facilities and maternal mortality in Ibadan metropolis, Nigeria|This paper examines the location, distributional pattern, and level of supply of public maternal health care facilities and skilled maternal health care workers in relation to the population of women of reproductive age in Ibadan Metropolis. The pattern of maternal mortality and its relationship with the level of availability of maternal health care services is also examined. GIS mapping techniques, rank correlation and the location quotient technique were employed in analyzing data. Results show that all the Local Government Areas especially Ona-Ara and Ibadan Southeast are deprived in terms of the provision of public maternal health care facilities and skilled maternal health care workers. Findings also suggest that there are other factors contributing to the high rate of maternal mortality in Ibadan.
I19|Happy and Healthy Aging. The Analysis of the Relationship Between Age, Health, Education and Happiness on International Social Survey Programme Data (Szczesliwe i zdrowe starzenie sie. Analiza zwiazku miedzy wiekiem, zdrowiem, wyksztalceniem i szczesciem na podstawie danych z Miedzynarodowego Programu Badan Spolecznych)|The goal of this paper was the analysis of a relationship between subjective health, aging, education level and happiness based on the data from the International Social Survey Programme (ISSP). Health gets worse with age, and the effect was strongest in postsocialist Europe; the effect of education was weaker than the effect of age – the weakest in postsocialist countries. The interaction between age and education was significant in 4 out of 5 regions (non-significant in wealthy ones outside Europe), indicating a moderating effect of education on the negative relationship between age and health. Declared levels of happiness in postsocialist countries were the lowest among the analyzed regions in each age group, with a clear downward trend in the older age groups. It was shown that women declared a lower level of happiness compared to men in postsocialist countries.
I19|Whither voluntary communities? A study of co-located patients in Vietnam|While much research has focused on issues related to patients’ quality of life and access to health care in developing countries, the life of ill people in poverty still hasn’t been approached in numerous facets, and is especially embryonic in many emerging economies. This study of a 336-patient data set examines how a patient community’s benefits and how meeting patients’ imperative needs impact their perception of the future of a voluntary community. The results show that patients are much more likely to be positive in predicting community growth when their expectations are met, and also tend to appreciate financial benefits more. But there is empirical evidence showing patients’ reluctance to contribute to the community, which likely results from their struggle with unfulfilled financial needs and may also imply unstated concern about the fate of voluntary communities of co-located patients.
I19|Patients’ contributions as a quid pro quo for community’s supports? Evidence from Vietnamese co-location clusters|This paper studies the emerging societal phenomenon of voluntarily co-located patients communities, by examining a data set containing 336 responses from four such co-location clusters in Hanoi, Vietnam. The analysis successfully models the data employing the baseline category logits framework. The results obtained from the analysis show that patients co-living in these clusters contribute their resources (financial and in-kind) in hope of community's supports during their medical treatments. They also contribute voluntary services and share information/experiences with the community, with different beliefs on expected outcome with respect to their possible benefits provided by their communities. Patients value the business community's supports––a reflection of better awareness of corporate social responsibilities––higher, and are more skeptical toward expected benefits from the public health system. The results represent one of first attempts in understanding this special type of somewhat isolated circles of desperate patients who have been excluded from Vietnam's fast-growing emerging market economy.
I19|Do economic conditions and in-kind benefits make needy patients bond together? insights from cross-section data on clusters of co-located patients in Vietnam|Introduction: The phenomenon of desperate patients live together in voluntary co-location clusters has been emerging over the past decade in Vietnam. Patients seek to share facilities, reduce costs and rely on one another's support to make life safer and less miserable. There has not been much research on these clusters and patients' bonding to their community.Methods: The study uses a cross-section data set containing 336 observations from four patients' colocation clusters, collected from 2015Q4 to 2016Q1. The analysis employs the baseline category logits model for dichotomous variable, and reports logistic regression results. The main hypothesis is both economic conditions and in-kind benefits received from the community have influence onpatients' bonding to their community. Results: Both personal economic conditions and benefits are found statistically significant, but the in-kind benefits decrease the bonding strength of the community, while the impact of economic instability is as expected. The strongest factor that serves to bond the patients together is the free will and predetermination of patients themselves to join the community.Discussion: Patients in unstable conditions will more likely to stick to the colocation community. But those in better economic conditions show a more complex need and their perceptions change depending on the specific conditions. In-kind benefits are not what poorer patients expect and when they see these benefits from the community as “substitutes” for financial means, their expectation of sticking to the community declines.
I19|Do patient satisfaction and health improvement affect sustainability of voluntary co-location clusters? Evidence from Vietnam|Background: Over the past 15 years or so the phenomenon of voluntarily co-located patients communities has been emerging. Patients, especially the poor, have chosen to live together, seeking/lending supports from/to one another. Nonetheless, despite the existence of these communities, little is researched or known about how those co-located patients as main subjects of the clusters perceive the value they receive and see their future connection to the communities they are, or were, living in. Answering these questions helps us to better understand the prospect of those community, in terms of sustainability.Methods: The study employs the method of categorical data analysis, specifically multiple logistic regressions, to investigate relationships between groups of factors such as perceived degrees of satisfaction with financial means provided by the communities, and reported health improvements (predictor variables), and patients' short- and longer-term commitments to these communities (response variable).Results: All groups of factors, and variables entering the analytical models, have shown statistical significance upon successful estimations based on the provided empirical data sets. The results suggest two meaningful empirical relationships following the data modeling efforts: 1) between financial stress facing patients and the financial benefits they received from the community, and their propensity to stay connected to it; and 2) between general level of satisfaction, health improvements, and patients' long-term commitment to these communities. Overall all, financial benefits and health improvements are found to influence a significant increase in probabilities for patients to become committed to their communities in the short and long term, respectively.Conclusions: This study is to inform policy makers and social workers in healthcare sector about the realities that patients choose to stick to the co-location clusters have an economic reason: finding means to fight their financial hardship. This may suggest a higher degree of complication in dealing with social matters for poor patients than many previously thought of. The issue of suitable income-generating jobs for patient may probably be ignored by the majority of the public by only focusing on charity programs a0nd giving in-kind donations (which turn out to be not very useful). With respect to social policies, it is noteworthy that patients are not those who seek to ask for supports but can potentially be the donors as suggested by the evidence found that the probability of staying committed to the community increase upon completion of medical treatments, seeing health conditions improve.
I19|Social/economic costs and health-related quality of life of mucopolysaccharidosis patients and their caregivers in Europe|Abstract Objectives To assess the health-related quality of life (HRQOL) of patients with mucopolysaccharidosis (MPS) and their caregivers and to quantify the disease-related costs from a societal perspective. Methods In the context of a multi-country study of rare diseases (BURQOL-RD project), a cross-sectional survey was performed among MPS patients in seven European countries. Data on demographic characteristics, health resource utilization, informal care, and loss of labor productivity were collected. The EQ-5D, Barthel index (BI), and Zarit burden interview (ZBI) questionnaires were used to assess patients’ and their informal caregivers’ quality of life, patients’ functional ability, and caregivers’ burden, respectively. Results Altogether, 120 patients (children 62 %, females 40 %) and 66 caregivers completed the questionnaire. Patients’ mean age was 16.5 years and median age at diagnosis was 3 years. Adult patients’ average EQ-5D and EQ VAS scores varied across countries from 0.13 to 0.43 and 30.0 to 62.2, respectively, mean BI was 46.7, and ZBI was 32.7. Mean informal care time was 51.3 h/week. The mean total annual cost per patient (reference year 2012) was €24,520 in Hungary, €25,993 in France, €84,921 in Italy, €94,384 in Spain, and €209,420 in Germany. Costs are also shown to differ between children and adults. Direct costs accounted for most of the costs in all five countries (80, 100, 99, 98, and 93 %, respectively). Conclusions MPS patients experience substantial loss of HRQOL and their families take a remarkable part in their care. Although utilization of health and social care resources varies significantly across countries, MPS incurs considerable societal costs in all the countries studied.
I19|Health care costs attributable to overweight calculated in a standardized way for three European countries|This article presents a tool to calculate health care costs attributable to overweight in a comparable and standardized way. The purpose is to describe the methodological principles of the tool and to put it into use by calculating and comparing the costs attributable to overweight for The Netherlands, Germany and Czech Republic. The tool uses a top-down and prevalence-based approach, consisting of five steps. Step one identifies overweight-related diseases and age- and gender-specific relative risks. Included diseases are ischemic heart disease, stroke, hypertension, type 2 diabetes mellitus, colorectal cancer, postmenopausal breast cancer, endometrial cancer, kidney cancer and osteoarthritis. Step two consists of collecting data on the age- and gender-specific prevalence of these diseases. Step three uses the population-attributable prevalence to determine the part of the prevalence of these diseases that is attributable to overweight. Step four calculates the health care costs associated with these diseases. Step five calculates the costs of these diseases that are attributable to overweight. Overweight is responsible for 20–26 % of the direct costs of included diseases, with sensitivity analyses varying this percentage between 15–31 %. Percentage of costs attributable to obesity and preobesity is about the same. Diseases with the highest percentage of costs due to overweight are diabetes, endometrial cancer and osteoarthritis. Disease costs attributable to overweight as a percentage of total health care expenditures range from 2 to 4 %. Data are consistent for all three countries, resulting in roughly a quarter of costs of included diseases being attributable to overweight. Copyright The Author(s) 2016
I19|The direct and indirect cost of diabetes in Italy: a prevalence probabilistic approach|This is the first study conducted in Italy aimed at estimating the direct and indirect cost of diabetes with a probabilistic prevalence approach. As might be expected, the lack of information means that the real burden of diabetes is partly underestimated, especially with regard to indirect costs. However, this is a useful approach for policy makers to understand the economic implications of diabetes treatment in Italy. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2016
I19|Choice of statistical model for cost-effectiveness analysis and covariate adjustment: empirical application of prominent models and assessment of their results|Abstract Context Statistical models employed in analysing patient-level cost and effectiveness data need to be flexible enough to adjust for any imbalanced covariates, account for correlations between key parameters, and accommodate potential skewed distributions of costs and/or effects. We compare prominent statistical models for cost-effectiveness analysis alongside randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and covariate adjustment to assess their performance and accuracy using data from a large RCT. Method Seemingly unrelated regressions, linear regression of net monetary benefits, and Bayesian generalized linear models with various distributional assumptions were used to analyse data from the TASMINH2 trial. Each model adjusted for covariates prognostic of costs and outcomes. Results Cost-effectiveness results were notably sensitive to model choice. Models assuming normally distributed costs and effects provided a poor fit to the data, and potentially misleading inference. Allowing for a beta distribution captured the true incremental difference in effects and changed the decision as to which treatment is preferable. Conclusions Our findings suggest that Bayesian generalized linear models which allow for non-normality in estimation offer an attractive tool for researchers undertaking cost-effectiveness analyses. The flexibility provided by such methods allows the researcher to analyse patient-level data which are not necessarily normally distributed, while at the same time it enables assessing the effect of various baseline covariates on cost-effectiveness results.
I19|A cost analysis of orthopedic foot surgery: can outpatient continuous regional analgesia provide the same standard of care for postoperative pain control at home without shifting costs?|Abstract Background and objectives Same-day surgery is common for foot surgery. Continuous regional anesthesia for outpatients has been shown effective but the economic impact on the perioperative process-related healthcare costs remains unclear. Methods One hundred twenty consecutive patients were included in this assessor-blinded, prospective cohort study and allocated according to inclusion criteria in the day-care or in the in-patient group. Standardized continuous popliteal sciatic nerve block was performed in both groups for 48 h using an elastomeric pump delivering ropivacaine 0.2 % at a rate of 5 ml/h with an additional 5 ml bolus every 60 min. Outpatients were discharged the day of surgery and followed with standardized telephone interviews. The total direct health costs of both groups were compared. Moreover, the difference in treatment costs and the difference in terms of quality of care and effectiveness between the groups were compared. Results Total management costs were significantly reduced in the day-care group. There was no difference between the groups regarding pain at rest and with motion, persistent pain after catheter removal and the incidence of PONV. Persistent motor block and catheter inflammation/infection were comparable in both groups. There was neither a difference in the number of unscheduled ambulatory visits nor in the number of readmissions. Conclusions Day-care continuous regional analgesia leads to an overall positive impact on costs by decreasing the incidence of unplanned ambulatory visits and unscheduled readmissions, without compromising on the quality of analgesia, patients’ satisfaction, and safety.
I19|Direct cost of pars plana vitrectomy for the treatment of macular hole, epiretinal membrane and vitreomacular traction: a bottom-up approach|Abstract Purpose The direct cost to the National Health Service (NHS) in England of pars plana vitrectomy (PPV) is unknown since a bottom-up costing exercise has not been undertaken. Healthcare resource group (HRG) costing relies on a top-down approach. We aimed to quantify the direct cost of intermediate complexity PPV. Methods Five NHS vitreoretinal units prospectively recorded all consumables, equipment and staff salaries during PPV undertaken for vitreomacular traction, epiretinal membrane and macular hole. Out-of-surgery costs between admission and discharge were estimated using a representative accounting method. Results The average patient time in theatre for 57 PPVs was 72 min. The average in-surgery cost for staff was £297, consumables £619, and equipment £82 (total £997). The average out-of-surgery costs were £260, including nursing and medical staff, other consumables, eye drops and hospitalisation. The total cost was therefore £1634, including 30 % overheads. This cost estimate was an under-estimate because it did not include out-of-theatre consumables or equipment. The average reimbursed HRG tariff was £1701. Conclusions The cost of undertaking PPV of intermediate complexity is likely to be higher than the reimbursed tariff, except for hospitals with high throughput, where amortisation costs benefit from economies of scale. Although this research was set in England, the methodology may provide a useful template for other countries.
I19|What matters in type 2 diabetes mellitus oral treatment? A discrete choice experiment to evaluate patient preferences|Aims The aim of this empirical study is to evaluate patient preferences for different characteristics of oral type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) treatment. As T2DM treatment requires strict adherence, patient needs and preferences should be taken into consideration. Methods Based on a qualitative and quantitative analysis, a discrete choice experiment (DCE) was applied to identify patient preferences. Apart from six identical attributes (adjustment of glycated hemoglobin [HbA1c], prevention of hypoglycemia, risk of genital infection, risk of gastrointestinal problems, risk of urinary tract infection, and weight change), one continuous variable of either “additional healthy life years” (AHY) or “additional costs” attribute (AC) was included. The DCE was conducted using a fractional factorial design, and the statistical data analysis used random effect logit models. Results In total, N = 626 (N = 318 AHY + N = 308 AC) T2DM patients participated in the survey. The estimation revealed a clear dominance for prevention of hypoglycemia (coefficient 0.937) and adjustment of HbA1c (coefficient 0.541). The attributes, “additional healthy life years” (coefficient 0.458) or “additional costs” (coefficient 0.420), were in the middle rank and both of significant impact. The side effects, risk of genital infection (coefficient 0.301), risk of gastrointestinal problems (coefficient 0.296), and risk of urinary tract infection (coefficient 0.241) followed in this respective order. Possible weight change (coefficient 0.047) was of less importance (last rank) to the patients in this evaluation. Conclusions These survey results demonstrate how much a (hypothetical) T2DM oral treatment characteristic affects the treatment decision. The preference data can be used for risk–benefit assessment, cost-benefit assessment, and the establishment of patient-oriented evidence. Understanding how patients perceive and value different aspects of diabetes oral treatment is vital to the optimal design and evaluation of treatment options. The present results can be an additional source of information for design, assessment, and decision in T2DM treatment regimes. As such, more effective and efficient care of patients can be achieved, thereby increasing adherence.
I19|Do bilateral social security agreements deliver on the portability of pensions and health care benefits? A summary policy paper on four migration corridors between EU and non-EU member states|Abstract This policy paper summarizes four corridor studies on bilateral social security agreements (BSSAs) between four European Union (EU) member and two nonmember states, draws conclusions on their results, and offers recommendations. BSSAs between migrant-sending and migrant-receiving countries are seen as the most important instrument to establish portability of social security benefits for internationally mobile workers. Yet, only about 23 % of international migrants profit from BSSAs and their functioning has been little analyzed and even less assessed. The four corridors studied (Austria-Turkey, Germany-Turkey, Belgium-Morocco, and France-Morocco) were selected to allow for comparison of both similarities and differences in experiences. The evaluation of these corridors’ BSSAs was undertaken against a methodological framework and three selected criteria: fairness for individuals, fiscal fairness for countries, and bureaucratic effectiveness for countries and migrant workers. The results suggest that the investigated BSSAs work and overall deliver reasonably well on individual fairness. The results on fiscal fairness are clouded by conceptual and empirical gaps. Bureaucratic effectiveness would profit from information and communication technology-based exchanges on both corridors once available. JEL Classification: D69, H55, I19, J62
I19|Will you still need me, will you still feed me when I’m 64? The Health Impact of Caregiving|Informal care may substitute for formal long-term care that is often publicly funded or subsidized. The costs of informal caregiving are borne by the caregiver and may consist of worse health outcomes and, if the caregiver has not retired, worse labor market outcomes. We estimate the impact of providing informal care to one’s partner on the caregiver's health using data from the Survey of Health, Ageing and Retirement in Europe (SHARE). We exploit the panel structure of the data and use statistical matching to deal with selection bias and endogeneity. We find that in the short run caregiving has a substantial negative effect on the health of caregivers. These negative effects should be taken into account when comparing the costs and benefits of formal and informal care provision. These negative effects are potentially short-lived, however: we do not find any evidence that the health effects persist after 4 or 7 years.
I19|I Feel Good At Home And With Myself: How Does Dyadic Companionship Within The Family Affect Adolescents’ Well-Being?|Research has widely underscored that the quality of the parent-child relationship affects the success with which young people negotiate the major tasks of adolescence, the extent to which they become involved in risk behaviors, and their ability to establish close relationships. Literature has also increasingly shown the effects played by parents’ marital relationship on the development of their adolescent children. Starting from a view of family as a social organization, the purpose of this study was to investigate the kind of relations existing between dyadic family and both adolescents’ individual and family well-being. Participants were 118 family triads (father, mother, son/daughter) with an adolescent child, for a total of 354 people. Findings showed that marital relationship companionship was not significantly related to adolescents’ well-being, whereas parentchild relationship was. Moreover, individual adolescents’ well-being was related to both fatherchild and mother-child companionship whreas adolescents’ family well-being was only related to father-child companionship.
I19|Do Minimum Legal Tobacco Purchase Age Laws Work?|" type=""main"" xml:id=""coep12153-abs-0001""> This paper uses a regression discontinuity design to estimate the impact of the minimum legal tobacco purchase age (MLTPA) laws on smoking behavior among young adults. Using data from the confidential version of National Longitudinal Survey of Youth (1997 Cohort), which contains information on the exact birth date of the respondents, we find that the impact of the MLTPA on several indicators of smoking among youth is moderate but often statistically insignificant. However, for those who reported to have smoked before, we show that granting legal access to cigarettes and tobacco products at the MLTPA leads to an increase in several indicators of smoking participation, including up to a 5 percentage point increase in the probability of smoking. These results imply that policies that are designed to restrict youth access to tobacco may only be effective in reducing smoking behavior among certain groups of young adults. (JEL I10, I18, I19)"
I19|How do hospital‐specialty characteristics influence health system responsiveness? An empirical evaluation of in‐patient care in the Italian region of Emilia‐Romagna|Studies of health system responsiveness mostly focus on the demand side by investigating the association between sociodemographic characteristics of patients and their reported level of responsiveness. However, little is known about the influence of supply‐side factors. This paper addresses that research gap by analysing the role of hospital‐specialty characteristics in explaining variations in patients' evaluation of responsiveness from a sample of about 38,700 in‐patients treated in public hospitals within the Italian Region of Emilia‐Romagna. The analysis is carried out by adopting a 2‐step procedure. First, we use patients' self‐reported data to derive 5 measures of responsiveness at the hospital‐specialty level. By estimating a generalised ordered probit model, we are able to correct for variations in individual reporting behaviour due to the health status of patients and their experience of being in pain. Second, we run cross‐sectional regressions to investigate the association between patients' responsiveness and potential supply‐side drivers, including waiting times, staff workload, the level of spending on non‐clinical facilities, the level of spending on staff education and training, and the proportion of staff expenditure between nursing and administrative staff. Results suggest that responsiveness is to some extent influenced by the supply‐side drivers considered.
I19|La pertinence des pratiques d’hospitalisation : une analyse des écarts départementaux de prostatectomies|This study measures geographical variations in radical prostatectomy (rp) in France within and across regions in 2009. It further explores the determinants of observed variations using a multilevel model allowing to distinguish the variation bound to two geographical levels?: department and region. We find that there are large variations in the rates of rp between French ?departments.? Moreover, the rates of rp are significantly linked to the number of urologists in each department and the volume of hospital supply (number of surgery beds and number of medical staff in public hospitals) at the regional level. Income level and epidemiological situation (cancer mortality) of the ?department? do not appear to be significantly related to the rates of rp. Classification JEL?: I10, I12, I19
I19|Medical Spending and Hospital Inpatient Care in England: An Analysis over Time|Health care in England is predominantly provided free at the point of service through the publicly funded National Health Service (NHS). Total NHS expenditure, which has risen in real terms by an average of 3.7% per annum since the inception of the NHS in 1948, constituted 7.9% of GDP in 2012. This paper presents a summary of the trends in medical expenditure in England and then using detailed administrative data presents analysis of the growth over 15 years of expenditure and activity in hospital inpatient health care, which represents around 20-25% of all NHS expenditure. We document the coincidence of observed trends in expenditure with reported activity, morbidity and the proximity of individuals to death. We find that; (i) expenditure for both elective and emergency inpatient care broadly follows activity so expenditure is mostly driven by activity rather than unit costs; (ii) expenditure is concentrated in individuals with multiple diseases so that the prevalence and identification of complex medical conditions are important drivers of expenditure and (iii) health care activity rises substantially for individuals in the period before death so that expenditure is driven substantially by mortality in the population. Taken together these findings indicate that this element of health care expenditure in England has been substantially driven by the underlying morbidity and age of the population in conjunction with improving health care technology<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
I19|Management Of Deep Vein Thrombosis At Paediatric Population|Deep vein thrombosis (DVT ) was considered a rare condition in the pediatric population, more recent data show a significant increase in incidence. DVT occurs due to an imbalance of hemeostasis. There are incriminated multiple risk factors, of which the most common is the central venous catheter. Imaging evaluation plays a crucial role in early diagnosis of the disease. Anticoagulant therapy is the first line of treatment, adapted existing protocols for adults. This article addresses the assessment and treatment of pediatric patients with deep vein thrombosis.
I19|Cardiovascular Manifestations In Autoimmune Diseases|Involving systemic autoimmune diseases, they primarily affect the joints, muscles and connective tissues. Cardiovascular impairment is often common in these disease manifestations ranging from asymptomatic to life-situations in danger. Otherwise impaired cardiovascular reason may be the first presentation. This may require aggressive therapy immunosuppressed, therefore the diagnosis is very important for a good choice of therapy. This article discusses the cardiovascular manifestations of systemic autoimmune diseases, mainly rheumatic diseases, focusing on diagnosis and manangement cardiovascular implications.
I19|Management Of Pulmonary Hypertension At Children And Adolescents|Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is considered a rare disease in the pediatric population, is idiopathic or associated with congenital heart disease, it is rarely associated with connective tissue disease, it represents an important cause of morbidity and mortality. According to data from the Netherlands, the incidence and prevalence is 0.7 and 4.4 for idiopathic PAH and 2.2 and 15.6 for PAH associated with congenital heart disease, cases per one million children. Selective vasodilator therapy has significantly improved the prognosis and life expectancy for affected children. This article addresses current knowledge about PAH in children, reviewing diagnostic criteria and therapeutic management.
I19|Occupational Solvent Exposure Associated With Developmental Toxicity|Organic solvent is a broad term that applies to many classes of chemicals. The solvent (benzene, toluene etc.) aspects of occupational exposure are reviewed via the examination of the use, occurrence, and disposition as well as population’s potential of risk. The general public can be exposed to solvent in ambient air as a result of its occurrence in paint process. Solvents are primarily irritants to the skin and mucous membranes and have narcotic properties at high concentrations. Published epidemiological data identified various types of birth defects in certain occupations.
I19|The Role Of Lipoprotein(A) In Cardiovascular Diseases In Children And Adolescents|Lipoprotein(a) is an independent and genetically predominant factor in determining cardiovascular diseases in children and adolescents, given that diet and lipid-lowering agents have no impact on Lp(a) serum levels. Many studies in the literature highlight the atherogenic and prothrombotic potential of lipoprotein(a) in children with a family history of cardiovascular disease and hypercholesterolemia, causing coronary vascular disease, cerebral accident and peripheral arterial diseases. Given this potential, lipoprotein(a) dosage can be involved in the prevention and reduction of cardiovascular risk factors in childhood and adolescence, thus reducing morbidity and mortality.
I19|The specifics of supply chain of medical kits product group in the context of using Enterprise Resource Planning class systems|Motivation: The article contains proposals of IT solutions supporting the management of selected links in the supply chain of Disposable Medical Kits product group. Aim: The aim of the article is the analysis of the distinctive features of the supply chain of Disposable Medical Kits product group (later referred to as DMK) in the context of managing such chain by means of IT solutions. Results: The first part of the article identifies distinctive features of the supply chain for this product group, which are of importance in the context of realizing the goals of social logistics of medical products supplies, as well as from the point of view of optimizing the management of the chain’s individual links. The second part of the article is devoted to presenting proposals of IT solutions supporting the management of supply chain, whose functionality are implied by the analysis conducted in the first part.
I19|Public Healthcare Services - Component of Tertiary Economy|The field of public health care is a major social objective in all countries of the world. The public health care assistance reflects an effort organised to protect and promote the health of population, being achievable through political-legislative measures, programs and strategies addressed to the forums in the field of public health, as well as by establishing an organisational framework that would favour the provision of medical services requested by the population. The implementation of the objectives of health policy and strategy is done by the Ministry of Public Health as central authority in the field of public health, and local actions of public health are developed and implemented by the county authorities of public health. Public health authorities in the ascribed territory operate under the subordination of the public health authorities. Also, the county public health authorities coordinate locally the implementation of the activities arising from obligations assumed under the Treaty of Accession of Romania to the European Union and the plans for implementing the Community instruments relating to health.
I19|The self-medication hypothesis: Evidence from terrorism and cigarette accessibility|We use single equation and system instrumental variable models to explore if individuals smoke during times of stress (the motivation effect) and if they are successful in self-medicating short-term stress (the self-medication effect). Short-term stress is a powerful motivator of smoking, and the decision to smoke could trigger biological feedback that immediately reduces short-term stress. We use data on self-reported smoking and stress from 240,388 current and former smokers. We instrument short-term stress with temporal distance from September 11, 2001 (using date of interview). We instrument smoking with cigarette accessibility measures of cigarette price changes and distance to state borders. In the absence of accounting for endogeneity, we find that smoking is associated with increases in short-term stress. However, when we account for endogeneity we find no evidence of smoking affecting short-term stress. We do find a consistent positive effect of short-term stress on smoking.
I19|Can having internal locus of control insure against negative shocks? Psychological evidence from panel data|We investigate whether the intensity of emotional pain following a negative shock is different across the distribution of a person's locus of control – the extent to which individuals believe that their actions can influence future outcomes. Using panel data from Australia, we show that individuals with strong internal locus of control are psychologically insured against own and others’ serious illness or injury, close family member detained in jail, becoming a victim of property crime and death of a close friend, but not against the majority of other life events. The buffering effects vary across gender. Our findings thus add to the existing literature on the benefits of internal locus of control.
I19|Self-reported health and gender: The role of social norms|The role of social norms in accounting for the different attitudes of men and women with respect to health is still an open issue. In this research, we investigate the role of social norms associated with specific gender environments in the workplace in accounting for differences in health-reporting behaviours across men and women. Using the 2010 European Working Conditions Survey, we build a database containing 30,124 observations. We first replicate the standard result that women report worse health than men, whatever the health outcome we consider. We then proxy social norms by the gender structure of the workplace environment and study how the latter affects self-reported health for men and women separately. Our findings indicate that individuals in workplaces where women are a majority tend to report worse health than individuals employed in male-dominated work environments, be they men or women. These results are robust to controlling for a large array of working condition indicators, which allows us to rule out that the poorer health status reported by individuals working in female-dominated environments could be due to worse job quality. This evidence suggests that social norms associated with specific gender environments play an important role in explaining differences in health-reporting behaviours across gender, at least in the workplace.
I19|Medical Tourism Development in Dubai: Managing Challenges and Opportunities|"""Objective – International medical travel is one of the fastest growing and lucrative segments of the tourism industry of this century. In the past, affluent people from Middle Eastern countries travelled abroad to the UK or USA for medical surgery and not wealthy citizens from developed countries are seeking affordable, accessible, world class quality of healthcare with modern medical technology, no waiting lists and combining it with a holiday. Dubai has established itself as a destination that can offer all this to foreign medical travellers. Methodology/Technique – This paper is exploratory in nature and provides a conceptual study to investigate the expansion, challenges and economic opportunities for developing, promoting and managing Dubai as a medical tourism destination, which is a unique contribution to the theory of medical tourism management. Findings – The study indicated several interesting findings regarding challenges such as highly dependence of UAE on foreign human resources, providing safety to migrant workers, implementing integrated medical tourism policy, global health insurance transferability, establishing legal and regulatory issues and others. Novelty – This paper has presented ground breaking findings indicating the issues faced by the Dubai Government regarding the growth and sustainability of medical tourism. The lack of direct access to the Dubai Government and medical tourists is a limitation of this study"""
I19|The Role of Union Leader-Member Relationship Capital within Trade Union for Mental Health|"""Objective – There are three main objectives of this study. First, this study is to examine the influence of union effectiveness and perceived union support on union relationship capital to achieve positive mental health in the workplace. Next, this study is to investigate the interdependency of the dimensions of union relationship capital: communication, trust and commitment between the union leader and union members in improving and strengthening the relationship within the union. Lastly, this study is to investigate the role of relationship capital as the mediator between union effectiveness, perceived union support and mental health. Methodology/Technique – A total of 600 questionnaires completed by trade union leaders and members in manufacturing sector based in Peninsular Malaysia were analysed using SEM (AMOS) and SPSS. The relationship between union effectiveness, perceived union support, union relationship capital and mental health were analysed using SEM. But the interaction between communication, trust and commitment were analysed using SPSS. Findings – The results demonstrated that union effectiveness and perceived union support are determinants for union relationship capital. The finding showed that communication, trust and commitment are interdependent. Furthermore, the finding also shows a significant relationship between union relationship capital and mental health. Novelty – It is said that good communication, trust and commitment within the trade union can increase cohesiveness and strengthen the trade union. A strong union can lead to positive mental health in the workplace."""
I19|Success of prediction models in Slovak companies|"""Objective – The issue of bankrupt of company is very actual topic not only in Slovakia but also in abroad. The reason is that many companies have problem with the question of their probability of default or bankrupt and also with their financial health as a whole. This paper deals with the issue of prediction models and captures the applicability of these models in the Slovak conditions. Methodology/Technique – In this paper are applied eight selected prediction models in the sample of 74 companies from Slovak Republic. In addition, this paper calculated one financial ratio from the category of company´s indebtedness. Based on this calculation is done the comparison between results of predictions models and results of indebtedness financial ratio. Findings – They tested eight different prediction models and their findings present that best results were achieved by Fulmer, Poznanski and Zmijewski model. Weak results achieved IN05, CH-index and Sharita model. Novelty – This paper provides explanatory ability and success of individual prediction models in Slovak conditions."""
I19|Performance and Inequality in Health: A Comparison of Child and Maternal Health across Asia|Abstract A country’s performance in health attainment refers to both its achievement (level) and its improvement (evolution) in the health domain. Studies on performance generally measure health attainment using the average health level of the population and quantify health improvement employing the change in attainment over time. However, this approach is flawed because the change in attainment does not satisfy good properties, on the one hand, and because health attainment should not only account for the average health level but also for disparities in health in the population, on the other hand. We propose a solution to the first limitation by following the lead of Kakwani (1993), who uses achievement and improvement measures which are based on attainment measures and which satisfy important properties. For the second limitation, we extend the work of Kakwani and propose new definitions of attainment that account for the average health level but also for health inequalities in the population. Specifically, we focus on overall and social health inequalities and on the health of the poor. By including these new attainment variables into Kakwani’s indices, we generate new classes of achievement and improvement indices. Using data on 11 low- and middle-income Asian countries in the twenty-first century, we highlight that child and maternal health have generally improved in recent decades, due to both an increase in the average health level and a decrease in inequalities.
I19|Does Return Migration Affect Health Outcomes in Macedonia?|The objective of the paper is twofold: i) to investigate if living and working abroad has a meaningful role to play for the health of the return migrant; and ii) to understand if there are any spillovers of return-migrant member onto health conditions of the family members left behind. To that end, we use the DoTM Migration Survey 2009, as well a propensity score matching to address selectivity on observables and IV for the selectivity on unobservables. We also pursue interviews to contextualize the return migration – health nexus. Results suggest that when equalized on observables, return migrants have better health than non-migrants. Though, the reverse causality channel (less healthy individuals are more inclined to return) works to attenuate the true effect of return migration on health. Results further suggest a positive spillover effect of return migration on the health of the family members left behind, being mainly driven by the work of remittances sent while abroad, and not the returned wealth or the health knowledge transfer.
I19|The Causal Effect of Education on Health Behaviors: Evidence From Turkey|This study provides causal effect of education on health behaviors in Turkey which is a middle income developing country. Health Survey of the Turkish Statistical Institute for the years 2008, 2010 and 2012 are used. The health behaviors considered are smoking, alcohol consumption, fruit and vegetable consumption, exercising and one health outcome namely, the body mass index (BMI). We examine the causal effect of education on these health behaviors and the BMI Instrumental variable approach is used in order to address the endogeneity of education to health behaviors. Educational expansion of the early 1960s is used as the source of exogenous variation in years of schooling. Our main findings are as follows. Education does not significantly affect the probability of smoking or exercising. The higher the education level the higher the probability of alcohol consumption and the probability of fruit and vegetable consumption. Higher levels of education lead to higher BMI levels. This study provides a baseline for further research on the various aspects of health behaviors in Turkey.
I19|Impacts of an HIV counseling and testing initiative -- results from an experimental intervention in a large firm in South Africa|We have run experimental interventions to promote HIV tests in a large firm in South Africa. We combined HIV tests with existing medical check programs to increase the uptake. In the foregoing survey we undertook previously, it was suggested that fears and stigma of HIV/AIDS were the primary reasons given by the employees for not taking the test. To counter these, we implemented randomized interventions. We find substantial heterogeneity in responses by ethnicity. Africans and Colored rejected the tests most often. Supportive information increased the uptake by 6 to 16% points. A tradeoff in targeting resulting in stigmatizing the targeted and a reduction of exclusion error is discussed.
I19|Willingness to pay and the sensitivity of willingness to pay for interdisciplinary musculoskeletal clinics: a contingent valuation study in Quebec, Canada|Abstract Orthopedics is a discipline that requires a continuum of care in close collaboration with physicians, nurses, and healthcare professionals to ensure effective rehabilitation. In some cases, the wait time for a consultation may be very long, which can jeopardize the patient’s rehabilitation and sometimes even cause complications that lead to a loss of autonomy. In Quebec, there is a severe shortage of healthcare professionals—and of orthopedic surgeons, in particular—specializing in musculoskeletal problems. To address this problem, public managers have decided to establish interdisciplinary musculoskeletal clinics in regions outside the two major cities of Montréal and Québec. The major benefits of these clinics are that they reduce the wait time for consultation and treatment while maintaining service quality. Although their benefits are certain, these clinics remain threatened by relatively high initial costs. This study’s objective is to evaluate whether the population of Quebec has a quantifiable willingness to pay (WTP) to establish these clinics. To our knowledge, this is the first study of its kind either in the province of Quebec or elsewhere. We selected 3822 subjects randomly within the target population using Internet surveys, telephone surveys and self-administered paper surveys as our methods of recruitment. Three payment vehicles were used and each participant was randomly allocated among these: tax, donation or lump-sum fee. A contingent valuation question using a referendum format with the option “don’t know” was used. Econometric estimates were performed using probit and Wang’s models. Our results indicate that the population of Quebec may potentially have a mean WTP of 42.3 Canadian dollars per person for such clinics, which would enable a mean reduction from 12 to 4 months of wait time. However, the WTP is found to be very sensitive to the survey mode and the payment vehicle used: about 1.2–2 times more important in the tax and the lump-sum fee scenarios than in the donation scenario, and about 3–4 times less important in the Internet survey than in the telephone or self-administered paper surveys. In addition, this amount was strongly affected by the introduction of a new governmental health-related policy that arose during the survey and led to a minimal drop in WTP of about 30–50 %. This strong sensitivity led us to the three following recommendations for future contingent valuation studies: (1) favour Internet surveys, (2) use a payment vehicle that limit uncertainty in the WTP answer and allow to socialize benefits, as the tax scenario in our study, and (3) strictly apply the “divide by 2” rule of the NOAA panel.
I19|Pregnancy and Dropout: Effects of Family, Neighborhood, and High School Characteristics on Girls’ Fertility and Dropout Status|Abstract Administrative data from multiple sources are combined to measure pregnancy (excluding those ending in abortion or miscarriage) and high school dropout in a cohort of girls who were 9th graders in the 1994–1995 academic year. Rates of pregnancy (as identified in the data) and dropout are substantially higher among Hispanic high school students than among African-Americans or non-Hispanic whites. Previous studies of teen pregnancy and dropout typically focus on pregnancy rates conditional on dropout status, or dropout rates conditional on fertility. This paper presents estimates of pregnancy and dropout as a joint-dependent variable. Estimates of their joint probability distribution conditional on individual, family, neighborhood, and high school characteristics are reported. The estimates use longitudinal administrative data collected as annual censuses of all public school students in Texas with individual-level ids. Neighborhood characteristics (from the US Census data geographically linked to Texas high schools) have large effects on pregnancy and dropout. Immigrant Hispanic girls’ pregnancy rates are significantly lower than native-born Hispanic girls’ pregnancy rates. Above-normal-age status in the 9th grade is among the strongest predictors of pregnancy and dropout in later years. Ethnic differences in age distributions within grade level appear to explain a large share of ethnic differences in pregnancy and dropout rates.
I19|A gyógyszerkiadás és a betegek egészségi állapota a háziorvosi és szakorvosi kapcsolatok függvényében<BR>[Formal professional relations between general practitioners and specialists. Possible links with patient health and pharmacy cost]|Arra a kérdésre keressük a választ, hogy a szoros háziorvosi-szakorvosi szakmai kapcsolatoknak van-e hatásuk a betegek gyógyszerkiadására, illetve egészségi állapotára. Az orvosok közötti szakmai kapcsolatok szorosságát a közösen gondozott betegek száma alapján határoztuk meg, míg a betegek egészségügyi állapotát a diagnosztizált és kezelt társbetegségek számával mértük. Hipotézisünk egyrészt az volt, hogy a hatékonyabb koordinációnak köszönhetően a szoros kapcsolatban kezelt betegek jobb egészségi állapotúak, másrészt kezelésük az erőforrások hatékonyabb felhasználása miatt kisebb gyógyszerköltséggel jár. E két hipotézist a cukorbetegekre teszteltük. Azért esett erre a krónikus betegségre a választásunk, mert itt a háziorvosok és a szakorvosok együttműködése elsődleges fontosságú. Magyarországon a cukorbetegek esetében a legnagyobb a közösen kezelt betegek populációja, valamint itt a legmagasabb a szakorvosi javaslatra felírt háziorvosi receptek száma. Azt az eredményt kaptuk, hogy a szoros kapcsolatban kezelt betegek nem rendelkeznek sem jobb, sem rosszabb egészségi állapottal, miközben a kapcsolódó gyógyszerkiadásuk szignifikánsan alacsonyabb. Journal of Economics Literature (JEL) kód: C12, H51, I19.
I19|Effect of Information Technologies Investments to The Future Plans: A Research in Health Institutions|Information Technologies is a factor that take place at the center of the lives of companies and human lives and that have the greatest positive share in easing the lives. While reaching information is considered to be the most important skill both for companies and people, the tool used in reaching and storage of information is technology. The development of the technologic developments in the world without slowing down, affects the service industry as well as all the other industries. Health institutions that have a great share in service industries have to follow the innovations and technological developments closely in order to survive in competitive market conditions and therefore they should make their plans in in accordance with these developments. In accordance with these statements, the aim of the study is; to search whether the information technology investments of health institutions in order to ensure customer satisfaction and sustainability correspond to the future plans or not. For that purpose, health institutions located in cities Gümüþhane and Trabzon in Eastern Black Sea Region, constitute the universe of the research. The data of the universe is obtained by survey data acquisition technique. Reliability and validation analyses were applied with definitional statistical analyses to the data obtained and the optimal scale structure for the structural model is attained. Goal oriented structural model is analyzed with structural equation model and AMOS 20 and SPSS 20 package programs. In accordance with the factors obtained as a result of the research it is stated that; factors such as information structures of the health institutions, information technology usage levels of the health institutions, information technology perceptions of the health institutions, the usage level of health institutions during decision making processes and technology compliance of health institutions are effective on the future plans of the health institutions.
I19|The Administered Public Recreation Marketing Concept|The article focuses on four major assumptions that underlie the alternative conceptualization of public recreation marketing. It explains (1) the redistribution system within recreation resources are allocated; (2) the organizational structure of recreation agencies; (3) the ways in which public recreation agencies interact with local governments and citizens; and (4) the code of ethics and its influence on the behavior of recreation professionals. Finally, the article attempts to integrate these assumptions into an alternative definition of public recreation marketing that is termed “administered marketing.”
I19|Social Network Analysis as an Analytical Archetype of R&D National Networks: Case Study in Culture Collections of Brazil and Japan|The lack of analytical mechanisms of R&D national networks is a significant problem por policy makers. This paper presents an analytical archetype for performance evaluation of national co-authoring networks based on Social Network Analysis parameters. The model evaluates paper co-authoring data of professionals responsible for culture collections in Brazil and Japan. Were identified professionals from the World Federation for Culture Collections data bank and co-authoring identified from international bibliographic databases. The Brazilian network is the focus of the analysis and the Japanese is the reference network. The Research and Development networks in culture collections are fundamental to the performance of the biotechnological innovation chain in areas such as health, agriculture and industry, and thus fundamental to emerging countries such as Brazil. This country has the fifth largest population in the world, being most of this population user of public health services and it has in the agribusiness one of its main sources of wealth. The model allows a performance evaluation of the networks and identifies improvement paths for the Brazilian network. SNA parameters combined with a reference network showed meaningful elements to the understanding of a R&D networks. This proved helpful for the strategic analysis of the network weaknesses and strengths. The model also proposes policy implications for the three analysis of sub-levels, namely cohesion, subgroups and centralization. Classification JEL : I19
I19|"Introduction to ""Social Security Programs and Retirement around the World: The Capacity to Work at Older Ages"""|No abstract is available for this item.
I19|Healthy, Happy, and Idle: Estimating the Health Capacity to Work at Older Ages in Germany|After two decades of reforms that have tightened eligibility for early retirement and the generosity of social security payments, the German government has begun to turn back time and re-introduce more generous disability and early retirement benefits. Often, poor health is cited as the main reason why workers cannot work until the regular retirement age. In this chapter, we try to answer a seemingly simple question: what is the proportion of older individuals who could work in the labor market if they wanted to and if they were not limited by poor health? To answer this question, we follow two different empirical approaches with a similar logic: we estimate the link between health and labor force participation in a population whose employment patterns are or were hardly affected by the current (early) retirement incentives. Using these “pure health effects” on labor force participation to extrapolate to a population that is currently strongly affected by legislation informs us how many could not work for health reasons and how many could work. We find substantial capacity to work among the older population. We estimate that two thirds of the population would be capable of working in the labor market until they turn 70 if they wanted to.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
I19|Health Capacity to Work at Older Ages: Evidence from the United States|No abstract is available for this item.
I19|Social Security and Retirement Programs Around the World: The Capacity to Work at Older Ages – Introduction and Summary|This is the introduction and summary to the seventh phase of an ongoing project on Social Security Programs and Retirement Around the World. The project compares the experiences of a dozen developed countries and uses differences in their retirement program provisions to explore the effect of SS on retirement and related questions. The first three phases of this project document that: 1) incentives for retirement from SS are strongly correlated with labor force participation rates across countries; 2) within countries, workers with stronger incentives to delay retirement are more likely to do so; and 3) changes to SS could have substantial effects on labor force participation and government finances. The fourth volume explores whether higher employment among older persons might increase youth unemployment and finds no link between the two. The fifth and sixth volumes focus on the disability insurance (DI) program, finding that changes in DI participation are more closely linked to DI reforms than to changes in health and that reducing access to DI would raise labor supply. This seventh phase of the project explores whether older people are healthy enough to work longer. We use two main methods to estimate the health capacity to work, asking how much older individuals today could work if they worked as much as those with the same mortality rate in the past or as younger individuals in similar health. Both methods suggest there is significant additional health capacity to work at older ages.
I19|Health Capacity to Work at Older Ages: Evidence from the U.S|Public programs that benefit older individuals, such as Social Security and Medicare, may be changed in the future in ways that reflect an expectation of longer work lives. But do older Americans have the health capacity to work longer? This paper explores this question by asking how much older individuals could work if they worked as much as those with the same mortality rate in the past or as much as their younger counterparts in similar health. Using both methods, we estimate that there is significant additional capacity to work at older ages. We also explore whether there are differences in health capacity across education groups and whether health has improved more over time for the highly educated, using education quartiles to surmount the challenge of changing levels of education over time.
I19|Reorganisation Of Hospital System – A Key Factor In Reformation Of The Republic Of Moldova’S Health System|Topicality. Starting with the middle of the ‘90s of the previous century, the Republic of Moldova started to implement a series of important reforms, aimed at improving the access and quality of the services for increasing the efficiency and the performances of the health system. The aim of the research is the analysis of the Regionalization Plan of the Hospital Services and the assessment of medical workers opinion from district and republican hospitals regarding the envisaged transformations, in order to elaborate conclusions and recommendations that will be considered at the stage of reform’s implementation. The object of the research is the physicians of different profile (therapeutic, surgical, diagnostic), which work in republican and district hospitals. Methods: questioners, statistic data analyze, comparative method. Results. The logic of the regionalization suggests a reality, and namely, the need to transfer the physicians from the republican institutions to regional hospitals will be little. As a result, it will be applied only for the provision of the highly specialized services, for the solution of the associated cases or for the use of certain sophisticated methods of diagnosis and treatment (cardiac catheterization with subsequent plasty, etc). Therefore, it can be appreciated positively the fact that only 1/5 of physicians that work in the republican hospitals accept to commute or the transfer. It is more regrettable another reality, which shows that almost ½ of the specialists from the republican medical institutions generally do not want the regionalization and boycott the reform, just when they should promote the change. It results that mainly these physicians plead for the continuous maintenance of poor quality of hospital medical assistance, for the access limitation of the rural population at quality health service and, as consequence, and the financial burden to be left on patients shoulders – a fact mentioned in all the reports of foreign experts. Therefore we made the conclusion that as our society cannot get rid of the principles of health Semasko system for 25 years, so our physicians, especially the elderly and the most qualified – continue to guide themselves of stereotypes deeply rooted in the past
I19|Can Voluntary Nutrition Labeling Lead to a Healthier Food Market?| This article reviews approaches to voluntary nutrition labeling (VNL), such as front-ofpackage (FOP) labels, that emerged in the 2001-2014 period to provide simplified nutrition information, thus lowering the search cost for nutritional information. We present a market model to assess consumer and producer responses to changes in information search cost brought about by VNL. We specifically focus on the introduction of VNL in the ready-toeat cereal (RTEC) market and illustrate trends in labeling and the overall healthfulness of RTEC products. Both the conceptual and empirical evidence suggest that VNL has been instrumental in attaining a healthier RTEC market. Finally, we suggest a research agenda to further theory development and empirical (experimental and big data) research to better comprehend the role of VNL in relation to market healthfulness.
I19|Cost of Illness in Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia: A Review|The paper provides a systematic review on the cost-of-illness studies in an age-associated condition with high prevalence, benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), published in Medline between 2005 and 2015. Overall 11 studies were included, which were conducted in 8 countries. In the US, the annual direct medical costs per patient ranged from $255 to $5,729, while in Europe from €253 to €1,251. In 2008, in the UK total annual direct medical costs of BPH were £180.8 million at national level. In the US, overall costs of BPH management in the private sector were estimated at $3.9 billion annually, of which $500 million was attributable to productivity loss (year 1999). Due to demographic factors and possible surgical innovations in the field of urology, the costs of BPH are likely to increase in the future. Over the next decade the age of retirement is projected to rise, consequently, the indirect costs related to aging-associated conditions such as BPH are expected to soar. To promote the transparent and cost-effective management of BPH, development of rational clinical guidelines would be essential that may lead to significant improvement in quality of care as well as reduction in healthcare expenditure.
I19|The future’s so bright, I gotta wear sunscreen: Dispositional optimism and preferences for prioritizing health care|Priority setting in health care involves many complex social value judgments. Whereas a wide body of empirical research has emerged that describe how people make these judgments, little is known about the psychological background against which they are made. In this study, we investigate whether the character trait of dispositional optimism, i.e. anticipating a positive or negative future, influences the way people think about priority setting in health care. We do this by linking a representative sample of the Belgian population’s (N=750) responses on the Revised Life Orientation Test to their responses to a discrete choice experiment (DCE) about priority setting. We find that more pessimistic individuals are on average in worse (self-reported) health, are younger, are more likely to smoke and are less likely to have a university degree than their more optimistic counterparts. Controlling for these respondent characteristics, we find that dispositional optimism indeed matters to priority setting. “Pessimists” are less willing to invest limited resources in prevention and are less in support of prioritizing younger generations over older ones.
I19|Online Health Information Seeking During Adolescence: A Quantitative Study Regarding Romanian Teenagers|How Internet is used by individuals from different age groups to keep their health in check has become one of the major issue of both academic researchers and policy makers. The topic derives mainly from 2000-2014 data which converge towards an Internet accessing pattern as source of information regarding health. Previous studies showed that teenagers are the main consumers of the Internet and they often start surfing for online health concerns on social media (Facebook, Twitter) and popular engines (Google, Yahoo). The current paper describes how Romanian teenagers (N=161, aged 14-19) browse for online topics to keep their health in check. Based on a questionnaire, the data revealed that the Internet is used to a certain extent by more than a third of the respondents for health topics and over half of them consider that the health related information helped them to achieve a good trim. Overall, the research outcomes showed that the adolescents seem less interested in using Internet for health information and sometimes challenge the credibility of online health content.
I19|Peer Effects in Breastfeeding: Evidence from the IFPS II Study|We study breastfeeding in the context of social interactions, distinguishing between peer influences and intergenerational transfer of breastfeeding behavior. Using data from Infant Feeding Practices Study II, we estimate peer effects in breastfeeding decisions. There is strong evidence of peer effects, which may suggest the presence of the social multiplier in breastfeeding that could lead to an amplified social response to policy interventions. However, the prevalence of breastfeeding in a peer group needs to achieve some critical level in order for the peer effects to become significant. Knowing more than five peers who breastfed has a highly significant positive effect on the likelihood of breastfeeding at months three and six postpartum, and the duration of partial and exclusive breastfeeding. Our results suggest the presence of a positive externality in breastfeeding, which may result in an under-provision of the good (breastfeeding). Therefore, a Pigovian subsidy may be needed to promote breastfeeding and correct for the externality We also find evidence of inter-generational transmission of breastfeeding behavior, which may help explain why, despite active public health campaigns aimed at promoting breastfeeding, the prevalence of breastfeeding in the U.S. remains modest.
I19|Cost-utility Analysis of Vertebroplasty versus Thoracolumbosacral Orthosis in the Treatment of Traumatic Vertebral Fractures|Purpose: To evaluate the cost-utility of Vertebroplasty versus conservative therapy (Thoracolumbosacral orthosis) for treatment of post-traumatic non-osteoporotic and/or non-neoplastic fractures. Materials and Methods: A prospective, randomized, non-blinded, single-center study was carried out between 2010 and 2013. The study included 99 patients, aged from 18 years to 70 years, suffering from acute non-osteoporotic vertebral fracture. We compared costs and Quality-Adjusted Life Years and assessed the Incremental Cost-Effectiveness Ratio for the two arm groups. Health insurance, patient and societal perspectives are considered. Results: For health insurance perspective, total cost was €7,267 for the brace group versus €7,365 for the vertebroplasty group (mean difference €75.3; p
I19|Health care expenditures, age, proximity to death and morbidity: Implications for an ageing population|This paper uses Hospital Episode Statistics, English administrative data, to investigate the growth in admitted patient health care expenditures and the implications of an ageing population. We use two samples of around 40,000 individuals who (a) used inpatient health care in the financial year 2005/06 and died by the end of 2011/12 and (b) died in 2011/12 and had some hospital utilisation since 2005/06. We use a panel structure to follow individuals over seven years of this administrative data, containing estimates of inpatient health care expenditures (HCE), information regarding individuals’ age, time-to-death (TTD), morbidities at the time of an admission, as well as the hospital provider, year and season of admission. We show that HCE is principally determined by proximity to death rather than age, and that proximity to death is itself a proxy for morbidity.
I19|Información para la calidad del sistema de salud en Colombia: una propuesta de revisión basada en el modelo israelí|El objetivo del estudio es contribuir a mejorar la salud en Colombia mediante el desarrollo de un sistema nacional de indicadores de desempeño del sector salud. Para ello se utilizó un análisis descriptivo de datos secundarios de Colombia e Israel que, como Colombia, tiene un modelo de competencia regulada. Se observó que Israel tiene un sistema sencillo, pero eficaz, que incluye: indicadores de calidad y rendimiento previamente definidos y aceptados a nivel nacional; un mecanismo de supervisión, un proceso de comparación, para establecer buenas prácticas, y un mecanismo de difusión de estas prácticas. El modelo israelí puede ser fácilmente adaptado a Colombia, debido a la similitud de las estructura y a la naturaleza de los 2 sistemas
I19|La oferta de servicios de salud en Colombia, 2012 - 2013|Esta investigación tiene por objeto determinar la situación actual de la oferta de servicios de salud en Colombia, identificando diferencias entre regiones, regímenes y naturaleza jurídica de los prestadores. De los 1.124 municipios del país, 45% solo cuenta con ips públicas de baja y mediana complejidad y ofrece, en promedio, 18 de los 234 distintos servicios de salud disponibles. De hecho, 76% de los departamentos colombianos ofrece apenas entre 11 y 40 servicios. Variables como los costos de viaje, la frecuencia con que se requieren los servicios y la capacidad de los prestadores de atender las urgencias deben considerarse cuando se evalúa la relación entre la distribución de los servicios a lo largo del territorio nacional y la calidad de la atención en salud.
I19|La oferta de servicios de salud en Colombia, 2012 - 2013|Esta investigación tiene por objeto determinar la situación actual de la oferta de servicios de salud en Colombia, identificando diferencias entre regiones, regímenes y naturaleza jurídica de los prestadores. De los 1.124 municipios del país, 45% solo cuenta con IPS públicas de baja y mediana complejidad y ofrece, en promedio, 18 de los 234 distintos servicios de salud disponibles. De hecho, 76% de los departamentos colombianos ofrece apenas entre 11 y 40 servicios. Variables como los costos de viaje, la frecuencia con que se requieren los servicios y la capacidad de los prestadores de atender las urgencias deben considerarse cuando se evalúa la relación entre la distribución de los servicios a lo largo del territorio nacional y la calidad de la atención en salud.
I19|La oferta de servicios de salud en Colombia, 2012 - 2013|Esta investigación tiene por objeto determinar la situación actual de la oferta de servicios de salud en Colombia, identificando diferencias entre regiones, regímenes y naturaleza jurídica de los prestadores. De los 1.124 municipios del país, 45% solo cuenta con IPS públicas de baja y mediana complejidad y ofrece, en promedio, 18 de los 234 distintos servicios de salud disponibles. De hecho, 76% de los departamentos colombianos ofrece apenas entre 11 y 40 servicios. Variables como los costos de viaje, la frecuencia con que se requieren los servicios y la capacidad de los prestadores de atender las urgencias deben considerarse cuando se evalúa la relación entre la distribución de los servicios a lo largo del territorio nacional y la calidad de la atención en salud.
I19|Formal professional relationships between general practitioners and specialists: possible associations with patient health and pharmacy costs|This article investigates whether the strength of formal professional relationships between general practitioners (GPs) and specialists (SPs) affects either the health status of patients or their pharmacy costs. To this end, it measures the strength of formal professional relationships between GPs and SPs through the number of shared patients and proxies the patient health status by the number of comorbidities diagnosed and treated. In strong GP–SP relationships, the patient health status is expected to be high, due to efficient care coordination, and the pharmacy costs low, due to effective use of resources. To test these hypotheses and compare the characteristics of the strongest GP–SP connections with those of the weakest, this article concentrates on diabetes—a chronic condition where patient care coordination is likely important. Diabetes generates the largest shared patient cohort in Hungary, with the highest traffic of specialist medication prescriptions. This article finds that stronger ties result in lower pharmacy costs, but not in higher patient health statuses. Key points for decision makers • The number of shared patients may be used to measure the strength of formal professional relationships between general practitioners and specialists. • A large number of shared patients indicates a strong, collaborative tie between general practitioners and specialists, whereas a low number indicates a weak, fragmented tie. • Tie strength does not affect patient health—strong, collaborative ties between general practitioners and specialists do not involve better patient health than weak, fragmented ties. • Tie strength does affect pharmacy costs—strong, collaborative ties between general practitioners and specialists involve significantly lower pharmacy costs than weak, fragmented ties. • Pharmacy costs may be reduced by lowering patient care fragmentation through channelling a general practitioner’s patients to a small number of specialists and increasing collaboration between general practitioner and specialists. • Limited patient choice is financially more beneficial than complete freedom of choice, and no more detrimental to patient health.
I19|Trajectoires professionnelles et santé en Europe|The main objective of this thesis is to analyse the health consequences of career shocks in Europe. It considers two actual career shocks over the lifecourse: leaving full-time education in a bad economy, and, at the other end of the age spectrum, retiring. In-between these two critical periods, it investigates how an anticipated career shock -- i.e. anticipated job loss -- damages health. Empirical analyses are conducted using large European and British surveys. We use institutional features and natural experiments to find neat instruments for causal identification~: the existence of compulsory schooling laws, the cross-country variation in employment protection legislations, the cross-country variation in retirement systems and the 1973 oil crisis. The results emphasise the causal and health-damaging impact of career shocks, both in the short and in the long-term.
I19|Managing dynamic epidemiological risks through trade|There is growing concern that trade, by connecting geographically isolated regions, unintentionally facilitates the spread of invasive pathogens and pests – forms of biological pollution that pose significant risks to ecosystem and human health. We use a bioeconomic framework to examine whether trade always increases private risks, focusing specifically on pathogen risks from live animal trade. When the pathogens have already established and traders bear some private risk, we find two results that run counter to the conventional wisdom on trade. First, uncertainty about the disease status of individual animals held in inventory may increase the incentives to trade relative to the disease-free case. Second, trade may facilitate reduced long-run disease prevalence among buyers. These results arise because disease risks are endogenous due to dynamic feedback processes involving valuable inventories, and markets facilitate the management of private risks that producers face with or without trade.
I19|Impact of body mass on job quality|The current study explores the association between body mass and job quality, a composite measurement of job characteristics, for adults. We use nationally representative data from the Korean Labor and Income Panel Study for the years 2005, 2007, and 2008 with 7282 person-year observations for men and 4611 for women. A Quality of Work Index (QWI) is calculated based on work content, job security, the possibilities for improvement, compensation, work conditions, and interpersonal relationships at work. The key independent variable is the body mass index (kg/m2) splined at 18.5, 25, and 30. For men, BMI is positively associated with the QWI only in the normal weight segment (+0.19 percentage points at the 10th, +0.28 at the 50th, +0.32 at the 75th, +0.34 at the 90th, and +0.48 at the 95th quantiles). A unit increase in the BMI for women is associated with a lower QWI at the lower quantiles in the normal weight segment (−0.28 at the 5th, −0.19 at the 10th, and −0.25 percentage points at the 25th quantiles) and at the upper quantiles in the overweight segment (−1.15 at the 90th and −1.66 percentage points at the 95th quantiles). The results imply a spill-over cost of overweight or obesity beyond its impact on health in terms of success in the labor market.
I19|Gender differences in behavioral problems and school outcomes|This study analyzes gender differences in behavioral problems and school outcomes. The study is based on teacher and parent evaluations using the Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire for approximately 6000 Danish children 10–12 years of age who were born in 1990–1992. The sample has been merged with extensive register data on parental background and student outcomes. Our findings show a large negative association between indicators of externalizing behavioral and school outcomes. Only a minor percentage of the gender difference in average reading and math test scores, however, can be attributed to gender differences in the prevalence of low-scoring individuals with behavioral problems.
I19|Workplace health promotion and labour market performance of employees|This paper investigates the average effects of firm-provided workplace health promotion measures on labour market outcomes of the firms’ employees. Exploiting linked employer–employee panel data that consist of rich survey-based and administrative information on firms, workers and regions, we apply a flexible propensity score matching approach that controls for selection on observables and time-constant unobserved factors. While the effects of analysing sickness absenteeism appear to be rather limited, our results suggest that health circles/courses increase tenure and job stability across various age groups. A key finding is that health circles/courses strengthen the labour force attachment of elderly employees (51–60), implying potential cost savings for public transfer schemes such as unemployment insurance or early retirement schemes.
I19|Professional norms and physician behavior: Homo oeconomicus or homo hippocraticus?|Physicians' treatment decisions determine the level of health care spending to a large extent. The analysis of physician agency describes how doctors trade off their own and their patients' benefits, with a third party (such as the collective of insured individuals or the taxpayers) bearing the costs. Professional norms are viewed as restraining physicians' self-interest and as introducing altruism towards the patient. We present a controlled experiment that analyzes the impact of professional norms on prospective physicians' trade-offs between their own profits, the patients' benefits, and the payers' expenses for medical care. Our data support the notion that professional norms derived from the Hippocratic tradition shift weight to the patient in physicians' decisions while decreasing their self-interest and efficiency concerns.
I19|Are bad health and pain making us grumpy? An empirical evaluation of reporting heterogeneity in rating health system responsiveness|In recent years, the concept of responsiveness has been put forward as one desirable measure of the performance of health systems. Responsiveness can be defined as a system's ability to respond to the legitimate expectations of potential users regarding non-health enhancing aspects of care. However, since responsiveness is evaluated by patients on a categorical scale, their self-evaluation can be affected by the phenomenon of reporting heterogeneity. A few studies have investigated how standard socio-demographic characteristics influence the reporting style of patients with regard to responsiveness. However, we are not aware of studies that focus explicitly on the influence that both the patients' state of health and their experiencing of pain have on their reporting style on responsiveness. This paper tries to bridge this gap by using data regarding a sample of about 2500 patients hospitalized in four Local Health Authorities (LHA) in Italy's Emilia-Romagna region between 2010 and 2012. These patients have evaluated 27 different aspects of the quality of care, concerning five domains of responsiveness (communication, privacy, dignity, waiting times and quality of facilities). Data have been stratified into five sub-samples, according to these domains. We estimate a generalized ordered probit model, an extension of the standard ordered probit model which permits the reporting behaviour of respondents to be modelled as a function of certain respondents' characteristics, which in our analysis are represented by the variables “state of health” and “pain”. Our results suggest that unhealthier patients and patients experiencing pain are more likely to report a lower level of responsiveness, all other things being equal.
I19|Health Behaviors and Education in Turkey|This is the first study which provides empirical analysis of the variation in health behaviors for adult men and women in Turkey which is a developing country. The health behaviors considered are smoking, drinking, fruit and vegetable consumption, exercise and body mass index (BMI). We find that in Turkey education is the most important factor that affects the health behaviors. The results indicate that smoking is positively associated with education at all levels with a decreasing effect with the level of education unlike in the developed countries. This result indicates that smoking is a serious public health problem in Turkey at all levels of education. Further, alcohol consumption and schooling are positively related and it increases by the level of education. Higher educated individuals clearly eat more fruits, vegetables and exercise more and their BMI levels are in the normal range compared to less educated and illiterate. We also highlight the importance of demographic factors, labor market status and household income. We use Health Survey of Turkish Statistical Institute (TURKSTAT) for years 2008, 2010 and 2012. This study will provide a baseline for further studies on the various aspects of health behaviors in Turkey.
I19|L’innovazione nei servizi pubblici: un caso nel settore sanitario|"Il paper si propone di offrire un contributo al dibattito teorico sull’innovazione nei servizi pubblici, verificando l’efficacia interpretativa di alcuni framework sviluppati di recente dalla letteratura che mancano, però, ancora di sufficienti riscontri empirici. In particolare, il lavoro si basa su due fondamentali riferimenti teorici: il modello multiagente di Windrum e García-Goñi (2008), che fornisce una rappresentazione della rete complessa di interazioni fra utenti, fornitori di servizi e policy maker che dà vita all’innovazione, e il modello della ""collaborative innovation"" di Sorensen e Torfing, 2011 che propone una lettura processuale delle modalità attraverso cui tale interazione prende forma e si sviluppa all’interno del network degli attori coinvolti. Grazie alla combinazione di questi due approcci teorici complementari, si possono individuare chiavi di lettura nuove e efficaci per interpretare le dinamiche che caratterizzano il fenomeno dell’innovazione nei servizi pubblici. La validazione del framework di analisi è stata realizzata attraverso lo studio di un caso nel settore della sanità pubblica italiana: un contesto particolarmente indicato per una verifica empirica, a causa della sua elevata complessità operativa e relazionale."
I19|Self‐Employment and Health: Barriers or Benefits?| The self‐employed are often reported to be healthier than wageworkers; however, the cause of this health difference is largely unknown. The longitudinal nature of the US Health and Retirement Study allows us to gauge the plausibility of two competing explanations for this difference: a contextual effect of self‐employment on health (benefit effect), or a health‐related selection of individuals into self‐employment (barrier effect). Our main finding is that the selection of comparatively healthier individuals into self‐employment accounts for the positive cross‐sectional difference. The results rule out a positive contextual effect of self‐employment on health, and we present tentative evidence that, if anything, engaging in self‐employment is bad for one's health. Given the importance of the self‐employed in the economy, these findings contribute to our understanding of the vitality of the labor force. Copyright © 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
I19|Prospects for Telemedicine Adoption: Prognostic Modeling as Exemplified by Rural Areas of USA|Experts predict that in the majority of countries state healthcare expenditures will continue to rise. Usage of telemedicine applications – the use of information and communications technologies (ICT) in order to provide clinical health care at a distance – will help optimize the costs of healthcare in the long-term. The main advantages of telemedicine include reducing the number of doctor’s errors, saving both patients and physicians time, and improving the efficiency of healthcare organizations. It also ensures timely and quality services for large segments of the population living in remote territories with difficult socio-economic conditions, particularly rural areas. The paper forecasts the adoption rate of telemedicine in US rural areas by using the Bass Model. The model is considered quite versatile as it can be used across a wide range of products and services. Nevertheless, the Bass model has some limitations related to how it estimates missing data. Calculation errors can be related to numerous barriers, which affect the adoption rate of telemedicine. These barriers include: high costs of production and exploitation of hi-tech equipment; physicians insufficiently prepared to adopt and use the latest technologies in their daily work; as well as possible concerns of patients about the quality of remote healthcare service.
I19|Revisit The Effect Of The Prenatal Medical Care Use On The Birth Outcome Of Newborn Baby|The ambiguity of the effect of prenatal medical care on the health status of newborns may originate from the fact that individual decision-making of purchasing care is not fully considered, and this in turn may cause an endogeneity issue in the estimation process. This paper aims to empirically examine the effect of prenatal medical care by controlling the endogeneity issue in estimation process. We employed the Two Step Least Square method using appropriate instrumental variables. The estimation results suggest prenatal medical care use has a positive effect on birth outcomes. Additionally, the results were strengthened by performing a robustness test
I19|The influence of obesity on breast cancer|The incidence of breast cancer in Romania is 66.2 / 100,000 and the mortality rate reaches 22.1 / 100,000. European Association for the Study of Obesity shows that the prevalence of obesity in Europe is 10-25% to 10-30% in men and women. Literature data affirm cancer-related costs to be approximately 126 billion euros in 2009, representing 40% of medical costs. Breast cancer involves costs of around 15 million euros (12%). Identification of different evolutions of breast cancer patients for overweight or obese will personalize both curative treatment and also the primary and secondary prevention for this subgroup of patients. Thus demonstrating excess fat as a risk factor for the evolution of cancer of the breast will decreased time to disease progression and / or the survival, could lead to the implementation of socio-econimic support for obese breast cancer patients. This way they could become integrated into a sports progam and through regular visits to the nutritionist. This paper aims at analyzing the literature on economic and social importance of the implementation of public health policies to combat and reduce excess fat in patients diagnosed with breast cancer.
I19|Identification and classification of the factors causing falls from heightat work|Existing in most sectors, the workstations at different heights expose workers to hazards causing serious injury, disability or death in most of the situations. Due to their repercussions, the work injury as a result of falling from height representa significant economic burden both on employees, the employers, and the society as a whole. The present paper aims to identify and classify the main factors that generate work accidents due to the falls from height in order to find the optimal solutions to reduce them.
I19|Fecondità e maternità: un sistema integrato per la misurazione di fenomeni sanitari e socio-demografici|This paper describes the initial steps of design and testing of a complex and ambitious integration project between sources aimed at the implementation of a system called “Integrated system on pregnancy outcome”. Given the deep changes in the regulation on administrative data collection occurred in the last decades and related to simplification and privacy issues, the integration of sources is essential to obtain a complete and detailed picture on the main social, health and demographic aspects of pregnancy outcome. The paper outlines a strategy for integration, highlights the methodological issues and proposes solutions that can be easily extended and included into current production processes.
I19|Economic Evaluation of the GOAL Lifestyle Intervention to Prevent Type-2 Diabetes|Several RCT studies have shown that prevention of type 2 diabetes is feasible via lifestyle interventions. Nevertheless, the empirical evidence for economic effectiveness of prevention in real-world settings is scarce. We analyze costs and effectiveness of a specific type 2 diabetes prevention program in Finland, the GOAL Lifestyle Implementation Trial (GOAL LIT). We developed a Markov model with five mutually exclusive (disease) states and discrete one-year intervals to simulate the health effects of the intervention over 15 years. Based on the 3-year follow-up results from the intervention and a risk factor matched control group, we computed annual transition probabilities between BMI levels. The mortality differences between intervention and control group after 15 years are insignificant for both sexes. Projected cumulative costs of diabetes for both sexes are significantly lower in the intervention group compared to control group. From the perspective of the health care system the cost saving of the study depends on the assumed degree of complications with type 2 diabetes. For an all-male intervention group, the net benefit is positive above the threshold of 8 per cent average annual complication rate. The average overall monetary gain of the intervention then lies between €213.8 and €354.8 per person. The GOAL LIT would also be cost-effective, if the program was conducted in a representative Finnish population, with possible costs savings following the intervention between €64.8 and €155.8 per person. The results indicate that a diabetes prevention program like the GOAL LIT can be cost effective. Potential cost effects are mainly due to male participants, but nevertheless also notable in a representative population. However, our framework only focuses on one obesity related disease and thus tends to underestimate the cost savings as well as potential mortality benefits.
I19|Az orvosok közötti kapcsolatok szerepe az új gyógyszerek elfogadásában<BR>[The impacts of three types of social interaction on the spread of new types of drug]|Tanulmányunkban azt vizsgáljuk, hogy az orvosok közötti kapcsolatok közül a földrajzi közelség szerinti, az egyetemi évfolyamtársi és a közös publikációkban realizálódó társszerzői kapcsolatoknak van-e statisztikailag kimutatható hatásuk az új készítmények terjedési folyamatára. A 2-es típusú cukorbetegség kezelésére alkalmas, 2008 áprilisa és 2010 áprilisa között bevezetett gyógyszerek terjedési folyamatát Cox-féle regressziós modellel vizsgáltuk. Szemben a korábbi szakirodalommal, azt találtuk, hogy a földrajzi közelség szerepe nem egyértelmű: szignifikanciája a készítmények körülbelül felénél nem zárható ki, míg másik felénél nincs kimutatható hatása, továbbá az évfolyamtársi, valamint a társszerzői kapcsolatnak sincs szignifikáns hatása. Az általunk vizsgált kapcsolati hálók ugyan relatíve könnyen megszerkeszthetők, de ez nem bizonyult elegendőnek a terjedési folyamat jobb megértéséhez. A költséges és időigényes kérdőíves adatgyűjtés és mélyinterjúzás elkerülhetetlennek tűnik a szakmai és személyes kapcsolatok terjedési folyamatban betöltött szerepének pontos megértéséhez.* Journal of Economics Literature (JEL) kód: C14, C34, I19, O3.
I19|Heterogeneidad geográfica en la calidad de vida relacionada con la salud. Análisis multinivel para Argentina/Geographical Heterogeneity in the Quality of Life Related to Health. Multilevel Analysis for Argentina|Este trabajo examina el alcance de las diferentes fuentes de variación geográfica en los reportes de calidad de vida relacionada con la salud. Concretamente, el presente trabajo investiga tres importantes preguntas: ¿Existen diferen¬cias significativas a través de los grupos urbanos en los reportes de CVRS?; ¿Pueden los factores composicionales explicar las diferencias en la CVRS?, y ¿El factor contextual de pobreza estructural impacta en la percepción indivi¬dual de CVRS?. Mediante modelos multinivel que permiten analizar simultáneamente fuentes de variación individual y factores socio-contextuales se encuentra evidencia de la heterogeneidad geográfica en la CVRS. Las variables individuales, tales como los factores de riesgo, influyen significativamente aunque no explican completamente la variabilidad geográfica. La pobreza estructural como factor contextual afecta negativamente en la percepción de calidad de vida. Este trabajo destaca la necesidad de considerar explícitamente el vínculo de la salud individual al contexto socio-económico en donde el individuo interactúa. This paper examines the extent of geographic variation in the reports of quality life related to health. Specifically, this paper investigates three important questions: Are there significant differences across urban groups in reports of HRQOL?; Can compositional factors explain the differences in HRQOL?, and Does the contextual factor of struc¬tural poverty affects to the individual's perception of HRQOL?. Using multilevel models to simultaneously analyze sources of individual variation and social-contextual factors, we found evidence of geographical heterogeneity in HRQOL. Individual variables, such as risk factors, significantly influence but not completely explain the geographical variability. Structural poverty, as a contextual factor, negatively affects the perception of quality of life. This paper highlights the need to explicitly consider the linkage of individual social-economic context in which the individual interacts health.
I19|Eliciting Subjective Survival Curves: Lessons from Partial Identification| When analyzing data on subjective expectations of continuous outcomes, researchers have access to a limited number of reported probabilities for each respondent from which to construct complete distribution functions. Moreover, reported probabilities may be rounded and thus not equal to true beliefs. Using survival expectations elicited from a representative sample from the Netherlands, we investigate what can be learned if we take these two sources of missing information into account and expectations are therefore only partially identified. We find novel evidence for rounding by checking whether reported expectations are consistent with a hazard of death that increases weakly with age. Only 39% of reported beliefs are consistent with this under the assumption that all probabilities are reported precisely, while 92% are if we allow for rounding. Using the available information to construct bounds on subjective life expectancy, we show that the data alone are not sufficiently informative to allow for useful inference in partially identified linear models, even in the absence of rounding. We propose to improve precision by interpolation between rounded probabilities. Interpolation in combination with a limited amount of rounding does yield informative intervals.
I19|Sacred Values? The Effect of Information on Attitudes toward Payments for Human Organs|Are attitudes about morally controversial (and often prohibited) market transactions affected by information about their costs and benefits? We address this question for the case of payments for human organs. We find in a survey experiment with US residents (N=3,417) that providing information on the potential efficiency benefits of a regulated price mechanism for organs significantly increased support for payments from a baseline of 52 percent to 71 percent. The survey was devised to minimize social desirability biases in responses, and additional analyses validate the interpretation that subjects were reflecting on the case-specific details provided, rather than just reacting to any information.
I19|Death and the Media: Asymmetries in Infectious Disease Reporting During the Health Transition|In the late 19th Century, cities in Western Europe and the United States suffered from high levels of infectious disease. Over a 40 year period, there was a dramatic decline in infectious disease deaths in cities. As such objective progress in urban quality of life took place, how did the media report this trend? At that time newspapers were the major source of information educating urban households about the risks they faced. By constructing a unique panel data base, we find that news reports were positively associated with government announced typhoid mortality counts and the size of this effect actually grew after the local governments made large investments in public goods intended to reduce typhoid rates. News coverage was more responsive to unexpected increases in death rates than to unexpected decreases in death rates. Together, these facts suggest that consumers find bad news is more useful than good news.
I19|Analyzing the health status of the population using ordinal data|We intend to estimate the health status of the people using a Gini kind index GO for measuring the inequality and a polarization indicator PO too. The both indices were applied for ordinal health data which were selected from three national representative samplings designed in the period 2003 - 2010 in Romania. The results evaluate the evolution level of the polarization and inequality phenomena in the health domain.
I19|Healing The Romanian Health Care System Through The Total Quality Management Method|A country without a solid sanitary system is a loss both for patients and for employees who work in medical institutions. On the one hand, Romania is privileged to have well trained doctors as well as competent medical staff, who are always willing to help a patient in need; on the other side, Romania has also a poor health care system, that damages not only the clinics and hospitals, but also the desire of both patients and doctors to be treated and work in Romania. However, a change is imposed: assuring an efficient and well organized sanitary system, which will lead to more satisfied employees and in the end, to increased patient’s satisfaction.During times, an innovative method, a philosophy, was able to help and change industries in need, providing them with tools for perfecting their operating system, motivating the employees and concentrating on customer’s needs. Nowadays, this method is used with success and covers a large area of industries, including the sanitary industry. European hospitals have used this method in order to rearrange, from the quality’s point of view, their departments and keep their customers and employees satisfied with the sanitary institution.Total Quality Management is a method that has the ability to convert the health care system, and to cover all “gaps” formed for several years. Starting with correcting as much as possible all the issues found in the health care system, will lead to the top and most important objective: focusing on patient and assuring him a significant level of satisfaction. The applicability of this method made is possible also for Romanian hospitals. Since our health care system is confronting daily with issues that affect the patients (some issues being even deadly), a change in the way the quality is perceived, is suitable for our hospitals and clinics.
I19|Cumulative Effects on Weight Due to an Initial Occupational Choice as a Blue Collar Worker|The objective is to estimate the effect on one’s weight decades later of choosing a blue-collar job as his/her initial job. Various two stage models treat occupational choice to be endogenous. Using strong instrumental variables to identify occupational choice yields statistically significant results indicating that the initial choice of a blue-collar job is associated with an increase of 6.6 percent (4.8 percent) in the probability of being overweight (obese). We also find that an additional year of blue-collar work is associated with an increase of 1.1 percent and 1.4 percent in the probability of being overweight and obese, respectively.
