I23|Evaluating Education Systems|This paper proposes two dominance criteria for evaluating education systems described as joint distributions of the pupils' cognitive skill achievements and family backgrounds. The first criterion is shown to be the smallest transitive ranking of education systems compatible with three elementary principles. The first principle requires any improvement in the cog-nitive skill of a child with a given family background to be recorded favorably. The second principle demands that any child's cognitive skill be all the more favorably appraised as the child is coming from an unfavorable background. The third principle states that when two different skills and family backgrounds are allocated between two children, it is preferable that the high skill be given to the low background child than the other way around. The criterion considers system A to be better than system B when, for every pair of reference background and skill, the fraction of children with both a lower background and a better skill than the reference is larger in A than in B. Our second criterion completes the first by adding to the three principles the elitist requirement that a mean-preserving spread in the skills of two children with the same background be recorded favorably. We apply our criteria to the ranking of education systems of 43 countries, taking the PISA score in mathematics as the measure of cognitive skills and the largest of the two parents International Socio Economic Index as the indicator of background. We show that, albeit incomplete, our criteria enables conclusive comparisons of about 19% of all the possible pairs of countries. Education systems of fast-growing Asian economies-in particular Vietnam-appear at the top of our rankings while those of relatively wealthy arabic countries such as Lebanon, United Arab Emirates and Jordan are at the bottom. The fraction of countries that can be ranked successfully happens to be only mildly increased as a result of adding elitism to the three other principles.
I23|Is an Academic Career a Luxury Good? Student Debt and the Under-Representation of Minorities|Minority groups are under-represented in university teaching and research positions; they are employed in these positions at lower rates than would be indicated by college enrollments and (to a lesser extent) shares of doctoral degrees. Using data from the National Science Foundation’s Survey of Earned Doctorates, from 2001 to 2016, this article examines whether some of this is due an under-representation of scholars with high student debt and fewer parental resources, choosing business or government careers rather than academia. Analyzing a large sample of new PhDs from 2001 to 2016, we find that student debt has limited the decision to enter academia, perhaps with long-term impacts for diversity of the profession. Examining the subsample of STEM PhDs, the same patterns emerge -- with perhaps stronger adverse impacts of debt on Black and Hispanic academic career choice.
I23|Low-performing student responses to state merit scholarships|State merit scholarships may affect academic outcomes for low-performing college students, yet low-performers are generally overlooked in existing literature. New Mexico’s lottery scholarship provides tuition-free college to residents meeting a uniquely “low-bar” eligibility criteria. Using administrative data, a discontinuity in eligibility rules identifies local average treatment effects on degree completion and course taking behavior for students with below-average college grades. Results suggest a reduction in time-to-degree corresponding to the scholarship’s funding cap, with no overall change in degree completion. Despite modest eligibility requirements related to credit completion, the scholarship increased credit completion among low-achieving students. Some students appear to manipulate scholarship eligibility by taking fewer courses or strategically dropping courses during a qualifying semester in order to secure aid. A bounding exercise suggests partial manipulation of eligibility rules results in selection bias which underestimates the true effect of the scholarship on time to degree and credit completion.
I23|School Vouchers, Labor Markets and Vocational Education|We provide evidence on the long-run impact of vouchers for private secondary schools, evidence collected twenty years after students applied for the vouchers. Prior to the voucher lottery, students applied to either an academic or vocational secondary school, an important mediating factor in the vouchers’ impacts. We find strong tertiary education and labor market effects for those students who applied to vocational schools with almost no impact on those who applied to academic schools. The labor market gains for vocational students are strongest at the top of the distribution and null at the bottom of the distribution. We find additional long-run impacts on consumption, and teen-age fertility. The expected net present value of benefits to participants and to taxpayers was large and positive implying that the program was welfare improving unless net externalities were large and negative.
I23|Funding academic research: grant application, partnership, award, and output|Funding agencies tend to allocate (scarce) resources using a bottom-up competitive process. This paper analyzes the determinants and the consequences of the choices made in each of the stages of the funding process. We build on previous research (Banal-Estañol, Macho-Stadler, and Pérez-Castrillo 2013, 2018, and 2019) using, and present new results based on, one of the major public organizations funding academic research worldwide: the UK's Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council.
I23|Should Individuals Migrate Before Acquiring Education or After? A New Model of Brain Waste vs. Brain Drain|Should individuals migrate before acquiring education or after? In order to analyze the optimality of the timing of migration, I develop a model of migration, which combines the two migration decisions into a unique model – decisions about where to get an education and decision about where to work. The main reason for having a unified model is that investment in human capital cannot be disjoined from the decision about work. This paper shows that brain drain is usually an optimal solution. But, when we incorporate ‘brain waste’ and ‘return migration’, then it is optimal to migrate when young.
I23|China's Lost Generation: Changes in Beliefs and their Intergenerational Transmission|Beliefs about whether effort pays off govern some of the most fundamental choices individuals make. This paper uses China’s Cultural Revolution to understand how these beliefs can be affected, how they impact behavior, and how they are transmitted across generations. During the Cultural Revolution, China’s college admission system based on entrance exams was suspended for a decade until 1976, effectively depriving an entire generation of young people of the opportunity to access higher education (the “lost generation”). Using data from a nationally representative survey, we compare cohorts who graduated from high school just before and after the college entrance exam was resumed. We find that members of the “lost generation” who missed out on college because they were born just a year or two too early believe that effort pays off to a much lesser degree, even 40 years into their adulthood. However, they invested more in their children’s education, and transmitted less of their changed beliefs to the next generation, suggesting attempts to safeguard their children from sharing their misfortunes.
I23|Finish It and It’s Free: An Evaluation of College Graduation Subsidies|Despite the rapid increase in the returns to higher education witnessed in the labor market over the past few decades, there has also been a marked increase in the share of individuals who dropout of college or university. To boost student persistence in higher education, several Canadian provincial governments introduced a set of reforms that were designed as subsidies for college graduation. In addition, these policies were designed to discourage internal migration following graduation. Using data from both administrative tax records as well as longitudinal surveys, I analyze the effectiveness of these policies. The main findings are that the programs had no effect on internal migration, but significantly reduced college dropout rates.
I23|The Post-9/11 GI Bill: Beneficiaries, Choices, and Cost|Beginning August 1, 2009, the Post-9/11 GI Bill extended educational benefits to service members who were on active duty in the military on or after September 11, 2001. Measured in 2018 dollars, the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) spent $65 billion on about 1.6 million beneficiaries in the seven years from the lawâ€™s inception through 2016. In 2016 alone, VBA spent $11 billion, an average of $17,400 per beneficiary.
I23|Skill Biased Management: Evidence from Manufacturing Firms|This paper investigates the link between management practices and workforce skills in manufacturing firms, exploiting geographical variation in the supply of human capital. Skills measures are constructed using newly compiled data on universities and regional labour markets across 19 countries. Consistent with management practices being complementary with skills, we show that firms further away from universities employ fewer skilled workers and are worse managed, even after controlling for a rich set of observables and fixed effects. Analysis using regional skill premia suggests that variation in the price of skill drives these relationships.
I23|Inequalities in Student to Course Match: Evidence from Linked Administrative Data|This paper examines inequalities in the match between student quality and university quality using linked administrative data from schools, universities and tax authorities. We analyse two measures of match at the university-subject (course) level, based on student academic attainment, and graduate earnings. We find that students from lower socio-economic groups systematically undermatch for both measures across the distribution of attainment, with particularly stark socio-economic gaps for the most undermatched. While there are negligible gender gaps in academic match, high-attaining women systematically undermatch in terms of expected earnings, largely driven by subject choice.
I23|Timing is Everything: Evidence from College Major Decisons|People rely on their experiences when making important decisions. In making these decisions, individuals may be significantly influenced by the timing of their experiences. Using administrative data, we study whether the order in which students are assigned courses affects the choice of college major. We use a natural experiment at the United States Military Academy in which students are randomly assigned to certain courses either during or after the semester in which they are required to select their college major. We find that when students are assigned to a course in the same semester as they select a major, they are over 100 percent more likely to choose a major that corresponds to that course. Despite low switching costs, approximately half of the effect persists through graduation. Our results demonstrate that the timing of when students are assigned courses has a large and persistent effect on college major choice. We explore several potential mechanisms for these results and find that students' initial major choice best fits a framework we develop that incorporates salience and availability. Furthermore, our results suggest that once students select a major, they are less likely to switch majors than the standard model of economic choice predicts. Instead, students' decision to remain in a major is more consistent with status quo bias.
I23|Higher Education Supply, Neighbourhood effects and Economic Welfare|This paper estimates neighbourhood effects in the local provision of higher education, and incorporates them in a welfare analysis of higher education supply. We use an own built dataset on the history of higher education institutions in Italy during 1861-2010 to implement an instrumental variables approach that exploits initial conditions in the pre-unitarian Italian states, interacted with post-unification comprehensive reforms of the university system. We provide robust evidence of local displacement between higher education supply in neighbouring provinces. These effects are mostly concentrated within the same field of study, the same region, and a spatial reach of 90 Km. We show that accounting for these displacement forces is important to evaluate the local economic returns of higher education supply. On average, higher education returns explain more than 4% of local value added per capita. Returns are very localised, and larger in provinces that host university hubs.
I23|How does for-profit college attendance affect student loans, defaults, and labor market outcomes?|For-profit providers are becoming an increasingly important fixture of U.S. higher education markets. Students who attend for-profit institutions take on more educational debt, have worse labor market outcomes, and are more likely to default than students attending similarly selective public schools. Because for-profits tend to serve students from more disadvantaged backgrounds, it is important to isolate the causal effect of for-profit enrollment on educational and labor market outcomes. We approach this problem using a novel instrument combined with a more comprehensive data set on student outcomes than has been employed in prior research. Our instrument leverages the interaction between changes in the demand for college owing to labor demand shocks and the local supply of for-profit schools. We compare enrollment and postsecondary outcome changes across areas that experience similar labor demand shocks but that have different latent supply of for-profit institutions. The first-stage estimates show that students are much more likely to enroll in a for-profit institution for a given labor demand change when there is a higher supply of such schools in the base period. Among four-year students, for-profit enrollment leads to more loans, higher loan amounts, an increased likelihood of borrowing, an increased risk of default, and worse labor market outcomes. Two-year for-profit students also take out more loans and have higher default rates and lower earnings. But they are more likely to graduate and to earn over $25,000 per year (the median earnings of high school graduates). Finally, we show that for-profit entry and exit decisions are at most weakly responsive to labor demand shocks. Our results point to low returns to for-profit enrollment that have important implications for public investments in higher education as well as for how students make postsecondary choices.
I23|Differential performance in high vs. low stakes tests: evidence from the GRE test|We study how different demographic groups respond to incentives by comparing their performance in “high” and “low” stakes situations. The high stakes situation is the GRE examination and the low stakes situation is a voluntary experimental section of the GRE. We find that Males exhibit a larger drop in performance between the high and low stakes examinations than females, and Whites exhibit a larger drop in performance compared to minorities. Differences between high and low stakes tests are partly explained by the fact that males and whites exert lower effort in low stakes tests compared to females and minorities.
I23|Gender Differences in Wage Expectations: Sorting, Children, and Negotiation Styles|This paper presents evidence from a large-scale study on gender differences in expected wages before labor market entry. Based on data for over 15,000 students, we document a significant and large gender gap in wage expectations that closely resembles actual wage differences, prevails across subgroups, and along the entire distribution. To understand the underlying causes and determinants, we relate expected wages to sorting into majors, industries, and occupations, child-rearing plans, perceived and actual ability, personality, perceived discrimination, and negotiation styles. Our findings indicate that sorting and negotiation styles affect the gender gap in wage expectations much more than prospective child-related labor force interruptions. Given the importance of wage expectations for labor market decisions, household bargaining, and wage setting, our results provide an explanation for persistent gender inequalities.
I23|Prestigio Universitario: ¿Qué tan importante es la elección de la institución de educación superior en la formación de salarios de los recién graduados?|Este trabajo busca estimar la importancia de la institución de educación superior en los salarios del primer empleo que perciben los recién graduados, mediante un modelo multinivel. Utilizando una gran cantidad de variables a nivel individual e institucional, los resultados indican que los salarios no solo están relacionados con las habilidades de los estudiantes, sino que un 13% de la variación de los salarios está explicada por las características de las instituciones donde estudiaron los individuos. Asimismo, se logra evidenciar que existe una gran heterogeneidad en las primas salariales que diferentes instituciones otorgan a sus egresados, aun cuando se controla por múltiples variables, mostrando que los retornos a estudiar una carrera universitaria varían mucho dependiendo del lugar de estudio.
I23|Isolating Peer Effects in the Returns to College Selectivity|This paper asks how a student’s classmates affect her returns to college. We exploit a “tracking” admission system at a selective Colombian university that led to large differences in mean classmate ability for students in the same programs. In a regression discontinuity design, we find that students in higher-ability classes were more likely to fail courses and drop out, and had lower earnings one decade later. Testable predictions from a human capital model with peer externalities show that individuals learned less in more able classrooms. Our findings suggest that exposure to higher-ability college peers can harm an individual’s career trajectory.
I23|Semesters or Quarters? The Effect of the Academic Calendar on Postsecondary Student Outcomes|We examine the impact of US colleges and universities switching from an academic quarter calendar to a semester calendar on student outcomes. Using panel data on the near universe of four-year nonprofit institutions and leveraging quasi-experimental variation in calendars across institutions and years, we show that switching from quarters to semesters negatively impacts on-time graduation rates. Event study analyses show that these negative effects persist well beyond the transition. Using detailed administrative transcript data from one large state system, we replicate this analysis at the student-level and investigate several possible mechanisms. We find shifting to a semester: (1) lowers first-year grades; (2) decreases the probability of enrolling in a full course load; and (3) delays the timing of major choice. By linking transcript data with the Unemployment Insurance system, we find minimal evidence that a semester calendar leads to increases in summer internship-type employment.
I23|Have You Read This? An Empirical Comparison of the British REF Peer Review and the Italian VQR Bibliometric Algorithm|This paper determines the ranking of the publications units of assessment which were submitted to the UK research evaluation carried out in 2014, the REF, which would have been obtained if their submission had been evaluated with the bibliometric algorithm used by the Italian evaluation agency, ANVUR, for its evaluation of the research of Italian universities. We find very high correlation between the two methods, especially in regard to the funding allocation, with a headline figure of 0.9997 for the funding attributed to the institutions.
I23|Understanding Gender Differences in STEM: Evidence from College Applications|While education levels of women have increased dramatically relative to men, women are still greatly underrepresented in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) college programmes. We use unique data on preference rankings for all secondary school students who apply for college in Ireland and detailed information on school subjects and grades to decompose the sources of the gender gap in STEM. We find that, of the 22 percentage points raw gap, about 13 percentage points is explained by differential subject choices and grades in secondary school. Subject choices are more important than grades -- we estimate male comparative advantage in STEM (as measured by subject grades) explains about 3 percentage points of the gender gap. Additionally, differences in overall achievement between girls and boys have a negligible effect. Strikingly, there remains a gender gap of 9 percentage points even for persons who have identical preparation at the end of secondary schooling (in terms of both subjects studied and grades achieved); however, this gap is only 4 percentage points for STEM-ready students. We find that gender gaps are smaller among high-achieving students and for students who go to school in more affluent areas. There is no gender gap in science (the large gaps are in engineering and technology), and we also find a smaller gender gap when we include nursing degrees in STEM, showing that the definition of STEM used is an important determinant of the conclusions reached.
I23|Distance Learning in Higher Education: Evidence from a Randomized Experiment|Using a randomized experiment in a public Swiss university, we study the impact of online live streaming of lectures on student achievement and attendance. We find that (i) students use the live streaming technology only punctually, apparently when random events make attending in class too costly; (ii) attending lectures via live streaming lowers achievement for low-ability students and increases achievement for high-ability ones and (iii) offering live streaming reduces in-class attendance only mildly. These findings have important implications for the design of education policies.
I23|Problemas Burocráticos Y Económicos De La I+D Universitaria En España Y Europa, 2003-2018|"Analizamos los principales problemas burocráticos y económicos de la investigación científica en las universidades españolas, comparando la situación de menor apoyo a las áreas de Economía y Otras Ciencias Sociales en comparación con las áreas experimentales. También comparamos las universidades españolas con las de otros países de la OCDE, constando un mayor nivel de insatisfacción laboral y dificultades en el caso de España. Destacamos manifestaciones promovidas, en favor de la I+D, por destacadas Asociaciones Científicas, y otras instituciones, en el período 2003-2018, con un apoyo generalizado al incremento de la financiación, a la simplificación burocrática y a un mayor protagonismo de la Ciencia frente al exceso de poder de las Administraciones Públicas (en España, sus Comunidades Autónomas y Unión Europea). También mencionamos otros problemas que requieren una atención urgente: 1) Aumentar el apoyo, no sólo a las Ciencias Experimentales sino también a las Ciencias Sociales y a otras áreas, especialmente cuando contribuyen al desarrollo e y calidad de vida. 2) Apoyar a toda la investigación de calidad suficiente e interés social, y evitar que en nombre de la ""excelencia"" se apliquen criterios burocráticos inadecuados que perjudican a muchos equipos de calidad. 3) Promover la comunicación entre las Asociaciones Científicas y los representantes políticos, en busca de apoyo parlamentario frente a los obstáculos burocráticos. 4) Promover la transferencia y comunicación social de la investigación, especialmente en temas de interés general para el desarrollo, a través de libros electrónicos, videos, televisión prensa y otros medios. 5) Permitir que los Sindicatos de profesores puedan intervenir en apoyo de los investigadores cuando los obstáculos burocráticos generan un deterior del ambiente laboral en las universidades y una indefensión de las personas afectadas. We analyze the main bureaucratic and economic problems of scientific research in Spanish universities, comparing the situation of less support to the areas of Economics and Other Social Sciences compared to the Experimental Sciences areas. We also compared Spanish universities with those of other OECD countries, showing a higher level of job dissatisfaction and difficulties in the case of Spain. We emphasize promoted manifestations, in favor of R & D, by outstanding Scientific Associations, and other institutions, in the period 2003-2018, with a generalized support to the increase of the financing, the diminution of bureaucratic problems, and to a greater protagonism of the Science in front of to the excess of power of the Public Administrations (in Spain, its Autonomous Communities and European Union). We also mention other problems that require urgent attention: 1) Increase support, not only to Experimental Sciences but also to Social Sciences and other areas, especially when they contribute to the development and quality of life. 2) Support all research of sufficient quality and social interest, and avoid that in the name of ""excellence"" inadequate bureaucratic criteria are applied that harm many quality teams. 3) Promote communication between the Scientific Associations and political representatives, in search of parliamentary support in the face of bureaucratic obstacles. 4) Promote the transfer and social communication of research, especially in topics of general interest for development, through electronic books, videos, television press and other media. 5) Allow the Teachers' Unions to intervene in support of the researchers when the bureaucratic obstacles generate a deterioration of the work environment in the universities and a defenselessness of the affected people. The Document includes an Annex in English."
I23|Gender Differences in Volunteer's Dilemma: Evidence from Teamwork among Graduate Students|Using data from room bookings at the Harvard Kennedy School, I find that female students volunteer significantly more than male students in booking rooms for team meetings. I also find that gender difference in undertaking this logistical task is statistically and quantitatively significant only when students have limited interaction prior to teamwork. Even though booking a room involves a relatively small (time) cost, such costs can add up, and also contribute to gender stereotyping in allocation of tasks in other team settings.
I23|Size, Internationalization, and University Rankings: Evaluating and Predicting Times Higher Education (THE) Data for Japan|International and domestic rankings of academics, academic departments, faculties, schools and colleges, institutions of higher learning, states, regions, and countries are of academic and practical interest and importance to students, parents, academics, and private and public institutions. International and domestic rankings are typically based on arbitrary methodologies and criteria. Evaluating how the rankings might be sensitive to different factors, as well as forecasting how they might change over time, requires a statistical analysis of the factors that affect the rankings. Accurate data on rankings and the associated factors are essential for a valid statistical analysis. In this respect, the Times Higher Education (THE) World University Rankings represent one of the three leading and most influential annual sources of international university rankings. Using recently released data for a single country, namely Japan, the paper evaluates the effects of size (specifically, the number of full-time-equivalent (FTE) students, or FTE (Size)) and internationalization (specifically, the percentage of international students, or IntStud) on academic rankings using THE data for 2017 and 2018 on 258 national, public (that is, prefectural or city), and private universities. The results show that both size and internationalization are statistically significant in explaining rankings for all universities, as well as separately for private and non-private (that is, national and public) universities, in Japan for 2017 and 2018.
I23|La governance delle universita' italiane dopo la Riforma Gelmini: un'indagine empirica sui processi decisionali| In the last decades, the political and academic discussion on university governance has been characterized by two different perspectives. On one hand, the New Public Management approach, in which universities are seen as institutions in a quasi-market in which political authority appoints external agents and imposes incentive to align to its goals the interests of the universities and of those who work there. On the other hand, a perspective in which universities are understood as publicly regulated institutions, whose main aim is the cooperation between the stakeholders that sustains the fundamental relationships between different university components and the investments in human capital . In this context, we study the reform introduced in Italy by the Law 30 December 2010, n 240 that redesigned the governance of Italian universities. We use an unique dataset on Italian universities to investigate, beyond the letter of the law (and statutes), the internal governance patterns that emerged after the reform. The results show that, even in the presence of a common regulatory framework, a variety of governance models have been implemented by the universities. Such models ranges in a continuum between a vertical and a shared governance model. Furthermore, the data confirm the hypothesis that in many (even if not all) of the universities the stakeholders who hold the essential cognitive resources and the specific investments in the university, respond so as to introduce functional balances that prevent opportunistic behaviors that would otherwise expropriate their investments. Negli ultimi decenni, la discussione sui meccanismi e i modelli di governo delle università è caratterizzata sul piano politico e su quello scientifico da due visioni di fondo profondamente diverse. Da un lato, la visione del New Public Management (NPM) , in cui le università sono viste come istituzioni che operano in un quasi-mercato in cui l’autorità politica svolge il suo ruolo attraverso la nomina di amministratori esterni e impone meccanismi di incentivo volti ad allineare gli interessi delle università e di chi vi opera (gli agenti) a obiettivi prefissati. Dall’altro, una visione che guarda alle università in una logica di autonomia e insieme di responsabilità sociale verso i suoi diversi stakeholder interni ed esterni. In questa prospettiva, le università sono intese come istituzioni pubbliche finanziate e regolate nei loro obiettivi generali dallo Stato ma autonome e auto-governate, il cui problema principale è la cooperazione tra gli stakeholder essenziali e la accountability verso gli stakeholder esterni. In questo quadro si inserisce la riforma introdotta in Italia con la legge 30 Dicembre 2010, n 240. Nonostante l’iniziale ispirazione all’approccio NPM, tuttavia, l’assetto di governo alla fine risultante dalla legge e dagli statuti approvati non introduce in modo effettivo il controllo esterno tipico del NPM, ma nemmeno si rifà al modello di governance condivisa di tipo multi-stakeholder. Risulta quindi importante per cogliere i mutamenti in corso, l’analisi delle prassi di governance in atto nelle Università e delle concrete dinamiche. Solo con questa analisi si può infatti verificare l’effettivo impatto che la normativa ha avuto, ed, eventualmente, i fattori che, pur in presenza di un quadro normativo prefissato, hanno comportato una diversa implementazione di tale nuovo modello di governance. In questo articolo, sulla base di ipotesi ricavate dalla ricostruzione a grandi linee del dibattito teorico, intendiamo indagare gli effettivi modelli decisionali in atto nelle Università italiane, utilizzando i principali risultati di un’indagine sulla governance delle università nel post-riforma. L’indagine, condotta nel 2015 è stata svolta attraverso questionari on-line somministrati a tutti i Rettori e Direttori di dipartimento delle università italiane, con un elevato tasso di risposta (quasi il 40%) che rende i risultati decisamente significativi e rilevanti, data l’estrema articolazione dei questionari e, quindi la ricchezza dei dati raccolti. Nell’articolo presentiamo i dati relativi ai modelli decisionali a livello di ateneo, il peso dei diversi stakeholder nel processo decisionale relativamente ad una pluralità di ambiti di intervento (dal bilancio, alla ripartizione dei fondi di ricerca, alla gestione del personale) e le valutazioni che i Direttori danno del mutamento in atto. I risultati mostrano, che di fronte allo shock esogeno della riforma, nelle università si forma una pluralità di modelli di governance che variano in un continuum tra un modello verticale e un modello bilanciato. Inoltre, i dati confermano l’ipotesi che in molti (anche se non tutti) atenei gli agenti che detengono le risorse cognitive essenziali e gli investimenti specifici nell’università, rispondono, in base alla loro forza strategica, mediante adattamenti degli effettivi meccanismi di governance, in modo da reintrodurre bilanciamenti funzionali a prevenire i comportamenti opportunistici (tra cui l’abuso di autorità) che li esproprierebbero.
I23|Academic Shared Governance And Performance: Theoretical Issues And Empirical Evidence|In the debate surrounding various reforms in higher education systems, performance, along with how universities should be governed, have been main issues. We argue that the demand for shared governance, i.e., faculty participation in decision‐making vs. concentrated or top‐down decision‐ making, is driven by the characteristics of academic transactions. Especially in universities, shared governance prevents that the unilateral allocation of authority paves the way to the abuse of authority, which would depress incentives to undertake optimal idiosyncratic investments in human cognitive resources, or prevent cooperation in a context characterized by contractual incompleteness and transactions involving multiple specific investments and coessential resources. To empirically analyze our hypothesis, we collect original survey data of Italian universities in 2015. We find that shared decision‐making processes are correlated with better performance.
I23|Institution, Major, and Firm-Specific Premia: Evidence from Administrative Data|We examine how a student’s major and the institution attended contribute to the labor market outcomes of young graduates. Administrative panel data that combine student transcripts with matched employer-employee records allow us to provide the first decomposition of premia into individual and firm-specific components. We find that both major and institutional premia are more strongly related to the firm-specific component of wages than the individual-specific component of wages. On average, a student’s major is a more important predictor of future wages than the selectivity of the institution attended, but major premia (and their relative ranking) can differ substantially across institutions, suggesting the importance of program-level data for prospective students and their parents.
I23|Cultural Factors and Study Destinations of International Students|"We examine the role of cultural factors in attracting international students, using data of 102 countries from 2000 to 2015. Our results show that the export of cultural products is conducive to the increase of international students, and in particular, international students choose to study in developing countries whose official language and religious beliefs are different from their home countries, while they tend to go to developed countries with a common language. We also examine the features of international students in China and Chinese students in other countries. The policy implication from our study is that ""soft power"" such as a unique culture, common value and migration networks is important in attracting foreign students."
I23|A Comparison Between Merit-Based and Test-Based Higher Education Admission in Indonesia|The undergraduate admissions in Indonesia’s public universities are interestingly conducted in a two-fold system. Students are ?rst considered for the merit-based ‘Undangan’ admissions, whereas the test-based admissions are conducted afterwards. This study aims to discuss the differences of academic performances of students entering universities through the merit-based and test-based admissions. Our discussion utilizes a comprehensive data of 5,470 freshmen admitted during the period 2001 to 2017 at the Faculty of Economics and Business of Universitas Indonesia. We observed the differences using regression and matching estimates controlling the students’ characteristics and demographics. The ?ndings suggest that students admitted through the Undangan system perform generally betterHowever, such difference of academic performance diminishes across time. Furthermore, we describe the potential problems and, at the same time, progress for the country’s education system posed by the phenomenon.
I23|Measuring Opportunity in U.S. Higher Education|In identifying whether universities provide opportunities for low-income students, there is a measurement challenge: different institutions face students with different incomes and preparation. We show how a hypothetical university's “relevant pool”–the students from whom it could plausibly draw–affects popular measures: the Pell share, Bottom Quintile share, and Intergenerational Mobility. Using a proof by contradiction, we demonstrate that universities ranked highly on the popular measures can actually serve disproportionately few low-income students. We also show the reverse: universities slated for penalties on the popular measures can actually serve disproportionately many low-income students. Furthermore, the Intergenerational Mobility measure penalizes universities that face relatively equal income distributions, which are probably good for low-income students, and rewards universities that face very unequal income distributions. In short, by confounding differences in university effort with differences in circumstances, the popular measures could distort university decision making and produce unintended consequences. We demonstrate that, with well-thought-out data analysis, it is possible to create benchmarks that actually measure what they are intended to measure. In particular, we present a measure that overcomes the deficiencies of the popular measures and is informative about all, not just low-income, students.
I23|Second Chance: Life without Student Debt|Rising student debt is considered one of the creeping threats of our time. This paper examines the effect of student debt relief on individual credit and labor market outcomes. We exploit the plausibly-random debt discharge due to the inability of National Collegiate, the largest owner of private student loan debt, to prove chain of title for thousands of loans across the US. Using hand-collected lawsuits filings matched with individual credit bureau information, we find that borrowers experiencing the debt relief shock reduce their indebtedness by 26%, by both reducing their demand for credit and limiting the use of existing credit accounts, and are 11% less likely to default on other accounts. After the discharge, the borrowers' geographical mobility increases, as well as, their probability to change jobs and ultimately their income increases by about $3000 over a three year period. These findings speak to the benefits of intervening in the student loan market to reduce the consequences of debt overhang problems by forgiving student debts.
I23|Employer Learning and the Dynamics of Returns to Universities: Evidence from Chinese Elite Education during University Expansion|This paper estimates the return to an elite university education over a college graduate’s career using the CHIP 2013 data. We find a substantial premium for graduating from an elite Chinese university at job entry, but it declines quickly with labor market experience. This pattern is entirely driven by the young cohorts who enter college after the higher education expansion that started in 1999. This pattern is more pronounced in coastal provinces and in economically more developed regions, where individual skills are highly rewarded in the labor market. The initial elite premium and its subsequent decline is found just for males; individual skills are much more consistently rewarded for females than males. The results are consistent with employer learning, where employers pay workers based on more easily observable group characteristics at job entry but rely less on these over time when more accurate information about individual productivity becomes available.
I23|"Long-term Effects from Early Exposure to Research: Evidence from the NIH ""Yellow Berets''"|"Can a relatively short but intense exposure to frontier research alter the career trajectories of potential innovators? To answer this question, we study the careers and productivity of 3,075 medical school graduates who applied to the Associate Training Programs (ATP) of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) during the turbulent period of the Vietnam War, 1965-1975. Carefully selecting on observables, we compare physicians who attended the program to those who passed a first admission screen but were ultimately not selected. We find that program participants were more likely to initially enter academic medicine, and less likely to switch to purely clinical endeavors as their careers unfolded. Over the life cycle, NIH trainees also garnered publications, citations, and grant funding at a much higher rate than synthetic controls. The direction of their research efforts was also durably imprinted by their training experience. In particular, NIH trainees appear to have acquired a distinct ""translational'' style of biomedical research which became an implicit training model for physician-scientists as ATP alumni came to occupy the commanding heights of academic medicine throughout the United States."
I23|Monopsony Power in Higher Education: A Tale of Two Tracks|This paper tests for and measures monopsony power in the U.S. higher education labor market. It does so by directly estimating the residual labor supply curves facing individual four-year colleges and universities using school-specific labor demand instruments. The results indicate that schools have significant monopsony power over their tenure track faculty. Its magnitude is monotonic in rank, being greatest over full professors and smaller for associate and assistant professors. For non-tenure track faculty, however, universities do not seem to have any monopsony power and instead face perfectly elastic residual labor supply curves. Universities’ market power over tenure track faculty does not differ between public and private schools nor between female and male faculty. Monopsony power is greater for larger universities, and the geographic market for faculty seems to be national rather than local. Monopsony power is also larger at higher-status institutions as measured by Carnegie classifications, average test scores of the undergraduate student body, or initial salary rankings. The results also suggest that monopsony power has contributed to the trend toward non-tenure track faculty in U.S.
I23|Does the Healthcare Educational Market Respond to Short-Run Local Demand?|The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA) increased demand for healthcare across the U.S., but it is unclear if or how the supply side has responded to meet this demand. In this paper, we take advantage of plausibly exogenous geographical heterogeneity in the ACA to examine the healthcare education sector’s response to increased demand for healthcare services. We look across educational fields, types of degrees, and types of institutions, paying particular attention to settings where our conceptual model predicts heightened responses. We find no statistically significant evidence of increases in graduates and can rule out fairly modest effects. This implies that healthcare production may have adjusted to increased demand from insurance expansion in other ways rather than primarily through new graduates of local healthcare educational markets.
I23|College Remediation Goes Back to High School: Evidence from a Statewide Program in Tennessee|Many U.S. students arrive on college campus lacking the skills expected for college-level work. As state leaders seek to increase postsecondary enrollment and completion, public colleges have sought to lessen the delays created by remedial course requirements. Tennessee has taken a novel approach by allowing students to complete their remediation requirements in high school. Using both a difference-in-differences and a regression discontinuity design, we evaluate the program’s impact on college enrollment and credit accumulation, finding that the program boosted enrollment in college-level math during the first year of college and allowed students to earn a modest 4.5 additional college credits by their second year. We also report the first causal evidence on remediation's impact on students' math skills, finding that the program did not improve students’ math achievement, nor boost students’ chances of passing college math. Our findings cast doubt on the effectiveness of the current model of remediation—whether in high school or college—in improving students’ math skills. They also suggest that the time cost of remediation—whether pre-requisite or co-requisite remediation—is not the primary barrier causing low degree completion for students with weak math preparation.
I23|Reducing Frictions in College Admissions: Evidence from the Common Application|College admissions in the U.S. is decentralized, with students applying separately to each school. This creates frictions in the college admissions process and, if substantial, might ultimately limit student choice. In this paper, we study the introduction of the Common Application (CA) platform, under which students submit a single application to all member schools, potentially reducing frictions and increasing student choice. We first document that joining the CA increases the number of applications received by schools, consistent with reduced frictions. Joining the CA also reduces the yield on accepted students, consistent with increased student choice, and institutions respond to the reduced yield by admitting more students. In line with these findings, we document that the CA has accelerated geographic integration: upon joining, schools attract more foreign students and more out-of-state students, especially from other states with significant CA membership, consistent with network effects. Finally, we find some evidence that joining the CA increases freshmen SAT scores. If so, and given that CA members tend to be more selective institutions, the CA has contributed to stratification, the widening gap between more selective and less selective schools.
I23|Nudging at Scale: Experimental Evidence from FAFSA Completion Campaigns|Do nudge interventions that have generated positive impacts at a local level maintain efficacy when scaled state or nationwide? What specific mechanisms explain the positive impacts of promising smaller-scale nudges? We investigate, through two randomized controlled trials, the impact of a national and state-level campaign to encourage students to apply for financial aid for college. The campaigns collectively reached over 800,000 students, with multiple treatment arms to investigate different potential mechanisms. We find no impacts on financial aid receipt or college enrollment overall or for any student subgroups. We find no evidence that different approaches to message framing, delivery, or timing, or access to one-on-one advising affected campaign efficacy. We discuss why nudge strategies that work locally may be hard to scale effectively.
I23|Are Foreign Stem PhDs More Entrepreneurial? Entrepreneurial Characteristics, Preferences and Employment Outcomes of Native and Foreign Science & Engineering PhD Students|Prior research has shown that immigrants make important contributions to US innovation and are more likely than natives to become entrepreneurs. However, there is little evidence on how foreign and native high-skilled workers differ prior to entering the workforce. Moreover, little attention has been paid to distinguishing between founders and employees who join startups. We draw on a longitudinal survey of over 5,600 foreign and native STEM PhD students at U.S. research universities to examine entrepreneurial characteristics and career preferences prior to graduation, as well as founding and employment outcomes after graduation. First, we find that foreign PhD students differ from native PhD students with respect to individual characteristics typically associated with entrepreneurship such as risk tolerance, a preference for autonomy, and interest in commercialization. Second, foreign PhD students are more likely to express intentions to become a founder or a startup employee prior to graduation. Third, despite their entrepreneurial career interests, foreign PhDs are less likely to become founders or startup employees in their first industry job after graduation. These patterns call for future research on factors that enable or constrain foreign STEM workers from realizing their entrepreneurial career aspirations.
I23|Conference Presentations and Academic Publishing|This paper aims to quantify the contribution of conferences to publication success of more than 4,000 papers presented at three leading economics conferences over the 2006- 2012 period. The results show a positive link between conference presentation and the publishing probability in high-quality journals. Participating in major conferences is also associated with improved metrics for other measures of academic success such as the number of citations or abstract views. We document that, while the results are broadly similar across fields, annual meetings of the American Economic Association are particularly valuable in these dimensions.
I23|Divergent: The Time Path of Legacy and Athlete Admissions at Harvard|Applications to elite US colleges have more than doubled over the past 20 years, with little change in the number of available seats. We examine how this increased competition has affected the admissions advantage that legacies and athletes (LA) receive. Using data on Harvard applications over 18 years, we show that non-legacy, non-athlete (NLNA) applications grew considerably and that LA applications remained flat. Yet, the share of LA admits remained stable, implying substantial increases in admissions advantages for legacies and athletes. We develop a simple theoretical model of university admissions to frame our empirical analysis. Viewed through the lens of the model, stability in the share of LA admits implies that elite colleges treat the number of LA admits and overall admit quality as complements. Our empirical analysis reveals that, if the admissions advantages for LA applicants had been constant throughout this period, there would have been a large increase in the number of minority admits.
I23|Legacy and Athlete Preferences at Harvard|The lawsuit Students For Fair Admissions v. Harvard University provided an unprecedented look at how an elite school makes admissions decisions. Using publicly released reports, we examine the preferences Harvard gives for recruited athletes, legacies, those on the dean’s interest list, and children of faculty and staff (ALDCs). Among white admits, over 43% are ALDC. Among admits who are African American, Asian American, and Hispanic, the share is less than 16% each. Our model of admissions shows that roughly three quarters of white ALDC admits would have been rejected if they had been treated as white non-ALDCs. Removing preferences for athletes and legacies would significantly alter the racial distribution of admitted students, with the share of white admits falling and all other groups rising or remaining unchanged.
I23|Increasing the benefits of Slovakia’s integration in global value chains|Heavy involvement in international trade and global value chains has been an effective way for promoting Slovakia's economic and social catch-up. Large foreign direct investment inflows have helped develop a competitive export-led manufacturing industry, with a strong specialisation in the automotive and electronics sectors, fostering robust growth and productivity performance with good fiscal and external balance results. However, the benefits of this development strategy have diminished since the 2008-09 crisis and the subsequent slowdown in world trade growth. Moreover, over the years Slovakia’s integration into world trade has remained for a large part based on downstream activities of value chains that incorporate little domestic value added, such as the assembly of imported intermediate goods, and further expansion of this growth model is hindered by employers’ increasing difficulties in finding skilled labour. There is a need to help local firms to better benefit from foreign companies’ know-how, further prepare the workforce for the increasing digitalisation and automation of most industries, promote the diversification of the economy and, in particular, strengthen the role of the services sector. This assessment, which is derived from the first part of this chapter, is followed by a discussion of the changes required to better leverage Slovakia’s experience with global value chains. All in all, a broad range of well-coordinated policies is called for. This entails better adapting the skills of the workforce to the changing needs of the labour market, enhancing the business environment, improving transport infrastructure and stimulating firms’ innovation capacity.This Working Paper relates to the 2019 OECD Economic Survey of Slovak Republic(http://www.oecd.org/economy/surveys/slovak-republic-economic-snapshot/)
I23|Science-industry knowledge exchange: A mapping of policy instruments and their interactions|Countries deploy a variety of financial, regulatory and soft policy instruments to promote science-industry knowledge exchange. While these instruments are often discussed in isolation, they are implemented collectively and may reinforce and complement but also weaken or even negatively affect each other and add excessive complexity. This paper develops a conceptual framework to map policy instruments for knowledge exchange and assess the interactions between them. The framework also considers how national contexts and global trends influence the choice of policy instruments. Policy examples drawn from the EC-OECD STIP Compass database and from case studies show that there are significant differences across countries in the relative importance given to each policy instrument in terms of budget, target groups, eligibility criteria, time horizon and implementation. These differences are also a consequence of different country conditions.
I23|Cross-country evidence on the contributions of research institutions to innovation|This paper presents preliminary evidence on the patenting activities of 21 200 research institutions - 20 091 higher education institutions (HEIs) and 1 109 public research institutes (PRIs) - for 36 OECD countries and China from 1992 to 2014. Our evidence, which builds on a database that matches research institutions to a sample of their patent applications, indicates patent applications to the European Patent Office (EPO) filed by research institutions grew faster than industry patents. Those jointly filed by industry and research institutions grew even faster. However, research institutions’ share in patent applications remains low and their ratio of patents granted to applications is below that of industry. An econometric analysis at postal code level shows that geographical proximity to research institutions is associated with higher industry patenting. Results from an instrumental variable estimation indicate that research institutions positively influence local industry patenting, including in life sciences and digital technologies.
I23|Предизвикателства Пред Висшите Училища, Свързани С Академичното Развитие<BR>[Legal challenges in front of the higher schools, related to the academic development]|Резюме: В доклада се прави изследване на същността на академичното развитие в контекста на критичен анализ на последните изменения и допълнения на ЗРАСРБ от 3 Април 2018 г. Акцент се поставя на наукометричните изисквания към публикационната дейност, като основна предпоставка за академичното израстване.
I23|Publication Performance and Number of Authors – Evidence for World Top Economists|In social sciences the measurement of performance is usually done giving the full credit of each paper to all its authors. Aiming to analyze the impact of the number of authors on the performance results, we propose an adjustment to the h-index that is flexible enough to allow the consideration of distinct co-authorship weighting schemes. We then evaluate the publication performance of the members of the departments of economics of the top 10 world universities (472 authors; 15,243 papers). Our results show that the number of authors per paper is rapidly increasing and that this dimension measurably affects the final ranking of authors even in a scientific area in which the average number of authors is lower than in physical and life sciences.
I23|Does a Strong Academic Integrity Culture Discourage Academic Dishonesty Among Graduate Students?|The issue of academic dishonesty has received a considerable amount of attention in academic studies over the past 20 years. Researchers have tried to empirically test a number of determinants and factors to explain academic dishonesty. This article aim to investigate the influence of an integrity culture on discouraging academic dishonesty among graduate students of KDI School through applying the knowledge of previous studies related to the academic integrity culture. It applied simple correlation test to observe the influence of contextual factors including existence of honor codes, chance of getting caught and punishment on the likelihood of cheating. However, it could not find enough evidence to support that a strong academic integrity culture discourage academic dishonesty and suspected that there may be other demographic and cultural factors associated.
I23|Академичното Самоуправление В България -Традиции И Предизвикателства<BR>[Тне academic self-government in Bulgaria - traditions and challenges]|Резюме. В статията се изследва академичнаго самоупрамение, залегнало в основата на модела за упрамение на висшите училища в България. На база на сравнително-правен анализ с предходни законодателни решения се правят изводи и обобщения. Набелязани са предизвикателствата и тенденциите на съвременния период в развитието на висшето образование и взаимовръзката с академичното самоупрамение. Abstract Тhе article examines the academic self-govemment, underlying in the base ofthe model ofthe higher schools govemment in Bulgaria. Based on the comparative-legal analysis with former legislative solutions the authors make conclusions and summaries. Тhе challenges and tendencies in the contemporary period of the higher education development and the interrelations with the academic self govemment are marked.
I23|Higher education development in Bulgaria - periodisation, principles and trends|This report examines the legal framework of higher education in Bulgaria and aims to systematise both the historic and current founding principles of the legal arrangements of higher education institutions in Bulgaria. On the basis of this analysis observations and recommendations have been put forward for further improvement of the legal framework.
I23|Educational systems and the need to review traditions in order to respond to labour market demands|This article attempts to present the challenges facing modern educational systems in the EU, and particularly that of Bulgaria, and which are the result of the dynamics of both the digital epoch, and a labour market without borders. The paper brings forward arguments in favour of reviewing and reconsidering the concept of educational policies addressing adequate employee skills for a competitive labour market. Conclusions and suggestions are made on the basis of research into the national regulatory framework and the recommendation of EESC.
I23|National System of Researchers - Conacyt and the fight against poverty in Mexico: Winds of change and generational change|Since the creation of the National System of Researchers (SNI) in 1984, research and technological development recognizes the work of researchers adhering to the SNI, by granting an economic stimulus, gradual and correlated to the level of importance of their productivity and scientific creation, whose purpose is to promote the development of science and technology in Mexico. The Council of Science and Technology (Conacyt), defines the policy line of action in the field of scientific and technological research, in accordance with the priorities that the National Development Plan, establishes as a priority in the search for a better state of economic development and social. Currently, one of the main problems facing Mexico is the poverty they present in large sectors of the population, both in rural and urban areas. The condition of poverty means that the population that suffers it suffers from economic marginalization and social exclusion, whose objective expression corresponds, among others, to the lack of opportunities for access to employment, health, education and the presence of food deprivation, being these conditions unfavorable This invites us to ask ourselves: how to tackle the fight against poverty and social exclusion, from the perspective of social research, in support of the elaboration of a public policy that social development in Mexico? In this sense, a first note invites us to reflect on the following: how to support, from the field of research and academia, the elaboration of public policy that seeks to direct more precise actions in the fight against multidimensional poverty and social exclusion? The scientific and social responsibility of the members of the SNI, and in particular, those whose specialty is the study of poverty, is to contribute to promoting, in a knowledge society, the generation of quality scientific articles, but also the generation of proposals for lines of action that allow the State, the design of public policy that seeks a more objective and transparent action in the use of public resources destined to actions to combat multidimensional poverty and social exclusion . In this way, it is important to recognize what is the total number of SNI researchers who study poverty as a specialty line? and what is the level of category that holds in the SNI and which institutions carry out research on poverty ?, in this way to get closer to what is the scheme of the generational change of researchers of the SNI, in the study of poverty in Mexico?
I23|Building World-Class Universities : Some Insights & Predictions|Innovations in higher education model are finding importance than ever before due to enhanced higher education institutions and the advancement in technology adopted mass education opportunities. After privatization of higher education, there is an enhanced competition between universities to attract students globally. Universities are competing with each other in terms of their physical and intellectual assets. It is postulated that the six essential assets to be developed by a university based on our predictive analysis for the growth and prosper as world-class university are (1) Physical infrastructure, (2) Digital infrastructure, (3) Innovative academic & training Infrastructure for confidence building, (4) Intellectual property infrastructure, (5) Emotional infrastructure, and (6) Networked infrastructure. In this paper, we have determined the primary focus of these infrastructures along with their essential objectives in detail. We have also discussed the various generic strategies to be followed to develop such infrastructures along the lifecycle of the university including Survival, Sustainability, Differentiation, and Growth & prosperity are analysed. The necessary and sufficient conditions of developing such infrastructures using all the above strategies towards building World-class universities are identified. It is estimated that Physical, Digital, and Innovative Academic infrastructures are necessary conditions and Intellectual Property, Emotional, and Network infrastructures are sufficient conditions respectively.
I23|Triple Helix sebagai model bagi inovasi pendidikan tinggi: Analisis logika kelembagaan dalam pengembangan kewirausahaan dan ekonomi<BR>[The Triple Helix as a model for innovation of higher education: Analysis of institutional logic in entrepreneurship and economic development]|This article will describe the transformation of higher education which is undergoing an expanded mission to include economic and social development as well as competence, cultural reproduction, and research and the shift from the individual to the organizational focus. In this case, the triple helix model emphasizes the relationship between universities, industry, and government as a development strategy to meet social capital and technological gaps, so that this model can provide optimal conditions for university innovation. By analyzing the institutional theory that has four stages of development in the process of institutionalizing the model, it can be understood that the pattern of material practices that are built socially, historically, assumptions, values, beliefs and rules by which individuals produce and reproduce their material subsistence, managing time and space, and giving meaning to their social reality. This article concludes that the institutional logic that is expected to work includes trust in scientific and technological innovation as a key to growing economic prosperity, market orientation in academic graduation without leaving local culture, enhancing and protecting intellectual property rights in the industry, and the ability of institutions in market competition.
I23|The Value of U.S. College Education in Global Labor Markets: Experimental Evidence from China|One million international students study in the U.S. each year and the majority of them compete in global labor markets after graduation. I conduct a large-scale field experiment to study how employers in China value U.S. college education. I sent over 27,000 fictitious online applications to business and computer science jobs in China, randomizing the country of college education. I find that U.S.-educated applicants are on average 18 percent less likely to receive a callback than applicants educated in China, with applicants from very selective U.S. institutions underperforming those from the least selective Chinese institutions. The U.S.-China callback gap is smaller at high-wage jobs, consistent with employers fearing U.S.-educated applicants have better outside options and will be harder to hire and retain. The gap is also smaller at foreign-owned firms, consistent with Chinese-owned firms knowing less about American education. Controlling for high school quality, test scores, or U.S. work experiences does not attenuate the gap, suggesting that it is not driven by employer perceptions of negative selection. A companion employer survey of 260 hiring managers finds consistent and additional supporting evidence for the experimental findings.
I23|Decentralizing centralized matching markets: Implications from early offers in university admissions|The matching literature commonly rules out that market design itself shapes agent preferences. Underlying this premise is the assumption that agents know their own preferences at the outset and that preferences do not change throughout the matching process. Under this assumption, a centralized matching market can often outperform a decentralized one. Using a quasi-experiment in Germany's university admissions, we provide evidence against this assumption. We study a centralized clearinghouse that implements the early stages of the university-proposing Gale-Shapley deferred-acceptance mechanism in real time, resembling a decentralized market with continuous offers, rejections, and acceptances. With data on the exact timing of every decision, we show that early offers are more likely to be accepted than (potential) later offers, despite early offers not being made by more desirable universities. Furthermore, early offers are only accepted after some time rather than immediately. These results and direct survey evidence are consistent with a model of information acquisition: it is costly for students to learn about universities and accepting a university that turns out to be inferior causes regret. We discuss and rule out some alternative hypotheses. Our findings motivate a hybrid mechanism that balances centralization and decentralization. By allowing sequential learning, it improves welfare, especially in markets with substantial learning costs.
I23|School Vouchers, Labor Markets and Vocational Education|We provide evidence on the long-run impact of vouchers for private secondary schools, evidence collected twenty years after students applied for the vouchers. Prior to the voucher lottery, students applied to either an academic or vocational secondary school, an important mediating factor in the vouchers’ impacts. We find strong tertiary education and labor market effects for those students who applied to vocational schools with almost no impact on those who applied to academic schools. The labor market gains for vocational students are strongest at the top of the distribution and null at the bottom of the distribution. We find additional longrun impacts on consumption, and teen-age fertility. The expected net present value of benefits to participants and to taxpayers was large and positive implying that the program was welfare improving unless net externalities were large and negative. **** RESUMEN: En este trabajo estudiamos los impactos de largo plazo del programa de becas PACES para educación secundaria privada, para alumnos de bajos recursos, utilizando información recolectada veinte años después de que los estudiantes aplicaran a la beca. Previo a la asignación aleatoria, los estudiantes debían escoger entre un colegio académico o vocacional, factor importante en el impacto de las becas. Encontramos fuertes efectos sobre la educación superior y el mercado laboral para aquellos estudiantes que aplicaron a colegios vocacionales y casi ningún impacto sobre aquellos que aplicaron a un colegio académico. Las ganancias laborales de los estudiantes vocacionales son más fuertes en la parte superior de la distribución y nulas en la parte inferior. Se encuentran impactos adicionales de largo plazo sobre consumo y embarazo adolescente. El valor presente neto esperado de los beneficios de los participantes y los contribuyentes fue positivo y de gran magnitud, lo que significaría mejoras sustancialmente en el bienestar social, a menos de que existieran externalidades netas grandes y negativas.
I23|Work Hard or Play Hard? Degree Class, Student Leadership and Employment Opportunities|We investigated the impact on first hiring outcomes of two main curriculum vitae (CV) characteristics by which graduates with a tertiary education degree distinguish themselves from their peers: degree class and extra-curricular activities. These characteristics were randomly assigned to 2,800 fictitious job applications that were sent to real vacancies in Belgium. Academic performance and extra-curricular engagement both enhanced job interview rates by about 7%. The effect of a higher degree class was driven by female (versus male) candidates and candidates with a master’s (versus a bachelor’s) degree. We did not find evidence for these CV characteristics to be substitutes or to reinforce each other’s effect.
I23|Smartphone Use and Academic Performance: Correlation or Causal Relationship?|After a decade of correlational research, this study is the first to measure the causal impact of (general) smartphone use on educational performance. To this end, we merge survey data on general smartphone use, exogenous predictors of this use, and other drivers of academic success with the exam scores of first-year students at two Belgian universities. The resulting data are analysed with instrumental variable estimation techniques. A one-standard-deviation increase in daily smartphone use yields a decrease in average exam scores of about one point (out of 20). When relying on ordinary least squares estimations, the magnitude of this effect is substantially underestimated.
I23|Theory as a tool to focus value attributes in an urban planning curriculum: building a new perspective|John Friedman?s comments twenty years ago about the inability to have a single understanding of theory within urban planning is as relevant today as then. Friedman (1997) refers to ?production of urban habitat, the rise of civil society, and the question of power? as central to any planning theory. Simplified this refer to context, the centrality of society and decision making. This seems to provide cues of why a single understanding is maybe not ideal. Each of the three elements mentioned by Friedman is varying and shifting in nature, from there the difficulty of a single appreciation of theory. Within this understanding, collaboration as a planning practice and a threshold concept also share this multidimensional nature.This paper considers the juxtaposition of collaboration as both an urban planning construct and as a learning construct and starts to unpack a renewed understanding of collaboration as a value attribute. This is done through a diffracted (Barad, 2007) theoretical lens developed from social practice theory. The findings in this paper will focus on only the social practice conceptual framework and how collaborative learning theories are diffracted through the framework. A selection of collaborative learning theories was focussed on theorists such as Lave and Wenger, 1991; Wenger, 1998 and 2009; Dillenborough, 1999; Gherardi, 2000; Laurillard, 2012 and Dirkinck-Holmfeld, Hodgson, McConnell, 2012. These theories of collaboration were put in conversation (Collett, van den Berg, Verster and Bozalek, 2018) with social practice theory to obtain attributes of collaboration that are shared by social practice and collaborative planning education. Throughout the theoretical exploration, the focus is shifted from collaboration as a professional skill (doing) to a professional value (being).In conclusion, it is clear that a renewed understanding of collaboration as both a planning construct and a learning construct also necessitates a fresh consideration and interpretation of theories in both these domains.
I23|Challenges in Higher Education Case: Bachelor Course in International Relations|Universities have always faced a number of challenges at the international, national and institutional levels and have always had to develop new strategies to overcome the difficulties. Recently internationalisation of universities is a key factor and, as evidence of the Széchenyi University?s strong commitment to internationalisation, from September 2019, twenty-four English-taught programmes at all academic levels are on offer.One of the courses is BA in International Relations. The undergraduate programme in International Relations is for individuals who are sensitive to global problems, open to other cultures, and are prepared to handle a broad range of evidence and analyse complex issues. It is a multidisciplinary programme which combines a wide range of courses in international relations, history, economics, political science, foreign languages, sociology and regional studies, among other disciplines. The programme trains the students to be well informed about generally accepted tendencies, characteristics and data on universal political, economic and cultural phenomena. They will thus have deeper insights into and understanding of relations of various nations and cultures.The purpose of this paper is (1) to describe the research conducted prior to the course development process, e.g. analysis of the new national requirements for the International Relations BA course, the curricula at international and national levels and the findings of a questionnaire-based research conducted among the former students at International Relations BA course. After presenting the preparatory process (2) the programme will be examined and discussed focusing on the aim and the content of the course, the structure of studies, the academic and language requirements.
I23|International students at a young Hungarian university: motivations and challenges|Recent years have seen increased efforts of Hungarian tertiary educational institutions to internationalise their educational activities. As well as the expected enhancement of academic reputation and the generation of income, these activities are triggered by governmental policies and strategies, namely the expectations towards a substantial rise in the ratio of international students at Hungarian institutions of higher education. Internationalisation is supported by the expansion of scholarship programmes available for foreign students, for example the Stipendium Hungaricum Programme, which was brought to life by a government decree in 2013 and amended in 2015. The aim of the study reported in the paper is to explore the motivations of Stipendium Hungaricum scholarship holders studying at the University of Gy?r (Széchenyi István University), Hungary as well as the challenges they face in an academic environment more often than not quite different from that in their home countries. The paper first briefly introduces the programme and overviews the results of Hungarian nationwide surveys on foreign students in general and Stipendium Hungaricum scholarship holders in particular. Then it moves on to discuss the findings of structured interviews carried out among master- and bachelor-level full-time Stipendium Hungaricum scholarship students at the University of Gy?r. The discussion focuses on three topics: (1) What motivated these students to apply for a relatively young rural university rather than more established rural universities or those located in the capital? (2) What aspects of instruction do they consider different from those in their home institutions? (3) What are their plans after graduation? The findings are believed to contribute to the better understanding of cross-cultural differences as well as to the creation of more effective international promotional campaigns.
I23|The Statistics Online Class|Technology is a norm in today?s life, particularly in higher education. Incorporating technology and technological tools in higher education has a wide range of applications, and people are trying to integrate them within teaching and learning. Two of the main challenges that people face are individual technological skills and cost associated with the use of technology. The aim of this presentation is to show how faculty with minimal technological skills and no financial cost could be able to create an online class. Through this talk broad explanation about available online resources will be discussed. Also, the pilot project (case study) about online class in statistic from American University of Sharjah will be presented with results indicating a successful implementation.
I23|Level of Quota System Policy Implementation and Access to Federal Universities in Nigeria|The paper examined the impact of quota system policy implementation on access to selected federal universities in Nigeria. The need to investigate alleged poor implementation of the quota system in policy prompted the study that was guided by two (2) research questions. A total of 7 out of the 74 public universities (which represent 10 percent) that have the 36 federating units as their catchment areas were purposively selected to constitute the study sample. Similarly, 10 percent of Heads of Academic Departments in the affected universities were randomly chosen to serve as respondents. Documentary evidences and a questionnaire titled: Quota System Policy Implementation and Access to University Education Questionnaire (QUOSIAQUE) were used to collect data for the study. The data collected were descriptively analysed using means and percentages. Based on the results of analysis, it was recommended among others that university management should be effectively supervised to ensure that the quota system policy be adopted in the processes of admission. This will ensure that applicants from all parts of the federating units are admitted in federal universities.
I23|Students as partners : on developing a student led conference to enhance the skills of UG project students|An important final year assessment which is common to most UK Undergraduate (UG) degree programmes is the final year project or dissertation. It is considered the capstone module on degree programmes whereby students gain valuable skills valued by employers. Our project engages final year UG students in a collaboration designed with inclusivity and partnership in mind.We ran student-led conferences to communicate the experience of final year students and disseminate their top tips to level 5 students. The project sits across three disciplines in the health and life sciences, the largest faculty in Northumbria University with the aim of developing a widely applicable solution for use across different programmes, departments, faculties and universities. By placing the student experience at its heart, our project seeks to enhance support for student learning through the improvement of graduate attributes including independence of thought and action, curiosity and critical thinking. Thus, employability outcomes are enhanced. The Project conferences aim to respect the diversity of the student body while creating a sense of equality to 1) support supervision quality across the institution. 2) Improve academic experience and 3) enhance graduate characteristics and thus employability.The inclusion of students as partners in pedagogic research in the student-led conferences and in a reflective exercise on the inclusion of students as equal partners in pedagogical research encouraged self- management of their own project and supervisor/student relationship thereby enhancing the student experience whilst developing their key graduate attributes. Student researchers played a major role in data analysis and evaluation. Additionally an eLearning platform organisation site has been constructed continuing the key resources for staff and students alongside video recordings of student presentations. This scalable project supports the development of graduates that are distinguished by their intellectual expertise and employability through meaningful pedagogical research that maximises student satisfaction.
I23|Should we and can we motivate university students? ? The analysis of the interpretation of the role and the teaching methods of university teachers|Reducing student drop-out rates is a challenge faced in Hungarian higher education. Our research and development project is intended to contribute to this effort: we analyse the notions and experiences of teachers concerning the possibility of motivating students, as well as their own role models as teachers and their teaching methods. We also explore students? motivation, their experiences and expectations related to classes at the university.It was studied whether the motivation of students appears in the teachers? understanding of their own role. Do they accept or reject the motivation of students as a task? Is there a difference in the teaching methods applied between those who consider a part of their role as teachers to motivate students and those who reject this? We were also curious how the opinions of teachers and students were similar or different concerning the motivating effect of various teaching methods.We collected data from teachers and students at six Hungarian institutes of higher education. The teachers? questionnaire was completed by 210 respondents, and semi-structured, in-depth interviews were also conducted with 41 of them. The students? questionnaire was completed by 1,130 respondents. In the analysis of the data, we used both quantitative and qualitative methods.Based on the results, half of the teachers faced with difficulties in connection with motivating students. In the interpretation of the role models of the majority of them, the intention of motivating students appeared positively. By contrast, in the opinion of 68%, academic success depends on the students alone.There was agreement in that the respondents considered the use of digital tools, interactivity, practicality as having the most motivating effect. In the frequency of encountering various methods, however, there was a difference in the assessment given by students and teachers. The interviews shed light on the fact that, despite the best intentions, the actual achievement of motivation of students in the classrooms is often missing. The reason may be the lack of pedagogical and methodological knowledge and consciousness.
I23|The main developments in the education system in Russia in 2018|In 2018, the main developments in the education system can be divided into the two unequal phases: one before the President’s May 2018 Decree and the other after it. Before May 2018, the main attention was focused on teachers’ salaries; the “struggle” to raise them to the average pay in a relevant region was already waged for six years running. Average salaries of higher-education teaching personnel attract less attention though by 2000 their value was to be equal to 200 percent of the average salary in a relevant subject of the Russian Federation where the higher educational institution was situated. From May 2018, the main focus in education was switched over to development of the “Education” national project and the volume of budget funding to be allocated on the specified goals. In addition, in the higher education system serious debates started on the issue of state accreditation of higher educational establishments.
I23|Intrinsic vs. Extrinsic Motivators on Creative Collaboration: The Effect of Sharing Rewards|Charness and Grieco (2019) have experimentally shown that financial incentives have a positive impact on individual creativity, but only in the case of “close” creativity, i.e., when there are constraints to the creative task that a subject has to accomplish. In this paper, we build on the same “close” creativity assignments of Charness and Grieco (2019) and analyze with undergraduate students and with experts in creativity the interplay between monetary incentives and group cooperation in creative assignments. We introduce a novel model of intrinsic vs. extrinsic motivation to group collaboration in creativity and run a theorydriven experiment to test our experimental hypotheses on the crowding out of intrinsic motivation due to extrinsic motivation to group creativity. We find more creativity in the group than in the individual treatment, apart when there are explicit monetary incentives to co-working (sharing ideas) in the creative assignment. Therefore, while Charness and Grieco (2019) show a positive interplay between monetary incentives (extrinsic individual motivation) and “close” creativity at the individual level, we provide evidence of a negative interplay between monetary incentives and “close” creativity at the group level (crowding out of intrinsic group motivation). Furthermore, and again in line with our model predictions, the latter effect is found more in the experimental sessions with experts in creativity than in those with undergraduate students.
I23|Looking at Creativity from East to West: Risk Taking and Intrinsic Motivation in Socially and Culturally Diverse Countries|This article presents a mixed-methods research in the eld of creativity. By making use of experiments and a questionnaire, it analyses how creativity is aected by three factors: i) motivation, ii) individuals' attitudes towards risk and ambiguity and iii) social context. Each one of these factors has been extensively investigated in the theoretical and empirical literature getting to results still open to discussion. In particular, this research focuses on two aspects. First, we try to shed some light on the controversial ndings linking risk taking and creativity that exist in the economic and psychology literature. To do so, we test the hypotheses that self perception of creative abilities may play a role in establishing a riskcreativity positive correlation. Second, being the three factors strongly inuenced by culture, the study investigates whether the impacts on creativity may dier in diverse geographical locations. Following Attanasi et al. (2019), we exploit data from experiments performed in main cities of one eastern and one western country: Ho Chi Minh city (Vietnam) and Strasbourg (France). The information to build the risk and ambiguity factor derive from risk and ambiguity elicitation via lotteries. To account for motivation, dierent organizational scenarios are set in experimental treatments (nancial incentives vs non nancial incentives to collaborate). Finally, information on social context and self perception of creative abilities are collected through a self administrated questionnaire. In our analysis, we nd that risk aversion, social habits and leisure activities have a positive eect on the creative performance of the French participants, while for Vietnamese the intrinsic motivation and the perception of their own creative capacities are positive correlated with creative scores. Our results suggest that in a country like France, social context has a strong inuence on individual creativity, while for Vietnam individual features play a role in creativity, suggesting that the socio-cultural context has dierent impacts on creativity.
I23|Construction and Validation of the Learning Management System Success Scale in the Higher Education Setting|Objective - The concept of education is entirely outdated. Currently, many higher education institutions are adopting blended learning pedagogy to nurture 21st-century skills. The integration of ICT has become a recent global trend in education with universities and colleges using Learning Management Systems (LMS) as their primary method of disseminating and administrating teaching and learning processes. The exploration of the factors crucial for successful implementation of LMS is therefore essential. However, most literature on this topic focuses on the technical quality of LMS's, and few address the educational quality and efficiency of LMS. Previous research also fails to discuss the conceptualization and measurement of LMS success. This study aims to construct and validate an instrument to measure LMS success in higher education institutions. Methodology/Technique - Various IS success frameworks were used to design the constructs in this study. A quantitative methodology was adopted with the sample of 379 randomly selected responses from university/college students, academics, and course administrators from India (n=297) and the Maldives (n=82). IBM SPSS AMOS 25 was used to check the validity and reliability of the instrument and to identify the measurement invariance. Findings & Novelty - This study concludes that information quality, educational quality, system quality, service quality, intention to use, user satisfaction, and net benefits are the critical constructs for measuring LMS success. The findings of this study can be used to support scholars in developing and examining other information system-related theories, as well as to higher education institutions while implementing different LMS's.
I23|Intermediary Effect of Intention of ICT adoption on the Relationship of Attitudes toward Adoption and Adoption of VLE among the Malay Language Teachers|Objective - This research aims to explore whether the intention of ICT adoption in teaching Malay language acts as a mediator in the relationship between attitudes toward ICT adoption and the adoption of the Virtual Learning Environment (VLE) among secondary school Malay Language teachers. Methodology/Technique - TAM is the basis theory in this quantitative study which uses a questionnaire to collect the data. The population of the study comprises of 410 secondary school teachers in Selangor by applying various probability sampling procedures. The research instrument was adapted from a previous questionnaire and pilot study which shows an alpha Cronbach at .81. Software of Smart-PLS was used to analyse the results of the study. Findings - The mediator analysis showed a positive and significant direct relationship (ß = .067, p
I23|The Labor Market Effects of Eliminating University Tuition in Ecuador|It is both theoretically and empirically unclear whether a drastic nationwide reduction in the cost of education should significantly improve individual labor market outcomes. This paper estimates the labor market effects of a 2008 policy that eliminated tuition fees at public universities in Ecuador. We use a difference-in-difference strategy that exploits variation across cohorts differentially exposed to the policy, as well as geographic variation in access to public universities. We find that the tuition fee elimination significantly increased college participation, but did not improve income. The policy had modest effects on job type, shifting people out of more physical jobs. However, the bulk of the benefits of this fee elimination were enjoyed by individuals of higher socioeconomic status.
I23|Beyond Truth-Telling: Preference Estimation with Centralized School Choice and College Admissions|We propose novel approaches to estimating student preferences with data from matching mechanisms, especially the Gale-Shapley deferred acceptance. Even if the mechanism is strategy-proof, assuming that students truthfully rank schools in applications may be restrictive. We show that when students are ranked strictly by some ex ante known priority index (e.g., test scores), stability is a plausible and weaker assumption, implying that every student is matched with her favorite school/college among those she qualifies for ex post. The methods are illustrated in simulations and applied to school choice in Paris. We discuss when each approach is more appropriate in real-life settings.
I23|The regional significance of university locations in Lower Saxony|Universities are important economic actors in having a considerable impact on the demand and supply side of their local economy. The aim of this paper is to quantify, compare and classify the different economic demand- and supply-side contributions of the university locations within Lower-Saxony using a combination of multiplier analysis and spatial econometrics on a NUTS-3 level. In comparison to numerous other studies this paper does not focus on the economic impact of single cases or a selected university location but gives a complete picture of the importance and significance of all university locations within Lower-Saxony. The income induced direct and indirect demand effects are estimated with a rich data set from higher education statistics in combination with an income and employment multiplier derived from a regional input-output table while the supply-side effects, i.e. the impact of the education and research outcomes, are calculated by estimating with spatial panel regressions a model derived from human capital theory and knowledge spillover theory. The estimation results give a complete and reproducible impression of the importance and significance of the different university locations offering the opportunity for comparisons and classifications.
I23|Estimating the transition time from school to university using a stochastic mortality model|The sufficient provision of university places is of high sociopolitical importance as it facilitates the participation in higher education as well as the accumulation of human capital both being important factors for wealth and economic growth. The aim of this paper is to use the concept of mortality rates for forecasting the transition from school graduates into university in order to enrich and enhance the planning of the needed university places for first-year students. The transition rates differentiated in 16 Federal States and two types of university entrance qualifications were interpreted as mortality rates, fitted with the classical Lee-Carter approach and forecasted with automatically selected ARIMA processes. The results suggest that the constancy assumption used for the original planning provides indeed the best approach for many Federal States. Nevertheless, the application of the well-established Lee-Carter mortality model offers the opportunity to estimate an alternative number of first-year students and to open up a range of possible solutions.
I23|The Impact of Upper Secondary School Flexibility on Sorting and Educational Outcomes|This paper estimates the causal impact of an upper secondary curriculum reform in Sweden that increased students' course-taking flexibility in year 2000. In the most popular upper secondary program, it led to a significant decrease in mandatory mathematics requirements. Using administrative Swedish data, we estimate the causal impact of the reform on tertiary education outcomes and expected earnings using a differences-in-discontinuity identification strategy. The method compares students born immediately before and after the cutoff date. The inclusion of students born in neighboring non-reform cutoff years enables us to disentangle the school starting age effect from the unconfounded effect of the reform. We find no negative effects of the reduced mathematics requirements. Rather, we find a positive effect of the reform on students' probability of enrolling in, and earning a degree from, tertiary education. Our heterogeneity analysis suggests that relatively disadvantaged students were not negatively affected by the reform.
I23|International knowledge flows between industry inventors and universities: The role of multinational companies|We investigate the determinants of industry researchers’ interactions with universities in different localities, distinguishing between local and international universities. We analyze the extent to which local and international interactions are enabled by different types of individual personal networks (education, career based), and by their access to different business networks through their employer companies (local vs. domestic or international multinational company networks). We control for selection bias and numerous other individual and firm-level factors identified in the literature as important determinants of interaction with universities. Our findings suggest that industry researchers’ personal networks play a greater role in promoting interactions with local universities (i.e. in the same region, and other regions in the same country) while researcher employment in a multinational is especially important for establishing interaction with universities abroad.
I23|Does Mobility across Universities Raise Scientific Productivity?|Using a highly comprehensive new dataset on Swedish researchers, we investigate the effects of interuniversity mobility on researcher productivity. Our study suggests substantial gains from mobility on scientific output. We find that mobility induces a long-lasting increase in a researcher’s publications by 29% and citations by 50%. Moreover, we analyze the factors that are likely to have an impact on the overall effect of mobility: the interaction of mobility and promotion, the importance of the status of the destination university, as well as the role of the specific disciplinary field of mobile researchers. The empirical analysis addresses selection using inverse probability treatment censoring weights.
I23|Measuring the Effect of Student Loans on the College Dropout Rate|Most governments around the world offer student loans to help disadvantaged students to enroll in college to reduce the attainment gap between rich and poor. However, we know little about the consequences of these loans. The reduction of the gap depends not only on initial enrollment but also on the dropout rate before graduation. This paper shows how the availability of loans affects the dropout rate in college. Two programs in Chile assign loans based on a cutoff in the national college admission test, enabling a regression discontinuity design. The analysis uses on students who were not induced by the loan to enroll in the first year. I show that access to loans reduces the dropout rate by 25 percentage points and is highly persistent over time (up to the fifth year after initial enrollment). At the cutoff, access to loans allows eliminating the differences in the dropout rate by family income. Finally, I find that students are not sensitive to tuition costs when loans are available.
I23|The Russian University Excellence Initiative: Is It Really Excellence That Is Promoted?|We estimate the effect of the Russian University excellence program (Project 5-100) initiated by the Government in 2013 on research performance of top Russian universities which received, on a competitive basis, substantial financial support within this program. To do so we use an econometric analysis of longitudinal data applying a linear growth model with mixed effects, with different characteristics of research output as dependent variables. We demonstrate that there is a significant positive effect of Project 5-100 which appeared from the very first years of its implementation – that is, the universities receiving financial support demonstrate a substantial, steady increase in publications both measured in total numbers and per capita when compared to universities from the control group. An analysis of the structure of publication output allows us to demonstrate that not only quantitative but also qualitative growth has taken place, although the impact of Project 5-100 on quality is heterogeneous across universities and disciplines. Finally, we examine to what extent the change in the structure of research output may be attributed to changes in research collaboration patterns.
I23|Higher Education Supply, Neighbourhood Effects and Economic Welfare|This paper uses an own built dataset on the history of universities in Italy during 1861-2010 to estimate neighbourhood effects in the local supply of higher education, and incorporate them in a welfare analysis. We implement an instrumental variables approach that exploits initial conditions in the pre-unitarian Italian states, interacted with post-unification university reforms. We provide robust evidence of local displacement between higher education supply in neighbouring provinces. These effects are mostly concentrated within the same field of study, the same region, and a spatial reach of 90 Km. We show that accounting for these displacement forces is important to evaluate the local economic returns related to higher education supply. On average, this explains more than 4% of local value added per capita. Economic returns are very localised, and larger in provinces that host university hubs.
I23|Heterogeneous Regional Innovation Spillovers of Universities of Applied Sciences|This paper investigates whether differences in regional economic preconditions lead to heterogeneity of innovation spillovers from newly established universities of applied sciences (UASs). Exploiting a quasi-random establishment of UASs in the 1990s in Switzerland, we analyse the heterogeneity of innovation spillovers from these UASs due to differences in regional economic preconditions - i.e. economic strength, industry structure and economic density. Our estimations show that stronger and denser regional economies and regions with high tech intensive industries exhibited significantly more innovation spillovers from new UASs than regions with less favourable economic preconditions. One possible explanation are agglomeration effects favouring innovation spillovers. Our results imply that nearby UASs do not have positive effects on innovation per se, a finding that is of particular interest for policy makers who decide on the location of public applied research institutions.
I23|Ability to Sustain Test Performance and Remedial Education: Good News for Girls|Growing evidence shows that skills other than cognitive are crucial to understand labor market and other outcomes in life and that these skills are more malleable than the cognitive ones at later ages. However, little is known about the role of education in improving these abilities for disadvantaged teenagers in developed countries. In this paper we address two questions: (i) Can educational interventions aimed at teenagers improve skills other than cognitive? (ii) Can we expect heterogeneous e¿ects depending on the students’ gender? We take advantage of a remedial education program for under-performing students implemented in Spain between 2005 and 2012, and, following recent literature, we consider testing and survey behaviors as measures of non-cognitive skills. We use external evaluations of the schools (PISA 2012) and exploit the variation in the question ordering of the test to compute students’ ability to sustain performance throughout it. We ¿nd that the program had a positive e¿ect on girls’ ability to sustain test performance but no impact for boys.
I23|Timing Is Everything: Evidence from College Major Decisions|People rely on their experiences when making important decisions. In making these decisions, individuals may be significantly influenced by the timing of their experiences. Using administrative data, we study whether the order in which students are assigned courses affects the choice of college major. We use a natural experiment at the United States Military Academy in which students are randomly assigned to certain courses either during or after the semester in which they are required to select their college major. We find that when students are assigned to a course in the same semester as they select a major, they are over 100 percent more likely to choose a major that corresponds to that course. Despite low switching costs, approximately half of the effect persists through graduation. Our results demonstrate that the timing of when students are assigned courses has a large and persistent effect on college major choice. We explore several potential mechanisms for these results and find that students' initial major choice best fits a framework we develop that incorporates salience and availability. Furthermore, our results suggest that once students select a major, they are less likely to switch majors than the standard model of economic choice predicts. Instead, students' decision to remain in a major is more consistent with status quo bias.
I23|Returns to higher education subjects and tiers in China - Evidence from the China Family Panel Studies|Using the recent China Family Panel Studies, we are able to identify the subjects studied of both college (2-3 years) graduates and university (4-5 years) graduates. For the latter group, we can further distinguish universities by the tier of selectivity (i.e. Key and Ordinary Universities). We take advantage of the rich information on the respondent’s school cohort and hukou status at age 12 and the mother’s age and education to estimate the simultaneous choice of subject and tier of prestige of higher education institutions (HEI) faced by university applicants. Using the doubly robust Inverse Probability Weighted Regression Adjustment (IPWRA) method to account for selection (on observables) into subjects and tiers, our treatment effect estimates suggest that OLS substantially underestimate the effect of attending more prestigious universities, for graduates of both genders in Law, Economics and Management (LEM). We also show that the recent massive expansion of the higher education sector have reduced returns to HE for all graduates, except for those studying LEM or Other non-STEM subjects at the most prestigious universities. Our results are robust to treating subjects as predetermined for the selection into HEIs by tiers of prestige.
I23|Have you read this? An empirical comparison of the British REF peer review and the Italian VQR bibliometric algorithm|This paper determines the ranking of the publications units of assessment which were submitted to the UK research evaluation carried out in 2014, the REF, which would have been obtained if their submission had been evaluated with the bibliometric algorithm used by the Italian evaluation agency, ANVUR, for its evaluation of the research of Italian universities. We find very high correlation between the two methods, especially in regard to the funding allocation, with a headline figure of 0.9997 for the funding attributed to the institutions.
I23|Attribution Bias in Major Decisions: Evidence from the United States Military Academy|Using administrative data, we study the role of attribution bias in a high-stakes, consequential decision: the choice of a college major. Specifically, we examine the influence of fatigue experienced during exposure to a general education course on whether students choose the major corresponding to that course. To do so, we exploit the conditional random assignment of student course schedules at the United States Military Academy. We find that students who are assigned to an early morning (7:30 AM) section of a general education course are roughly 10% less likely to major in that subject, relative to students assigned to a later time slot for the course. We find similar effects for fatigue generated by having one or more back-to-back courses immediately prior to a general education course that starts later in the day. Finally, we demonstrate that the pattern of results is consistent with attribution bias and difficult to reconcile with competing explanations.
I23|Who Founds? An Analysis of University and Corporate Startup Entrepreneurs Based on Danish Register Data|We compare individuals presently employed either at an university or at a firm from a R&D intensive sector and analyze which of their personal-specific and employer-specific characteristics determine their choice of subsequently founding a startup. Our data set is unusually rich and combines the population of Danish employees with their present employers. We focus on persons who at least hold a Bachelor's degree in engineering, sciences and health and track them over the time period 2001-2012. We show that (i) there are overall little differences between the characteristics of university and corporate startup entrepreneurs, (ii) common factors triggering startup activity of both university and corporate employees are education, top management team membership, previous job mobility and being male, (iii) it is exclusively human capital-related characteristics that affect startup choice of university employees while (iv) the characteristics of the present workplace constitute major factors of entrepreneurial activity.
I23|Gender Equality and Positive Action: Evidence from UK Universities|This paper examines the impact of the Athena Scientific Women's Academic Network (SWAN) Charter on the wages and employment trajectories of female faculty. The Athena SWAN Charter is a gender equality initiative that formally recognises good practice towards the representation and career progression of women in Science, Technology, Engineer, Mathematics, and Medicine (STEMM) through an accreditation process. We find that the gender wage gap closes after Athena SWAN accreditation. However, female faculty at the non-professorial level are not more likely to being promoted to professor after accreditation, or to move to an Athena SWAN accredited university. Taken together these results suggest that the higher wage growth experienced by female non-professorial faculty after Athena SWAN accreditation is likely to come from pay rises within a particular rank.
I23|Does More Math in High School Increase the Share of Female STEM Workers? Evidence from a Curriculum Reform|This paper studies the consequences of a curriculum reform of the last two years of high school in one of the German federal states on the share of male and female students who complete degrees in STEM subjects and who later work in STEM occupations. The reform had two important aspects: (i) it equalized all students' exposure to math by making advanced math compulsory in the last two years of high school; and (ii) it roughly doubled the instruction time and increased the level of instruction in math and the natural sciences for some 80 percent of students, more so for females than for males. Our results provide some evidence that the reform had positive effects on the share of men completing STEM degrees and later working in STEM occupations but no such effects for women. The positive effects for men appear to be driven by a positive effect for engineering and computer science, which was partly counteracted by a negative effect for math and physics.
I23|Distance Learning in Higher Education: Evidence from a Randomized Experiment|Using a randomized experiment in a public Swiss university, we study the impact of online live streaming of lectures on student achievement and attendance. We find that (i) students use the live streaming technology only punctually, apparently when random events make attending in class too costly; (ii) attending lectures via live streaming lowers achievement for low-ability students and increases achievement for high-ability ones and (iii) offering live streaming reduces in-class attendance only mildly. These findings have important implications for the design of education policies.
I23|Why Have College Completion Rates Increased?|College completion rates declined from the 1970s to the 1990s. We document that this trend has reversed - since the 1990s, college completion rates have increased. We investigate the reasons for the increase in college graduation rates. Collectively, student characteristics, institutional resources, and institution attended do not explain much of the change. However, we document that standards for degree receipt may explain some of the change in graduation rates.
I23|Female science advisors and the STEM gender gap|In an effort to reduce the gender gap in the fields of science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM), policymakers often propose providing women with close mentoring by female scientists. This is based on the idea that female scientists might act as role models and counteract negative gender stereotypes that are pervasive in science fields. However, as of yet, there is still no clear evidence on the role of mentor or advisor gender in reducing the STEM gender gap. We use rich administrative data from a private 4-year college to provide some of the first causal evidence on the impact of advisor gender on women's STEM degree attainment. We exploit a unique setting where students are randomly assigned to academic advisors--who are also faculty members--in their freshman year of college. A college advisor's main role is to provide students with one-on-one personalized mentoring regarding course and major selection. Students declare a major at the end of their freshman year, after having had the opportunity to repeatedly interact with their advisors. We find that being matched to a female rather than a male science advisor substantially narrows the gender gaps in STEM enrollment and graduation, with the strongest effects occurring among students who are highly skilled in math. In contrast, the gender of an advisor from a non-science department has no impact on students' major choice. Our results suggest that providing close mentoring or advising by female scientists can play an important role in promoting women's participation and persistence in STEM fields.
I23|Do Internships Pay Off? The Effects of Student Internships on Earnings|This paper studies the causal effect of student internship experience in firms on earnings later in life. We use mandatory firm internships at German universities as an instrument for doing a firm internship while attending university. Employing longitudinal data from graduate surveys, we find positive and significant earnings returns of about 6% in both OLS and IV regressions. The positive returns are particularly pronounced for individuals and areas of study that are characterized by a weak labor market orientation. The empirical findings show that graduates who completed a firm internship face a lower risk of unemployment during the first year of their careers, suggesting a smoother transition to the labor market.
I23|Dual-Credit Courses and the Road to College: Experimental Evidence from Tennessee|Dual-credit courses expose high school students to college-level content and provide the opportunity to earn college credits, in part to smooth the transition to college. With the Tennessee Department of Education, we conduct the first randomized controlled trial of the effects of dual-credit math coursework on a range of high school and college outcomes. We find that the dual-credit advanced algebra course alters students' subsequent high school math course-taking, reducing enrollment in remedial math and boosting enrollment in precalculus and Advanced Placement math courses. We fail to detect an effect of the dual-credit math course on overall rates of college enrollment. However, the course induces some students to choose four-year universities instead of two-year colleges, particularly for those in the middle of the math achievement distribution and those first exposed to the opportunity to take the course in 11th rather than 12th grade. We see limited evidence of improvements in early math performance during college.
I23|Gender Differences in Wage Expectations: Sorting, Children, and Negotiation Styles|This paper presents evidence from a large-scale study on gender differences in expected wages before labor market entry. Based on data for over 15,000 students, we document a significant and large gender gap in wage expectations that closely resembles actual wage differences, prevails across subgroups, and along the entire distribution. To understand the underlying causes and determinants, we relate expected wages to sorting into majors, industries, and occupations, child-rearing plans, perceived and actual ability, personality, perceived discrimination, and negotiation styles. Our findings indicate that sorting and negotiation styles affect the gender gap in wage expectations much more than prospective child-related labor force interruptions. Given the importance of wage expectations for labor market decisions, household bargaining, and wage setting, our results provide an explanation for persistent gender inequalities.
I23|Is Early Start a Better Start? Evaluating California State University's Early Start Remediation Policy|Remediation has long been a costly way to address the misalignment between K-12 and higher education. In 2011, the California State University (CSU), the nation's largest public four-year university system, enacted Early Start, requiring students needing remediation to enroll in such courses in the summer before their freshmen year. We estimate the impact of Early Start summer remediation relative to both traditional fall remediation and relative to no remediation at all. Our results suggest Early Start summer remediation has not improved student performance or persistence relative to either alternative. As many states move away from remedial courses altogether, there is continued need for both innovation and for evidence in policy and practice to improve college readiness and success.
I23|Conference Presentations and Academic Publishing|We quantify the contribution of conferences to publication success of more than 4,000 papers presented at three leading economics conferences over the 2006-2012 period. We show a positive link between conference presentation and the publishing probability in high-quality journals. Participating in major conferences is also associated with improved metrics for other measures of academic success such as the number of citations or abstract views. While the results are broadly similar across fields, annual meetings of the American Economic Association are particularly valuable in these dimensions. We also find that female authors appear to gain less from conferences than male authors.
I23|'First in Family' University Graduates in England|Universities around the world are attempting to increase the diversity of their student population. This includes individuals who are 'first in family' (FiF), those who achieve a university degree, but whose (step) parents did not. We provide the first large scale, quantitative evidence on FiF graduates in England using a nationally representative survey linked to administrative education data. We find that FiF young people make up 18 percent of a recent cohort, comprising nearly two-thirds of all university graduates. Comparing individuals with no parental higher education we show that ethnic minorities and those with higher levels of prior attainment are more likely to experience intergenerational educational mobility and become a FiF. Once at university, those who are FiF are more likely to study Law, Economics and Management and less likely to study other Social Sciences, Arts and Humanities than students whose parents are university graduates. We also find evidence that FiF students are less likely to graduate from elite universities and have a higher probability of dropping out, even after prior educational attainment, individual characteristics and socio-economic status are taken into account.
I23|Delayed graduation and university dropout: A review of theoretical approaches|This paper surveys the theoretical approaches used in the literature to study the phenomenon of delayed graduation and university dropout. The classical human capital model does not contemplate failure, which the amended human capital model does. Delayed graduation and university dropout are two stages of the same decision repeated over the years to step aside or leave when the net returns to education expected ex ante are negative. Failure can also be taken as a signal of the real skills of individuals who do not succeed to gain a higher level of education, The job search approach underlines the role of positive/negative local labor market conditions as a factor able to explain choices of investment in human capital. Within the bargaining approach, the decision to delay graduation or dropout from university is related to bargaining within the family between parents and children: the former give their children better consumption opportunities in return for their presence at home. Although the amended human capital model is certainly the most compelling one, the other approaches help framing factors which are neglected in the human capital model, forming a well-structured body of knowledge to better understand the phenomenon under scrutiny, while also suggesting a set of policy tools to better control it.
I23|Does Class Size Matter in Postgraduate Education?|The paper examines the impact of class size on postgraduate grades using administrative data from one of the largest Schools of a Russell Group University in the UK. As well as estimating Fixed Effects models on the population of postgraduate candidates in the School, we exploit a policy change aimed at reducing class size to implement a regression discontinuity design (RDD). We find that class size does impact grades adversely overall; and the policy aimed at reducing class size impacts grades favourably. Our findings are robust to alternative specifications as well as being supported by the validity tests we conducted.
I23|Coming to stay or to go? Stay intention and involved uncertainty of international students|Countries compete for young talents to alleviate skilled-labor shortage. International students, who stay after graduation, allow host countries to overcome those challenges. This study investigates the factors associated with international students' intention to stay or to go after graduation. In contrast to the existing literature, this analysis employs survey data collected at the beginning of the studies. This assures that the analysis is not distorted by attrition and provides policymakers with more time for interventions. At the same time, it requires to deal with uncertainty as the actual migration decision will only be due in a few years. This study introduces a set of uncertainty models to the migration context to account for this. It finds that the results are largely robust across the different models: lower economic growth in the home country, a stay in the host country before the studies and being enrolled in a Bachelor program instead of a Master program are significantly associated with the intention to stay with certainty. Furthermore, Master students are found to be more uncertain than Bachelor students.
I23|International Mobility of Students in Italy and the UK: Does It Pay off and for Whom?|International student mobility is the most recognised element of Erasmus+, a major EU policy. Not enough is known about the causal effect of studying abroad on labour market outcomes. This is because most of the existing studies dismiss selection bias: the different composition of students opting and not opting for studying abroad. The purpose of this paper is to answer the following three questions, whilst accounting for selection bias. First, does international student mobility (ISM) have an effect on labour market outcomes? Second, do the returns to ISM vary between two countries with contrasting labour market and education systems? Third, do the returns to ISM differ according to the socio-economic background of the students? Results are compared between Italy and the UK using Italian Institute of National Statistics and UK Higher Education Statistics Agency graduate survey data. Using propensity score matching, the returns to study-related stays abroad are estimated on a set of labour market outcomes around six to twelve months and three years after graduation for undergraduates (UK and Italy) and postgraduates (Italy only). Results indicate that mobility is positively associated with some outcome variables under scrutiny. Mobile graduates seem to benefit from better employment chances than non-mobile graduates. Returns to ISM tend to be slightly higher among graduates in Italy. Mobility seems to matter most for uptake and completion of further post-graduate studies in Italy. It is the especially the socially disadvantaged mobile who opt for further education after graduation.
I23|A tale of two tracks| We provide a simple framework that helps explore the need for contingent (teaching) jobs in academia alongside the usual tenured-professorship positions. It also explains the coexistence of these two types of jobs in research universities as an equilibrium phenomenon. Imprecisions in the academic editorial process, combined with the increasing difficulty of producing academic research, is suggested as a possible explanation for the recent increasing trend in the share of non-tenure-track teaching jobs in academia as well as the widening wage gap between tenured-professors and teaching faculty. Alternative interpretations are explored.
I23|It's Not Just for Boys! Understanding Gender Differences in STEM|While education levels of women have increased dramatically relative to men, women are still greatly underrepresented in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) college programmes. We use unique data on preference rankings for all secondary school students who apply for college in Ireland and detailed information on school subjects and grades to decompose the sources of the gender gap in STEM. We find that, of the 22 percentage points raw gap, about 13 percentage points is explained by differential subject choices and grades in secondary school. Subject choices are more important than grades -- we estimate male comparative advantage in STEM (as measured by subject grades) explains about 3 percentage points of the gender gap. Additionally, differences in overall achievement between girls and boys have a negligible effect. Strikingly, there remains a gender gap of 9 percentage points even for persons who have identical preparation at the end of secondary schooling (in terms of both subjects studied and grades achieved); however, this gap is only 4 percentage points for STEM-ready students. We find that gender gaps are smaller among high-achieving students and for students who go to school in more affluent areas. There is no gender gap in science (the large gaps are in engineering and technology), and we also find a smaller gender gap when we include nursing degrees in STEM, showing that the definition of STEM used is an important determinant of the conclusions reached.
I23|Intrinsic vs. extrinsic motivators on creative collaboration: The effect of sharing rewards|Charness and Grieco (2019) have experimentally shown that financial incentives have a positive impact on individual creativity, but only in the case of “close” creativity, i.e., when there are constraints to the creative task that a subject has to accomplish. In this paper, we build on the same “close” creativity assignments of Charness and Grieco (2019) and analyze with undergraduate students and with experts in creativity the interplay between monetary incentives and group cooperation in creative assignments. We introduce a novel model of intrinsic vs. extrinsic motivation to group collaboration in creativity and run a theorydriven experiment to test our experimental hypotheses on the crowding out of intrinsic motivation due to extrinsic motivation to group creativity. We find more creativity in the group than in the individual treatment, apart when there are explicit monetary incentives to co-working (sharing ideas) in the creative assignment. Therefore, while Charness and Grieco (2019) show a positive interplay between monetary incentives (extrinsic individual motivation) and “close” creativity at the individual level, we provide evidence of a negative interplay between monetary incentives and “close” creativity at the group level (crowding out of intrinsic group motivation). Furthermore, and again in line with our model predictions, the latter effect is found more in the experimental sessions with experts in creativity than in those with undergraduate students.
I23|Looking at Creativity from East to West: Risk Taking and Intrinsic Motivation in Socially and Culturally Diverse Countries|This article presents a mixed-methods research in the field of creativity. By making use of experiments and a questionnaire, it analyses how creativity is affected by three factors: i) motivation, ii) individuals’ attitudes towards risk and ambiguity and iii) social context. Each one of these factors has been extensively investigated in the theoretical and empirical literature getting to results still open to discussion. In particular, this research focuses on two aspects. First, we try to shed some light on the controversial findings linking risk taking and creativity that exist in the economic and psychology literature. To do so, we test the hypotheses that self perception of creative abilities may play a role in establishing a riskcreativity positive correlation. Second, being the three factors strongly influenced by culture, the study investigates whether the impacts on creativity may differ in diverse geographical locations. Following Attanasi et al. (2019), we exploit data from experiments performed in main cities of one eastern and one western country: Ho Chi Minh city (Vietnam) and Strasbourg (France). The information to build the risk and ambiguity factor derive from risk and ambiguity elicitation via lotteries. To account for motivation, different organizational scenarios are set in experimental treatments (financial incentives vs non financial incentives to collaborate). Finally, information on social context and self perception of creative abilities are collected through a self administrated questionnaire. In our analysis, we find that risk aversion, social habits and leisure activities have a positive effect on the creative performance of the French participants, while for Vietnamese the intrinsic motivation and the perception of their own creative capacities are positive correlated with creative scores. Our results suggest that in a country like France, social context has a strong influence on individual creativity, while for Vietnam individual features play a role in creativity, suggesting that the socio-cultural context has different impacts on creativity.
I23|Migration of higher education students from North Africa Region|This paper uses both the descriptive and comparative approaches to provide overview of migration of higher education students from North Africa region. We fill the gap in the African literature and present a more comprehensive and recent analysis of migration of higher education students from North Africa region using UNESCO recent secondary data on international students mobility in tertiary education. We provide an interesting comparative analysis of migration of higher education students from North Africa region compared to South Africa. A novel element in our analysis is that we examine migration of higher education students from North Africa from both national and regional perspectives; mainly we discuss migration of higher education students for each individual country in North Africa region (Algeria, Egypt, Libya, Morocco, Sudan and Tunisia) and then discuss the total for the entire North Africa region. Therefore, we provide an extremely valuable contribution to the increasing debate in the international literature concerning the increasing interaction between migration and increasing internationalisation of higher education. Our findings support the first hypothesis that from national perspective, the pattern and size of migration of higher education students from the North Africa region increased substantially over the past years but the distribution showed considerable variation across North African countries. Our results corroborate the second hypothesis that the increasing trend of migration of higher education students from the North Africa region is caused by several push-pull factors (e.g. economic, social, political, cultural and educational). Our results support the third hypothesis that migration of higher education students from the North Africa region lead to mixed positive and negative impacts (e.g. transfer of knowledge, brain gain and skill acquisition for returned migrant students, but weak capacity to retain talents and brain drain for non-returned migrant students). Our findings corroborate the fourth hypothesis that skills of migrant higher education students from North Africa region can be better mobilised in their countries of origin by addressing the push-pull factors that determine migration of skills from the North Africa region.
I23|The role of early-career university prestige stratification on the future academic performance of scholars|"Prestige and mobility are important aspects of academic life that play a critical role during early-career. After PhD graduation scholars have to compete for positions in the labour market. Unfortunately, many of them have few research products such that their inherent ability and skills remain mostly unobserved for hiring committees. Institutional prestige in this context is a key mechanism that signals the quality of candidates, and many studies have shown that a ""good"" affiliation can confer many opportunities for future career development. We know little, however, about how changes of scholar's institutional prestige during early-career relate to future academic performance. In this paper, we use an algorithm to rank universities based on hiring networks in Mexico. We distinguish three groups of scholars that move Up, Down or Stay in the prestige hierarchy between PhD graduation and first job. After controlling for individual characteristics by matching scholars with equal training or the same first job institution, we find that scholars hired by their existing faculty sustain higher performance over their career in comparison to other groups. Interestingly, we find that scholars that move up the hierarchy exhibit, on average, lower academic performance than the other groups. We argue that the negative relation between upward ranking mobility and performance is related to the difficulties in changing research teams at an early-career stage and to the so-called ""big-fish-small-pond"" effect. We observe a high stratification of universities by prestige and a negative association between mobility and performance that can hinder the flows of knowledge throughout the science system."
I23|Far from random? : The role of homophily in student supervision|This paper studies racial and gender homophily in student supervision relationships in a context of social transformations, South Africa academia. We develop a technique to separate choice homophily from that induced by the system. Comprising two permutation tests repeated at two levels of aggregation, system and departments. We find clear evidence of homophily in student supervision, along racial lines in particular. Roughly half of the observed homophily is induced by the departments composition and stays constant over time. Overall, choice homophily has similar magnitude along racial and gender dimensions. Further, we ask where choice homophily originates in the demographic groups of students and professors. We find that white (male) students have high tendency to form same-type relations, while among professors it is black (female) who display the higher frequency. Group differences show that choice homophily is likely to originate from students in the former majority.
I23|Does it pay to do novel science? The selectivity patterns in science funding|Public funding of science aims to provide the necessary investment for the radical scientific discoveries of tomorrow. This paper brings evidence that the funding process is not always awarding the most novel scientists. Exploiting rich data on all applications to a leading Swiss research funding program, we find that novel scientists have a higher probability of applying for funds than non-novel scientists, but they get on average lower ratings by grant evaluators and have lower chances of being funded.
I23|Funding Academic Research: Grant Application, Partnership, Award, and Output|Funding agencies tend to allocate (scarce) resources using a bottom-up competitive process. This paper analyzes the determinants and the consequences of the choices made in each of the stages of the funding process. We build on previous research (Banal-Estañol, Macho-Stadler, and Pérez-Castrillo 2013, 2018, and 2019) using, and present new results based on, one of the major public organizations funding academic research worldwide: the UK's Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council.
I23|Linking University Harshness and Students’ Choices: Sociodemographic Differences based on Italian Universities’ Characteristics|Through the decades, the Higher Education System globally experimented a huge increase in the average marks that each student receives. Among several hypothesis, in this article the idea that grading is one of the tool that every department can use in order to attract a larger amount of students will be stressed. Regarding the Italian case, the speed in obtaining a degree is among the criteria considered by the Ministry of Education in order to evaluate universities, financing them proportionally. As a shortcoming, this can boost an artificial increase in marks. So, the number of students becomes important for those universities with the worst ranking positions, in order to finance themselves through fees. On the other side, it is reasonable to expect that a student emigrates toward places which offer higher chances of receiving a job. In other words, mobility might be driven by the search for better working conditions, and not by the ’ease’ of the faculty. Testing this hypothesis, a Multinomial Conditional Logit Model will be implemented in order to measure the probability of choosing a certain destination depending on the harshness and reputation of a University and on the rates of unemployment at a regional level.
I23|Delayed Graduation and University Dropout: A Review of Theoretical Approaches|This paper surveys the theoretical approaches used in the literature to study the phenomenon of delayed graduation and university dropout. The classical human capital model does not contemplate failure, which the amended human capital model does. Delayed graduation and university dropout are two stages of the same decision repeated over the years to step aside or leave when the net returns to education expected ex ante are negative. Failure can also be taken as a signal of the real skills of individuals who do not succeed to gain a higher level of education. The job search approach underlines the role of positive/negative local labor market conditions as a factor able to explain choices of investment in human capital. Within the bargaining approach, the decision to delay graduation or dropout from university is related to bargaining within the family between parents and children: the former give their children better consumption opportunities in return for their presence at home. Although the amended human capital model is certainly the most compelling one, the other approaches help framing factors which are neglected in the human capital model, forming a well-structured body of knowledge to better understand the phenomenon under scrutiny, while also suggesting a set of policy tools to better control it.
I23|Wissenschaftliche Weiterbildung: Bestandsaufnahme und Handlungserfordernisse|Wissenschaftliche Weiterbildung gehört zwar nach dem Willen des Gesetzgebers zu den Kernaufgaben der Hochschulen. Gleichwohl sind die Aktivitäten in diesem Bereich marginal. Fehlende Handlungsanreize und die handlungsleitende Wichtigkeit der Forschungsreputation sind lang bestehende Gründe für die Zurückhaltung. Die wesentliche Ursache ist allerdings die Finanzierungsasymmetrie zwischen Erststudium und weiterbildenden Angeboten. Für das Erststudium dürfen keine Gebühren, für weiterführende Studienangebote müssen kostendeckende Gebühren verlangt werden. Dies führt dazu, dass Erststudienphasen durch den direkten Übergang vom Bachelor- in das Masterstudium verlängert werden. Gleichzeitig bleibt das weiterführende Studienangebot unterentwickelt, obgleich sowohl bei erwerbstätigen Absolventen als auch bei den beschäftigenden Unternehmen ein hohes Interesse an Weiterbildung besteht und sich ein individueller und unternehmensbezogener Nutzen feststellen lässt. Ein wesentlicher Hebel für eine Steigerung des Angebots der Hochschulen an wissenschaftlicher Weiterbildung ist die Aufhebung der Finanzierungsasymmetrie, indem für alle Studienangebote Gebühren erhoben werden. Erforderlich sind darüber hinaus haushalts- und kapazitätsrechtliche Deregulierungen. Eine flexible Angebotsgestaltung durch privatrechtliche Ausgründungen der Hochschulen sollte fortgeführt werden. An der Finanzierung der Weiterbildung sollten sich Staat, Individuen und Unternehmen beteiligen, indem Staat und Wirtschaft die Refinanzierung der individuellen Gebühren durch Ausweitung bestehender Bildungskredite und einer Kostenübernahme im Rahmen der Personalentwicklung unterstützen.
I23|Begutachtungsverfahren nach Zahl, Gewichtung und Fehlern der Gutachten|Begutachtungsverfahren werden analysiert anhand der Zahl der Gutachten, der Entscheidungsregel bei abweichenden Gutachtenempfehlungen und den Annahme- und Ablehnungsfehlern der Gutachten. Begutachtungsverfahren können grundsätzlich strenger oder lockerer sein, was entsprechend zu weniger fehlerhaften Annahmen oder Ablehnungen führt.
I23|Ökonomik und Ethik wissenschaftsinterner Gutachten|In diesem Beitrag werden wissenschaftsinterne Gutachten untersucht, ihr Hauptgrund, ihre Normen und Probleme. Es wird vorgeschlagen, Gutachterreputation als Anreiz einzusetzen.
I23|Success factors of academic journals in the digital age|Digitalisation has opened up new opportunities for the dissemination of information. That is why many academic journals have started introducing online services since the early 1990s. Previous studies suggest that online availability and free access to articles are positively connected to the number of citations. However, little is known about the relative impact of the introduction of online services at the journal level and what provides a long-term competitive advantage in times of digital change. Based on panel data from SSCI-listed management journals from 1989 to 2016, we examine which journals have pioneered the digital field, to what extent first-mover advantages can be identified, and which journal characteristics are associated with citation-based performance indicators. Our results show that lower-ranked journals were the first to introduce digital services and were beneficiaries of the digital age. Furthermore, we find a significant connection between the international composition of author teams and performance indicators. Our analysis of the relationship between online availability as well as open access and performance contradicts previous studies as we find that significant correlations diminish when adequately controlling for journal-level effects.
I23|Decentralizing Centralized Matching Markets: Implications From Early Offers in University Admissions|The matching literature commonly rules out that market design itself shapes agent preferences. Underlying this premise is the assumption that agents know their own preferences at the outset and that preferences do not change throughout the matching process. Under this assumption, a centralized matching market can often outperform a decentralized one. Using a quasi-experiment in Germany\'s university admissions, we provide evidence against this assumption. We study a centralized clearinghouse that implements the early stages of the university-proposing Gale-Shapley deferred-acceptance mechanism in real time, resembling a decentralized market with continuous offers, rejections, and acceptances. With data on the exact timing of every decision, we show that early offers are more likely to be accepted than (potential) later offers, despite early offers not being made by more desirable universities. Furthermore, early offers are only accepted after some time rather than immediately. These results and direct survey evidence are consistent with a model of information acquisition: it is costly for students to learn about universities and accepting a university that turns out to be inferior causes regret. We discuss and rule out some alternative hypotheses. Our findings motivate a hybrid mechanism that balances centralization and decentralization. By allowing sequential learning, it improves welfare, especially in markets with substantial learning costs.
I23|Estimating a Model of Qualitative and Quantitative Education Choices in France|We estimate a structural model of education choices in which individuals choose between a professional (or technical) and a general track at both high school and university levels using French panel data (Génération 98). The average per-period utility of attending general high school (about 10,000 euros per year) is 20% higher than that of professional high school (about 8000 euros per year). About 64% of total higher education enrollments are explained by this differential. At the same time, professional high school graduates would earn 5% to 6% more than general high school graduates if they both entered the labor market around age 18. The return to post-high school general education is highly convex (as in the US) and is reaped mostly toward the end of the higher education curriculum. Public policies targeting an increase in professional high school enrollments of 10 percentage points would require a subsidy of 300 euros per year of professional high school.
I23|Specializing in growing sectors: Wage returns and gender differences|We test whether specializing in a field of study when related sectors are growing matters for future labor market outcomes. For eight high-income OECD countries we match data on individuals' specialization decisions in higher education from PIAAC (Programme for the International Assessment of Adult Competencies) with national statistics on value added of related economic sectors. We find that individuals who chose fields of studies when related sectors were growing earn higher wages later in life. We also find that men are less likely to specialize in growing sectors. However, this is entirely driven by the fact that men avoid specializing in traditionally female fields, whose related sectors have grown more over recent decades (e.g. health, education). Only for men who obtained at least a Bachelor's degree can this avoidance be explained by lower wages. Men who obtained a vocational degree in growing female fields earn similar wages later in life as those specializing in shrinking male fields. We present suggestive evidence that gendered specialization decisions, paired with growth in traditionally female sectors could have contributed to narrowing gender wage gaps in recent decades
I23|Educación artística, elección de bachillerato y capacidades. Efecto de la creación del bachillerato artístico en la matrícula universitaria|This paper evaluates the effects of a high school curriculum reform on students' probability to choose Arts as college major. The reform was introduced in 2006 and involved, among other things, the creation of the Art and Expression track in the last two years of the upper secondary level, incorporating for the first time multi-artistic education as a high school diploma. Based on administrative data covering students from the Social and Artistic Area (ASYA, in Spanish) of the Universidad de la República (UdelaR) between 2004 and 2016, the empirical analysis is carried out by applying a difference-in-differences model. After controlling for sex, age and year of graduation from high school as well as place of residence, the results show that the reform increased the probability of choosing a major in Arts by 8.98 pp., conditional on choosing a free entry career of the ASYA, in students who finished public day-time high school between 2004 and 2010. Furthermore, being a woman reduces the impact of the reform, while finishing the secondary school in Montevideo Metropolitan Area increases it. The age of graduation from high school does not have significant effects on the studied probability. Based on Amartya Sen’s (1985) Capabilities Approach and Akerlof and Kranton’s (2000, 2002) Identity Economics, this research constitutes a first approach to the decision making process of students who chose arts in high school to later pursue university artistic formation. In this sense, the contribution to national production on educational evaluation, in general, and to the capabilities and identity literature applied to Uruguay, in particular, stands out.
I23|University supply expansion and Inequality of Opportunity of Access. The case of Uruguay|This paper examines whether opportunity of access to public university has improved over the period 2008 to 2013 in Uruguay; in which an important territorial expansion of the public university supply, historically located in Montevideo (the capital of Uruguay), to other regions of the country (named Interior) took place. For this purpose, an opportunity index for access to university is elaborated; which combines in a single measure coverage to a certain opportunity (access to university), and the distribution of access between different groups of population conditional on their circumstances (a measure of inequality of opportunity). Results suggest that opportunities of access to University improved over the period; driven by an increase in the average coverage rate. However, inequality of opportunity of access worsens over the period, especially for the Interior, as new entries to university are relatively more from better-off socioeconomic family backgrounds than those from worse-off family backgrounds.
I23|Combatting corruption in higher education in Ukraine|Corruption is a widespread phenomenon at Ukrainian higher education institutions (HEIs), with more than a quarter of students reporting participation in corrupt activities. This paper explores the dominant forms of corruption in Ukrainian public universities and proposes ways to combat corruption at the HEI level. For this, we analyse data from national authorities and civil society on corruption in the education sector. A subsequent corruption mapping identifies three of the most common corruption schemes: entrance examinations, grade attainment throughout university education, as well as administrative corruption. The paper closes with a set of policy recommendations to a) collect more data and conduct further research; b) increase transparency in the Ukrainian HEIs; c) conduct information campaigns and encourage participation of the civil society; d) increase oversight of HEIs; e) create a better reward and punishment mechanism system for HEI employees; f) standardise exams in the written form; and g) encourage academic freedom.
I23|The impact of progressive tuition fees on dropping out of higher education: a regression discontinuity design|In recent years, and under the pressure of increasing public deficits, a number of countries have decided to increase university fees to compensate for reductions in teaching subsidies financed by taxpayers. Perhaps the best known case is that of the UK. In this paper we analyze a similar policy adopted in Catalonia, Spain. Tuition fees increased 66 percent in the 2012-2013 academic year to compensate for the reduction in public subsidies used to finance Catalan university teaching activities. Interestingly, the increase in fees was progressive, meaning that there was a fee waiver in function of family income. We analyze the distributional impact of this policy change, showing that this progressive tuition fee does not have a differential impact on the dropout rate of students of di erent socioeconomic status. Since eligibility for the full tuition waiver is determined by a sharp cut-off on household income, we use a regression discontinuity design to analyze the effect of the new tuition fees around the full tuition waiver. We nd no evidence of any adverse impact of the new fees on the drop out rates.
I23|Time‐Use And Academic Peer Effects In College|This paper examines academic peer effects in college. Unique new data from the Berea Panel Study allow us to focus on a mechanism wherein a student's peers affect her achievement by changing her study effort. Although the potential relevance of this mechanism has been recognized, data limitations have made it difficult to provide direct evidence about its importance. We find that a student's freshman grade point average is affected by the amount her peers studied in high school, suggesting the importance of this mechanism. Using time diary information, we confirm that college study time is actually being affected. (JEL I20, F21, J01)
I23|BRATISLAVA and VIENNA: Twin Cities with big Development Potentials|The German version can be found here. The economies of Vienna and Bratislava have followed quite different development paths over the last decades. While Vienna’s population increased by about 20% within two decades, Bratislava’s population mostly stagnated. However, when measured in GDP per capita at purchasing power parties, average income in Bratislava has surpassed that of Vienna and is now among the top-10 leading regions in Europe. Massive foreign direct investment, particularly in the automotive sector, has created full employment in Bratislava. Nevertheless, Vienna, as one of the world’s most liveable cities, is still attracting more immigration and labour markets are in less favourable conditions. Transport infrastructure between the two close cities has only recently been improving, which has left considerable scope for further reductions in travel time. Regional cooperation is under way and should be reinforced in order to meet the challenges ahead. Mass-emigration of young Slovaks over the last decades will lead to a rapid ageing in Slovakia over the next decades and the working age population is expected to shrink by almost a third by the end of the century, while Austria’s will mostly stagnate. By creating a truly common labour market in the twin-city region, Bratislava could solve the problem of labour shortages and Vienna could solve its youth unemployment problem. Policy recommendations in this respect include inter alia a more substantial improvement of intercity public transport; common educational planning and training programmes; and, commuter allowances during the nominal wage-equalisation-transition. Other major long-run challenges are the ongoing processes of digitalisation and robotisation. Here, policy recommendations include projects of innovation cooperation; coordination of innovation oriented public procurement; and, improvement of transport infrastructure to connect the twin-city region with the rest of the world in order to reap potential future gains from increased economies of scale.
I23|BRATISLAVA und Wien: Twin Cities mit großem Entwicklungspotenzial|The English version can be found here. Die Wirtschaften von Wien und Bratislava haben sich in den letzten Jahrzehnten sehr unterschiedlich entwickelt. Die Bevölkerung Wiens ist um etwa 20% angestiegen, jene von Bratislava hat dagegen stagniert. Nimmt man allerdings das BIP pro Kopf zu Kaufkraftparitäten als Maß, so hat das Durchschnittseinkommen in Bratislava jenes in Wien bereits überholt und liegt nun unter den Top-10 führenden Regionen in Europa. Massive Investitionen, besonders im Automobilsektor, haben dazu beigetragen, dass in Bratislava Vollbeschäftigung herrscht. Wien, eine der lebenswertesten Städte der Welt, zieht immer noch Zuwanderung an; die Arbeitsmarktsituation ist weniger günstig. Die Transportinfrastruktur zwischen den beiden Städten hat sich nur in jüngster Zeit verbessert. Es gibt jedoch durchaus noch Potential zu einer erheblichen Reduktion der Reisezeit. Eine Zusammenarbeit auf regionaler Ebene besteht schon seit geraumer Zeit. Diese sollte aber verbessert werden, um gemeinsam künftige Herausforderungen zu bewältigen. Die bisherige Emigration, vorwiegend junger Personen, aus der Slowakei wird dort in den nächsten Jahrzehnten zu einer starken Überalterung führen; die Bevölkerung im arbeitsfähigen Alter wird bis zum Ende des Jahrhunderts voraussichtlich um beinahe ein Drittel zurückgehen; jene in Österreich wird voraussichtlich stagnieren. Ein echter gemeinsamer Arbeitsmarkt der beiden Städte könnte daher für beide vorteilhaft sein, die Arbeitskräfteknappheit in Bratislava senken und das Problem der Jugendarbeitslosigkeit in Wien reduzieren. Wirtschaftspolitische Empfehlungen gehen daher in die Richtung einer deutlichen Verbesserung des öffentlichen Transports; Entwicklung einer gemeinsamen Planung von Ausbildung und Pendlerunterstützung, um zu einem Lohnausgleich beizutragen. Der Prozess der Digitalisierung und Robotisierung stellt eine zweite große Herausforderung dar. Politikempfehlungen dazu umfassen Kooperationsprojekte im Bereich Innovation; die Koordination einer innovationsorientierten öffentlichen Beschaffung und die Verbesserung der Transportinfrastruktur, die die Region mit dem Rest der Welt verbindet, um so für die Zukunft von günstigeren Skaleneffekten zu profitieren.
I23|Overeducation Wage Penalty among Ph.D. Holders: An Unconditional Quantile Regression Analysis on Italian Data|The wage effect of job-education vertical mismatch (i.e. overeducation) has only recently been investigated in the case of Ph.D. holders. The existing contributions rely on OLS estimates that allow measuring the average effect of being mismatched at the mean of the conditional wages distribution. This paper, instead, observes the heterogeneity of the overeducation penalty along the wage distribution and according to Ph.D. holders' study field and sector of employment (academic/non-academic). We implement a Recentered Influence Function (RIF) to estimate an hourly wage equation and compare PhD holders who are over-educated with those who are not. The results reveal that overeducation hits the wages of those Ph.D. holders who are employed in the academic sector and in non-R&D jobs outside of the academic sector. Instead, no penalty exists among those who carry out R&D outside the Academia. The size of the penalty is higher among those who are in the mid-top of the wage distribution and hold a Social Science and Humanities specialization.
I23|The Economics of University Dropouts and Delayed Graduation: A Survey|This survey organizes and discusses the theoretical and empirical literature on the determinants of university student achievements. According to the theoretical framework, the decision to invest in tertiary education is a sequential process made under gradually decreasing levels of uncertainty on education costs and future returns. Students, applying a learning by doing approach, update their information set each academic year and revise benefits and costs associated to tertiary education. Accordingly, they decide whether to continue university studies in order to get a degree or to withdraw. This university decisional process is discussed by clustering the determinants of university outcomes into four main categories - students' characteristics, abilities and behavior; parental background and family networks; characteristics of the tertiary education system and its institutions; labor market performance - which are drawn from the empirical evidence. The policy advice resulting from the encompassing analysis is to provide an all-inclusive orientation activity for students, before they enroll at university. A complete understanding of the potential costs and benefits of this human capital investment can in fact reduce the risk of early withdrawal or delayed graduation.
I23|Drivers of Student Performance: Evidence from Higher Secondary Public Schools in Delhi|We examine the role of teachers and students in the formation of test scores at the higher secondary level (grade 12) in public schools in Delhi, India. Using the value added approach, we find substantial variation in teacher and student quality within schools: over the period spanning grades 11 and 12, being taught by a one standard deviation better than average teacher raises test scores by 0.373 standard deviation; and being a one standard deviation better than average student raises it by 0.799 standard deviation. Being permanent (tenured) positively predicts teacher effectiveness, while educational qualifications, training, experience and personality traits have no predictive power. Relative to families where only fathers earn, those where both parents earn negatively predict student effectiveness, while religion, caste and parents' education have no predictive power.
I23|Work Hard or Play Hard? Degree Class, Student Leadership and Employment Opportunities|We investigated the impact on first hiring outcomes of two main curriculum vitae (CV) characteristics by which graduates with a tertiary education degree distinguish themselves from their peers: degree class and extra-curricular activities. These characteristics were randomly assigned to 2,800 fictitious job applications that were sent to real vacancies in Belgium. Academic performance and extra-curricular engagement both enhanced job interview rates by about 7%. The effect of a higher degree class was driven by female (versus male) candidates and candidates with a master's (versus a bachelor's) degree. We did not find evidence for these CV characteristics to be substitutes or to reinforce each other's effect.
I23|Career expectations of undergraduate and graduate students at agricultural universities in Uzbekistan|Since national independence, the government of Uzbekistan has been paying attention to developing its education system, including agriculture. A number of regulations have been adopted in order to address the problems in education. Among these, the Law on Education (1997) and the National Training Programme (1997) are the main two regulations adopted to address issues related to the national educational system of Uzbekistan. Nevertheless, a problem of a lack of qualified agricultural personnel in rural areas still exists, and the majority of young cadres try to find jobs in cities. This analytical study aims to analyze the motivation, aspirations, and career expectations of undergraduate and graduate students of Samarkand Agricultural Institute. In the first part of the analytical study, we review the agricultural education system and underlying policies in Uzbekistan by dividing them into pre- and post-independence periods. In the second part, we discuss the survey results of 400 undergraduate and 50 graduate students from Samarkand Agricultural Institute. The results reveal that half of observed students did not make a career choice yet and face uncertainties in employment decisions. Compared with undergraduate students, the share of graduate students wishing to continue their education (doing a PhD) was higher. The following recommendations are given: (i) agricultural vocational/professional colleges and agricultural universities should collaborate in teaching students. Also, college and university staff members should cooperate with industries and farmers to develop employment opportunities for graduates in rural areas. (ii) Economic incentives based on higher wages/salaries are very important to attract more qualified specialists to rural areas, hence policymakers should consider this issue in a broader way. Developing extension service organizations can be an option where qualified staff will be needed. Availability of good rural infrastructure for graduates from agricultural universities can encourage students to stay in rural areas.
I23|Wer bekommt einen Studienplatz? Die Regelung des Hochschulzugangs im Umbruch|Mit dem Abitur wird in Deutschland das Recht auf den Zugang zur Hochschule erworben. Dieses Recht hat Verfassungsrang, da es aus dem Grundrecht der freien Berufswahl abgeleitet wird. Eine Einschränkung dieses Rechts durch einen Numerus clausus darf daher nur durch den Gesetzgeber erfolgen. Er muss die Kriterien der Auswahl festlegen, wenn die Zahl der Bewerber die Zahl der verfügbaren Studienplätze übersteigt. Das zentrale Auswahlkriterium für die Numerus-clausus-Studiengänge war bislang die Abiturdurchschnittsnote. Mit dem jüngsten Urteil des Bundesverfassungsgerichts vom Dezember 2017 wird sich dies nun ändern. Das Gericht kritisiert die einseitige Betonung des schulischen Wissens bei gleichzeitig mangelnder bundesweiter Vergleichbarkeit der Notengebung und fordert mindestens ein weiteres Auswahlkriterium, das auf berufliche Eignung abzielen soll. Damit will das Gericht erreichen, dass auch beruflich geeignete Bewerber ohne Abiturbestnoten eine Chance auf einen Studienplatz haben. Bislang betrifft das Urteil nur das Studium der Humanmedizin. Fachjuristen erwarten aber auch Auswirkungen auf die örtlichen Numerus-clausus-Studiengänge, die gegenwärtig 40 Prozent des Studienangebots ausmachen. Während in den Numerus-clausus-Studiengängen das Abitur als alleinige Zugangsvoraussetzung künftig nicht mehr ausreichen soll, müssen die Hochschulen in den zulassungsfreien Studiengängen jeden Bewerber mit einer Hochschulzugangsberechtigung akzeptieren. Modellversuche zeigen, dass eine Ergänzung der Hochschulzugangsberechtigung um weitere, auch auf die Berufspraxis bezogene Auswahlkriterien dazu beitragen kann, die Passung zwischen Bewerberqualifikation und Studienanforderungen zu verbessern und den Studienerfolg zu erhöhen. Gute Ergebnisse konnten mit Punktesystemen erzielt werden, die neben der Abiturnote die Ergebnisse eines fachspezifischen Studierfähigkeitstests sowie berufspraktische Erfahrungen berücksichtigen. Bei der Zulassung zum Medizinstudium sollte künftig ein solches Punktesystem die Quoten für Abiturbeste und für die Wartezeit ersetzen. Die positiven Erfahrungen mit der Berücksichtigung zusätzlicher Kriterien sprechen dafür, das Verfassungsgerichtsurteil zum Anlass zu nehmen, auch bei der Studienplatzvergabe in zulassungsfreien Studiengängen eine Ergänzung der Hochschulzugangsberechtigung durch Auswahlverfahren der Hochschulen rechtlich zu ermöglichen. Bei der geplanten Fortsetzung des Hochschulpaktes sollten Mittel zur Unterstützung der Hochschulen zur Durchführung dieser Auswahlverfahren eingeplant werden. Für eine technisch und organisatorisch verbesserte bundesweite Koordinierung der Hochschulzulassung in den Numerus-clausus-Studiengängen sollte der Bund gemeinsam mit den Ländern sorgen. Als Anreiz, die Studienbewerber selbst auszuwählen, sollte anstelle der im Hochschulpakt bislang an den Studienanfängern orientierten Finanzierung ein Absolventenbonus eingeführt werden. Die Beseitigung der Studienplatzknappheit wird auch künftig weder in der Humanmedizin noch in anderen Studiengängen allein durch öffentliche Mittel zu bewältigen sein. Eine individuelle Beteiligung durch sozialverträgliche Studiengebühren ist daher erforderlich.
I23|Stochastic frontier analysis in higher education: A systematic review|This paper provides a systematic review of the literature that employs stochastic frontier analysis to measure the efficiency of higher education institutions. The overview opens with a look at the general development of the literature, before emphasis is laid on the methodical aspects. Focus is thereby placed on the necessary underlying assumptions and the employed specifications, discussing their advantages and drawbacks. Afterwards, the factors that were specified in the literature, including the input and output variables, as well as the determinants of efficiency, are discussed in detail. Based on the insights of the literature review, the paper highlights some of the existing deficiencies and ways forward. To our knowledge, the present study provides the first systematic review on the usage of the stochastic frontier analysis to measure efficiency in the higher education sector.
I23|Die Verantwortung von Wirtschaftswissenschaftlern für Wirtschaftskrisen und die Wirtschaft allgemein|Die jüngste globale Wirtschafts- und Finanzkrise sowie die Eurokrise werden kurz skizziert und analysiert. Wirtschaftswissenschaftler waren an diesen Krisen und ihrer Überwindung beteiligt. Ihr Anteil sollte jedoch nicht überschätzt werden. Mehr Forschung zu relevanten Problemen und eine bessere Vermittlung der Forschungsergebnisse wären wünschenswert, wozu jedoch die Anreizstrukturen in den Wirtschaftswissenschaften verbessert werden sollten.
I23|20 Jahre Workshop Hochschulmanagement: Eine deskriptive Übersicht|Den Workshop Hochschulmanagement der wissenschaftlichen Kommission Hochschulmanagement im Verband der Hochschullehrer für Betriebswirtschaft (VHB) gibt es seit 20 Jahren. Es werden die Orte der 20 Workshops dargestellt, die Zahl der Vorträge, ihre Themen und Autoren sowie daraus resultierende Veröffentlichungen in wissenschaftlichen Zeitschriften.
I23|Erfahrungen aus der Programmkommission für die VHB-Pfingsttagung 2018|Die Bildung und Arbeit der Programmkommission für die VHB-Pfingsttagung 2018 in Magdeburg wird beschrieben. Erstmals wird dazu ein Sonderheft der Verbandszeitschrift Business Research erscheinen.
I23|Early Detection of Students at Risk – Predicting Student Dropouts Using Administrative Student Data and Machine Learning Methods|To successfully reduce student attrition, it is imperative to understand what the underlying determinants of attrition are and which students are at risk of dropping out. We develop an early detection system (EDS) using administrative student data from a state and a private university to predict student success as a basis for a targeted intervention. The EDS uses regression analysis, neural networks, decision trees, and the AdaBoost algorithm to identify student characteristics which distinguish potential dropouts from graduates. Prediction accuracy at the end of the first semester is 79% for the state university and 85% for the private university of applied sciences. After the fourth semester, the accuracy improves to 90% for the state university and 95% for the private university of applied sciences.
I23|Exposure to academic fields and college major choice|This study investigates how exposure to a field of study influences students’ major choices. If students have incomplete information, exposure potentially helps them to learn about the scope of a field as well as how well the field matches their interest and abilities. We exploit a natural experiment where university students have to write a research paper in business, economics, or law during their first year before they choose a major. Due to oversubscription of business papers, the field of the paper is assigned quasi-randomly. We find that writing in economics raises the probability of majoring in economics by 2.7 percentage points. We show further that this effect varies across subfields: the effect is driven by assignment to topics less typical of the public's perception of the field of economics, suggesting students learn through exposure that the field is broader than they thought.
I23|The effects of incentives to exercise on student performance in college|What are the effects of on-campus recreational sports and exercise on educational outcomes of university students? We randomize financial incentives to encourage students’ participation in on-campus sports and exercise in two cohorts of college freshmen. Incentives increased participation frequency by 47% and improved grades by 0.14 standard deviations in the first cohort. The incentives were less effective in promoting participation and did not improve grades in the second cohort. In the first cohort, students primarily substituted off-campus with on-campus physical activities and seemed more able to integrate exercising with studying. The incentives appear to have improved grades by enhancing the effectiveness of studying and encouraging students to spend more time in class.
I23|Super-efficiency of education institutions: an application to economics departments|This paper investigates the efficiency of 188 economics departments around the world using data from RePEc. We go beyond the heavily used data envelopment analysis and utilize partial frontier analysis – specifically order-α and order-m – which addresses some of the drawbacks of the standard efficiency frontier analysis and allows for so-called super-efficient departments. We examine the particularities of these approaches and find that the super-efficient departments are not only the ‘usual suspects’. Furthermore, standard output rankings are not well correlated with our estimated efficiency rankings, which themselves are rather similar.
I23|Super-efficiency of education institutions: an application to economics departments| This paper investigates the efficiency of 188 economics departments around the world using data from RePEc. We go beyond the heavily used data envelopment analysis and utilize partial frontier analysis – specifically order-α and order-m – which addresses some of the drawbacks of the standard efficiency frontier analysis and allows for so-called super-efficient departments. We examine the particularities of these approaches and find that the super-efficient departments are not only the ‘usual suspects’. Furthermore, standard output rankings are not well correlated with our estimated efficiency rankings, which themselves are rather similar.
I23|The Effect of a University Degree in English on International Labour Mobility|I investigate the effect of studying in English language on international labour market mobility for university graduates from a non-English speaking country. I exploit the introduction of Master of Arts degrees in English when students where enrolled in their Bachelor as an instrument for studying in English. I find that studying in English increases the individual’s probability of working abroad by 11.2 percentage points. I also estimate the effect of an English degree on wages, and I find that graduates in English benefit almost a 60 percent increase in wage compared to graduates in national language. Finally, I provide evidence that the strong effect on wages can be explained because individuals who study in English self-select into more remunerative labour contracts and economic sectors
I23|Should Governments Fund Basic Science? Evidence from a Willingness-to-pay Experiment in Five Universities|Tax-payers are usually the ultimate funders of large-scale research infrastructures (RIs), but the expected discoveries of such projects often do not have any known use-value. By interviewing 1,022 undergraduates, we study the drivers of preferences for paying for basic research, which are still little known. We focus on the LHC at CERN, where the Higgs boson was discovered. Income, awareness, and positive attitudes towards science drive a positive willingness-to-pay for science. Students in social sciences and the humanities are willing to contribute to scientific curricula at least as much as their peers. Findings offer support to government funding of basic research as a public good.
I23|How did removing student allowances for postgraduate study affect students’ choices?|From 1 January 2013, students in New Zealand who entered postgraduate qualifications other than Honours were no longer eligible to receive student allowances. We use individual-level administrative data that includes tertiary enrolment information, student allowance receipt, student loan borrowing, and wage earnings to investigate whether the policy affected students’ choices. We use a student’s allowance receipt as an undergraduate or her borrowing for course fees as a postgraduate to proxy for her counterfactual allowance eligibility. We use this proxy to compare allowance-eligible and allowance-ineligible students who enter an affected postgraduate qualification or an unaffected Honours degree. Although we are not able to cleanly estimate the causal effect of the policy, our results do not suggest that the policy affected the number or type of postgraduate entrants, their choice between part-time and full-time study, the amount of paid work they performed while studying, or their rates of dropping out. However, our results strongly suggest that students who became ineligible for allowances increased their student loan borrowing for living expenses.
I23|Labor Market Outcomes and Postsecondary Accountability: Are Imperfect Metrics Better than None?|No abstract is available for this item.
I23|Estimating the Productivity of Community Colleges in Paving the Road to Four-Year College Success|No abstract is available for this item.
I23|The effects of computers and acquired skills on earnings, employment and college enrollment: Evidence from a field experiment and California UI earnings records|This paper provides the first evidence on the earnings, employment and college enrollment effects of computers and acquired skills from a randomized controlled trial providing computers to entering college students. We matched confidential administrative data from California Employment Development Department (EDD)/Unemployment Insurance (UI) system earnings records, the California Community College system, and the National Student Clearinghouse to all study participants for seven years after the random provision of computers. The experiment does not provide evidence that computer skills have short- or medium-run effects on earnings. These null effects are found along both the extensive and intensive margins of earnings (although the estimates are not precise). We also do not find evidence of positive or negative effects on college enrollment. A non-experimental analysis of CPS data reveals large, positive and statistically significant relationships between home computers, and earnings, employment and college enrollment, raising concerns about selection bias in non-experimental studies.
I23|Crowdfunding Scientific Research|Crowdfunding may provide much-needed financial resources, yet there is little systematic evidence on the potential of crowdfunding for scientific research. We first briefly review prior research on crowdfunding and give an overview of dedicated platforms for crowdfunding research. We then analyze data from over 700 campaigns on the largest dedicated platform, Experiment.com. Our descriptive analysis provides insights regarding the creators seeking funding, the projects they are seeking funding for, and the campaigns themselves. We then examine how these characteristics relate to fundraising success. The findings highlight important differences between crowdfunding and traditional funding mechanisms for research, including high use by students and other junior investigators but also relatively small project size. Junior investigators are more likely to succeed than senior scientists, and women have higher success rates than men. Conventional signals of quality - including scientists' prior publications - have no relationship with funding success, suggesting that the crowd applies different decision criteria than traditional funding agencies. Our results highlight significant opportunities for crowdfunding in the context of science while also pointing towards unique challenges. We relate our findings to research on the economics of science and on crowdfunding, and we discuss connections with other emerging mechanisms to involve the public in scientific research.
I23|The Impact of High School Curriculum on Confidence, Academic Success, and Mental and Physical Well-Being of University Students|This paper investigates the causal effect of high school curriculum on various student outcomes including academic performance at the university, happiness, physical and mental health, self-confidence, confidence in academic ability, and attitudes towards studying and learning. We exploit a curriculum reform in China, the implementation of which started in 2004. The reform covered all provinces and municipal cities, and was rolled out in different years in different provinces. The new curriculum pivoted away from the old lock-step course structure where all students took the same courses and only those subject that were covered in the national university entrance exam were considered important. In contrast, the new curriculum introduced a course credit system, changed textbooks, and provided flexibility in course selection. It also introduced elective courses and made such courses as arts and physical education mandatory, and a graduation requirement. Using survey data on university students and employing a difference-in-difference approach, we find that the students who were exposed to the new curriculum in high school have better academic performance in university. They are happier, and their physical and mental well-being is better. These students are more likely to have positive attitudes towards themselves and they are more involved in student clubs. They have more confidence in their academic ability, they have more positive attitudes towards studying, and they have more general self-confidence. These results indicate that the reform had a significant impact on students’ academic success and well-being by allowing them to focus on subject matters in which they are interested, and by reducing undue stress of a regimented curriculum.
I23|Death of the Salesman, But Not the Sales Force: How Interested Promotion Skews Scientific Valuation|Whereas recent research has demonstrated how disinterested social validation may skew valuation in meritocratic domains, interested promotion may be at least as important a factor. As suggested by research on reputational entrepreneurship, a producer's death shifts promotion opportunities in two respects. First, it prevents the producer (or “salesman”) from engaging in promotional activity. Second, it also mobilizes others (the “sales force”) to step up their promotional activity on behalf of the deceased. Analysis of the impact made by the premature death of 720 elite life scientists on the citation trajectories of their articles indicates that death results in a long-lasting, positive increase in citation rates, relative to the trajectories for equivalent articles by counterfactual, still-living scientists. This effect seems due largely to the memorialization efforts made by the sales force as compared to recognition efforts on behalf of the still-living scientists, and is strongest for articles that had received relatively little attention prior to the death, as well as those authored by stars who died at a relatively young age. The upshot is clear evidence of informational inefficiency, which derives from the challenges of absorbing the massive volume of scientific knowledge produced. Scientists' identities thus play an important role in determining scientific valuations, despite ostensible norms that enjoin the scientific community to divorce the researcher's identity from her work.
I23|Funding Breakthrough Research: Promises and Challenges of the “ARPA Model”|From its 1958 origin in defense, the Advanced Research Projects Agency (ARPA) model for research funding has, in the last two decades, spread to other parts of the US federal government with the goal of developing radically new technologies. In this paper, we propose that the key elements of the ARPA model for research funding are: organizational flexibility on an administrative level, and significant authority given to program directors to design programs, select projects and actively manage projects. We identify the ARPA model’s domain as mission-oriented research on nascent S-curves within an inefficient innovation system. Finally, we describe some of the challenges to implementing the ARPA model, and we comment on the role of ARPA in the landscape of research funding approaches.
I23|School spirit: Legislator school ties and state funding for higher education|We explore a new mechanism to understand state funding for public colleges and universities by leveraging data on the educational experiences of state legislators, specifically if and where they received postsecondary education. Using novel, hand-collected data from 2002 through 2014, we provide comprehensive documentation – for the first time in the literature – on the educational backgrounds of state legislators. We find a statistically significant, positive association between the share of legislators who attended their states' public institutions and state funding for their entire public higher-education system. We also find a similar positive relationship between the share of state legislators who attended particular campuses of the state's public university system and funding for those campuses. This relationship is more pronounced among publicly educated legislators who represent legislative districts close to their alma mater's district, and becomes most consequential when the legislator's district contains his or her alma mater. We discuss the implications of our findings for academic studies on how politics and legislators' personal experiences influence support for higher education.
I23|Temperature and High-Stakes Cognitive Performance: Evidence from the National College Entrance Examination in China|We provide the first nation-wide estimates on temperature effects on high-stakes cognitive performance in a developing country using data from the National College Entrance Examination (NCEE) in China. The NCEE is one of the most important institutions in China and affects hundreds of millions of families. We find that a one-standard-deviation increase in temperature (3.29° C) decreases the total test score by 1.12% (9.62% of a standard deviation) and decreases the probability of getting into first-tier universities by 1.97% (4.38% of a standard deviation). This suggests that temperature plays an important role in high-stakes cognitive performance and has potentially far-reaching impacts for the careers and lifetime earnings of students.
I23|Any Press is Good Press? The Unanticipated Effects of Title IX Investigations on University Outcomes|Since 2011, when the landmark “Dear Colleague” letter declared that the Department of Education (DoE) would use equal-access requirements of federal law to remediate sexual assault on college campuses, 458 investigations have been opened. This letter was withdrawn in 2017 and it remains uncertain how the DoE will handle the issue in the future. We examine the effects of the investigations arising from the 2011 policy change on university outcomes. We find that applications and enrollment increase in response to Title IX investigations, for both males and females. We find little evidence of effects on degree completion or donations.
I23|Take Two! SAT Retaking and College Enrollment Gaps|Data on millions of SAT-takers show only half retake the exam, with even lower retake rates among low income and underrepresented minority students. Scoring below multiples of 100 increases retaking, implying some students have round number target scores. Regression discontinuity evidence finds retaking once improves admissions-relevant SAT scores by 0.3 standard deviations on average. Likely by strengthening college applications, retaking substantially increases four-year college enrollment, particularly for low income and underrepresented minority students. Eliminating disparities in retake rates could close up to 20 percent of the income gap and 10 percent of the racial gap in four-year college enrollment.
I23|The Impact of Chief Diversity Officers on Diverse Faculty Hiring|As the American college student population has become more diverse, the goal of hiring a more diverse faculty has received increased attention in higher education. A signal of institutional commitment to faculty diversity often includes the hiring of an executive level chief diversity officer (CDO). To examine the effects of a CDO in a broad panel data context, we combine unique data on the initial hiring of a CDO with publicly available faculty and administrator hiring data by race and ethnicity from 2001 to 2016 for four-year or higher U.S. universities categorized as Carnegie R1, R2, or M1 institutions with student populations of 4,000 or more. We are unable to find significant statistical evidence that preexisting growth in diversity for underrepresented racial/ethnic minority groups is affected by the hiring of an executive level diversity officer for new tenure and non-tenure track hires, faculty hired with tenure, or for university administrator hires.
I23|Nevertheless She Persisted? Gender Peer Effects in Doctoral STEM Programs|We study the effects of peer gender composition, a proxy for female-friendliness of environment, in STEM doctoral programs on persistence and degree completion. Leveraging unique new data and quasi-random variation in gender composition across cohorts within programs, we show that women entering cohorts with no female peers are 11.9pp less likely to graduate within 6 years than their male counterparts. A 1 sd increase in the percentage of female students differentially increases the probability of on-time graduation for women by 4.6pp. These gender peer effects function primarily through changes in the probability of dropping out in the first year of a Ph.D. program and are largest in programs that are typically male-dominated.
I23|The Consequences of Academic Match between Students and Colleges|"We consider the effects of student ability, college quality, and the interaction between the two on academic outcomes and future earnings. Both ability and college quality strongly improve outcomes and earnings. We find little evidence to support the ""mismatch"" hypothesis that college quality and ability interact in substantively important ways. All students benefit from attending higher quality colleges. Our estimates imply that resorting students to eliminate mismatch, without changing the capacity of any colleges, would raise expected graduation rates by only 0.6 percentage points and mean earnings by $400 per year. The substantial gains for students who move to higher quality colleges under this reshuffling roughly cancel out the losses of students who move down."
I23|Publishing and Promotion in Economics: The Tyranny of the Top Five|This paper examines the relationship between placement of publications in Top Five (T5) journals and receipt of tenure in academic economics departments. Analyzing the job histories of tenure-track economists hired by the top 35 U.S. economics departments, we find that T5 publications have a powerful influence on tenure decisions and rates of transition to tenure. A survey of the perceptions of young economists supports the formal statistical analysis. Pursuit of T5 publications has become the obsession of the next generation of economists. However, the T5 screen is far from reliable. A substantial share of influential publications appear in non-T5 outlets. Reliance on the T5 to screen talent incentivizes careerism over creativity. The appendices for this paper are available here: https://hceconomics.uchicago.edu/file-upload/appendices-publishing-and-promotion-economics-tyranny-top-five
I23|Who Votes for Medicaid Expansion? Lessons from Maine’s 2017 Referendum|In November 2017, Maine became the first state in the nation to vote on a key provision of the Affordable Care Act: the expansion of Medicaid. We analyze local voting results to identify characteristics of areas that support Medicaid expansion. Support is strongly correlated with voter education. Places with more bachelor’s degree holders more often vote in favor, whereas those with more associate’s degree graduates vote against. Other patterns are consistent with economic self-interest. Conditional on education rates, areas with more uninsured individuals who would qualify for expanded coverage tend to vote in favor, while those with more high-income individuals vote against. Also conditional on education rates, greater hospitals employment is associated with support for expansion, but the presence of other health professionals, whose incomes might decrease from expansion, is associated with less support. Extrapolating from Maine to other states, our model predicts that hypothetical referendums on Medicaid expansion would pass in five of the 18 states that had not yet expanded Medicaid coverage.
I23|The Role of Parental Wealth and Income in Financing Children's College Attendance and Its Consequences|This paper examines the influence of parental wealth and income on children's college attendance and parental financing decisions, graduation, and quality of college attended, and whether parental financing affects the subsequent indebtedness of parents and children. We find that higher levels of parents' wealth and income increase the likelihood that children attend college with financial support relative to not attending college, and that parental wealth increases the likelihood that children graduate from college. We show descriptive evidence that parental support for college increases the subsequent level of housing debt that parents hold but does not reduce student debt for children.
I23|Designed to Fail: Effects of the Default Option and Information Complexity on Student Loan Repayment|We ask why so few student loan borrowers enroll in Income Driven Repayment when the majority would benefit from doing so. To do so we run an incentivized laboratory experiment using a facsimile of the government's Student Loan Exit Counseling website. We test the role information complexity, uncertainty about earnings, and the default option play. We show that despite an ex ante optimal choice, the majority choose, or are defaulted into, a sub-optimal plan. We find the default option is a driver of this phenomenon, suggesting the government has an easy policy lever to lower default rates - change the default plan.
I23|Why is Math Cheaper than English? Understanding Cost Differences in Higher Education|The private return to postsecondary investment varies widely by field, but the resources required by different fields are not well known. This paper establishes five new facts about college costs using novel department-level data. First, costs vary widely across field, ranging from electrical engineering (109 percent higher costs than English) to math (22 percent lower). Costs are generally higher in fields where graduates earn more and in pre-professional programs. Second, this pattern is explained statistically by differences in class size and faculty pay, though differences in production technology enable some fields to offset higher salaries with larger classes. Third, some STEM fields experienced steep declines in expenditures over the past fifteen years while others saw increases. Fourth, increases in class size and teaching loads alongside a shift in faculty composition toward contingent faculty explain these trends. Finally, online instruction is associated with a modest reduction in cost per student, but only for undergraduate instruction. Recent policy efforts to promote enrollment in high-earning fields will thus have important implications for postsecondary costs and the social return on investment in higher education.
I23|Elite Schools and Opting In: Effects of College Selectivity on Career and Family Outcomes|Using College and Beyond data and a variant on Dale and Krueger’s (2002) matched-applicant approach, this paper revisits the question of how attending an elite college affects later-life outcomes. We expand the scope along two dimensions: we examine new outcomes related to labor force participation, human capital, and family formation and we do not restrict the sample to full-time full-year workers. For men, our findings echo those in Dale and Krueger (2002): controlling for selection eliminates the positive relationship between college selectivity and earnings. We also find no significant effects on men’s educational or family outcomes. The results are quite different for women: we find effects on both career and family outcomes. Attending a school with a 100-point higher average SAT score increases women’s probability of advanced degree attainment by 5 percentage points and earnings by 14 percent, while reducing their likelihood of marriage by 4 percentage points. The effect of college selectivity on own earnings is significantly larger for married than for single women. Among married women, selective college attendance significantly increases spousal education.
I23|Closing the Gap: The Effect of a Targeted, Tuition-Free Promise on College Choices of High-Achieving, Low-Income Students|Low-income students, even those with strong academic credentials, are unlikely to attend a highly selective college. With a field experiment, we test an intervention to increase enrollment of low-income students at the highly selective University of Michigan. We contact students (as well as their parents and principals) with an encouragement to apply and a promise of four years of free tuition and fees upon admission. Materials emphasize that this offer is not contingent on completing aid applications (e.g., the FAFSA or PROFILE). Treated students were more than twice as likely to apply to (67 percent vs. 26 percent) and enroll at (27 percent vs. 12 percent) the University of Michigan. There was no diversion from schools as (or more) selective as UM. The enrollment effect of 15 percentage points (pp) comprises students who would otherwise attend a less selective, four-year college (7 pp), a community college (4 pp), or no college (4 pp). Effects persist through two years of follow-up. The intervention closed by half the income gaps in college choice among Michigan's high-achieving students. We conclude that an encouragement to apply, paired with a promise of aid, when communicated to students and influential adults, can substantially close income gaps in college choices.
I23|Norway’s economy: Maintaining a successful business sector in a changing world|Norway’s success in maintaining high living standards, low inequality and good progress in gender balance owes much to its business sector. High-productivity business-sector jobs support high wages and profits, providing capacity to fund comprehensive public services and inclusive employment practices. Ensuring that the business sector thrives as globalisation and technologies evolve further and as the oil and gas sector enters long-term decline requires maintaining business-friendly conditions. This paper examines framework conditions, notably competition legislation and policy affecting firm entry and exit (“firm dynamics”). It evaluates how best to encourage new business models, as well the growing issue of labour supply among older cohorts. Education policy’s role in providing skills conducive to good lifetime earnings is also discussed.
I23|Strengthening innovation in Poland|Poland’s catch up with other OECD country has been largely based on productivity growth resulting from restructuring towards more productive sectors and foreign technology absorption. The economy’s own innovation capacity is relatively weak, with low investment in research and development, no tradition of commercialising research and very limited innovation activity within firms. The government plans a higher education reform to strengthen the quality of research output, science-industry cooperation and international collaboration, which are all weak. Considerable EU funding is available to support innovation. Most of it is conditioned on science-industry co-operation, which is showing initial benefits. A lively start-up scene is gradually emerging, and the government foresees considerable public support for venture capital financing. Yet, investment in higher education and research trails behind economies that have been able to build strong science and high-tech start-up activity. Poland’s many small and medium-sized enterprises have particularly low productivity, partly related to weaknesses in vocational training and adult education, as too many workers have weak basic and digital skills. The government's education reform and digital strategy address some of these issues.
I23|How is research policy across the OECD organised?: Insights from a new policy database|Building on a newly created policy indicator database, this paper provides a first systematic comparison of the governance of public research policy across 35 OECD countries from 2005 to 2017. The database was obtained following a three-year process that involved the development of an ontology of the governance of public research policy as well as data collection and validation by national authorities. The data show diverse institutions and mechanisms of policy action regarding higher education institutions (HEIs) and public research institutes (PRIs) are in place across the 35 OECD countries. The data also shows an increasing use of project funding, performance contracts and performance evaluations for HEIs and PRIs. In many countries, HEIs and PRIs are autonomous regarding their relations with industry, budget allocation but less frequently regarding salaries. Recent reforms have strengthened external stakeholders' participation in their governance. The database is publicly available on the following webpage: https://stip.oecd.org/resgov.
I23|Do the financial sources of external funds affect research productivity? -A departmental level analysis of seven former imperial universities of Japan|This study examines research productivity of departments of seven former imperial universities of Japan. In this study, we categorize the departments into five academic fields: engineering, health science, economics, science, and agriculture. The study examines whether fundamental and external research funds positively affect the research productivity, which is measured by the number of papers accepted in international academic journals. Additionally, we investigate whether the financial sources of external research funds can affect productivity differently and if there is any variation among the five academic fields. The estimation results showed that, first, the increase of fundamental and external funds per faculty member is positively correlated with research productivity in the fields of engineering and health science. Second, considering the results of further investigation into the effects of external funding, research funding by the public sector can increase productivity in all the five academic fields. Third, the results pertaining to private research funds show that research funding provided by firms can increase productivity in engineering and health science. However, for economics, the increase in external funding from firms is negatively correlated with research productivity. This is possibly because the purpose of industry-university collaboration differs according to the academic field. Regarding economics, the output from the resulting collaboration might not result in the production of an academic paper from the department but rather lay the groundwork for effective policy making or consulting in favor of the firm on the basis of quantitative analysis. This study is the first attempt by Japanese universities to analyze research productivity at the plurality departmental level. The empirical results show that depending on the discipline, the same resources of research funding can have different impact on research productivity. Nowadays, the Japanese central government has been reforming the resource allocation systems of universities by evaluating their research performance, basing them more on the quantitative indicators such as KPI (Key Performance Indicators). However, a key result of this study implies that when the relative evaluation of universities is applied, each university fs situation must be more carefully considered, especially in terms of what kinds and shares of academic departments it has.
I23|Do the financial sources of external funds affect research productivity? -A departmental level analysis of seven former imperial universities of Japan|This study examines the research productivity of departments in seven former imperial universities of Japan. We categorize the departments into five academic fields: engineering, health sciences (i.e., medicine, dentistry and pharmaceutical), economics, science, and agriculture. Then, the impact of fundamental and external research funds is examined to see whether they positively affect research productivity-measured by the number of papers accepted in peer-reviewed, international academic journals. Additionally, we investigate whether such external funding sources affect productivity in each of the five fields differently, noting any variation between them. The estimation results reveal that, first, the increase of fundamental and external funds per faculty member is positively correlated with research productivity in the fields of engineering and health sciences. Second, considering the results of further investigation into the effects of external funding, research funding by the public sector can increase productivity in each of the five academic fields. Third, the results pertaining to private research funds show that research funding provided by firms can increase productivity in engineering and health sciences. However, for economics, the increase in external funding from firms is negatively correlated with research productivity. This result might be because the purpose of industry-university collaboration differs according to the academic field. Regarding economics, the output from the resulting collaboration might not result in the production of an academic paper, but rather make policy recommendations or provide consulting using quantitative analysis. This study is the first attempt by any Japanese university to analyze research productivity across several departments. The empirical results show that depending on the discipline, the same resources of research funding impact research productivity differently. Nowadays, the Japanese central government has been about the business of reforming resource allocation systems of universities by evaluating their research performance, basing them more on the quantitative indicators such as the key performance indicators (KPI). However, a key result of this study implies that when a relative evaluation of universities is applied, each university fs situation must be more carefully considered, especially in terms of what kinds of academic departments it has, and which specialties or segments it features.
I23|Spatial competition for students: what does (not) matter?|Regional cohesion and competition for students has fostered interest in the decision-making process behind the selection of institution of higher education. We use a gravity model to estimate the impact of distance, socioeconomic profile of districts, and characteristics of higher education institutions on the migratory flows of candidates to undergraduate programmes in Portugal. Elasticity to distance is found to be close to -2, in line with the gravity equation. The characteristics of the district of destination are unimportant, contrasting with the characteristics of institutions. Indeed, we find a negative impact of graduate unemployment, a more than proportional impact of the number of vacancies, and a great advantage to universities when compared with polytechnics. Regarding the district of origin, outgoing flows are lower the greater the local supply of higher education and the larger the young population.
I23|Career expectations of undergraduate and graduate students at agricultural universities in Uzbekistan| Since national independence, the government of Uzbekistan has been paying attention to developing its education system, including agriculture. A number of regulations have been adopted in order to address the problems in education. Among these, the Law on Education (1997) and the National Training Programme (1997) are the main two regulations adopted to address issues related to the national educational system of Uzbekistan. Nevertheless, a problem of a lack of qualified agricultural personnel in rural areas still exists, and the majority of young cadres try to find jobs in cities. This analytical study aims to analyze the motivation, aspirations, and career expectations of undergraduate and graduate students of Samarkand Agricultural Institute. In the first part of the analytical study, we review the agricultural education system and underlying policies in Uzbekistan by dividing them into pre- and post-independence periods. In the second part, we discuss the survey results of 400 undergraduate and 50 graduate students from Samarkand Agricultural Institute. The results reveal that half of observed students did not make a career choice yet and face uncertainties in employment decisions. Compared with undergraduate students, the share of graduate students wishing to continue their education (doing a PhD) was higher. The following recommendations are given: (i) agricultural vocational/professional colleges and agricultural universities should collaborate in teaching students. Also, college and university staff members should cooperate with industries and farmers to develop employment opportunities for graduates in rural areas. (ii) Economic incentives based on higher ages/salaries are very important to attract more qualified specialists to rural areas, hence policymakers should consider this issue in a broader way. Developing extension service organizations can be an option where qualified staff will be needed. Availability of good rural infrastructure for graduates from agricultural universities can encourage students to stay in rural areas.
I23|Produção Científica e Redes de Colaboração dos Docentes Vinculados aos Programas de Pós-graduação em Economia no Brasil|Este artigo apresenta os resultados de um estudo sobre as potencialidades da utilização dos dados curriculares derivados das informações da Plataforma Lattes como ferramentas para avaliação do desempenho científico de pesquisadores. Um novo indicador, denominado “índice multidimensional de desempenho científico” (IMDC), é proposto considerando um amplo conjunto de indicadores bibliométricos que buscam captar diferentes formas da produção acadêmica dos atuais pesquisadores vinculados à pós-graduação em Economia no Brasil. Os resultados preliminares permitem evidenciar uma tipologia de pesquisadores considerando suas diferentes estratégias de atuação. Economistas com maior impacto na profissão adotam uma estratégia caracterizada por um equilíbrio entre qualidade, quantidade e colaboração científica.
I23|Mining and Human Capital Accumulation: the Role of the Return to Education|The literature has long tried to explain the casual relationship between natural resources booms and human capital accumulation but yet with no definitive answer. Usually the literature finds that booms abates the process of human capital accumulation by increasing the cost of opportunity of studying. We want to further contribute to this discussion by studying the impact of the mineral mining boom in Peru on the interruption of post-secondary studies during the period 2004-2016. To do so, we rely on a differences-in-difference strategy. Our results show that the Peruvian mining boom had a positive impact on the probability of interruption of post-secondary studies. Furthermore, the probability of staying idle of young individuals increased. In contrast with previous studies, we find that our results are driven mainly by a decrease in the return to higher education relative to high-school education. Other mechanisms that may be playing a minor role is the health status of young individuals -which deteriorates with the mining boom-, and the labor reallocation that occurs within households.
I23|The impact of NCAA men’s basketball probations on the quantity and quality of student applications and enrollment| Collegiate sports programmes have been characterized as the front porch of a university, serving to publicize the institution and draw students to the door. Previous research in this area has indicated a positive correlation between athletic success and the quantity and quality of students attending the university. Conversely, we seek to analyse if athletic malfeasance, as measured by NCAA probations of men’s basketball programmes, negatively affects either the quantity or quality of students at a university. Our findings suggest that while basketball probations do not change the overall quantity of applications nor enrolment at a university, there is a significant adverse impact on the quality of freshman enrolling at the university as measured by Scholastic Aptitude Test scores. Our finding suggests that athletics do indeed serve as a front porch to a university and that athletic sanctions in men’s basketball have a detrimental effect on the average quality of students attending a university.
I23|Universities Behaving Badly: The Impact of Athletic Malfeasance on Student Applications and Enrollment|Collegiate sports programs are often characterized as the front porch of a university, serving to publicize the institution and draw students to the door. We analyze if athletic malfeasance, as measured by NCAA postseason tournament bans of men’s basketball, negatively affects either the quantity or quality of student applications or enrollment. Our findings suggest that athletic malfeasances that result in postseason tournament bans lowers both the quantity and quality of students enrolling at the infracting university. Our results demonstrate that impropriety by an athletics program serves as signal to prospective students regarding the overall quality of the university. Key Words: Education, NCAA, Athletic Malfeasance
I23|The Negative Effect of NCAA Football Bowl Bans on University Enrollment and Applications|Universities provide consumption amenities to students in addition to their educational services. Collegiate sports programs have been characterized one of these consumption amenities. Previous research has shown that athletic success has a positive impact on both the quantity and quality of students attending a university. Alternatively, we analyze if athletic malfeasance, as measured by NCAA postseason bowl bans of football programs, negatively affects either the quantity or quality of student applications or enrollment. Our findings suggest that athletic malfeasance that results in a postseason football bowl ban lowers the quantity of applications, admittances, and enrollment. We do not, however, detect any reduction in student quality at the sanctioned university. Our results demonstrate that impropriety by an athletics program directly impacts a university’s non-athlete student enrollment by influencing the amenity mix provided by the university. Key Words: Higher Education, NCAA, Athletic Malfeasance
I23|The effect of grants on university drop-out rates: evidence on the Italian case|In this paper we measure the impact of need-based grants on university dropout rates in the first year, using student-level data from all Italian universities in the period 2003-2013. In Italy, some of the students eligible for grants do not receive them due to a lack of funds. We exploit this phenomenon to identify the causal effect of financial assistance. We find that need-based aid prevents students belonging to low-income families from dropping out from higher education; the estimated effect is sizeable. This evidence is robust to a variety of specifications and sample selection criteria.
I23|The Impact of Progressive Tuition Fees on Dropping Out of Higher Education: A Regression Discontinuity Design|In recent years, and under the pressure of increasing public deficits, a number of countries have decided to increase university fees to compensate for reductions in teaching subsidies financed by taxpayers. Perhaps the best known case is that of the UK. In this paper we analyze a similar policy adopted in Catalonia, Spain. Tuition fees increased 66 percent in the 2012-2013 academic year to compensate for the reduction in public subsidies used to finance Catalan university teaching activities. Interestingly, the increase in fees was progressive, meaning that there was a fee waiver in function of family income. We analyze the distributional impact of this policy change, showing that this progressive tuition fee does not have a differential impact on the dropout rate of students of different socioeconomic status. Since eligibility for the full tuition waiver is determined by a sharp cut-off on household income, we use a regression discontinuity design to analyze the effect of the new tuition fees around the full tuition waiver. We find no evidence of any adverse impact of the new fees on the drop out rates.
I23|Is Brain Drain passé? The Optimal Timing of Migration|This paper sheds a new perspective on models of migration by integrating in a same structure the decisions about education and work; and by incorporating return migration with ‘brain waste’. Brain waste is defined as the depreciation, due to migration, in the human capital acquired in the home country. This paper shows that brain waste, and return migration have significant effects on the optimal strategy of migration. Without these elements, brain drain is usually an optimal solution. But, when we introduce brain waste, then it is optimal to migrate as a student. Therefore, brain waste can explain why brain drain is not always optimal.
I23|Drivers of Student Performance: Evidence from Higher Secondary Public Schools in Delhi|We examine the role of teachers and students in the formation of grade 12 test scores in public schools in Delhi. There is substantial variation in teacher and student quality within schools. Over the period spanning grades 11 and 12, being taught by a standard deviation better than average teacher raises test scores by 0.373 standard deviation; being a standard deviation better than average student raises it by 0.799 standard deviation. Being tenured positively predicts teacher effectiveness, while educational qualifications, training, experience and personality traits have no predictive power. Relative to families where only fathers earn, those where both parents earn negatively predict student effectiveness, while religion, caste and parents’ education have no predictive power. There is some evidence that principals’ rating of teachers and value added measures of teacher quality are positively correlated. We recommend teacher compensation be based in-part on ex-post evaluation of value-added measures and principal ratings.
I23|Threats to scientific progress, past and present|A US boycott of Chinese researchers, as threatened by the Trump administration, could stifle scientific progress and technological innovation. That is the concern of Alessandro Iaria, Carlo Schwarz and Fabian Waldinger, whose research looks at the period between 1914 and 1926, when Allied scientists were cut off from their peers in Central countries - with damaging consequences for world science. Their study reveals how the interruption of international knowledge flows, as a result of the First World War and its aftermath, led to stark declines in the production of research deemed worthy of a Nobel prize nomination. Barriers to international scientific co-operation slow down the production of basic science and its application in new technologies. In contrast, policies that widen access to frontier research could benefit society beyond the confines of science itself.
I23|Higher education funding reforms in England|Reforms in higher education funding, which have taken England from offering free-of-charge, full-time undergraduate studies to being one of the most expensive systems in the OECD, have led to a reduction in the participation gap among those entering university from higher and lower socio-economic groups. Returning to free higher education would not enhance equity: students are still disproportionately from high-income households.
I23|Higher Education Funding Reforms: A Comprehensive Analysis of Educational and Labour Market Outcomes in England|This paper investigates the impact of changes in the funding of higher education in England on students' choices and outcomes. Over the last two decades - through three major reforms in 1998, 2006 and 2012 - undergraduate university education in public universities moved from being free to students and state funded to charging substantial tuition fees to all students. This was done in conjunction with the government offering generous means-tested maintenance grants and loans. Using detailed longitudinal micro-data that follows all students attending state schools in England (more than 90 percent of all school-aged children) from lower education to higher education, we document the socio-economic distributional effects of the 2006 and 2012 policy reforms on a comprehensive set of outcomes, including enrolment, relocation decisions, selection of institution, program of study, and performance within university. For a subset of students, we track them after completing higher education, allowing us to study the labour market effects of the policy reforms. Despite the substantial higher education funding reforms, we do not find large aggregate effect on student enrolment or on other margins. Moreover, the small negative impacts found on enrolment were largely borne on those in higher parts of the wealth distribution - reducing the enrolment gap across socioeconomic groups.
I23|Caught in the Cycle: Economic Conditions at Enrollment and Labor Market Outcomes of College Graduates|We find robust evidence that cohorts of graduates who enter college during worse economic times earn higher average wages than those who enter during better times. This difference is not explained by differences in economic conditions at the time of college graduation, changes in field of study composition, or changes in selection into occupations or industries. Cohorts who start college in bad times are not more positively selected based on their high-school outcomes, but they graduate with higher college grades, and earn higher wages conditional on their grades. Our results suggest that these cohorts exert more effort during their studies.
I23|How to Measure Research Efficiency in Higher Education? Research Grants vs. Publication Output|An ongoing debate in the literature on efficiency of higher education institutions concerns the indicator for research output in the empirical analysis. While several studies chose to use the number of publications, others rely on the overall amount of research grants. The present study investigates whether both lead to similar or different assessments of universities. Besides the amount of research grants and the absolute number of publications, the number of publications belonging to the 10% and 1% most frequently cited papers in the corresponding subject category and publication year are evaluated. We show that there is a high correlation of efficiency values between the estimations using these indicators; however, the concordance is partly lower. The results do not only provide a helpful guideline for researchers, but are also valuable for policy makers deciding which incentives to create through funding.
I23|Attribution Bias in Major Decisions: Evidence from the United States Military Academy|Using administrative data, we study the role of attribution bias in a high-stakes, consequential decision: the choice of a college major. Specifically, we examine the influence of fatigue experienced during exposure to a general education course on whether students choose the major corresponding to that course. To do so, we exploit the conditional random assignment of student course schedules at the United States Military Academy. We find that students who are assigned to an early morning (7:30 AM) section of a general education course are roughly 10% less likely to major in that subject, relative to students assigned to a later time slot for the course. We find similar effects for fatigue generated by having one or more back-to-back courses immediately prior to a general education course that starts later in the day. Finally, we demonstrate that the pattern of results is consistent with attribution bias and difficult to reconcile with competing explanations.
I23|The Role of Colleges within the Higher Education Sector|Over the past decades the college sectors in the higher education systems of many Western countries have expanded their capacities massively. This happened even though colleges have been at a competitive disadvantage with universities which are publicly subsidized, while colleges must self-finance through tuition fees. The question arises how, in equilibrium, a diverse student population is allocated between these institutions and whether the resulting human capital accumulation process is efficient. Our paper explores these questions within an information-based theoretical framework. Individuals are screened for their (unobservable) innate abilities, and the precision of the screening mechanism, which is endogenous, balances demand and supply of educational services. We find that in the short term, when the college capacity is fixed, college subsidies are not desirable in most cases. In the long term, the college sector may expand excessively thereby establishing inefficiently low screening standards in the admission process to higher education.
I23|Early Detection of Students at Risk - Predicting Student Dropouts Using Administrative Student Data and Machine Learning Methods|High rates of student attrition in tertiary education are a major concern for universities and public policy, as dropout is not only costly for the students but also wastes public funds. To successfully reduce student attrition, it is imperative to understand which students are at risk of dropping out and what are the underlying determinants of dropout. We develop an early detection system (EDS) that uses machine learning and classic regression techniques to predict student success in tertiary education as a basis for a targeted intervention. The method developed in this paper is highly standardized and can be easily implemented in every German institution of higher education, as it uses student performance and demographic data collected, stored, and maintained by legal mandate at all German universities and therefore self-adjusts to the university where it is employed. The EDS uses regression analysis and machine learning methods, such as neural networks, decision trees and the AdaBoost algorithm to identify student characteristics which distinguish potential dropouts from graduates. The EDS we present is tested and applied on a medium-sized state university with 23,000 students and a medium-sized private university of applied sciences with 6,700 students. Our results indicate a prediction accuracy at the end of the 1st semester of 79% for the state university and 85% for the private university of applied sciences. Furthermore, accuracy of the EDS increases with each completed semester as new performance data becomes available. After the fourth semester, the accuracy improves to 90% for the state university and 95% for the private university of applied sciences.
I23|Gender Bias in Teaching Evaluations|This paper provides new evidence on gender bias in teaching evaluations. We exploit a quasi-experimental dataset of 19,952 student evaluations of university faculty in a context where students are randomly allocated to female or male instructors. Despite the fact that neither students' grades nor self-study hours are affected by the instructor's gender, we find that women receive systematically lower teaching evaluations than their male colleagues. This bias is driven by male students' evaluations, is larger for mathematical courses and particularly pronounced for junior women. The gender bias in teaching evaluations we document may have direct as well as indirect effects on the career progression of women by affecting junior women's confidence and through the reallocation of instructor resources away from research and towards teaching.
I23|Wie effizient forschen Universitäten in Deutschland, deren Zukunftskonzepte im Rahmen der Exzellenzinitiative ausgezeichnet wurden?|In der vorliegenden Studie haben wir eine Effizienzanalyse von Universitäten in Deutschland vorgenommen, deren Zukunftskonzepte im Rahmen der Exzellenzinitiative ausgezeichnet wurden: RWTH Aachen, FU Berlin, HU Berlin, Uni Bremen, TU Dresden, Uni Freiburg, Uni Göttingen, Uni Heidelberg, Karlsruher Institut für Technologie (KIT), Uni Köln, Uni Konstanz, LMU München, TU München und Uni Tübingen. Für die Analyse wurden die Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA) sowie die neuere und robustere Partial Frontier Analysis (PFA) verwendet. Als Input-Variablen haben wir die Ausgaben der Universitäten und die Anzahl der wissenschaftlichen Mitarbeiter/ innen verwendet; die Output-Variablen wurden durch die Anzahl der (hochzitierten) Publikationen sowie die Absolventen/-innen abgebildet. Die Ergebnisse der DEA zeigen, dass nahezu alle Universitäten entweder effizient oder sehr nah an der Effizienzlinie operieren. Die Ergebnisse der PFA deuten darauf hin, dass es keine super- effizienten Universitäten gibt. Insgesamt gesehen weisen die Ergebnisse auf ein homogenes Bild der in der Exzellenzinitiative ausgezeichneten Universitäten hin.
I23|How efficiently produce elite US universities highly cited papers? A case study based on input and output data|While output and impact assessments were initially at the forefront of institutional research evaluations, efficiency measurements have become popular in recent years. Research efficiency is measured by indicators that relate research output to input. The additional consideration of research input in research evaluation is obvious, since the output should be related to the input. The present study is based on a comprehensive dataset with input- and output-data for 50 US universities. As input, we used the amount of budget, and as output the number of highly-cited papers. We employed Data Efficiency Analysis (DEA), Free Disposal Hull (FDH), and two more robust models: the order-m and order-α approach. The results of the DEA and FDH analysis show that Harvard University and Rice University can be called especially efficient compared to the other universities. While the strength of Harvard University lies in its high output of highly-cited papers, the strength of Rice University is its small input. In the order-α and order-m frameworks, Harvard University remains efficient, but Rice University becomes super-efficient. We produced university rankings based on adjusted efficiency scores (subsequent to regression analyses), in which single covariates (e.g. the disciplinary profile) are held constant.
I23|The Completion Shift of German Universities of Applied Sciences|In research on higher education, the evaluation of completion and drop-out rates has generated a steady stream of interest for decades. While most studies only calculate quotes using student and graduate numbers for both phenomena, we propose to also consider the budget available to universities. We transfer the idea of the excellence shift from the research (Bornmann et al., 2017) to the teaching area, and particularly to the completion rate of educational entities. The completion shift shows institutions’ ability to produce graduates as measured against their basic academic teaching efficiency, thereby avoiding the well-known heterogeneity problem in efficiency measurement. Their politically determined focus on education makes German universities of applied science the perfect sample for evaluating this novel method. Using a comprehensive dataset covering the years 2008 to 2013, we show that the shift produces results, which correlate considerably with the results of the standard Data Envelopment Approach (DEA). Thus, we recommend the completion shift as an alternative method of efficiency measurement in the teaching area. Compared to DEA, the computation of the shift is easy and the results are understandable to non-economists.
I23|Using Goals to Motivate College Students: Theory and Evidence from Field Experiments|Will college students who set goals for themselves work harder and perform better? In theory, setting goals can help time-inconsistent students to mitigate their self-control problem. In practice, there is little credible evidence on the causal effects of goal setting for college students. We report the results of two field experiments that involved almost four thousand college students in total. One experiment asked treated students to set goals for performance in the course; the other asked treated students to set goals for a particular task (completing online practice exams). We find that performance-based goals had no discernible impact on course performance. In contrast, task-based goals had large and robust positive effects on the level of task completion, and task-based goals also increased course performance. Further empirical analysis indicates that the increase in task completion induced by setting task-based goals caused the increase in course performance. We also find that task-based goals were more effective for male students. We develop new theory that reinforces our empirical results by suggesting two key reasons why task-based goals might be more effective than performance-based goals: overconfidence and uncertainty about performance. Since task-based goal setting is low-cost, scaleable and logistically simple, we conclude that our findings have important implications for educational practice and future research.
I23|Efectos (algunos no esperados) de la Acreditación de Alta Calidad en las Universidades Colombianas|Esta investigación analiza el efecto, en las universidades, de recibir la acreditación institucional de alta calidad sobre variables relacionadas con la calidad educativa. Como metodología se plantean dos modelos: un modelo generalizado de diferencias en diferencias y un modelo gradual de diferencias en diferencias con información de las universidades colombianas entre 2009 y 2015. Esta investigación encuentra que la acreditación institucional de alta calidad tiene un efecto positivo sobre la inclusión social, la calidad de los nuevos estudiantes, la calidad de los profesores, la calidad de los nuevos graduados, y la tasa de graduación. También se encuentra que la acreditación disminuye la producción científica. Finalmente, no observamos ningún efecto de la acreditación sobre la inversión en propiedades, planta y equipo (PPE) y los gastos de investigación por profesor.
I23|Eficiencia en la Producción Científica de las Universidades Colombianas|En los países en desarrollo, el desafío de producir conocimiento científico y desarrollar tecnologías modernas es inmenso. En Colombia, alrededor del 95% de la producción científica se lleva a cabo en las universidades. Utilizando una base de datos novedosa que permite identificar la cantidad y calidad de los productos científicos producidos por las universidades colombianas durante 2009-2015, este trabajo analiza la eficiencia de la producción científica en Colombia utilizando un modelo Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA). Los resultados indican que las universidades del país tienen una eficiencia promedio del 74%, con niveles más altos para las instituciones públicas (81%) en comparación con las privadas (66%). Este trabajo contribuye al estudio de la eficiencia en la producción científica en América Latina, donde la evidencia cuantitativa sobre este tema es casi inexistente.
I23|Do Dutch dentists extract monopoly rents?|We exploit lottery-determined admission to dental school to estimate the payoffs to the study of dentistry in the Netherlands. Using data from up to 22 years after the lottery, we find that in most years after graduation dentists earn around 50,000 Euros more than they would earn in their next-best profession. The payoff is larger for men than for women but does not vary with high school GPA. The large payoffs cannot be attributed to longer working hours, larger investments while studying (opportunity costs and direct costs), or unpleasant aspects of working as a dentist. A plausible explanation is that dentists earn a monopoly rent. Results from regressions of dentists’ earnings on dentists density are consistent with this, as are the facts that the supply of dentists in the Netherlands is low and that the payoff does not vary with high school GPA.
