I25|Inequality, information technology and inclusive education in sub-Saharan Africa|This study examines linkages between inequality, information and communication technology (ICT) and inclusive education in order to establish inequality thresholds that should not be exceeded in order for ICT to promote inclusive education in 42 countries in sub-Saharan Africa for the period 2004–2014. The empirical evidence is based on the Generalized Method of Moments. The following findings are established. First, a Gini coefficient and an Atkinson index of respectively, 0.400 and 0.625 are income inequality thresholds that should not be exceeded in order for internet penetration to positively influence inclusive education. Second, a Gini coefficient, an Atkinson index and a Palma ratio of respectively, 0.574, 0.676 and 9.000 are thresholds of income inequality that if exceeded, fixed broadband subscriptions will no longer positively affect inclusive education. As a main policy implication, the established inequality thresholds should not be exceeded in order for ICT to promote inclusive education in sampled countries. Other implications in the light of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are discussed.
I25|Mothers’ care: reversing early childhood health shocks through parental investments|We explore the effects of a child labor regulation that changed the legal working age from 14 to 16 over the health of their offspring. We show that the reform was detrimental for the health of the son’s of affected parents at delivery. Yet, in the medium run, the effects of the reform are insignificant for both male and female children. The sons of treated mothers are perceived as still having worse health at older ages, even if their objective health status has recovered. These boys are also more likely to have private health insurance, which suggests more concerned mothers.
I25|The main developments in the education system in Russia in 2018|In 2018, the main developments in the education system can be divided into the two unequal phases: one before the President’s May 2018 Decree and the other after it. Before May 2018, the main attention was focused on teachers’ salaries; the “struggle” to raise them to the average pay in a relevant region was already waged for six years running. Average salaries of higher-education teaching personnel attract less attention though by 2000 their value was to be equal to 200 percent of the average salary in a relevant subject of the Russian Federation where the higher educational institution was situated. From May 2018, the main focus in education was switched over to development of the “Education” national project and the volume of budget funding to be allocated on the specified goals. In addition, in the higher education system serious debates started on the issue of state accreditation of higher educational establishments.
I25|Do constraints on women worsen child deprivations? Framework, measurement, and evidence from India|This paper provides a framework for analyzing constraints that apply specifically to women, which theory suggests may have negative impacts on child outcomes (as well as on women). We classify women’s constraints into four dimensions: (i) low influence on household decisions, (ii) restrictions on mobility, (iii) domestic physical and psychological abuse, and (iv) limited information access. Each of these constraints are in principle determined within households. We test the impact of women’s constraints on child outcomes using nationally representative household Demographic and Health Survey data from India, including 53,030 mothers and 113,708 children, collected in 2015-16. We examine outcomes including nutrition, health, education, water quality, and sanitation. In our primary specification, outcomes are measured as multidimensional deprivations incorporating indicators for each of these deficiencies, utilizing a version of UNICEF’s Multidimensional Overlapping Deprivation Analysis index. We identify causal impacts using a Lewbel specification and present an array of additional econometric strategies and robustness checks. We find that children of women who are subjected to domestic abuse, have low influence in decision making, and limited freedom of mobility are consistently more likely to be deprived, measured both multidimensionally and with separate indicators.
I25|The Role of Weather on Schooling and Work of Young Adults in Madagascar|We examine the impact of rainfall variability and cyclones on schooling and work among a cohort of teens and young adults in Madagascar. We estimate a bivariate probit model using a panel survey conducted in 2004 and 2011 in this poor island nation, which is frequently affected by extreme weather events. Our results show that negative rainfall deviations and cyclones reduce the probability of attending school and encourage young men and, to a greater extent, women to enter the work force, and they reduce their French and math test scores. Less wealthy households are most likely to experience this school- to-work transition in the face of rainfall shocks. The finding is consistent with poorer households having less savings and more limited access to credit and insurance, which reduces their ability to cope with rainfall shortages. We also find that there are both contemporaneous and lagged effects of the weather shocks, and that they are of a similar magnitude. Our findings are robust to the use of a linear probability model, as well as a wide range of definitions of rainfall variations.
I25|"Parental Aspirations for Children's Education: Is There a ""Girl Effect""? Experimental Evidence from Rural Ethiopia"|We report on an experiment with poor rural households in Ethiopia, which aimed to boost aspirations for a better future through exposure to documentaries featuring local male and female role models. We explore effects on parents' educational aspirations and investment in children's education. At baseline, educational aspirations are high but biased against girls. At a six-month follow-up, the intervention increased parents' aspirations for their children's education and increased enrollment, time spent in school, and schooling expenditures. There was no catching up of girls relative to boys. Results are consistent with broader local social norms that value education but disfavor women.
I25|To educate a woman and to educate a man: Gender-specific sexual behaviour and HIV responses to an education reform in Botswana|Education has been suggested as a ‘vaccine’ against HIV infection, but there is not much causal evidence behind this claim. Moreover, the few studies that exist on the impact of education on HIV infection and related outcomes have focused mostly on women, despite the fact that there are reasons to expect the responses of women and men to differ. This study analyses mechanisms that link education to HIV with a focus on gender differences, using data from four nationally representative surveys in Botswana. To estimate the casual effect, an exogenous one-year increase of junior secondary school is used, which in previous studies has been found to reduce HIV infection rates and increase incomes. The key finding is that women and men responded differently to the reform. It led to delayed sexual debut by up to a year among women and an increase in risky sex among men, measured by number of concurrent sexual partnerships and the likelihood of paying for sex. The increase in risky sex among men is likely to be due to the reform’s positive impact on income. The school reform reduced the likelihood of HIV infection among women, but had no statistically significant impact on this variable among men.
I25|Improving Access and Quality in Early Childhood Development Programs: Experimental Evidence from The Gambia|This paper studies two experiments of early childhood development programs in The Gambia: one increasing access to services, and another improving service quality. In the first experiment, new community-based early childhood development (ECD) centers were introduced to randomly chosen villages that had no pre-existing structured ECD services. In the second experiment, a randomly assigned subset of existing ECD centers received intensive provider training. We find no evidence that either intervention improved average levels of child development. Exploratory analysis suggests that, in fact, the first experiment, which increased access to relatively low quality ECD services, led to declines in child development among children from less disadvantaged households. Evidence supports that these households may have been steered away from better quality early childhood settings in their homes.
I25|Inquiry and Problem Based Pedagogy: Evidence from 10 Field Experiments|We analyze evidence from 10 at-scale field experiments in four countries on the effect of inquiry- and problem-based pedagogy (IPP) on students’ math and science test scores. IPP creates active problem solving opportunities in settings that derive meaning to the child. Students learn by collaboratively solving real life authentic problems, developing explanations, and communicating ideas. We find that IPP increased math test scores by 0.18 standard deviations and science test scores by 0.16 standard deviations after 7 months. Moreover, the results are robust across a wide set of geographic, socio-economic, and cultural, age/grade, and teacher background contexts.
I25|Nonlinearity between the Shadow Economy and Level of Development|This paper is the first attempt to directly explore the long-run nonlinearity of the shadow economy. Using a dataset of 158 countries over the period from 1996 to 2015, our results reveal a robust U-shaped relationship between the shadow economy size and GDP per capita. Our results imply that the shadow economy tends to increase when economic development surpasses a given threshold or at least does not disappear with economic growth. Our findings suggest that special attention should be given to the country's level of development when designing policies to tackle issues related to the shadow economy.
I25|Institutions and the Allocation of Talent: Evidence from Russian Regions|Strong institutions attract talent to productive activities, whereas weak ones raise the appeal of redistribution and rent-seeking. We propose a theory that describes the impact of institutions on occupational choices over a range of abilities, and predicts that the sensitivity of such choices to the quality of institutions rises in talent when the latter increases from low to intermediate levels, and declines thereafter. To test these predictions empirically, we use a unique micro data set describing the choices of fields of studies by newly enrolled university students in Russian regions in 2011-2014. We show that the popularity of sciences and engineering, on one hand, and law and public administration, on the other, are linked to the quality of regional investment climate and other measures of institutional quality in a manner predicted by our theory. This confirms that investments in human capital reflect the quality of institutions, pointing to a mechanism connecting institutions to economic outcomes.
I25|What Drives Female Labor Force Participation? Comparable Micro-level Evidence from Eight Developing and Emerging Economies|We investigate the micro-level determinants of labor force participation of urban married women in eight low- and middle-income economies: Bolivia, Brazil, India, Indonesia, Jordan, South Africa, Tanzania, and Vietnam. In order to understand what drives changes and diﬀerences in participation rates since the early 2000s, we build a uniﬁed empirical framework that allows for comparative analyses across time and space. We ﬁnd that the coeﬃcients of women’s characteristics diﬀer substantially across countries, and this explains most of the between-country diﬀerences in participation rates. In particular, the relationship between a woman’s education and her participation in the labor force varies from being positive and linear (Brazil and South Africa) to being U- or J-shaped (India, Jordan, and Indonesia), or a mixture of both (Bolivia, Vietnam, and Tanzania). Overall, the economic, social, and institutional constraints that shape women’s labor force participation remain largely country-speciﬁc. Nonetheless, rising education levels and declining fertility consistently increased participation rates, while rising household incomes contributed negatively in relatively poorer countries, suggesting that a substantial share of women work out of economic necessity.
I25|Wealth Gradients in Early Childhood Cognitive Development in Five Latin American Countries|This paper provides new evidence of sharp differences in cognitive development by socioeconomic status in early childhood for five Latin American countries using a common measure of receptive language ability. We find important differences in development in early childhood across countries and steep socioeconomic gradients within every country. For the three countries where we can follow children over time, there are few substantive changes in scores once children enter school. Our results are robust to different ways of defining socioeconomic status, to different ways of standardizing outcomes, and to selective nonresponse on our measure of cognitive development.
I25|Cash, Conditions and Child Development: Experimental Evidence from a Cash Transfer in Honduras|We explore the effects of a randomly assigned conditional cash transfer in Honduras (Bono 10000) on early childhood development. We find significant impacts on cognitive development in children 0-60 months, with an average effect size of 0.13 SD. We show differential impacts by type of transfer: 0-5-year-old children from families receiving the “health” transfer, which targeted families with 0-5-year-old children only, benefited significantly from the program, whereas 0-5 year-olds in families receiving the “education” transfer, which targeted 6-18 year-olds, perceived no benefit. In comparison with other programs, the effect of this impact is sizeable (0.34 SD on average). Although the overall program appears to have slightly changed some behaviors that might affect children (i.e. decreased probability of maternal employment, and increased maternal self-esteem), we did not find heterogenous impacts of the Bono across these variables. Results are explained mainly by differences in conditions: while the “education” component imposed conditions only on children of schooling age, the “health” transfer required regular health checkups of 0-5 year old children. The “health” transfer families were more likely to attend health checkups, which may have induced behavior changes that improved children’s health and cognitive development, including purchasing more nutritious food. These results imply that cash without well-targeted conditions attached, might not be as effective for the development of young children.
I25|Can Public Rankings Improve School Performance? Evidence from a Nationwide Reform in Tanzania|"In 2013, Tanzania introduced ""Big Results Now in Education"", a low-stakes accountability program that published both nationwide and within-district school rankings. Using data from the universe of school performance from 2011-2016, we identify the impacts of the reform using a difference-in-differences estimator that exploits the differential pressure exerted on schools at the top and bottom of their respective district rankings. We find that BRN improved learning outcomes for schools in the bottom two deciles of their districts. However, the program also led schools to strategically exclude students from the terminal year of primary school."
I25|The legacy lead deposition in soils and its impact on cognitive function in preschool-aged children in the United States|Surface soil contamination has been long recognized as an important pathway of human lead exposure, and is now a worldwide health concern. This study estimates the causal effects of exposure to lead in topsoil on cognitive ability among 5-year-old children. We draw on individual level data from the 2000 U.S. Census, and USGS data on lead in topsoil covering a broad set of counties across the United States. Using an instrumental variable approach relying on the 1944 Interstate Highway System Plan, we find that higher lead in topsoil increases considerably the probability of 5-year-old boys experiencing cognitive difficulties such as learning, remembering, concentrating, or making decisions. Living in counties with topsoil lead concentration above the national median roughly doubles the probability of 5-year-old boys having cognitive difficulties. Nevertheless, it does not seem to affect 5-year-old girls, consistent with previous studies. Importantly, the adverse effects of lead exposure on boys are found even in counties with levels of topsoil lead concentration considered low by the guidelines from the U.S. EPA and state agencies. These findings are concerning because they suggest that legacy lead may continue to impair cognition today, both in the United States and in other countries that have considerable lead deposition in topsoil.
I25|Violence and Human Capital Investments|In this paper, we investigate the effect of exposure to homicides on the educational performance and human capital investments of students in Brazil. We combine extremely granular information on the location and timing of homicides with a number of very large administrative educational datasets, to estimate the effect of exposure to homicides around schools, students' residence, and on their way to school on these outcomes. We show that violence has a detrimental effect on school attendance, on standardised test scores in math and Portuguese language and increases dropout rates of students substantially. The effects are particularly pronounced for boys, indicating important heterogeneous effects of violence. We use exceptionally rich information from student- and parent-background questionnaires to investigate the effect of violence on the aspirations and attitudes towards education. In line with the effects on dropout and the longer-term human capital accumulation of students, we find that boys systematically report lower educational aspiration towards education. Making use of the very rich information from the homicides and education data, we explore a number of underlying transmission channels, including mechanisms related to school supply, bereavement and incentives for human capital investments.
I25|Nonlinearity Between the Shadow Economy and Level of Development|This paper is the first attempt to directly explore the long-run nonlinear relationship between the shadow economy and level of development. Using a dataset of 158 countries over the period from 1996 to 2015, our results reveal a robust U-shaped relationship between the shadow economy size and GDP per capita. Our results imply that the shadow economy tends to increase when economic development surpasses a given threshold or at least does not disappear. Our findings suggest that special attention should be given to the country’s level of development when designing policies to tackle issues related to the shadow economy.
I25|Maternal Age and Offspring Human Capital in India|Early motherhood remains a widespread phenomenon in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). While the consequences of early motherhood for the mother have been extensively investigated, the impact on their children is severely understudied, especially in LMICs, which host 95% of teen births globally (WHO, 2014). Using panel and sibling data from India, this paper investigates the effect of early maternal age on offspring human capital development in terms of health and cognition, and relies on mother fixed effects to allow for household and mother unobserved heterogeneity. Furthermore, this paper explores the evolution of these effects over time during childhood and early adolescence for the first time. Results indicate that early maternal age has an overall detrimental effect on offspring health and cognition. We show that children born to early mothers are shorter for their age and perform poorer in the math test. Interestingly, the effect on child's heath is observed at early ages and weakens over time, while the cognition effect surges only in early adolescence. The analysis on heterogeneous effects suggests that children and in particular girls born to very young mothers are worst off. The transmission channel analysis tentatively hints at some behavioral channels driving the relationships of interest and documents a positive (and modest) association between height-for-age and subsequent math performance. Overall, our results support both restorative policies assisting children born to early mothers and preventive policies tackling early pregnancy.
I25|Experimental Long-Term Effects of Early-Childhood and School-Age Exposure to a Conditional Cash Transfer Program|Numerous evaluations of conditional cash transfer (CCT) programs show positive short-term impacts, but there is only limited evidence on whether these benefits translate into sustained longer-term gains. This paper uses the municipal-level randomized assignment of a CCT program implemented for five years in Honduras to estimate long-term effects 13 years after the program began. We estimate intent-to-treat effects using individual-level data from the population census, which allows assignment of individuals to their municipality of birth, thereby circumventing migration selection concerns. For the non-indigenous, we find positive and robust impacts on educational outcomes for cohorts of a very wide age range. These include increases of more than 50 percent for secondary school completion rates and the probability of reaching university studies for those exposed at school-going ages. They also include substantive gains for grades attained and current enrollment for others exposed during early childhood, raising the possibility of further gains going forward. Educational gains are, however, more limited for the indigenous. Finally, exposure to the CCT increased the probability of international migration for young men, from 3 to 7 percentage points, also stronger for the non-indigenous. Both early childhood exposure to the nutrition and health components of the CCT as well as exposure during school-going ages to the educational components led to sustained increases in human capital.
I25|Hunger and Performance in the Classroom|Hunger and malnourishment can adversely affect students' performance by lowering their effort and cognition during school hours. We conduct a lab-in-the field experiment, leveraging the extension of India's school meal program from primary to middle grades, to study the effects of school-based supplementary nutrition on students' cognitive effort in the classroom. Using individual level data on the performance of students in a cognitive task both before and after the extension of the program as well as pre and post meal recess on a school day, we find that the provision of meals improved the cognitive performance of students by 13% to 16%. This result is robust to unobserved heterogeneity in school quality and student ability. Our findings suggest that short-term improvements in classroom attention and effort due to school meals can be a mechanism through which longer-term learning outcomes may improve in developing countries.
I25|Male students’ augmented underperformance with teacher-perceived gender stereotypes as score markers : natural experimental evidence from rural Philippines|Schoolboys in the Philippines are said to be underperforming in human capital accumulation, particularly education, compared to their female counterparts, especially in rural regions. Although existing literature has analyzed the sources of this bias, further research is required to understand its background. Thus, by combining our unique primary data from our own field survey using tailored questionnaires conducted in Marinduque Province and administrative data on the National Achievement Tests (NATs), we compare sources of the persistence of a negative male effect on test scores. We avail of the variations of blindness in rating systems between the NATs and teacher-rating report cards (RCs). Results of sensitivity analysis in regressions support the hypothesis that male students are systematically more likely to receive lower scores when they are evaluated in a non-blind rating system in which teachers know who the examinees are. The paper empirically presents an insightful perspective about Filipino s choolboys’underperformance being further augmmented through gender stereotypes perceived by the evaluators, in this case, the school teachers.
I25|Violence and Human Capital Investments|In this paper, we investigate the effect of exposure to homicides on the educational performance and human capital investments of students in Brazil. We combine extremely granular information on the location and timing of homicides with a number of very large administrative educational datasets, to estimate the effect of exposure to homicides around schools, students' residence, and on their way to school on these outcomes. We show that violence has a detrimental effect on school attendance, on standardised test scores in math and Portuguese language and increases dropout rates of students substantially. The effects are particularly pronounced for boys, indicating important heterogeneous effects of violence. We use exceptionally rich information from student- and parent-background questionnaires to investigate the effect of violence on the aspirations and attitudes towards education. In line with the effects on dropout and the longer-term human capital accumulation of students, we find that boys systematically report lower educational aspiration towards education. Making use of the very rich information from the homicides and education data, we explore a number of underlying transmission channels, including mechanisms related to school supply, bereavement and incentives for human capital investments.
I25|Moving Towards a Better Future? Migration and Children's Health and Education|Do the returns to migration extend beyond migrants themselves and accrue to the children of migrants? Drawing upon data from a unique 19-year longitudinal survey from Tanzania, this paper empirically investigates this question by exploiting the variation in the outcomes of the children of migrants and the children of the migrants’ siblings who stayed behind conditional upon a range of individual characteristics of their parents. I show that parental migration has important implications for child development. This relation depends on the destination and the timing of the move. More specifically, children whose parents migrated from rural areas to cities are heavier, taller and more educated for their age. The effects on height and schooling are strongest for children who were exposed to the city environment during their early childhood. In contrast, children whose parents moved to a different rural village do not appear to experience any health advantage and those moving alongside their parents even start schooling at a later age. In addition to conferring a broader view of the returns to physical mobility, this analysis contributes to the debate on the origin of spatial inequalities in developing countries.
I25|Commodity Booms, Human Capital, and Economic Growth: An Application to Colombia|The idea that a trade-off exists between current levels of consumption and future levels of human capital is modeled. As shocks in international commodity prices affect income and modify the optimal consumption basket, household members adjust their time preferences between school and work. As a result, the dynamics of human-capital accumulation may be affected and, in cases in which commodity production and trade play a significant role in the economy, such dynamics may also have an impact on economic growth and the composition of economic sectors. Using a dynamic CGE model and Colombian macroeconomic data, we showed how shocks in commodity prices determined householdsâ€™ educational demands and, at the same time, the composition of the labor market.
I25|Fostering savings by commitment: Evidence from a quasi‐natural experiment at the Small Enterprise Foundation in South Africa|We study the effects of a pilot project that strengthened the saving incentive mechanisms set up by the Small Enterprise Foundation (SEF), a leading microfinance institution based in South Africa. The program aimed at introducing a stimulus to save in the form of the possession of “Goal Card” whereby clients owning this tool were asked to identify a saving goal and to commit to a regular saving amount. The experiment had quasinatural approach, as it has been implemented by SEF in selected locations starting from May 2015. Difference in differences estimates show an improvement in the savings performance of the SEF customers treated with the program, compared to the counterfactual. Besides the evaluation of the program’s main effects, we investigate the clients’ understanding of the pilot and their attitude towards saving, as well as the quality of the pilot’s administration and its operational challenges, through the administration and analysis of surveys conducted on both the treated and control groups of clients.
I25|The Right to Education Act: Trends in Enrollment, Test Scores, and School Quality|The Right to Education (RTE) Act passed in 2009 guarantees access to free primary education to all children ages 6-14 in India. This paper investigates whether national trends in educational outcomes change around the time of this law using household surveys and administrative data. We document four trends: (1) school-going increases after the passage of RTE, (2) test scores decline dramatically after 2010, (3) school infrastructure appears to improve both before and after RTE, and (4) the number of students who have to repeat a grade falls precipitously after RTE is enacted, in line with official provisions of the law.
I25|Beyond the Basics: Improving Post-Primary Content Delivery through Classroom Technology|Using an RCT in middle schools in Pakistan, we test the effect of a government-implemented in-class technology and brief teacher training intervention on student achievement in grade level mathematics and science. After only 4 months of exposure, student test scores increased by 0.2-0.3 standard deviations on math and science tests, 52 to 120 percent more than the control group, and students were more likely to pass the provincially standardized high-stakes exams. Increased effort by both students and teachers indicate a complementarity between technology and other inputs in education production. At a scale of 100 schools, this program is extremely cost-effective.
I25|Scientific Education and Innovation: From Technical Diplomas to University STEM Degrees|This paper studies the effects of university STEM education on innovation and labor market outcomes by exploiting a change in enrollment requirements in Italian STEM majors. University-level scientific education had two direct effects on the development of patents by students who had acquired a STEM degree. First, the policy changed the direction of their innovation. Second, it allowed these individuals to reach top positions within firms and be more involved in the innovation process. STEM degrees, however, also changed occupational sorting. Some higher-achieving individuals used STEM degrees to enter jobs that required university-level education, but did not focus on patenting.
I25|Public Universities: The Supply Side of Building a Skilled Workforce|Over the past few decades, public universities have faced significant declines in state funding per student. We investigate whether these declines affected the educational and research outcomes of these schools. We present evidence that declining funding induced public universities to shift toward tuition as their primary source of revenue. Selective research universities enrolled more out-of-state and international students who pay full fare and increased in-state tuitions, moderating impacts on expenditures. Public universities outside the research sector had fewer options to replace stagnating state appropriations, requiring diminished expenditures and increased in-state tuitions. The evidence we present suggests that the cuts negatively affected degree attainment at the undergraduate and graduate levels. While the evidence on research is mixed, there are indications that the impact of spending declines on research outcomes may become evident over a longer time period
I25|The Long-Term Impacts of Girl-Friendly Schools: Evidence from the BRIGHT School Construction Program in Burkina Faso|"We evaluate the long-term effects of a ""girl-friendly"" primary school program in Burkina Faso, using a regression discontinuity design. Ten years later, primary school-age children in villages selected for the program attend school more often and score significantly higher on standardized tests. We also find long-term effects on academic and social outcomes for children exposed earlier in the program. Secondary-school-age youths and young adults (those old enough to have finished secondary school) complete primary and secondary school at higher rates and perform significantly better on standardized tests. Women old enough to have completed secondary school delay both marriage and childbearing."
I25|Health and Economic Growth: Reconciling the Micro and Macro Evidence|Micro-based and macro-based approaches have been used to assess the effects of health on economic growth. Micro-based approaches aggregate the return on individual health from Mincerian wage regressions to derive the macroeconomic effects of population health. Macro-based approaches estimate a generalized aggregate production function that decomposes output into its components. The microbased approach tends to find smaller effects than the macro-based approach, thus presenting a micromacro puzzle regarding the economic return on health. We reconcile these two strands of literature by showing that the point estimate of the macroeconomic effect of health is quantitatively close to that found by aggregating the microeconomic effects, controlling for potential spillovers of population health at the aggregate level. Our results justify using the micro-based approach to estimate the direct economic benefits of health interventions.
I25|The Medium-Term Impacts of Girl-Friendly Schools: Seven-Year Evidence from School Construction in Burkina Faso|We evaluate the long-term effect of a â€œgirl-friendlyâ€ primary school program in Burkina Faso, using a regression discontinuity design. The intervention consisted of upgrading existing three-classroom schools to six-classroom schools to accommodate more grades. After six years, the program increased enrollment by 15.5 percentage points and increased test scores by 0.29 standard deviations. Students in treatment schools progress further through the grades, compared to students in non-selected schools. These upgraded schools are effective at getting children into school, getting children to start school on time, and keeping children in school longer. Overall, we find that the schools sustain the large impacts observed about three years earlier, with enrollment declining slightly from 18.5 to 14.9 for the cohorts of children who were exposed to both the first and second phases of the intervention.
I25|Targeting High School Scholarships to the Poor: The Impact of a Program in Mexico|This paper uses an RCT to estimate the impact of PROBEMS, a scholarship program in Mexico aimed at improving graduation rates and test scores among upper secondary school students from poor backgrounds. We find that, on average, the program has no impact either on graduation rates or on Math and Spanish test scores. We identify two possible reasons for this failure: a. the program was badly targeted, with many of the recipients being from less disadvantaged families than intended; b) many eligible students did not have a sufficiently strong academic achievement that would allow them to productively attend and complete successfully the academic requirements of upper secondary school. This points to accumulated achievement deficits that could be addressed by interventions targeting learning at an earlier stage.
I25|Does the Healthcare Educational Market Respond to Short-Run Local Demand?|The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA) increased demand for healthcare across the U.S., but it is unclear if or how the supply side has responded to meet this demand. In this paper, we take advantage of plausibly exogenous geographical heterogeneity in the ACA to examine the healthcare education sector’s response to increased demand for healthcare services. We look across educational fields, types of degrees, and types of institutions, paying particular attention to settings where our conceptual model predicts heightened responses. We find no statistically significant evidence of increases in graduates and can rule out fairly modest effects. This implies that healthcare production may have adjusted to increased demand from insurance expansion in other ways rather than primarily through new graduates of local healthcare educational markets.
I25|Does Vocational Education Work? Evidence from a Randomized Experiment in Mongolia|This paper estimates the impact of admission to formal vocational secondary programs on labor market outcomes in Mongolia. We conducted public lotteries to allocate scarce slots for approximately 8,000 students who applied to oversubscribed trades in 10 vocational schools during 2010, 2011, and 2012. We find that admission to oversubscribed vocational schools in Mongolia led to significantly higher employment, and increased earnings for women. These positive impacts appear to be due to the acquisition of more skills in specific trades, greater work intensity, and increased employment opportunities in high-paying sectors.
I25|Effect of Inquiry and Problem Based Pedagogy on Learning: Evidence from 10 Field Experiments in Four Countries|This paper uses data from 10 at-scale field experiments in four countries to estimate the effect of inquiry- and problem-based pedagogy (IPP) on students’ mathematics and science test scores. IPP creates active problem-solving opportunities in settings that provide meaning to the child. Students learn by collaboratively solving real-life problems, developing explanations, and communicating ideas. Using individual-level data on 17,006 students, the analysis finds that after seven months IPP increased mathematics and science scores by 0.18 and 0.14 standard deviations, respectively, and by 0.39 and 0.23 standard deviations, respectively, after four years. We also identify important gender learning gaps with boys benefiting substantially more than girls. Our approach not only provides strong causal evidence, but also high external validity. These 10 experiments in four countries allow us to examine the effects of IPP across a wide set of geographic, socioeconomic, teacher background, and age/grade contexts (i.e., preschool and third and fourth grades). The results prove to be robust across these different contexts. The 10 RCTs were registered in the American Economic Association Registry for randomized control trials. See the supplementary materials for trial numbers.
I25|Human Capital and Economic Growth|The aim of this entry is (I) to undertake a critical reading of the seminal contribution of Lucas’ work to construct a model which represents the complexity of the links between human capital and economic growth (II) to review the empirical assessments of its endogenous nature.
I25|Effects of weather on human capital in Vietnam| This study examines the effects of concurrent weather, corresponding to test sites as well as three-year consolidated weather conditions at high school time, on the math test scores of census examinees participating in the Vietnamese national entrance examinations to universities and colleges on July 4 and 15, 2009. Using individual first difference, I find that the maximum temperature of the day, 30 to 32°C (86-89.6°F), which is slightly below the usual average in all July between the years 1950-2009, benefitted examinees most. My analysis demonstrates that female testers were more vulnerable to harsh temperature and extreme weather but also more physically adaptive to temperature than males. Extreme weather occurring at the high school, especially during the school calendar, has a negative effect on the test scores.
I25|Impact of Internet Access on Student Learning in Peruvian Schools|We investigate the impacts of school-based internet access on pupil achievement in Peru, using a large panel of 5,903 public primary schools that gained internet connections during 2007-2014. We employ an event study approach and a trend break analysis that exploit variation in the timing of internet roll-out up to 5 years after installation. We find that internet access has a moderate, positive short-run impact on school-average standardized math scores, but importantly that this effect grows over time. We provide evidence that schools require time to adapt to internet access by hiring teachers with computer training and that this process is not immediate. These dynamics highlight the need for complementary investments to fully exploit new technological inputs and underscores the importance of using an extended evaluation window to allow the effects of school-based internet on learning to materialize.
I25|Does Schooling Cause Structural Transformation?|We study how the global schooling increase during the 20th century affected structural transformation by changing the supply of agricultural labor. We develop an analytical model of frictional labor reallocation out of agriculture to infer changes in birth-cohort characteristics from observed data on agricultural employment. Bringing the model to microdata from 52 countries, we find that the increase in schooling was accompanied by a large shift of the labor force’s comparative advantage away from agriculture. We bring empirical evidence to suggest this relationship was causal. With fixed prices, the resulting decrease in the supply of agricultural workers can account for almost half of the observed reallocation out of agriculture. However, in general equilibrium, the net effect is ambiguous.
I25|Parents, Schools and Human Capital Differences across Countries|Results from international standardized tests show large cross-country differences in students' performances. Where do these gaps in human capital achievement come from? This paper argues that differences in cultural environments and parental inputs may be of great importance. We compare the school performance of second generation immigrants from different nationalities but educated in the same school, and find that those coming from high-scoring countries in the PISA test do better than their peers. The gap is larger among students whose parents have recently immigrated and have little education, suggesting that the importance of country-specific cultural traits declines as parents integrate in their host countries. We quantify the overall contribution of various parental inputs to the observed cross-country differences in the PISA test performance, and show that they account for about 40% of the gap between East Asia and other regions. This pattern questions whether PISA scores and other measures of human capital achievement should be interpreted only as quality proxies for a country's educational system. They actually reflect an important intergenerational and cultural component.
I25|Education, Political Discontent, and Emigration Intentions: Evidence from a Natural Experiment in Turkey|We exploit the 1997 school reform that increased compulsory schooling from 5 to 8 years to investigate the causal effect of education on emigration intentions. Our IV estimates indicate that an additional year of schooling increases the probability of reporting the intention to emigrate by 24 percentage points. Moreover, we provide evidence that the identified effect of education on emigration intentions does not operate through financial dissatisfaction but rather through displeasure at a bleak political environment that better educated people are more keenly aware of.
I25|Learning Equity Requires More than Equality: Learning Goals and Achievement Gaps between the Rich and the Poor in Five Developing Countries|The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) for education include the goal that “all youth...achieve literacy and numeracy” (Target 4.6). Achieving some absolute standard of learning for all children is a key element of global equity in education. Using the Annual Status of Education Report (ASER) data from India and Pakistan, and Uwezo data from Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda that test all children of given ages, whether in school or not, on simple measures of learning in math, reading (local language), and English, we quantify the role of achieving equality between the richest 20% and the poorest 40% in terms of grade attainment and learning achievement toward accomplishing the global equity goal of universal numeracy and literacy for all children. First, excluding Kenya, equalizing grade attainment between children from rich and poor households would only close between 8% (India) and 25% (Pakistan) of the gap to universal numeracy, and between 8% (Uganda) and 28% (Pakistan) of the gap to universal literacy. Second, children from the poorest 40% of households tend to have lower performance in literacy and numeracy at each grade. If such children had the learning profiles of children from rich households, we would close between 16% (Pakistan and Uganda) and 34% (India) of the gap to universal numeracy, and between 13% (Uganda) and 44% (India) of the gap to universal literacy. This shows that the “hidden exclusion” (WDR, 2018) of lower learning at the same grade levels—a gap that emerges in the earliest grades—is a substantial and often larger part of the equity gap compared to the more widely documented gaps in enrollment and grade attainment. Third, even with complete equality in grade attainment and learning achievement, children from poor households would be far from the equity goal of universal numeracy and literacy, as even children from the richest 20% of households are far from universal mastery of basic reading and math by ages 12-13. Achieving universal literacy and numeracy to accomplish even a minimal standard of global absolute equity will require more than just closing the rich-poor learning gap, it will take progress in learning for all.
I25|Análisis Cualitativo de Sinergias entre Estrategias de Protección Social y de Desarrollo Productivo: El Papel de la Estrategia Unidos y Familias en Acción en el Marco del Programa Familias en su Tierra|Este documento presenta el análisis cualitativo de complementariedades y sinergias entre los programas de protección social Estrategia Unidos y Familias en Acción, y el programa de inclusión productiva Familias en su Tierra, diseñados e implementados en Colombia por Prosperidad Social. Este estudio hace parte del Proyecto “Mejorando la Articulación entre Programas de Desarrollo Rural y Protección Social” financiado por el Fondo Internacional de Desarrollo Agrícola -FIDA-. El análisis se desarrolló a partir de la aplicación de 43 entrevistas semi-estructuradas a beneficiarios y no beneficiarios de estos programas en dos zonas del país: Montes de María y Urabá Antioqueño. Los resultados ofrecen luces sobre varios mecanismos a través de los cuales los programas alcanzan sus objetivos, así como los canales a partir de los cuales es posible la generación de complementariedades o sinergias entre programas de protección social e intervenciones de índole productivo. Los resultados cualitativos también complementan y permiten explicar los resultados del análisis cuantitativo.
I25|La Guajira: caracterización departamental y municipal|En este documento se describen los activos con que cuenta el departamento de La Guajira en cuanto a sus recursos naturales y talento humano, así como su infraestructura y sus instituciones. De igual forma, se analizan sus indicadores económicos y sociales y se identifican sus brechas internas y con respecto del resto del país. Esta región estratégica para el país, que es parte del Gran Caribe y que tiene frontera con Venezuela, tiene un gran potencial de desarrollo, pero también grandes desafíos en cuanto a ofrecer a su población condiciones dignas de vida y oportunidades para la reducción de la desigualdad, el reconocimiento de su diversidad cultural, el fortalecimiento de sus instituciones y la diversificación de su economía. A las acciones ya emprendidas por el Gobierno Nacional, en el marco de las órdenes dadas por la Corte Constitucional para asegurar la protección de la infancia y la adolescencia wayuu, hay que sumar un plan de inversiones que garantice el desarrollo productivo del departamento, concertado en un contrato plan o en un nuevo Pacto territorial.
I25|Structural change in the Chinese economy and changing trade relations with the world|This paper examines the impact of structural change in China, in particular a reduction in the savings rate, an increase in the share of skilled workers, and an increase in productivity in technologically advanced manufacturing sectors targeted by Made in China 2025. Baseline projections until 2040 are generated with the WTO Global Trade Model, a dynamic computable general equilibrium model. With the modelled structural changes the Chinese economy is projected to reorient its focus increasingly onto the domestic economy, raising the share of private household and government consumption in GDP, turning China's trade surplus into a trade deficit, reducing China's share in global exports, raising the share of services in both production and exports, shifting the destination markets of Chinese exports from developed to developing countries, and changing its pattern of comparative advantage away from sectors like light and heavy manufacturing to electronic and machinery equipment. The large bilateral trade surplus vis-a-vis the United States is projected to fall to almost zero.
I25|The Long-Term Impacts of Girl-Friendly Schools: Evidence from the BRIGHT School Construction Program in Burkina Faso|We evaluate the long-term effects of a “girl-friendly” primary school program in Burkina Faso, using a regression discontinuity design. Ten years later, primary school-age children in villages selected for the program attend school more often and score significantly higher on standardized tests. We also find long-term effects on academic and social outcomes for children exposed earlier in the program. Secondary-school–age youths and young adults (those old enough to have finished secondary school) complete primary and secondary school at higher rates and perform significantly better on standardized tests. Women old enough to have completed secondary school delay both marriage and childbearing.
I25|Roots of Gender Equality: the Persistent Effect of Beguinages on Attitudes Toward Women|This paper is concerned with the historical roots of gender equality. It proposes and empirically assesses a new determinant of gender equality: gender-specific outside options in the marriage market. In particular, enlarging women's options besides marriage - even if only temporarily - increases their bargaining power with respect to men, leading to a persistent improvement in gender equality. We illustrate this mechanism focusing on Belgium, and relate gender-equality levels in the 19th century to the presence of medieval, female-only communities called beguinages that allowed women to remain single amidst a society that traditionally advocated marriage. Combining geo-referenced data on beguinal communities with 19th-century census data, we document that the presence of beguinages was instrumental in decreasing the gender gap in literacy. The reduction is sizeable, amounting to a 5.3 % drop in gender educational inequality.
I25|Education Quality and Teaching Practices|Improving school quality with limited resources is a key issue of policy. It has been suggested that instructing teachers to follow specific practices together with tight monitoring of their activities may help improve outcomes in under-performing schools that usually serve poor populations. This paper uses a RCT to estimate the effectiveness of guided instruction methods as implemented in under-performing schools in Chile. The intervention improved performance substantially and by equal amounts for boys and girls. However, the effect is mainly accounted for by children from relatively higher income backgrounds and not for the most deprived. Based on the CLASS instrument we document that quality of teacher-student interactions is positively correlated with the performance of low income students; however, the intervention did not affect these interactions. Guided instruction can improve outcomes, but it is a challenge to reach the most deprived children.
I25|International Child Sponsorship and School Performance: Evidence from Goma (DRC)|This paper provides new evidence on the effect of an International Child Support (ICS) program, implemented in ten primary schools located in the outskirts of Goma (Congo, DR), on school performances. Using original micro data in a sample of 309 children (121 treated and 188 control), we explore whether the ICS program impacts on a broad set of alternative educational outcomes - namely, performance scores in 4 different subjects (plus total score), failure rates and school drop-out rates - through a Difference-in-Differences approach. The results show that sponsored children report lower drop-out rates and failure rates with respect to their control peers and, while lagging behind before the program started, in two school years they catch-up in all subjects. Results are robust to the implementation of Coarsened Exact Matching that exploits the structure of the data to produce unbiased estimates along with bounded ex-post balancing.
I25|Firm soundness and knowledge externalities: a comparative regional analysis|This paper investigates the role of regional context with regard to human capital and knowledge spillover effects in SMEs’ financial soundness. Our empirical setting is based on the multilevel analysis for panel data, which better allows for the treatment of hierarchical data. It is applied to firms belonging to the industrial sector and operating in four European countries over the 2010–2015 period. We find that a combination of individual- and regional-level characteristics explain firm soundness more accurately than individual features alone. Furthermore, we find that a higher local educational level and knowledge spillover improve the firm soundness.
I25|Skill versus Voice in Local Development|Where the state is weak, traditional authorities often control the local provision of land, justice, and public goods. These authorities are criticized for ruling in an undemocratic and unaccountable fashion, and are typically quite old and poorly educated relative to younger cohorts who have benefited from recent schooling expansions. We experimentally evaluate two solutions to these problems in rural Sierra Leone: an intensive long-term intervention to make local institutions more inclusive; and a low-cost test to rapidly identify skilled technocrats and delegate project management to them. In a real-world competition for local infrastructure grants, we find that in the status quo and institutional reform arms, traditional authorities do not delegate to skilled individuals despite the clear benefits of doing so. A public nudge successfully encourages delegation, leading to an average gain of one standard deviation unit in competition outcomes. These results uncover a broader failure of traditional autocratic institutions to fully exploit the human capital present in their communities. In supporting contributions, we estimate long run impacts of the institutional reform program on a broader set of local development measures; and compare estimates from both experiments to the prior beliefs of experts in policy and academia.
I25|Demographic change, human capital, and economic growth in Korea|In this study, we construct a measure of human capital using micro datasets on labor composition of age, gender, education, and wage rate and analyze its role in economic growth for the Korean economy. Over the past three decades, human capital has grown steadily at about 1% per year, contrasting to a continuously declining trend of total work-hours. This growth has been driven by the rise of better-educated baby boom cohorts. A growth accounting exercise shows that human capital contributes significantly to economic growth; it accounted for 0.5% points of annual GDP growth over the period. Human capital is projected to remain a major growth factor over the next two decades as the increase in educational attainment continues. Increased employment rate of elderly or female workers reduces the aggregate human capital growth while increasing the available labor. Polices to improve human capital of less-productivity workers will help to support aggregate human capital and economic growth.
I25|Economic growth in Africa: Does gender education still matter?|This study examines the relevance of gender education to economic growth in Africa. This is investigated across different levels of education attainments and human capital stocks for females and males. Using the datasets of Barro and Lee (2013) and Lee and Lee (2016) which cover the period from 1960 to 2010 and static panel estimation methods (pooled, fixed effects and random effects) as well as dynamic GMM methods (one step and two step difference and system GMM) for analysis, it is found that education attainments and human capital stocks (for females and males) are indispensable to economic growth in Africa. Specifically, we find that male education attainment and human capital stock contribute more to economic growth than female education attainment and human capital stock. Based on these findings, it is imperative for governments in Africa to provide a quality education for both genders which would be based not only on theoretical learning but also on practical learning and skill development that would increase the stocks of human capital embodied in both genders. This would enable them to contribute more to economic growth of the continent.
I25|Formal Education and Disaster Response of Children: Evidence from Coastal Villages in Indonesia|Although children are exposed to a high mortality risk during disasters, what determines their disaster response, especially during earthquakes, remains largely unexplored. The goal of this study is to examine the association between formal education and earthquake response. Using a unique survey collected from elementary school students in the coastal villages of Indonesia, we show that students’ attitude to learning science is positively associated with their risk perception, perceived coping ability, knowledge about the disaster mechanism and response, and propensity to respond appropriately. Parents’ disaster experience also significantly affects these outcomes. In contrast, attitude to religious class explains none of outcomes. Locus of control is associated with perception and knowledge, but not the response. Our findings suggest that the effects of education on the disaster mortality of children could vary with the school curriculum.
I25|National System of Researchers - Conacyt and the fight against poverty in Mexico: Winds of change and generational change|Since the creation of the National System of Researchers (SNI) in 1984, research and technological development recognizes the work of researchers adhering to the SNI, by granting an economic stimulus, gradual and correlated to the level of importance of their productivity and scientific creation, whose purpose is to promote the development of science and technology in Mexico. The Council of Science and Technology (Conacyt), defines the policy line of action in the field of scientific and technological research, in accordance with the priorities that the National Development Plan, establishes as a priority in the search for a better state of economic development and social. Currently, one of the main problems facing Mexico is the poverty they present in large sectors of the population, both in rural and urban areas. The condition of poverty means that the population that suffers it suffers from economic marginalization and social exclusion, whose objective expression corresponds, among others, to the lack of opportunities for access to employment, health, education and the presence of food deprivation, being these conditions unfavorable This invites us to ask ourselves: how to tackle the fight against poverty and social exclusion, from the perspective of social research, in support of the elaboration of a public policy that social development in Mexico? In this sense, a first note invites us to reflect on the following: how to support, from the field of research and academia, the elaboration of public policy that seeks to direct more precise actions in the fight against multidimensional poverty and social exclusion? The scientific and social responsibility of the members of the SNI, and in particular, those whose specialty is the study of poverty, is to contribute to promoting, in a knowledge society, the generation of quality scientific articles, but also the generation of proposals for lines of action that allow the State, the design of public policy that seeks a more objective and transparent action in the use of public resources destined to actions to combat multidimensional poverty and social exclusion . In this way, it is important to recognize what is the total number of SNI researchers who study poverty as a specialty line? and what is the level of category that holds in the SNI and which institutions carry out research on poverty ?, in this way to get closer to what is the scheme of the generational change of researchers of the SNI, in the study of poverty in Mexico?
I25|Female teachers’ relative wage level in the 1930s and its long-term effects on current views on female labor participation: A case study from Japan|This study analyzes how the historical work status of women contributed to subjective views about female labor participation in Japan. We matched historical and individual-level data. Based on a sample size of almost 10,000, we examined the long-term effect of female teachers’ wage level relative to that of male teachers in the 1930s. We find higher female teachers’ wages in the 1930s leads to positive views about women’s labor participation in 2016; this effect is only observed in the male sample (and not the female sample). By contrast, female teachers’ wages in 2013 did not influence the views in 2016.
I25|Education as a way to reducing inequality: Evidence from India|Growing global inequality, particularly in developing countries, has become a major challenge before policy makers. Various policy measures have been suggested: redistributive taxation and transfers, fixing minimum wage, ensuring universal basic income, transferring assets, land reforms, increasing employment opportunities through government sponsored employment schemes and welfare-to-work schemes, and other such policies. Education has also been suggested as an important means to reduce inequality, particularly in developing societies. The impact of education on growth and human development has been well documented; it is also recognized to be a cornerstone for social justice and, hence, an important potential means for reducing inequality. Empirical evidence on the relationship between improvement in educational attainments and earning based inequality, however, shows that the relationship between the two is not simple. If returns to education are convex, then improvement in educational attainments may lead to an increase in earning-based inequality (Lam et al., 2015). In this study, we have used nationally representative unit level data from the Employment and Unemployment survey (68th round, undertaken in 2011-2012 by National Sample Survey Office), to examine the impact of expansion of education on inequality in Indian society. Analysis reveals that education has reduced inequality in the 1970s, and from the 1990s onwards.
I25|E-learning as a marketing tool for Tour Operators. The ‘Go Academy’ case study|Professional training has become increasingly more important as the tourism industry grows and evolves. It plays a particularly vital role in supporting business competitiveness in the traditional distribution system. This has encouraged a growing focus on e-learning and on the interesting advantages that it opens up in training activities. However, it has been given limited attention as a useful tool for marketing purposes. This paper aims to analyze the use of e-learning in the marketing perspective, with specific reference to the relationship between tour operators and travel agents, using the case study of the e-learning platform, Go Academy.
I25|Behavioral Impact of Disaster Education: Evidence from a Dance-Based Program in Indonesia|Despite its potential role in reducing disaster mortality, the rigorous evaluation of the impact of disaster education on children’s disaster responses, such as evacuation behavior, is scarce. This study examines the impact of a newly introduced Indonesian program on students’ earthquake response. The program is carefully designed based on psychological theories and anecdotal lessons from different countries. It is also easy to understand and cost-effective. Exploiting the fact that the treatment schools for the pilot program were selected based on two observable criteria, we employ the propensity score weighting estimation. The results show positive effects on perception regarding students’ ability to cope with disaster risk and likelihood of taking appropriate response during an earthquake. The participants are also more likely to self-learn and have higher knowledge of disaster risks. Furthermore, there exists a significant effect on earthquake response even among students with poor learning attitude at school. This feature is preferable for disaster education in developing countries, as those residing in disaster-vulnerable areas tend to have poor educational background.
I25|Female Labor Market Participation and Socioeconomic Development: Disentangling the U-Shaped Hypothesis|The U-shaped hypothesis of the relation between economic development and female labor market participation has been a main framework for analyzing female labor market patterns. However, it mixes up two dimensions of development: the increase in income level and the development of social norms from traditional to modern. We disentangle the U-shaped hypothesis by explicitly accounting for social norms within the socioeconomic development process. This allows for a richer analysis of female labor market participation in countries which have developed more in one of the development dimensions rather than the other. To demonstrate, Saudi Arabia is a rich and traditional country while many countries in Eastern Europe are relatively poor and modern. We hypothesize implications of these ‘rather one-sided’ development scenarios on female labor market participation outcomes. We then test this framework on a regional level for Egypt and Germany and find family formation to be much more detrimental for female employment in the rich and traditional regions.
I25|Health and Development|In this paper we examine whether the Solow growth model is consistent with across-countries variations in standard of living once investments in education and health are explicitly and simultaneously taken into account. Using a sample of low- and middle-income economies, we provide evidence that per capita GDP is positively affected by population's health, here proxied by the life expectancy at birth. Public expenditure on health affects indirectly the level of per capita income through its positive effectect on life expectancy. Using a Finite Mixture approach, we also show that richer economies are those where the impact of unobserved factors on the level of per capita income is stronger.
I25|Effects of social origin and own abilities on income development - New findings from Germany|The relationship between social origin and future income has been the subject of numerous studies and debates in economics and sociology. It has been proven that there is a strong link between social origin, educational attainment, and social destination in terms of economic success. However, there is still widespread disagreement as to whether social origin has an influence on later children income. The results of previous studies are not unequivocal in their findings and contradict each other in the effects observed. It?s also still completely unclear whether there are differences between the genders.However, studies based on correlations between siblings or twins show that there is a strong correlation between social origin and economic success achieved in later working life. But these studies only show that there are effects and not which mechanisms are responsible for them. But it is very important to understand these mechanisms as they are responsible for the persistence of social inequality and gender differences.In this study, I take up the proposal by Bukodi & Goldthorpe (2013) to decompose social origin into its main factors parental class, status and education in order to examine the distinct effect on income over the life course. To do this, I use the data from the German LifE-Study, one of the longest running longitudinal studies in the German regions following the life courses of N=1.359 individuals from the ages of 12 to 45. Different linear regressions and linear structural equation models show that the three factors of social origin have different effects on income. These effects also differ between age 35 and age 45 of the analyzed individuals and largely between men and women. For women not only their own education is responsible for the returns to education, it?s also the social background in which they grew up.
I25|Acquiring ?green? competencies in the study process|Research background: The 7th Environment Action Plan promotes a long-term objective of ?Living well, within the limits of our planet? based on a 2050 vision centred on ecological limits, a circular economy, and society?s resilience. It is of a great importance to gather the understanding of global trends and risks as well as future skills that are crucial for a well-developed circular economy. It is important to integrate the life-cycle thinking throughout all the stages of economy and edu-cation plays one of the key roles in ensuring comprehensive transition towards circular economy model.Purpose of the article: The aim of the current paper is to identify what skills, knowledge and competencies students should acquire in the study process and to formulate guidelines for human resource development through higher education according to requirements of a circular economy.Methods: The research is based on theoretical analysis of the scientific literature in circular economy field, analysis of statistical data and questionnaire survey.Findings & Value added: The surveyed business executives (1829 respondents in Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia) point out that informational and educational measures are needed on the circular economy. Decision making, system thinking, learning by doing, competences, skills and knowledge, values, awareness raising and problem based learning were identified by respondents as the most important skills that should be acquired during the study process. The findings support the need for developing a study course with integrated the life-cycle thinking which will help to develop professional qualities and competencies of future professionals.
I25|Improving learning outcomes in Francophone Africa: More resources or improved efficiency?|The lack of resources is often highlighted as the most important correlate of poor learning outcomes in developing countries. However, increasing school resources may not necessarily drive better learning if resources are not properly translated into learning outcomes. The current paper investigates the efficient utilization of school resources to promote learning. Applying the Data Envelopment Analysis methodology, an efficiency analysis is performed using PASEC 2014 learning assessment that covers 10 francophone, West and Central African countries. This paper also tries to better understand to which extent efficiency plays a role in the relationship between school resources and learning outcomes. The results show that the efficiency of school resource utilization varies across countries and across schools within the same countries. The relationship between some of the key elements of school resources and learning is weak in the least efficient schools. This suggests that resources allocated to the low efficient schools should consider first addressing inefficiency issues. While efficiency drivers may vary depending on the country’s specific contexts, findings show that students’ absenteeism, implication of the community in school management, teaching time and school environment play a role in school efficiency.
I25|The Wavering Economic Thought About The Link Between Education And Growth|The objective of this paper is twofold. On the one hand, it provides a balanced account of both theoretical and empirical debates on the link between education and growth since World War 2. We point out the lack of a clear-cut consensus.On the other hand, we question the traditional measurements of human capital, and assess their fit to various theoretical models of growth. Subsequently, we provide a new and arguably more appropriate proxy. Using it, we document crude correlations in line with the literature, pointing out that education may not be an appropriate instrument to accelerate growth.
I25|The Effects of Local Violent Crime on High-Stakes Tests|Random shocks to cognitive performance on high-stakes standardized tests have long-lasting consequences, particularly when test results are used as the sole mechanism to determine school admissions. This study considers the effects of exposure to local violent crime on high-stakes standardized test outcomes in the context of Mexico City’s centralized high school admission system. To do so, we exploit within-school variation in exposure to local violent crime over time. Our results show that exposure to violent crime reduces test scores for female students but not for males, leading to a gender biased high school placement. That is, female students’ test scores decrease by 11 percent of a standard deviation after the exposure to violent crime occurring within 0.1 miles of their school during the week before the test, and approximately 19 percent of those students are assigned to less-preferred high schools than the ones to which they would have been assigned otherwise. The effect is highly localized both in time and geographic proximity, suggesting that temporary psychological harm is one of the main mechanisms through which exposure to violent crime affects cognitive performance.
I25|Do early-ending conditional cash transfer programs crowd out school enrollment?|This paper explores how a conditional cash transfer program influences students’ schooling decisions when program payments stop in the middle of the school career. To that end, I examine Mexico’s Progresa, which covered students only until the end of middle school (at age 15) in its early years. The experimental setup permits to study the program’s impact on the probability to continue with high school after middle school. Despite initial randomization, the program itself has likely rendered the respective samples of middle school graduates in the treatment and the control group incomparable. To account for this, I employ a newly developed semiparametric technique that uses a combination of machine learning methods in conjunction with doubly-robust estimation. I find that exposure to Progresa during middle school reduced the probability to transfer to high school by 10 to 14 percentage points. Possible explanations for this effect include parents’ loss aversion, motivation crowding, anchoring, and classroom peer effects.
I25|Do Constraints on Women Worsen Child Deprivations? Framework, Measurement, and Evidence from India|This paper provides a framework for analyzing constraints that apply specifically to women, which theory suggests may have negative impacts on child outcomes (as well as on women). We classify women's constraints into four dimensions: (i) domestic physcial and psychological abuse, (ii) low influence on household decisions, (iii) restrictions on mobility, and (iv) limited information access. Each of these constraints are in principle determined within households. We test the impact of women's constraints on child outcomes using nationally representative household Demographic and Health Survey data from India, including 53,030 mothers and 113,708 children, collected in 2015-16. Outcomes are measured as multidimensional deprivations, utilizing UNICEF's Multidimensional Overlapping Deprivation Analysis index, incorporating deficiencies in children's access to water, sanitation, housing, healthcare, nutrition, education and information. We identify causal impacts using a Lewbel specification and present an array of additional econometric strategies and robustness checks. We find that children of women who are subjected to domestic abuse, have low influence in decision making, and limited freedom of mobility are more likely to be deprived.
I25|Human Capital and Economic Growth|The aim of this entry is (I) to undertake a critical reading of the seminal contribution of Lucas’ work to construct a model which represents the complexity of the links between human capital and economic growth (II) to review the empirical assessments of its endogenous nature.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
I25|Migration of higher education students from North Africa Region|This paper uses both the descriptive and comparative approaches to provide overview of migration of higher education students from North Africa region. We fill the gap in the African literature and present a more comprehensive and recent analysis of migration of higher education students from North Africa region using UNESCO recent secondary data on international students mobility in tertiary education. We provide an interesting comparative analysis of migration of higher education students from North Africa region compared to South Africa. A novel element in our analysis is that we examine migration of higher education students from North Africa from both national and regional perspectives; mainly we discuss migration of higher education students for each individual country in North Africa region (Algeria, Egypt, Libya, Morocco, Sudan and Tunisia) and then discuss the total for the entire North Africa region. Therefore, we provide an extremely valuable contribution to the increasing debate in the international literature concerning the increasing interaction between migration and increasing internationalisation of higher education. Our findings support the first hypothesis that from national perspective, the pattern and size of migration of higher education students from the North Africa region increased substantially over the past years but the distribution showed considerable variation across North African countries. Our results corroborate the second hypothesis that the increasing trend of migration of higher education students from the North Africa region is caused by several push-pull factors (e.g. economic, social, political, cultural and educational). Our results support the third hypothesis that migration of higher education students from the North Africa region lead to mixed positive and negative impacts (e.g. transfer of knowledge, brain gain and skill acquisition for returned migrant students, but weak capacity to retain talents and brain drain for non-returned migrant students). Our findings corroborate the fourth hypothesis that skills of migrant higher education students from North Africa region can be better mobilised in their countries of origin by addressing the push-pull factors that determine migration of skills from the North Africa region.
I25|Mothers’ Care: Reversing Early Childhood Health Shocks through Parental Investments|We explore the effects of a child labor regulation that changed the legal working age from 14 to 16 over the health of their offspring. We show that the reform was detrimental for the health of the son’s of affected parents at delivery. Yet, in the medium run, the effects of the reform are insignificant for both male and female children. The sons of treated mothers are perceived as still having worse health at older ages, even if their objective health status has recovered. These boys are also more likely to have private health insurance, which suggests more concerned mothers.
I25|The legacy of history or the outcome of reforms? Primary education and literacy in Liberal Italy (1871-1911)|This paper shows how historical institutions, inherited from pre-unification regional states, cast a long shadow on the evolution of literacy across the provinces of Liberal Italy (1871-1911). Although increasing local inputs into public primary schooling were associated with higher literacy, pre-unification schooling is found to be a crucial predictor of literacy in the period under study. New provincial estimates of school efficiency based on Data Envelopment Analysis suggest that pre-unification education and parental literacy were also important determinants of the success in converting schooling into literacy
I25|The political economy of educational policies and inequality of opportunity|We propose a political economy model to explain cross-country differences observed in educational policies and to show how such heterogeneity is associated with the level of a country’s development and inequality. Parents, heterogeneous in terms of income and their child’s ability, vote over the educational policy, by deciding the allocation of a given public budget between basic and higher education. Parents can invest in supplemental private education to increase the probability of their children of being admitted to higher education. When the level of development is low and inequality between social classes is sufficiently large, there is low exchange social mobility in the access to higher education, and educational policies are characterized by a large relative per-student expenditure in higher education.
I25|Improving Access and Quality in Early Childhood Development Programs: Experimental Evidence from the Gambia|This paper studies two experiments of early childhood development programs in The Gambia: one increasing access to services, and another improving service quality. In the first experiment, new community-based early childhood development (ECD) centers were introduced to randomly chosen villages that had no pre-existing structured ECD services. In the second experiment, a randomly assigned subset of existing ECD centers received intensive provider training. We find no evidence that either intervention improved average levels of child development. Exploratory analysis suggests that, in fact, the first experiment, which increased access to relatively low quality ECD services, led to declines in child development among children from less disadvantaged households. Evidence supports that these households may have been steered away from better quality early childhood settings in their homes.
I25|Does microfinance have an impact on borrower's consumption patterns and women's empowerment?|This paper conducts a thorough data analysis using cross-sectional data from a study carried out in Mexico including over 16,500 observations. In the study, clusters were selected in areas Compartamos Banco, a Microfinance institution (MFI), has not lent in before. The clusters were randomly assigned to either the treatment or the control group. The analysis suggests that Microfinance has a significant positive effect on school and food expenditure but no apparent effect on entrepreneurship. Using regression analysis, a significant positive effect on women's empowerment and its positive effect on total consumption is found.
I25|Policy failure and educational attainment in Indonesia|By the late 1980s, child completion of primary education was near universal in Indonesia. The country has since turned its attention to increasing access to secondary school. We examine the causal impact of two classic education policies on secondary school participation in Indonesia: compulsory schooling and spending mandates. We find that the country’s 1994 nine-year compulsory schooling initiative had no impact on child educational attainment. We also determine that Indonesia’s 2002 constitutionally-imposed education spending mandate has been ineffective in influencing secondary school enrolments. Both policies suffer from weak enforcement. Improved enforcement would be beneficial in the case of compulsory schooling. However, the major risk in the case of spending mandates is that government begins to enforce them more rigorously, as they are applied to additional sectors, thereby constraining the efficient delivery of education and other local public services.
I25|Understanding Youth in Arab Countries:|The following contribution is a synthesis of many contributions (Driouchi & Harkat, 2017a; 2017b; 2017c; 2017d; 2017e; Harkat, Driouchi, and Achehboune, 2016a; 2016b; and Harkat and Driouchi, 2017) and aims at analyzing the situation of the youngest segments in Arab economies. Findings indicate that the values, and the way women is perceived as a player in the economy by older generations did not change. But with regard to work attribute, they have changed significantly. With regard to macroeconomic threats, they are perceived more by young individuals in non-GCC countries than young individuals in GCC countries. The remaining four sections indicate the impact of vocational and general education on macroeconomic and social variables, the status as well as the determinants of youth unemployment, the status and determinants of young individuals not in education, not in employment, and not in training (or NEETs), and the impact of the demographic dividend on the NEETs. Empirical results indicate that the situation and impact of the youth differs from each Arab economy to another.
I25|فهم الشباب في البلدان العربية<BR>[Understanding Youth in Arab Countries]|نبذة مختصرة : يقدم هذا البحث تقرير توليفي للعديد من المساهمات السابقة(Driouchi & Harkat, 2017a; 2017b; 2017c; 2017d; 2017e; Harkat, Driouchi, & Achehboune, 2016a; 2016b; Harkat & Driouchi, 2017)، وتهدف إلى تحليل حالة الشباب في الاقتصادات العربية. تشير النتائج إلى أن القيم، والطريقة التي تنظر بها المرأة بوصفها لاعبا في الاقتصاد لم تتغير بين الأجيال. ولكن فيما يتعلق بسمات العمل، فقد تغيرن بشكل ملحوظ. وفيما يتعلق بالتهديدات االقتصادية الكلية، فإنها ملحوظة من طرف شباب البلدان العربية التي ليست عضوا في مجلس التعاون الخليجي أكثر من شباب البلدان التي تنتمي إلى هذا المجلس. وتبين الأقسام الأربعة المتبقية أثر التعليم المهني والتعليم العام على متغيرات الاقتصاد الكلي والمتغيرات الاجتماعية، حالة ومحددات بطالة الشباب، حالة ومحددات الشباب الغير الملتحقين بالتعليم، وليس في العمل، وليس في التدريب (NEETs)، وتأثير العائد الديمغرافي على هذه الفئة الاخيرة. وتشير النتائج التجريبية إلى أن وضع الشباب وتأثيرهما يختلفان عن كل اقتصاد عربي إلى آخر.
I25|Governance, Science–Policy Interfaces, Societal Organisation and the Transition to an Ecosystemic Model of Culture|An analytical, ecosystemic, epistemological and methodological framework, encompassing the combination and co-design of four dimensions of being in the world (intimate, interactive, social and biophysical), is posited to identify and deal with the problems of difficult settlement or solution in the world, reconceptualising roles and drives, in view of a transformative change of the current paradigms of development, growth, power, wealth, work and freedom embedded at institutional, cultural, economic and political level.
I25|Is bilingual education desirable in multilingual countries?|"Many developing countries are populated by multiple ethnic groups who use their own language in daily life and in local business, but have to use a common language in national business and in communications with other groups. In these countries, how much weights should be placed on teaching a local ethnic language and teaching a common language is a critical issue. A similar conflict arises in low-income countries in general between teaching skills that are ""practical"" and directly useful in local jobs, and teaching academic skills that are important in modern sector jobs. This paper develops a model to examine these questions theoretically. It is shown that balanced education of the two languages/skills is critical for skill development of those with limited wealth for education. It is also found that the balanced education brings higher earnings net of educational expenditure, only when a country has favorable conditions (TFP is reasonably high, and education, in particular, common language education [academic education] is reasonably e¤ective) and only for those with adequate wealth. Common-language-only (academic-only) education maximizes net earnings of those with little wealth, and, when the country's conditions are not good, maximizes net earnings of all. This implies that there exists a trade-off between educational and economic outcomes for those with little wealth, and, when the conditions are not good, the trade-off exists for everyone without adequate wealth. Policy implications derived from the results too are discussed."
I25|The Effect of Conflict on Education: Evidence from Sierra Leone|This study investigates the long-run effects of the civil war in Sierra Leone on education. Similar to the literature in other contexts, I exploit cohort and conflict variation within Sierra Leone from micro-level data in the spirit of a difference-in-difference (DID) design. Since schooling typically takes place at a particular age for people, using school age cohorts in such a way is a very natural method to estimate a plausibly causal effect of higher conflict intensity on the education of those affected by it. I find that a one standard deviation increase in conflict intensity led to a 0.3-0.5 year reduction in the amount of schooling for school aged children during the war by 2011, that is, ten years after the civil war ended. Some suggestive evidence on channels indicates that a major driver of this effect may be supply side factors.
I25|Social capital, human capital and fertility|We develop an overlapping generations model to study how the interplay between social and human capital affects fertility. In a frame- work where families face a trade-off between the quantity and quality of children, we incorporate the assumption that social capital plays a key role in the accumulation of human capital. We show how the erosion of social capital can trigger a chain of reactions leading households to base their childbearing decisions on quantity, instead of quality, resulting in higher fertility.
I25|Efficiency of public expenditure on education: comparing Croatia with other NMS|Modern economies are becoming more knowledge-intensive and service-oriented, which makes human capital more important than ever for mid-term and long-term growth. Therefore, education, the main channel of governments’ influence on human capital formation, became important research subject in the field of economic growth. This paper examines efficiency of public expenditure on secondary and tertiary education in the New Member States (NMS) in EU ; only efficient government spending can generate adequate returns in terms of contribution to economic growth. Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA) is applied to assess relative technical efficiency of public expenditure on secondary and tertiary education in NMS, with a particular focus on Croatia. Input variables are public expenditure on education per student and as % of total education expenditure, while output variables for secondary education are PISA results and for tertiary education share of unemployed with a tertiary education and Shanghai ranking of leading national universities. The results show high inefficiency of public spending on education in Croatia.
I25|Governance, Science–Policy Interfaces, Societal Organisation and the Transition to an Ecosystemic Model of Culture|The ecosystemic approach favours the development of healthy societies, that invest in each other rather than in mega-projects with intensive use of resources, it extends to environmental problems, quality of life and the state of the world a larger conceptual framework that includes ontological and epistemological issues, in view of the isomorphy and transfers of concepts, laws and models in various fields; it relates to how taken for granted worldviews, values and perceptions affect the definition and treatment of the problems by public policies, research and teaching programmes in the contemporary world.
I25|Economic links between education and migration: An overview|Among the many factors governing migration, education plays a major role, though more in the long run than for short-term floods particularly of irregular migration. Concerning the long run effects, the direction of causation and the slope of the connection are debated in theory. Education not only determines the mobility of people, it also is positively correlated with rising incomes. Empirical evidence shows that for people in developing countries, who are at the low end of the income distribution, more education and rising income levels are push factors for emigration. However, beyond a certain threshold further rising incomes tend to retard migration. As a result, education exhibits an inverted-U shaped relationship with migration. Another remarkable fact is that, on average, people who migrate are better educated than non-migrants back home as well as indigenous people in the host country.
I25|Does education affect economic liberty? The role of information and the media|We explore whether education plays a key role in determining economic liberty. Baseline estimates suggest that the educational level of a country, as measured by the average years of total schooling, is a significant contributor to economic freedom. To isolate exogenous variation, we use historical information on primary school enrollment rates and also rely on genetic information. We show that the exogenous component of education is strongly correlated with economic liberty after controlling for the influence of a number of other relevant factors. We identify access to information and media freedom as two channels through which higher education is translated into less interventional government policy. We offer non parametric evidence and demonstrate that the impact of schooling is non linear. At low levels of education its influence is negative implying that economic policies in favor of government intervention are more likely to prevail when the educational level of a country is low. When moving to higher levels of schooling, this effect switches to positive.
I25|Basic Education curriculum effectiveness in East Africa: A descriptive analysis of primary mathematics in Uganda using the ‘Surveys of Enacted Curriculum’|For most school-going children in many developing countries of Sub-Saharan Africa today for whom schooling is not translating into actual learning, the question regarding the true value of education remains unanswered. Can the use of descriptive curriculum analytics impact teachers’ in-class instructional decisions as to lead to improved opportunities for children’s learning? Recent evidence from citizen-led annual learning assessments conducted in the three East African countries of Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda reveal extremely low learning gains as children progress through school, starting in the very early grades where they are expected to acquire foundational competences. Whereas several factors have been studied, there is shockingly very little evidence on basic education curricula effectiveness in East Africa. Twaweza East Africa has adapted the ‘Surveys of Enacted Curriculum’ SEC framework to analyze basic education curricula effectiveness in the region. In this study, we developed a subject taxonomy for primary-level Mathematics in Uganda – one of four core learning areas – and analyzed the distribution of relative emphases in the standards, classroom instruction, and assessments. We conclude that the lack of nationally-agreed well-thought subject-specific comprehensive taxonomies likely translates into content coverage inconsistencies that might deter achievement of planned progressive learning across grades. We find no clear evidence of a systematic emphasis structure on developing learner performance expectations as they progress across grades. Our analyses also reveal low alignment indices between standards and national assessments, and between standards and classroom instruction. Finally, we find evidence of content delivery disparities between lower primary teachers in rural versus urban school settings, which disparities likely disadvantage rural children from early on thus making it hard for them to master the basic competences required for progress to higher grades
I25|Overeducation among graduates in developing countries: What impact on economic growth?|This article analyzes the impact of graduates' overeducation on economic growth in thirty-eight developing countries. A combination of macro data from the World Bank and micro data from the the Integrated Public Use Microdata Series International (IPUMSI) is employed. To deal with unobserved heterogeneity between countries and endogeneity of overeducation, two-stage least squares regression with country �fixed effects is estimated. Results highlight that a high rate of overeducated graduates is estimated to have a negative impact on economic growth at both short and medium terms. The expansion of higher education sector in developing countries should be realized with a deep attention on the education-job matching process among graduates.
I25|Education-job mismatches and their impacts on job satisfaction: An analysis among university graduates in Cambodia|Education-job mismatches, especially overeducation or vertical mismatch, are generally found to lower the worker's job satisfaction, which may generate the counter-productive behaviors such as high rates of absenteeism and turnover in developed countries. The purpose of this article is to examine the impacts of educational mismatches from their both forms and dimensions (match, overeducation, horizontal mismatch and double mismatch) on the job satisfaction among university graduates in Cambodia. To deal with the sample selection bias owing to the unobserved job satisfaction of unemployed graduates, this study applies the Heckman probit model on a survey conducted with nineteen higher education institutions in Cambodia. Results indicate that the both forms of mismatches adversely affect the job satisfaction and the consequence is stronger if graduates suffer both vertical and horizontal mismatches. This suggests that the literature has to focus on all forms and dimensions of mismatches when examining their impacts on the individual outcomes in the labor market. The findings also underline the importance of improvement in the quality of education-job matching in Cambodia because the possible counter-productive behaviors due to inadequate education-employment may affect the productivity of firms and thus limit their development.
I25|Education expenditure and economic growth: Some empirical evidence from Côte d’Ivoire|There are many recent studies on African countries about the relationship between education expenditure and economic growth. However, the case of Côte d’Ivoire has been so far neglected. The aim of this paper is then to investigate that relationship for Côte d’Ivoire for the period from 1970 to 2015. We applied the Pesaran et al. (2001) bounds testing approach, estimated an ARDL model and used the Toda and Yamamoto (1995) causality test. The study provides evidence of the existence of a negative and significant long term effect of government education expenditure on economic growth for the aforementioned period. Moreover, there is a non-significant positive effect of government education expenditure on economic growth in the short term. The results show a unidirectional causality relationship between the two variables, running from education expenditure to economic growth. These findings are consistent with some results in the empirical literature and, first, indicate that government education expenditure does not stimulate economic growth in Côte d’Ivoire. This may be due to low levels of government education expenditures and the inefficiency with which these expenditures are converted into human capital stock and thus into economic growth. Second, policies aiming to invest more in education are important for more production and more economic growth.
I25|Skill variety in entrepreneurship: A literature review and research directions|Lazear’s concept of skill variety has been established in entrepreneurship research and is con-sidered an important extension to human capital theory. The literature on skill variety, its de-terminants and its effects on entrepreneurial outcomes is growing. But especially the literature on determinants of skill variety as well as the relation between gender and skill variety is still in its infancy. Thus, this article takes stock of the academic knowledge collected about skill variety, its outcomes and determinants, its measurement alternatives as well as the role of gender. Overall, it can be summarized that skill variety is an important driver of entrepreneur-ship - above all for the entry-decision into entrepreneurship. The literature on skill variety and entrepreneurial success shows mixed evidence. Looking at the determinants of skill variety, extant literature is scarce. The debate whether the acquisition of skill variety is driven by a purposeful investment strategy or by the possession of certain endowment factors (such as risk aversion or a taste for variety) has not come to a conclusion. Regarding the topic of gender and skill variety, the studies under investigation report negative correlations between being female and skill variety. Measurement alternatives of skill variety used in academic research are diversely and sometimes inconsistently used. This makes it difficult to compare the results of different studies.
I25|Educación superior y crecimiento económico en Colombia (1971-2016): una relación de cointegración<BR>[Higher education and economic growth in Colombia (1971-2016): a cointegration relationship]|This article analyzes the relation between GDP per capita (CPIBpc) and access to tertiary education, seen from the perspective of growth rate of the number of enrollments (TCMes) in higher education in Colombia for the period (1971-2016). By using a VEC model and assuming everything else constant, it is concluded that TCMes Granger caused the Colombian GDP per capita and vice-versa, therefore, the existence of a long run relation between both variables is verified. This result helps to explain the dynamics of Colombian economic growth per capita of the last forty-five years and the impact of the accumulation of human capital on it.
I25|When Opportunity Knocks: China's Open Door Policy and Declining Educational Attainment|At the end of 1978, China opened the door to trade with foreign businesses. This study investigates how the Open Door Policy's implementation affected the skill composition and skill premium for workers born 1960-1970. Using measures of local labor markets' export exposure, we find that for every $1000 increase in exports per worker, high school completion rates decreased by 4.5 p.p. for workers born in 1970, compared to those born in 1960. Linking this to mid-career outcomes in 2010, we show that highly export-exposed workers in China have a $124 greater return to an additional year of schooling than their less export-exposed brethren. This suggests China's growth was likely dampened and its income inequality widened during the early industrialization of the 1980s and 1990s, as the Open Door Policy simultaneously reduced the availability of skilled labor and increased the skill premium.
I25|Education and the livelihood of households in the Northwest Region, Vietnam|Using the updated data from the 2016 Vietnam Household Living Standard Survey, this study examines the role of education in the livelihood of households in the Northwest Region, the poorest region in Vietnam. Our micro-econometric analysis shows that education has a positive effect on choosing better livelihoods, on household income and poverty reduction, even after controlling for all other factors in the models. However, our quantile regression analysis reveals that the returns on education are substantially heterogeneous across percentiles of income distribution and tend to be higher for better-off households. This implies that education has an increasing effect on within-level income inequality. The finding suggests that a conventional approach employing only mean regression to study the effect of education on income could miss heterogeneity of interest to policymakers.
I25|Актуални Правни Аспекти На Реферирането И Индексирането На Научни Публикации В България<BR>[Actual legal aspects of the reference and indexing of scientific publications in bulgaria]|Резюме: Статията разглежда индексирането на научните публикации в контекста на изискванията на дигиталното общество. Процесът е изследван във взаимовръзката израстване на академичния състав и потребността от популяризиране на научните трудове, посредством публикуване в реферирани и индексирани издания. Акцент се поставя на юридическите публикации, които се разглеждат в сравнителен план с останалите научни разработки. На база на анализа се правят обобщения, изводи и препоръки с практическа насоченост.
I25|Making a Narco: Childhood Exposure to Illegal Labor Markets and Criminal Life Paths|"What explains the development of illegal markets and criminal careers in developing countries? I exploit the timing of a large anti-drug policy that shifted cocaine production to locations in Peru that were well-suited to growing coca. In these areas, children harvest coca leaves and transport processed cocaine. Using administrative data, I show that individuals exposed to illegal markets during childhood are 30% more likely to be incarcerated for violent and drug-related crimes as adults. The biggest impacts on adult criminality are seen among children who experience high coca prices in their early teens, the age when child labor responds the most. No effect is found for individuals that grow up working in places where the coca produced goes primarily to the legal sector, suggesting that it is the accumulation of human capital specific to the illegal industry that fosters criminal careers. However, consistent with a model of parental incentives for human capital investments in children, the rollout of a conditional cash transfer program that encourages schooling mitigates the effects of exposure to illegal industries, providing further evidence on the mechanisms. Finally, I show how the program can be targeted to take into account the geographic distribution of coca suitability and spatial spillovers. Overall, this paper takes a first step towards understanding how criminals are formed by unpacking the way in which crime-specific human capital is developed at the expense of formal human capital in ""bad locations."""
I25|More publicly funded research, more knowledge spillovers, more economic growth. An empirical analysis for German regions|This paper deals with the effects of publicly funded research on regional technological progress and economic growth. We adopt a system approach and investigate the effects on all regional input factors and output by means of a flexible spatial panel VAR SpPVAR model. This allows us to deal with the evolutionary nature of regional dynamic processes. We further extend the existing empirical literature on the role of publicly funded research for economic development by differentiating between public research activities conducted by universities, technical colleges, Fachhochschulen, and non-university research institutes. The empirical results show that an increase in ,public, third-party funds to technical colleges leads to positive effects on regional investment and employment rates as well as the human capital stock. We also find a positive link between the publication rate of non-university research institutes and regional investment and employment rates. Furthermore, an overall increase in combined public third party funding of universities and technical colleges affects regional patent activities, the employment rate and output positively.
I25|Exploitation of Research Findings as a Source of Well-being|Abstract In Finland, universities have the explicit mandate to support the transformation of high-quality knowledge into profitable business, as well as to promote the creation of new businesses and workplaces within the boundaries of their so-called third mission. This report looks at how Finnish universities perform in the task. The results point at a clear lack of dedicated resources. The underlying reason is systemic: performance is not linked to incentives in the form of public university funding. Currently, resources for the implementation of the third mission are largely obtained via competition from external sources, endangering the continuity of the technology transfer function and creating disincentives to invest in its development. The lack of incentives is echoed among researchers: Nearly half of the scientists who, according to their own view, have made economically valuable findings state they do not find the time to promote their exploitation. The report proposes several remedies: (1) the performance of universities in their third mission needs to be metered. (2) These metrics need to be linked to earmarked public university funding; (3) Individual-level metrics concerning the exploitation of their findings should encourage researchers and promote their academic careers. In order to support more rapid cultural change, universities could (4) recruit professors directly from the business world; and (5) set up cooperative, joint laboratories with industry in their respective strategic research areas.
I25|The role of life-long education in achieving sustainable development|Considering the role of education in achieving an important objective of any national economy- the sustainable development- this paper brings as novelty a new concept on education- sustainable education model. In this context, the sustainable development is defined from the perspective of education contribution in improving the economic and social development. A particular attention is assigned to education for sustainable development and to the correlations between education and macroeconomic and social indicators (economic growth, productivity, income, trade, political system, demographic trend).
I25|Înva?amântul din România în perioada 1919-2017|The paper shows the evolution of Romania's education system during a century after the 1918 Great Union and identifies four great phases, determinated by external shocks and by transformations of economic and social-political system, namely: a) 1919-1939 (interwar period), b) 1940-1947 (period of the World War Two and of the first post war years), c) 1948-1989 (period of command economy) and d) 1990-2017 (period of reimplementation of market mechanisms and integration into European Union). The chapters of the paper are related to the above-mentioned phases and emphasize the relevant aspects of the changes of the institutional-legislative framework and of the features of governmental education policies, on the one hand, the dynamics of the school population, of graduates and of the teaching staff, on the other hand. A special attention is paid to the development of the tertiary education. It also estimates the average school years of potential active population during the 1966-2011 period. In this context, we are able to identify the conditioning factors of successful implementation of the education reforms and their positive outcomes for economic and social development in the long run.
I25|The Impact of Syrian Crisis on the Quality of Education in Jordan: A Quantitative and Qualitative Assessment|This paper investigates the causal impact of the Syria crisis on education quality in Jordan. We collected and analyzed primary quantitative and qualitative data for a sample of Jordanian public schools in Qasabet-Irbid district (Northern Jordan), close to the Syrian border. Our empirical analysis assesses an overall negative impact of Syrian refugee enrollment in the Jordanian education system induced by both overcrowding and double-shift practices. This impact on students' performance is represented by a declining in their scores in four main subjects (Math, Science, Arabic, and English) relative to the counterfactual sample. This negative impact is confirmed by the qualitative analysis as well. This study provides the first empirical evidence on the impact of Syria crisis on the education quality in the affected public schools in Jordan, with possible long-term effects on economic growth. Although it does not represent, by any means, an argument against hosting policies of refugees, it represents a quest for International agencies and donors to refine their financial and technical support to schooling the refugees without affecting the education quality provided in the public schools. This will also help to prevent tensions between the incoming and the host communities.
I25|A review of entrepreneurial knowledge and skills among students at a South African Higher Education Institution|Entrepreneurship are regarded as a key element in fostering economic growth and job creation. However, growth of a country?s economy rely on developing future leaders with the right skills and knowledge to be entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurial knowledge and skills are key attributes for students if they consider self-employment. In South Africa entrepreneurship is common in higher education, however young individuals in South Africa urgently need to be trained, educated and equipped with the necessary entrepreneurial knowledge and skills to foster an entrepreneurial activity in their complex environment. The purpose of this paper is to determine students at a South African HEI perception of their level of entrepreneurial knowledge and skills. A descriptive research design approach was followed. A self-administered questionnaire was used to collect the data from a convenience sample of 338 students at a South African public HEI situated in the Gauteng Province. Data were analysed using descriptive statistics, reliability and validity analysis and a one-sample t-test. The findings infer that at this specific HEI, students feel they have the necessary knowledge and skills to be entrepreneurial. This study contributes by implementing initiatives to equip students with the knowledge and skills they may lack in becoming active individuals in economic growth.
I25|Greening Finance Industry In Hong Kong: The Role Of Partnership|This paper adopted a case study approach to explore the role of partnerships between government, industry and education in transforming Hong Kong into a green finance hub. Findings from several interviews with the bank and finance companies in Hong Kong are presented, adding a new dimension to the existing literature in terms of providing new theoretical understanding to current practices with the intention of introducing environmental, social and governance (ESG) or sustainability related programs in the banking and finance industry of Hong Kong. The paper conceptualized existing partnership patterns in the finance industry with the education sector and government across the industry and explored their skills needs for the green economy. The study reported in the paper highlighted that there is need to scale up green finance market development in promoting environmental sustainability in Hong Kong. This requires specific green finance developmental strategies from the government, finance and banking business community as well as the support of partnerships with universities. Our results revealed that vocational professional educational and training providers may not have a significant impact and neither will they share a significant role in greening the finance sector. A theoretical model adopted for the study (quintuple helix model) was used to illustrate the interaction and the flow of knowledge and innovation between different actors in support of sustainable development (Carayannis et. al., 2012). Based on this model, a framework to support effective partnerships for greening the finance industry is suggested. Such actions as the uptake of green bond and social responsible investment and improving disclosure standard of environmental, social and governance aspects in the field are proposed as important aspects for partnerships.
I25|Exploring the Influential Factors in Perceived Value of LINE: Enjoyment of LINE Activity, Perceived Risk, and Privacy Concern of LINE Users in Bangkok|The purpose of this research was to explore the influential factors in the perceived value of the users of the LINE application in Bangkok, Thailand. The research model consisted of four latent variables: privacy concern (PC), perceived risk (PR), enjoyment of LINE activities (ELA) and perceived value of LINE (PVL). The data was collected from a sample of 190 respondents all of whom used the LINE application. The research instrument was a survey questionnaire using a five-point Likert scale for measuring respondent?s attitudes. Data was analyzed using the SPSS programme and SmartPLS version 2.0.M3 programme. The findings revealed that LINE application users? ELA influences PVL, while ELA is not influenced by PC and PR. This study also confirms that LINE application users? PR is significantly associated with PC. These findings can help managers and decision makers of the LINE application to keep apace with research on consumer attitudes and to make suitable and appropriate developments in the functions of LINE. Additionally, it will assist LINE managers in developing suitable strategies to achieve competitive advantage.
I25|Geographical Origins of Language Structures |This research explores the geographical origins of the coevolution of cultural and linguistic traits in the course of human history, relating the geographical roots of long-term orientation to the structure of the future tense, the agricultural determinants of gender bias to the presence of sex-based grammatical gender, and the ecological origins of hierarchical orientation to the existence of politeness distinctions. The study advances the hypothesis and establishes empirically that: (i) variations in geographical characteristics that were conducive to higher natural return to agricultural investment contributed to the existing cross-language variations in the structure of the future tense, (ii) the agricultural determinants of gender gap in agricultural productivity fostered the existence of sex-based grammatical gender, and (iii) the ecological origins of hierarchical societies triggered the emergence of politeness distinctions.
I25|Geographical Roots of the Coevolution of Cultural and Linguistic Traits|This research explores the geographical origins of the coevolution of cultural and linguistic traits in the course of human history, relating the geographical roots of long-term orientation to the structure of the future tense, the agricultural determinants of gender bias to the presence of sex-based grammatical gender, and the ecological origins of hierarchical orientation to the existence of politeness distinctions. The study advances the hypothesis and establishes empirically that: (i) geographical characteristics that were conducive to higher natural return to agricultural investment contributed to the existing cross-language variations in the structure of the future tense, (ii) the agricultural determinants of gender gap in agricultural productivity fostered the existence of sex-based grammatical gender, and (iii) the ecological origins of hierarchical societies triggered the emergence of politeness distinctions.
I25|Demand for education in the five countries of the South African Customs Union – Projections and implications|Demand for education rises with the level of economic development and over time. Censuses and surveys provide an approximation of realized demand for education for different birth cohorts over a long time span across countries and grades. Of the five SACU countries, Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland, all except Namibia have already achieved school participation rates above 90% up to age 14. However, grade achievement is not equally impressive, due to high repetition. The projections of grade completion reported here incorporate UN Population Division demographic projections and assume that completion rates will asymptotically approach an upper limit. Assuming that repetition will stabilize allows estimation of enrolment. Future enrolment growth will slow due to slower growth of the school-aged population and because enrolment is already high. Demand for new teachers, however, should slow less, as the age structure of the current teaching personnel implies high levels of retirement. Tertiary enrolment will be constrained by the supply of tertiary places. To meet young people’s rising labor market expectations requires strong economic growth and labor absorption, improved education quality, and a focus on teaching appropriate skills. International tests show that education quality is weak in the SACU countries. Providing specialized tertiary and technical training for the four small SACU economies will require collaborative efforts.
I25|The Effect of Children's Time in School on Mothers' Labor Supply: Evidence from Mexico's Full-Time Schools Program|This paper examines the effect of the time children spend in school on female labor supply. In particular, we investigate the degree to which extending the school day by three and a half hours, in elementary schools, affects labor force participation, the number of weekly hours worked, and the monthly earnings of females with elementary-school-age children. To do so, we exploit within-individual variation in access to full-time schools and a rotating panel of households that contains individual-level data on labor outcomes and sociodemographic characteristics. Results from long-difference models show that extending the school day increases mothers' labor supply, increasing mothers' labor force participation by 5.5 percentage points and the number of weekly hours worked by 1.8.
I25|"Violence, Psychological Stress and Educational Performance during the ""War on Drugs"" in Mexico"|"We provide evidence that violence in Mexico related to the ""war on drugs"" from 2006-2011 had a significant negative impact on educational performance that is primarily attributable to acute psychological stress among students in the immediate aftermath of local violence. Using geographically and temporally disaggregated data we demonstrate that the largest impacts of violence on educational performance result from homicides committed within the vicinity of schools during the week immediately prior to national standardized tests. This short-term impact increases with geographic proximity and levels of violence, and dramatically exceeds the effects of longer-term violence spread over a full school year."
I25|Higher education and economic development: can public funding restrain the returns from tertiary education?|This paper examines whether the contribution of tertiary education to economic growth and income per capita depends on the structure of public education budgets. The analysis resorts to a panel of 41 countries over the period 1970-2010. The empirical approach is based on system GMM regressions and Hierarchical Linear Models, which allow dealing with endogeneity concerns and parameter heterogeneity. The estimates show that budget imbalances against basic schooling seem to undermine the achievement of productivity gains from higher education.
I25|Determinantes de las decisiones de estudiar y trabajar de las madres adolescentes para el caso uruguayo|The evolution of teenage pregnancy has been an important issue for a wide range of academics in the last decades because of the economic and social impact that provoques. In this paper It is analyzed through a bivariate probit the decision of study and work of female teenagers with kids under 4 years for the Uruguayan case, using de National Survey of Health, Nutrition and Child Development. The results suggest a positive impact of planned pregnancy, live with father, mother or both, and live on the capital city on the probability of study or work. Others factor like poverty, child’s health difficulties and less help while breeding have a negative impact in both variables. Finally, the decisions of study and work have a mirror effect.
I25|Making ideas work for society: University cooperation in knowledge transfer|Sustainable economic growth is more brought about by ideas, knowledge and human capital than by physical capital, like machines, buildings or land. Universities are one of the sources of ideas and of human capital. We focus on the third function of universities, next to education and research, in particular on knowledge transfer. Knowledge transfer is highly visible in agglomerations like Silicon Valley. Many countries nowadays have strategies to step up knowledge transfer as a source of sustainable economic growth. Knowledge is recognised to have its strongest potential impact close to the place where it is generated. This makes a university attractive to the region in which it is located. The university contributes to sustainable economic growth not only through the expenditures associated with the running of the university, but perhaps more by the knowledge transfer. This involves amongst others partnerships with business. Knowledge transfer does not come by itself. It requires action and strategy on the part of the university, the region and local public or private actors (businesses and public organisations). It appears that US and UK top-universities are more prominent not only in realising cooperation with business, but also among each other.
I25|Impact of Duration of Primary Education on Enrollment in Secondary Education: Panel Data Evidence from Developing Countries| Using panel data for non-OECD countries covering the period 1970-2012, this paper analyzes the impact of the duration of primary education on school enrollment in secondary education. The empirical results show that in those countries where the duration of primary education is increased, the enrollment rate in secondary education decreases, and the opposite is observed in those countries where the duration of primary education is reduced. These results are in line with the fertility model approach; that is, in developing and underdeveloped countries parents do not have incentive to pursue further education for their children given the high perceived present economic value of children. JEL Classification: I21, I25, I28 Keywords: primary education, secondary education, school enrollment, education policy, developing countries, school duration
I25|Incentivizing School Attendance in the Presence of Parent-Child Information Frictions|"Education conditional cash transfer programs may increase school attendance in part due to the information they transmit to parents about their child's attendance. This paper presents experimental evidence that the information content of an education conditional cash transfer program, when given to parents independently of any transfer, can have a substantial effect on school attendance. The effect is as large as 75 percent of the effect of a conditional cash transfer incentivizing parents, and not significantly different from it. In contrast, a conditional transfer program incentivizing children instead of parents is nearly twice as effective as an ""information only"" treatment providing the same information to parents about their child's attendance. Taken together, these results suggest that children have substantial agency in their schooling decisions. The paper replicates the findings from most evaluations of conditional cash transfers that gains in attendance achieved by incentivizing parents financially do not translate into gains in test scores. But it finds that both the information only treatment and the alternative intervention incentivizing children substantially improve math test scores."
I25|Forced Migration and Human Capital: Evidence from Post-WWII Population Transfers|We exploit a unique historical setting to study the long-run effects of forced migration on investment in education. After World War II, the Polish borders were redrawn, resulting in large-scale migration. Poles were forced to move from the Kresy territories in the East (taken over by the USSR) and were resettled mostly to the newly acquired Western Territories, from which Germans were expelled. We combine historical censuses with newly collected survey data to show that, while there were no pre-WWII differences in education, Poles with a family history of forced migration are significantly more educated today. Descendants of forced migrants have on average one extra year of schooling, driven by a higher propensity to finish secondary or higher education. This result holds when we restrict ancestral locations to a subsample around the former Kresy border and include fixed effects for the destination of migrants. As Kresy migrants were of the same ethnicity and religion as other Poles, we bypass confounding factors of other cases of forced migration. We show that labor market competition with natives and selection of migrants are also unlikely to drive our results. Survey evidence suggests that forced migration led to a shift in preferences, away from material possessions and towards investment in a mobile asset - human capital. The effects persist over three generations.
I25|Is There an Economic Bias in Academic Success? A Regional Perspective|This paper aims to evaluate whether schools with better National Exams scores are located in regions NUTs III with greater purchasing power. Accordingly, we analyze the evolution of the ranking of schools in light of the purchasing power of the regions where they are located. Using data collected in the media, related to school rankings by region for 2008 and 2014; and in Pordata database for regional purchasing power in 2007 and 2011; we calculate location and specialization measures and perform a shift-share analysis of the regions. The results indicate that schools located in regions with very high and high purchasing power rank first; and both structural and regional changes were positive. A notable exception is the region of Alto Alentejo with a medium purchasing power. In contrast, regions with low purchasing power showed negative structural and regional changes. These results indicate that, although there may have been an improvement in a region of medium purchasing power, the gap between regions of low and high purchasing power has been perpetuated.
I25|Fertility Transitions in Developing Countries: Convergence, Timing, and Causes|This paper studies the dynamics of fertility in 180 countries in the period 1950-2015 and investigates the determinants of the onset of fertility transitions. The application of Phillips and Sul's (2007) test to fertility rates provides evidence of convergence in three groups of countries. This information is used to distinguish the transitioning countries from those not transitioning. The estimation of the year of onset of the fertility transition is followed by an econometric analysis of the causes of this event. Instrumental-variable estimates show that increasing female education and reduced infant mortality are important determinants of fertility decline, while per-capita GDP has probably worked in the opposite direction. The instruments for per-capita income are the trade-weighted world income (Acemoglu et al., 2008) and the oil price shock (Brueckner and Schwandt, 2015). Mortality is instrumented with the predicted mortality (Acemoglu and Johnson, 2007), and mothers' education with the years of schooling of people aged 40-64. These results are confirmed by the application of Lewbel's (2012) methods where identification is based on heteroskedasticity.
I25|Brain Drain-Induced Brain Gain and the Bhagwati Tax: Are Early and Recent Paradigms Compatible?|Based on a welfare-maximization model of skilled migration where education generates a positive externality, this paper examines whether the early view regarding brain drain's (BD) negative impact on source countries and the Bhagwati tax (BT) associated with it, is compatible with the recent more optimistic BD-induced brain gain view. I derive BD's impact on education, welfare, optimal education subsidy (s), and a combination of s and BT, when residents' (emigrants') weight in the government's objective function is 1 (1 − β), with β ε [0,1]. I find that: i) education, welfare and s are higher (lower) under an open than under a closed economy for 1 − β larger (smaller) than the ratio of source-country to host-country income; ii) s and BT are 'policy complements,' i.e., they are positively related; and iii) BT increases with β and reaches a maximum at β = 1. Two implications and a proposal are: a) The early literature focused on resident – rather than on migrant – welfare (the β = 1 case), which is precisely where the optimal BT is largest; b) A second policy instrument should be useful, especially if there are constraints on making changes in the other one. Thus, as opening up the economy implies a lower s, raising BT should be beneficial if, say, parents' and teachers' organizations make it politically difficult if not impossible to reduce s; c) A proposal for collecting the tax is presented.
I25|Arrival of Young Talents: The Send-down Movement and Rural Education in China|"This paper studies human-capital spillovers and its persistence by exploiting a unique event in modern China|the send-down movement. From 1962 to 1979, the Chinese central government mandated the temporary resettlement of roughly 18 million urban youths to rural areas across the country. The movement's coercive features, together with strict restrictions on migration during that period, provide an ideal natural experiment to identify the causal impact of the better-educated sent-down youths (SDYs) on the less-educated local rural residents. Using a county-level dataset compiled from over 3,000 book-length local gazetteers and microlevel population censuses, we find that a greater exposure to SDYs significantly increased local residents' educational achievement. Our estimate shows that the unintended gain of rural education almost compensated the loss in urban China due to the educational disruption during the Cultural Revolution. The positive effect gradually declined as SDYs started to return to their urban homes in the late 1970s, but it never dropped to zero, indicating the persistence of human-capital spillovers. We also find suggestive evidence that the arrival of young talents reshapes the attitudes of local residents toward education."
I25|The size of the middle class and educational outcomes: Theory and evidence from the Indian subcontinent|"This paper proposes a stylised model to derive the effect of a sizeable middle class on average educational outcomes. Under reasonable assumptions, the model predicts that the spending share on education increases if the middle class becomes larger such that the size of the middle class has a positive impact on education. We test the relationship empirically by using village/neighbourhood level data from Indian household surveys. To tackle the issue of potential endogeneity of the middle class share of the population, we propose a novel instrument that relies on the fraction of the population belonging to the third (middle) caste (""sudra""). Using this IV strategy, our empirical results support a positive effect of a larger middle class on educational outcomes. Furthermore, we show that the share of the middle class is a more important determinant of female education than male education and that the effect of the middle class on education is more pronounced in rural areas."
I25|Food for thought? Experimental evidence on the learning impacts of a large-scale school feeding program in Ghana [Supplement]| Appendices for IFPRI Discussion Paper 1782: Food for thought? Experimental evidence on the learning impacts of the Ghana School Feeding Program
I25|The state of education in the Russian Federation in 2017|Recently the Russian education system went through significant qualitative and quantitative changes, which were both meaningful and institutional. At the same time, the system of education has been developing both extensively and rigorously. Preschool education has reached greater number of children. Extended learning activities of children have achieved new heights. Secondary vocational education included training of skilled workers and mid-tier specialists. Over eighty percent of high school graduates enter universities now. The unified state exam (USE) which was widely introduced in 2009 has become an important regulator for high school graduates flows to universities, which significantly increased educational migration of the young people. For example, in 2016, over 7.6 percent of high school graduates from other subjects of the Russian Federation strived to enter Moscow and St. Petersburg universities. Meanwhile before the introduction of USE that number did not exceed 1.5 percent of applicants, and the number of those wishing to enter universities in other regions has gone up from 3.5 percent to 16.5 percent.
I25|Educational Gender Gaps and Economic Growth: A Systematic Review and Meta-Regression Analysis|We conduct a systematic review and meta-analysis of the empirical literature on the impact of gender inequality in education on per capita economic growth, including cross-country, time series, and sub-national growth regressions. Studies using male and female education as separate covariates show a larger effect of female than male education on growth, except when an arguably problematic regression specification popularized by Barro and co-authors is used. We conduct a meta-regression analysis for studies that use the female-male ratio of education as explanatory variable. There we find evidence for a positive and statistically significant relationship between gender equality in education and growth based on 216 estimates from 17 such studies. We find that the average partial correlation coefficient between economic growth and the ratio of female over male education is 0.25, which is a moderate effect. The effect does not appear to be influenced by publication bias, it increases when one controls for initial education levels and social/institutional controls, while it falls with the use of fixed effects, the inclusion of economic controls, and the share of female authors.
I25|Development Economics Meets the Challenges of Lagging U.S. Areas: Applications to Education, Health and Nutrition, Behavior, and Infrastructure|This chapter examines the development economics evidence base for insights into policy reforms that would benefit struggling areas in the United States. My focus is on improving education, physical and mental health, infrastructure, and institutions. First, consistent with findings on education policy effectiveness, I propose raising the legal minimum dropout age (prospectively to 19), providing better information about the benefits of completing high school, supporting targeted paraprofessional tutoring, and providing family financial incentives for attending school and graduating from high school. Second, to improve health outcomes in struggling areas, the focus is using and building on existing effective health and nutrition programs and services, identifying ways to include more families who are eligible for but not participating in these programs. Moreover, the recent development and behavioral economics evidence base has extended our understanding of the psychological, cognitive, and economic behavioral lives of the poor; the literature highlights the ways that poverty can impede cognitive functioning, with implications for policies to uplift lagging U.S. areas. Third, a review of evidence on the benefits of improving lagging rural and urban area transportation infrastructure points to the likely benefits of improved connectivity for lagging U.S. areas: reversing the legacy of past discriminatory policies, encouraging sector-based clusters, and extending access to high-speed internet. Finally, the chapter highlights the relevance of some cross-cutting themes in development economics, including the high returns to reliable household microdata and the importance of improving institutions to enable more inclusive, substantial, and lasting progress.
I25|Macroprudential policy and household wealth inequality|Macroprudential policies, such as caps on loan-to-value (LTV) ratios, have become part of the policy paradigm in emerging markets and advanced countries alike. Given that housing is the most important asset in household portfolios, relaxing or tightening access to mortgages may affect the distribution of household wealth in the country. In a stylised model we show that the final level of wealth inequality depends on the size of the LTV ratio, housing prices, credit cost and the strength of a bequest motive, and therefore it is not possible to predict an unequivocal effect of LTV ratios on wealth inequality. These trade-offs are illustrated with estimations of “Gini Recentered Influence Function” regressions on household survey data from 12 Euro-zone countries that participated in the first wave of the Household Finance and Consumption Survey. The results show that, among the households with active mortgages, high LTV ratios at the time of acquisition are related to high contributions to wealth inequality today, while house price increases are negatively related to inequality contributions. A proxy for the strength of bequest motives tends to be negatively related with wealth inequality, but credit cost does not show a significant link to the distribution of wealth.
I25|School or work?The role of weather shocks in Madagascar|We examine the impact of rainfall variability and cyclones on schooling and work among a cohort of teens and young adults by estimating a bivariate probit model, using a panel survey conducted in 2004 and 2011 in MadagascarÑa poor island nation that is frequently affected by extreme weather events. Our results show that negative rainfall deviations and cyclones reduce the current and lagged probability of attending school and encourage young men and, to a greater extent, women to enter the work force. Less wealthy households are most likely to experience this school-to-work transition in the face of rainfall shocks. The finding is consistent with poorer households having less savings and more limited access to credit and insurance, whichreduces their ability to cope with negative weather shocks.
I25|College Scholarships as a Tool for Community Development? Evidence from the Kalamazoo Promise|On November 10, 2005, the Kalamazoo Public School District announced that a group of anonymous donors had funded a new college scholarship program for district graduates named the Kalamazoo Promise. The primary qualification for scholarship eligibility is continuous residency and enrollment in the Kalamazoo Public School District, and the scholarship is set up in perpetuity. This study assesses the extent to which the Kalamazoo Promise is serving as an economic development tool. Results indicate that the Kalamazoo Promise dramatically increased enrollment in the Kalamazoo Public School District, but there is no evidence that the Kalamazoo Promise increased home values in the district.
I25|Can autocracy promote literacy? Evidence from a cultural alignment success story|Do countries with less democratic forms of government necessarily have lower literacy rates as a consequence? Using a random sample of 4,600+ individuals from military archives in Portugal, we show that 20-year old males were twice as likely to end up literate under an authoritarian regime than under a democratic one. Our results are robust to controlling for a host of factors including economic growth, the disease environment, and regional ﬁxed-eﬀects. We argue for a political economy and cultural explanation for the success of the authoritarian regime in promoting basic education.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
I25|Two stories, one fate: Age-heaping and literacy in Spain, 1877-1930|This study looks at human capital in Spain during the early stages of modern economic growth. In order to do so, we have assembled a new dataset on ageheaping and literacy in Spain for both men and women between 1877 and 1930 based on six population censuses with information for 49 provinces. Our results show that age-heaping was less prevalent during the second half of the 19th century than previously thought and did not decrease until the early twentieth century. By contrast, literacy increased throughout the whole period. Interestingly, age-heaping and illiteracy rates depict similar spatial patterns which confirm the stark differences in human capital within Spain. Lastly, we raise critical questions as regards sources, methods, and the interpretation of age-heaping.
I25|Invisible Geniuses: Could the Knowledge Frontier Advance Faster?|The advancement of the knowledge frontier is crucial for technological innovation and human progress. Using novel data from the setting of mathematics, this paper establishes two results. First, we document that individuals who demonstrate exceptional talent in their teenage years have an irreplaceable ability to create new ideas over their lifetime, suggesting that talent is a central ingredient for the production of knowledge. Second, such talented individuals born in low- or middle-income countries are systematically less likely to become knowledge producers. Our findings suggest that policies to encourage exceptionally-talented youth to pursue scientific careers - especially those from lower income countries - could accelerate the advancement of the knowledge frontier.
I25|After-School Effects on Students' Academic Outcomes: Evidence from Chile|After-school care policies have been considered as a tool that can improve vulnerable students’ outcomes. The evidence of after-school programs is incomplete and concentrated in developed countries. In this paper, we experimentally evaluate the impact of a publicly run after-school program in Chile. We found that the program had on average no effect upon academic outcomes (school attendance and grades). However, if the after-school programs are of good quality and replace other forms of non-paternal care, they positively affect grades, increasing the average GPA in 0.8-1 decimals and the probability of having a GPA above the median in around 10 pp. This evidence suggests that the program’s impacts on children are determined both by the quality of institutionalized care and the nature of the alternative care available to them.
I25|Explaining the Gender Test Score Gap in Mathematics: The Role of Gender Inequality|Using data from the 2012 PISA across 56 countries, this study examines the link between societal gender inequalities and the gender test score gap in mathematics. We employ a novel two-stage empirical strategy in which the first stage involves decomposing the gender mathematics gap into a part that is explained by gender differences in observable characteristics and a part that remains unexplained. We use a semiparametric Oaxaca-Blinder (OB) decomposition to analyze the gap in each country individually. In the second stage, we investigate whether the decomposition components of the gap are systematically related to country-level gender inequality measures. The results indicate that the gap is not statistically significantly associated with the indicators of gender inequality, but the unexplained part of the gap is. In more gender-equal countries, the unexplained part of the gap favoring boys appears smaller. Moreover, we find that the relationship between the unexplained part of the gap and the societal gender inequality varies within the test score distribution, and tends to become less pronounced at the upper end of the distribution.
I25|Minimum Age Requirements and the Impact of School Choice|Using several data sources from Chile, we study the impact of school choice at the time of starting primary school. To study the contribution of school choice, we exploit the combination of multiple cutoffs defining the minimum age at entry, and the difference across municipalities in the composition of the schools according to these cutoffs. Children living in the same municipality, and whose birthday differs by a few days not only have their incentives to delay school entry affected, but also face, in case of not delaying, a different set of schools. We show that a larger set of schools increases the probability of starting in a better school, measured by non high-stakes examination. Moreover, this quasi-experimental variation reveals an important reduction in the likelihood of dropping out, and a reduction in the probability that a child would switch schools during her/his school life. Secondly, for a subsample of students who have completed high school, we observe that a larger school choice at the start of primary school increases students' chance of taking the national examination required for higher education and the likelihood of being enrolled in a selective college.
I25|Financial education for the disadvantaged? A review|In contrast to the popularity of financial education interventions worldwide, studies on the economic effects of those interventions report mixed results. With a focus on the effect on disadvantaged groups, we review both the theoretical and empirical findings in order to understand why this discrepancy exists. The survey first highlights that it is necessary to distinguish between the concepts of, and the relationships between, financial education, financial literacy and financial behavior to identify the true effects of financial education. The review addresses possible biases caused by third factors such as numeracy. Next, we review theories on financial literacy which make clear that the effect of financial education interventions is heterogeneous across the population. Last, we look closely at main empirical studies on financial education targeted at the migrants/immigrants, the low-income earners and the young, and compare their methodologies. There seems to be a positive effect on short-term financial knowledge and awareness of the young, but there is no proven evidence on long-term behavior after being grown up. Studies on financial behavior of migrants and immigrants show almost no effect of financial education.
I25|Brain Drain-Induced Brain Gain and the Bhagwati Tax: Are Early and Recent Paradigms Compatible?|Based on a welfare-maximization model of skilled migration where education generates a positive externality, this paper examines whether the early view regarding brain drain’s (BD) negative impact on source countries – and the Bhagwati tax (𝐵𝑇) associated with it – is compatible with the recent more optimistic BD-induced brain gain view. I derive BD’s impact on education, welfare, the optimal education subsidy (𝑠), and a combination of 𝑠 and (the optimal) 𝐵𝑇, when residents’ (emigrants’) weight in the government’s objective function is 1 (1−𝛽), with 𝛽 𝜖 [0,1]. I find that: i) education, welfare and 𝑠 levels are higher (lower) under an open than under a closed economy for 1−𝛽>(
I25|Incentivizing school attendance in the presence of parent-child information frictions|"Education conditional cash transfer programs may increase school attendance in part due to the information they transmit to parents about their child's attendance. This paper presents experimental evidence that the information content of an education conditional cash transfer program, when given to parents independently of any transfer, can have a substantial effect on school attendance. The effect is as large as 75 percent of the effect of a conditional cash transfer incentivizing parents, and not significantly different from it. In contrast, a conditional transfer program incentivizing children instead of parents is nearly twice as effective as an""information only""treatment providing the same information to parents about their child's attendance. Taken together, these results suggest that children have substantial agency in their schooling decisions. The paper replicates the findings from most evaluations of conditional cash transfers that gains in attendance achieved by incentivizing parents financially do not translate into gains in test scores. But it finds that both the information only treatment and the alternative intervention incentivizing children substantially improve math test scores."
I25|Migration, Remittances and Human Capital Investment in Kenya|This paper investigates the relationship between international migration, remittances and human capital investment in Kenya. We use household level data from the 2009 Kenya Migration Household Survey (produced by the Africa Migration Project) to test our hypothesis and uncover a positive and significant relationship between the amount of international remittances a household receives and the amount of expenditures allocated to education (for all levels of education). We consider various robustness checks and find that our results hold up to various specifications, including an instrumental variable approach.
I25|The Impact of Low-Skill Refugees on Youth Education|This paper examines the impact of Syrian refugees on high school enrollment rates of native youth in Turkey. Syrian refugees are, on average, less skilled and more willing to work in low-pay informal jobs than Turkish natives. Refugees can influence native youth's school enrollment likelihood negatively through educational experience. But, at the same time, they can affect enrollment rates positively as they escalate competition for jobs with low-skill requirements. Using micro data from 2006 to 2016 and employing quasi-experimental methods, I find that high-school enrollment rates increased 2.7-3.6 percentage points among native youth in refugee-receiving regions. Furthermore, a one-percentage point increase in the refugee-to-population ratio in a region generates around 0.4 percentage point increase in native's high school enrollment rates. Most of the increase in high school enrollment comes from young males with lower parental backgrounds, which is consistent with the hypothesis that the main mechanism operates through the low-skill labor market. The regressions control for (i) variables proxying parental investment in human capital such as parental education, being in an intact family, and household size, (ii) regional economic activity, and (iii) regional availability of high schools and high school teachers.
I25|Health and Economic Growth: Reconciling the Micro and Macro Evidence|There are two prominent methods to assess the effects of health on economic growth. The first is based on the estimated returns on health by means of Mincer wage regressions that are aggregated to derive the macroeconomic effects of population health. The second approach is based on the estimation of a generalized aggregate production function that decomposes human capital into its different components, in particular, population health. While the overwhelming majority of studies based on both methods indicates a positive effect of health on economic growth, the size of the effect is still subject to intensive debate. We show that, after appropriately controlling for potential spillover effects of population health at the aggregate level, the point estimate of the macroeconomic effect of health is remarkably close to the one found by aggregating the microeconomic effects. Specifically, an increase in the adult survival rate of 10 percentage points is associated with a 9.1 percent increase in labor productivity. This effect is sizable and adds a strong argument for investments in population health over and above the direct welfare benefits of good health.
I25|Invisible Geniuses: Could the Knowledge Frontier Advance Faster?|The advancement of the knowledge frontier is crucial for technological innovation and human progress. Using novel data from the setting of mathematics, this paper establishes two results. First, we document that individuals who demonstrate exceptional talent in their teenage years have an irreplaceable ability to create new ideas over their lifetime, suggesting that talent is a central ingredient in the production of knowledge. Second, such talented individuals born in low- or middle-income countries are systematically less likely to become knowledge producers. Our findings suggest that policies to encourage exceptionally-talented youth to pursue scientific careers—especially those from lower income countries—could accelerate the advancement of the knowledge frontier.
I25|In-State College Enrollment and Later Life Location Decisions|State and local policymakers are very interested in how attending college in one’s home state affects the likelihood of living in that state after college. This paper uses cohort-level data from the American Community Survey, decennial censuses, and other sources to examine how birth-state college enrollment affects birth-state residence several years later. Ordinary least squares and instrumental variables estimates both suggest a statistically significant positive relationship. The preferred instrumental variable estimates suggest that a one percentage point increase in birth-state enrollment rates increases later life birth-state residence by roughly 0.33 percentage points. Implications for policy are discussed.
I25|Family Background, School Choice, and Students' Academic Performance: Evidence from Sri Lanka|Sri Lanka has made great strides in increasing access to schooling. The country stands out as the only country in South Asia that has attained universal primary completion. Despite this past progress, Sri Lankan students still display weak performance. The key challenge now is to enhance the quality of education and improve student academic performance. This paper investigates how the student- and school-level factors are related to the academic performance of Sri Lankan grade 8 students in public schools. It also analyzes the factors related to school choice and how the school choice affects the students' performance. The results of the study suggest that there are large dispersion of average test score among the schools. Looking at the school type, Type 1AB schools outperforms the other types of schools. Students who come from a family with high socioeconomic status are more likely to attend Type 1AB school, and treatment effect of attending Type 1AB school on academic performance is considerably large. Socioeconomic status also explains a significant part of dispersion of academic performance within a school. However, the result does not clearly show the relation between the observable characteristics of the teachers and academic performance of the students.
I25|School or work? The role of weather shocks in Madagascar|We examine the impact of rainfall variability and cyclones on schooling and work among a cohort of teens and young adults by estimating a bivariate probit model, using a panel survey conducted in 2004 and 2011 in Madagascar—a poor island nation that is frequently affected by extreme weather events. Our results show that negative rainfall deviations and cyclones reduce the current and lagged probability of attending school and encourage young men and, to a greater extent, women to enter the work force. Less wealthy households are most likely to experience this school-to-work transition in the face of rainfall shocks. The finding is consistent with poorer households having less savings and more limited access to credit and insurance, which reduces their ability to cope with negative weather shocks.
I25|Can Autocracy Promote Literacy? Evidence from a Cultural Alignment Success Story|Do countries with less democratic forms of government necessarily have lower literacy rates as a consequence? Using a random sample of 4,600+ individuals from military archives in Portugal, we show that 20-year old males were twice as likely to end up literate under an authoritarian regime than under a democratic one. Our results are robust to controlling for a host of factors including economic growth, the disease environment, and regional ﬁxed-eﬀects. We argue for a political economy and cultural explanation for the success of the authoritarian regime in promoting basic education.
I25|Do Conditional Cash Transfers Improve Economic Outcomes in the Next Generation? Evidence from Mexico|Conditional cash transfer programs have spread to over 80 countries in the past two decades, but little is known about their long-term effects on the youth they target. This paper estimates the impact of childhood exposure to the Mexican program Progresa on economic outcomes in early adulthood by leveraging the age structure of program benefits and geographic variation in early program penetration nationwide. The study design avoids the representativeness and attrition issues that have plagued efforts to estimate longer-run impacts of Progresa and other similar programs. Childhood exposure to the program improves educational attainment, geographic mobility, labor market outcomes, and household economic outcomes in early adulthood. Schooling impacts are similar for men and women, at roughly 1.5 years, while labor market impacts are more pronounced for women, amounting to 30-40% of mean labor force participation and 50% of mean labor income in pre-program cohorts. Indexes capturing household economic impacts increase on the order of 0.2 standard deviations.
I25|The Effect of Education on Mortality and Health: Evidence from a Schooling Expansion in Romania|This paper examines a schooling expansion in Romania which increased educational attainment for successive cohorts born between 1945 and 1950. We use a regression discontinuity design at the day level based on school entry cutoff dates to estimate impacts on mortality with 1994-2016 Vital Statistics data and self-reported health with 2011 Census data. We find that the schooling reform led to significant increases in years of schooling and changes in labor market outcomes but did not affect mortality or self-reported health. These estimates provide new evidence for the causal relationship between education and mortality outside of high-income countries and at lower margins of educational attainment.
I25|The Production of Cognitive and Non-cognitive Human Capital in the Global Economy|A country’s welfare depends on its ability to accumulate cognitive and non-cognitive human capital. In this paper, we model the productions of cognitive and non-cognitive human capital in general equilibrium. We use revealed comparative advantage to infer countries’ non-cognitive and cognitive productivities without a direct measure for the non-cognitive dimension. Our model also delivers analytical expressions for how non- cognitive and cognitive productivities can be aggregated into a single human-capital quality index, or HCQI, and how HCQI relates to output per worker. Our model allows us to obtain the values of non-cognitive and cognitive productivities and HCQI, using publically available data for a sample of mostly high-income countries. We find that: 1. many countries with low test scores have high non-cognitive productivities; 2. the hard-to-measure non-cognitive human capital is important for HCQI, and HCQI is important for output per worker; 3. the trade-o¤ between cognitive- and non-cognitive productivities can be visualized and analyzed using an iso-HCQI curve: e.g. uneven cognitive and non-cognitive productivities tend to lower HCQI; 4. this trade-o¤ can be quantified, and has policy implications: e.g. excessive attention to test scores may decrease aggregate output; 5. international trade matters, theoretically, for HCQI, because the gains from trade help to compensate a country for uneven productivity across human capital types: e.g. the iso-HCQI curve would have a very different shape under free trade.
I25|Social Capital, Government Expenditures, and Growth|Countries with greater social capital have higher economic growth. We show that social capital is also highly positively correlated across countries with government expenditure on education. We develop an infinite-horizon model of public spending and endogenous stochastic growth that explains both facts through frictions in political agency when voters have imperfect information. In our model, the government provides services that yield immediate utility, and investment that raises future productivity. Voters are more likely to observe public services, so politicians have electoral incentives to under-provide public investment. Social capital increases voters' awareness of all government activity. As a consequence, both politicians' incentives and their selection improve. In the dynamic equilibrium, both the amount and the efficiency of public investment increase, permanently raising the growth rate.
I25|Parents' Beliefs About Their Children's Academic Ability: Implications for Educational Investments|Information about children’s school performance appears to be readily available. Do frictions prevent parents, particularly low-income parents, from acting on this information when making decisions? I conduct a field experiment in Malawi to test this. I find that parents’ baseline beliefs about their children’s academic performance are inaccurate. Providing parents with clear and digestible academic performance information causes them to update their beliefs and correspondingly adjust their investments: they increase the school enrollment of their higher-performing children, decrease the enrollment of their lower-performing children, and choose educational inputs that are more closely matched to their children’s academic level. These effects demonstrate the presence of important frictions preventing the use of available information, with heterogeneity analysis suggesting the frictions are worse among the poor.
I25|Helping Children Catch Up: Early Life Shocks and the PROGRESA Experiment|Can investing in children who faced adverse events in early childhood help them catch up? We answer this question using two orthogonal sources of variation – resource availability at birth (local rainfall) and cash incentives for school enrollment – to identify the interaction between early endowments and investments in children. We find that adverse rainfall in the year of birth decreases grade attainment, post-secondary enrollment, and employment outcomes. But children whose families were randomized to receive conditional cash transfers experienced a much smaller decline: each additional year of program exposure during childhood mitigated more than 20 percent of early disadvantage.
I25|Skill versus Voice in Local Development|Where the state is weak, traditional authorities often control the local provision of land, justice, and public goods. These authorities are criticized for ruling in an undemocratic and unaccountable fashion, and are typically quite old and poorly educated relative to younger cohorts who have benefited from recent schooling expansions. We experimentally evaluate two solutions to these problems in rural Sierra Leone: an expensive long-term intervention to make local institutions more inclusive; and a low-cost test to rapidly identify skilled technocrats and delegate project management to them. In a real-world competition for local infrastructure grants, we find that technocratic selection dominates both the status quo of chiefly control and the institutional reform intervention, leading to an average gain of one standard deviation unit in competition outcomes. The results uncover a broader failure of traditional autocratic institutions to fully exploit the human capital present in their communities. We compare these findings to the prior beliefs of experts on likely impacts, and discuss implications for competing views on the sustainability of foreign aid.
I25|On the Informativeness of Descriptive Statistics for Structural Estimates|Researchers often present treatment-control differences or other descriptive statistics alongside structural estimates that answer policy or counterfactual questions of interest. We ask to what extent confidence in the researcher's interpretation of the former should increase a reader's confidence in the latter. We consider a structural estimate ĉ that may depend on a vector of descriptive statistics ̂γ. We define a class of misspecified models in a neighborhood of the assumed model. We then compare the bounds on the bias of ĉ due to misspecification across all models in this class with the bounds across the subset of these models in which misspecification does not affect ̂γ. Our main result shows that the ratio of the lengths of these tight bounds depends only on a quantity we call the informativeness of ̂γ for ĉ, which can be easily estimated even for complex models. We recommend that researchers report the estimated informativeness of descriptive statistics. We illustrate with applications to three recent papers.
I25|Do children benefit from internet access? Experimental evidence from Peru|This paper provides experimental evidence for the impact of home internet access on a broad range of child outcomes in Peru. We compare children who were randomly chosen to receive laptops with high-speed internet access to (i) those who did not receive laptops and (ii) those who only received laptops without internet. We find that providing free internet access led to improved computer and internet proficiency relative to those without laptops and improved internet proficiency compared to those with laptops only. However, there were no significant effects of internet access on math and reading achievement, cognitive skills, self-esteem, teacher perceptions, or school grades when compared to either group. We explore reasons for the absence of impacts on these key outcomes with survey questions, time-diaries, and computer logs.
I25|Reshaping Adolescents' Gender Attitudes: Evidence from a School-Based Experiment in India|Societal norms about gender roles contribute to the economic disadvantages facing women in many developing countries. This paper evaluates an intervention aimed at eroding support for restrictive gender norms, specifically a multi-year school-based intervention in Haryana, India, that engaged adolescents in classroom discussions about gender equality. Using a randomized controlled trial, we find that the intervention increased adolescents' support for gender equality by 0.25 standard deviations, a sizable effect compared to other correlates of their gender attitudes such as their parents' views. Program participants also report more gender-equitable behavior; for example, boys report helping out more with household chores.
I25|Travel Cost and Dropout from Secondary Schools in Nepal|The study relates the association between travel time to the lower secondary and secondary public schools of Nepal and the dropout grade before leaving secondary school using an ordered logit model. It is shown that as the travel time to the school increases, students are more likely to dropout from the school system in earlier grades. The results from this study will be useful to policymakers, especially from developing countries, as it places transport in the context of education.
I25|The role of technical and vocational education and training (TVET) in fostering inclusive growth at the local level in Southeast Asia|The purpose of this paper is to explore the potential of technical and vocational education and training (TVET) for fostering inclusive growth at the local level in the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN ) region. The first section provides a brief overview of the main developmental challenges in the ASEAN region that have resulted in growing inequalities in wealth distribution. The second and third sections review evidence from developed as well as developing countries regarding TVET’s impact on employment and wages (Section 2), as well as on poverty, inequality and social exclusion (Section 3). Section 4 summarises the key findings and highlights lessons learned for the ASEAN region. Good practice examples from the region are presented to illustrate how countries have used TVET to improve economic and social outcomes at the local level.
I25|Private Foundations’ Giving for Development in 2013-2015: Ongoing efforts to better reflect private philanthropic giving in OECD-DAC statistics on development finance|This working paper presents the results of the 2016-17 OECD data Survey on Global Private Philanthropy for Development and describes how this exercise relates to - and aims to complement - the existing regular data collection on development finance by the OECD Development Co-operation Directorate.
I25|Structural reforms to boost growth and living standards in Argentina|Over the last decades Argentina’s living standards have lost ground relative to other developed and emerging economies. Putting Argentina on a path to stronger, inclusive and job-rich growth requires boosting productivity and strengthening investment through wide-ranging structural reforms. Areas that require reforms include the regulation of product and labour markets, taxes, infrastructure, skills, innovation, trade policy, rule of law and financial markets. Beyond changing the rules, implementation and restoring institutional capacity are equally important. Enhancing competition, for which implementation and institutions are particularly relevant, would stimulate private investment, facilitating the creation of new firms and jobs, and would bring benefits to consumers through lower prices. Finding the right packaging and sequencing of reforms is important to exploit synergies across different areas, to manage trade-offs and to protect the vulnerable from the costs of adjustment. In this context, improving active labour market policies and training can support workers in acquiring new skills and in getting ready for new jobs, improving their capacity to adjust to a changing economy.
I25|Making growth more inclusive in Thailand|The People pillar of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development focuses on quality of life in all its dimensions, and emphasises the international community’s commitment to ensuring all human beings can fulfil their potential in dignity, equality and good health. Thailand’s path from a low-income to an upper-middle-income country over recent decades is widely hailed as a development success story. Poverty has fallen impressively and inequality is on a downwards trend, but more efforts are needed to reduce still widespread informality and persistent, substantial regional inequalities, and to further improve living standards, especially for those who currently work informally. To achieve these objectives, the government needs to: (i) consider tax and regulatory measures to encourage formalisation; (ii) boost the participation rates of informal workers in social protection schemes; (iii) expand adequate social safety nets for poor households and the elderly; (iv) prepare the healthcare system for an ageing and modernising society; and (v) improve the education system, particularly in rural areas. Gaps also remain in ensuring women’s political participation and reducing gender-based violence. This Working Paper relates to the 2018 Initial Assessment report of the Multi-dimensional Country Review of Thailand (http://www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/multi-dimensional-review-thailand.htm)
I25|Boosting productivity and living standards in Thailand|The Prosperity pillar of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development calls for an integrated approach based on boosting productivity through diversification, upgrading technology and innovation, and increasing employment and entrepreneurship. Thailand needs to address all these challenges to achieve high-income country status by 2036. Over the past decade, limited structural reform and capital investment have held back productivity growth and improvements in well-being, and Thailand has lost ground vis-à-vis regional comparators. More recently, however, economic growth has started to regain momentum helped by a pick-up in global trade, which has supported exports, and by a substantial public infrastructure investment programme. Moving forward, Thailand will need to boost productive capacity in the face of intensified competition with regional peers and rapid demographic ageing. In addition, productivity gains will be increasingly necessary to drive growth. Key areas of focus include improving human resource development, encouraging technology diffusion via cluster development, promoting innovation and digitalisation, improving the SME policy framework and expanding regional integration, as emphasised in the government’s 12th Plan and Thailand 4.0. This Working Paper relates to the Initial Assessment report of the Multi-dimensional Country Review of Thailand (http://www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/multi-dimensional-review-thailand.htm)
I25|Improving skills and their use in Germany|Cognitive skills, such as reading and numeric skills, are key determinants of wages, employment and long-term economic growth. Good cognitive skills also reduce poverty risk and improve non-material wellbeing, such as health and social cohesion. Non-cognitive skills, such as skills to use information and communication technology as well as managerial skills, also help workers adapt to new technologies and globalisation. In Germany cognitive skills among adults are above OECD average, but weaker than in leading economies, especially among individuals with low and middle qualifications. Much progress has been made to improve learning outcomes of youth with disadvantaged socio-economic background. Nonetheless, high-quality childcare, early childhood and full-day primary education still need to expand. The vocational education system is very successful in integrating young people well in the labour market. Strengthening general education within the successful vocational education and training system could help ensure the capacity of graduates to adapt to technological change at higher age in the future. Participation in life-long learning could be encouraged by better addressing individual training needs. This could improve prospects for adults without professional qualifications. Women’s skills are used less well than men’s, calling for policies to address gender imbalances in the labour market. This Working Paper relates to the 2018 OECD Economic Survey of Germany (http://www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/economic-survey-germany.htm)
I25|Geographical Origins of Language Structures|This research explores the geographical origins of the coevolution of cultural and linguistic traits in the course of human history, relating the geographical roots of long-term orientation to the structure of the future tense, the agricultural determinants of gender bias to the presence of sex-based grammatical gender, and the ecological origins of hierarchical orientation to the existence of politeness distinctions. The study advances the hypothesis and establishes empirically that: (i) variations in geographical characteristics that were conducive to higher natural return to agricultural investment contributed to the existing cross-language variations in the structure of the future tense, (ii) the agricultural determinants of gender gap in agricultural productivity fostered the existence of sex-based grammatical gender, and (iii) the ecological origins of hierarchical societies triggered the emergence of politeness distinctions.
I25|Long-Term Gains from Longer School Days|This paper examines whether additional time in school affects labor market outcomes and educational attainment in adulthood. We leverage within and across city and cohort variation covering a large-scale reform that increased the Chilean elementary and secondary school day by 30 percent between 1997 and 2010. Exposure to full-day school increases educational attainment and earnings when students are in their 20s and 30s. In addition, we find evidence of delayed childbearing among women, and some occupational upskilling. These labor market effects are not concentrated in any particular subgroup, but are widespread throughout the population. JEL classification: I26; I25; J24; H52
I25|The Role of Colleges within the Higher Education Sector|Over the past decades the college sectors in the higher education systems of many Western countries have expanded their capacities massively. This happened even though colleges have been at a competitive disadvantage with universities which are publicly subsidized, while colleges must self-finance through tuition fees. The question arises how, in equilibrium, a diverse student population is allocated between these institutions and whether the resulting human capital accumulation process is efficient. Our paper explores these questions within an information-based theoretical framework. Individuals are screened for their (unobservable) innate abilities, and the precision of the screening mechanism, which is endogenous, balances demand and supply of educational services. We find that in the short term, when the college capacity is fixed, college subsidies are not desirable in most cases. In the long term, the college sector may expand excessively thereby establishing inefficiently low screening standards in the admission process to higher education.
I25|Where Do You Come from, where Do You Go? Assessing Skills Gaps and Labour Market Outcomes of Young Adults with Different Immigration Backgrounds|This paper analyzes numeracy and literacy skills of migrants, using PISA and PIAAC data from twelve OECD countries. Our results first show some convergence of the skills gap between the second generation immigrants and the natives over time. Second, the gap in literacy skills among the first-generation and natives and among first-generation and second-generation immigrants has increased over time. Third, demographics and family background contribute to the achievement gaps between different groups. Fourth, school input variables do contribute to skills gaps of young adults with different immigrant backgrounds. Fifth, an immigrant background does not appear to affect the chances of studying in a STEM field.
I25|Equality of Opportunity and Human Capital Accumulation: Motivational Effect of a Nationwide Scholarship in Colombia|We study the ex-ante motivational effect of a nationwide merit and need-based scholarship in Colombia. Ser Pilo Paga (SPP) is a program that grants full scholarships at top-quality universities for 10,000 low-income students per cohort. After its introduction in 2014, SPP completely closed the socioeconomic enrollment gap for high-performing students in top universities. Using administrative data on the universe of high-school seniors, we explore whether this unprecedented change in opportunities generated an ex-ante motivational effect on eligible students’ performance in the 2015 national high school exit exam. Our results from a Difference in Difference model and a Regression Discontinuity Design indicate that the need-based eligibility to the scholarship had a substantial effect on test scores at the top of the distribution, starting around the 70th percentile. For example, at the 90th percentile of the test score distribution, eligibility to the scholarship reduced the socioeconomic achievement gap by 17 percent. We also find that the motivational effect is concentrated in schools where at least one student received the scholarship in 2014, and that university enrollment rates even increased for eligible students who obtained a test score just below the requirement to obtain the scholarship. Our results highlight the way in which the lack of opportunities for social mobility discourages human capital accumulation by low income students, thus contributing to the persistence of poverty and inequality.
I25|Efectos (algunos no esperados) de la Acreditación de Alta Calidad en las Universidades Colombianas|Esta investigación analiza el efecto, en las universidades, de recibir la acreditación institucional de alta calidad sobre variables relacionadas con la calidad educativa. Como metodología se plantean dos modelos: un modelo generalizado de diferencias en diferencias y un modelo gradual de diferencias en diferencias con información de las universidades colombianas entre 2009 y 2015. Esta investigación encuentra que la acreditación institucional de alta calidad tiene un efecto positivo sobre la inclusión social, la calidad de los nuevos estudiantes, la calidad de los profesores, la calidad de los nuevos graduados, y la tasa de graduación. También se encuentra que la acreditación disminuye la producción científica. Finalmente, no observamos ningún efecto de la acreditación sobre la inversión en propiedades, planta y equipo (PPE) y los gastos de investigación por profesor.
I25|Eficiencia en la Producción Científica de las Universidades Colombianas|En los países en desarrollo, el desafío de producir conocimiento científico y desarrollar tecnologías modernas es inmenso. En Colombia, alrededor del 95% de la producción científica se lleva a cabo en las universidades. Utilizando una base de datos novedosa que permite identificar la cantidad y calidad de los productos científicos producidos por las universidades colombianas durante 2009-2015, este trabajo analiza la eficiencia de la producción científica en Colombia utilizando un modelo Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA). Los resultados indican que las universidades del país tienen una eficiencia promedio del 74%, con niveles más altos para las instituciones públicas (81%) en comparación con las privadas (66%). Este trabajo contribuye al estudio de la eficiencia en la producción científica en América Latina, donde la evidencia cuantitativa sobre este tema es casi inexistente.
I25|Pay for locally monitored performance? A welfare analysis for teacher attendance in Ugandan primary schools|To achieve the twin objectives of incentivizing agent performance and providing information for planning purposes, public sector organizations often rely on reports by local monitors that are costly to verify. Received wisdom has it that attaching financial incentives to these reports will result in collusion, and undermine both objectives. Simple bargaining logic, however, suggests the reverse: pay for locally monitored performance could incentivize desired behavior and improve information. To investigate this issue, we conducted a randomized controlled trial in Ugandan primary schools that explored how incentives for teachers could be designed when based on local monitoring by head teachers. Our experiment randomly varied whether head teachers' reports of teacher attendance were tied to teacher bonus payments or not. We find that local monitoring on its own is ineffective at improving teacher attendance. However, combining local monitoring with financial incentives leads to both an increase in teacher attendance (by 8 percentage points) and an improvement in the quality of information. We also observe substantial gains in pupil attainment, driven primarily by a reduction in dropouts. By placing a financial value on these enrollment gains, we demonstrate that pay for locally monitored performance passes both welfare and fiscal sustainability tests.
I25|The Lost Human Capital: Teacher Knowledge and Student Learning in Africa|In many low income countries, teachers do not master the subject they are teaching and children learn little from attending school. Using unique data from nationally representative surveys from seven Sub-Saharan African countries, we propose a methodology to assess the effect of teacher knowledge on student learning when panel data on students are not available. We show that data on test scores of the current and the previous year's teachers allows us to estimate a lower bound on the cumulative effect of teacher knowledge on student achievement. With further restrictions on the cumulative student achievement function we can also estimate bounds on both the contemporaneous effect of teacher content knowledge and the extent of fade out of the teachers' impact in earlier grades. We use these structural estimates to answer two questions. To what extent can shortfalls in teachers' content knowledge account for the large learning gap observed across countries? How much learning is lost because of misallocation?
I25|Forced Migration and Human Capital : Evidence from Post-WWII Population Transfers|We exploit a unique historical setting to study the long-run effects of forced migration on investment in education. After World War II, the Polish borders were redrawn, resulting in large-scale migration. Poles were forced to move from the Kresy territories in the East (taken over by the USSR) and were resettled mostly to the newly acquired Western Territories, from which Germans were expelled. We combine historical censuses with newly collected survey data to show that, while there were no pre-WWII differences in education, Poles with a family history of forced migration are significantly more educated today. Descendants of forced migrants have on average one extra year of schooling, driven by a higher propensity to finish secondary or higher education. This result holds when we restrict ancestral locations to a subsample around the former Kresy border and include fixed effects for the destination of migrants. As Kresy migrants were of the same ethnicity and religion as other Poles, we bypass confounding factors of other cases of forced migration. We show that labor market competition with natives and selection of migrants are also unlikely to drive our results. Survey evidence suggests that forced migration led to a shift in preferences, away from material possessions and towards investment in a mobile asset – human capital. The effects persist over three generations
I25|Experimental Evidence of Exposure to a Conditional Cash Transfer During Early Teenage Years: Young Women's Fertility and Labor Market Outcomes|Conditional cash transfer (CCT) programs are one of most popular policy instruments for increasing investment in nutrition, health, and education in developing countries. For teenage girls, CCTs not only provide incentives and means to remain in school longer, but also may affect fertility outcomes through improved nutrition (with implications for the onset of puberty) or provision of reproductive healthcare information. Therefore, examining the fertility mechanism is crucial for understanding long-term impacts, in particular labor market outcomes, as young women's decisions regarding economic, education, and reproductive activities are closely linked. This paper exploits an experimental design and a survey implemented 10 years after the start of a CCT program in Nicaragua that introduced random variation in program exposure during the early teenage years, ages critical for sexual maturity. Differential exposure to the CCT does not lead to long-term differences in grades attained or learning, but does lead to differential impacts on the age of menarche, young adult BMI, fertility, and subsequent labor market outcomes and income.
I25|Friendship and Female Education: Evidence from a Field Experiment in Bangladeshi Primary Schools|We randomly assigned 150 primary schools in Bangladesh to one of three settings: children studying individually, children studying in groups with friends, and children studying in groups with peers. The groups consisted of four people with similar average cognitive abilities and household characteristics. While the achievement of male students was not affected by the group assignment, low-ability females in groups with friends outperformed low-ability females working with peers by roughly 0.4 standard deviations of the test score distribution. This is shown not to be due to the fact that friends tend to be of the same gender or to a higher frequency of interactions among friends.
I25|Women’s Empowerment in Action: Evidence from a Randomized Control Trial in Africa|Women in developing countries are disempowered relative to their contemporaries in developed countries. High youth unemployment and early marriage and childbearing interact to limit human capital investment and enforce dependence on men. In this paper we evaluate an attempt to jump-start adolescent women's empowerment in the world's second youngest country: Uganda. In this two-pronged intervention, adolescent girls are simultaneously provided vocational training and information on sex, reproduction and marriage. Relative to adolescents in control communities, after two years the intervention raises the likelihood that girls engage in income generating activities by 72% (mainly driven by increased participation in self-employment), and raises their monthly consumption expenditures by 41%. Teen pregnancy falls by 26%, and early entry into marriage/cohabitation falls by 58%. Strikingly, the share of girls reporting sex against their will drops from 14% to almost half that level and preferred ages of marriage and childbearing both move forward. The findings indicate that women's economic and social empowerment can be jump-started through the combined provision of vocational and life skills, and is not necessarily held back by insurmountable constraints arising from binding social norms.
I25|Nepotism, Schooling Outcomes and Economic Development|Schooling outcomes matter for economic development. At the same time, educational policies around the globe often fail to effectively improve them. This paper suggests perceived nepotism as an important barrier to the development of cognitive skills as schooling outcomes. We argue that students in countries that perceive labor markets to be nepotistic experience a weaker economic motive to invest in human capital. To formally motivate this relationship, we develop a dynamic general equilibrium model in which nepotism is explained as an evolving cultural norm. We test the central prediction of the model by relating the PISA scores to an indicator for perceived nepotism at the country level. The findings show that, on average, an increase in one standard deviation of the perceived nepotism indicator decreases the PISA reading scores by 0.21 standard deviations, conditioning for overall corruption perception. Several robustness checks corroborate the stability of our estimate. The analysis implies that recruitment practices in labor markets strongly shape individual's efforts to accumulate human capital. Accordingly, the consideration thereof may enhance educational policy efforts.
I25|Pre-colonial Religious Institutions and Development: Evidence through a Military Coup|This paper offers a novel illustration of the political economy of religion and development by empirically examining the impact of religious shrines on development. Compiling a unique database covering the universe of holy Muslim shrines across Pakistani Punjab, we show that historically embedded religious power shapes persistent differences in literacy. Using the 1977 military take-over as a universal shock, our difference-in-differences analysis suggests that areas with a greater concentration of shrines recognized by the British colonial administration experienced a substantially retarded growth in literacy. We argue that this literacy disadvantage in shrine-dominated regions is largely attributable to a growingly prominent role of shrine elites in electoral politics and their direct control over allocation of public goods since the 1977 military coup. Our analysis suggests that shrines in these regions represent the confluence of three forces—religion, land and politics —that together constitute a powerful structural inequality with potentially adverse consequences for development.
I25|The Labor Market Effects of an Educational Expansion. A Theoretical Model with Applications to Brazil|Most countries are rapidly increasing the educational attainment of their workforce. This paper develops a novel framework to study, theoretically and empirically, the effects of an educational expansion on the occupational structure of employment and distinct aspects of the wage distribution—wage levels, wage gaps, and poverty and inequality indicators—with an application to Brazil. I proceed in three steps. First, I provide some stylized facts of the Brazilian economy between 1995 and 2014: A large educational expansion took place; the occupational structure of employment remained surprisingly fixed; workers of all educational groups—primary or less, secondary, and university—were increasingly employed in occupations of lower ranking as measured by average wages over the period; and wages of primary educated workers increased while wages of more educated workers declined, bringing forth reductions in poverty and inequality. Second, I build a model that traces these heterogeneous patterns of occupations and wages to the educational expansion. The model assigns workers with three levels of education to a continuum of occupations that vary in complexity and are combined to produce a final good. I investigate three different policy experiments: An increase in university level, an increase in secondary level, and a simultaneous increase in both. The predicted effects depend on the policy analyzed. Considering the educational expansion that took place in Brazil (simultaneous increases in university and secondary levels), the model predicts qualitatively all the observed labor market changes in the occupational structure of employment and the wage distribution. Finally, I calibrate the model with the data from 1995 and show that, through its lens, the observed educational expansion in Brazil explains 66 percent of the occupational downgrading and around 80 percent of the changes in wage levels, inequality, and poverty during the period of 1995-2014.
I25|Upping the Ante: The Equilibrium Effects of Unconditional Grants to Private Schools|We test for financial constraints as a market failure in education in a low-income country by experimentally allocating unconditional cash grants to either one (L) or to all (H) private schools in a village. Enrollment increases in both treatments, accompanied by infrastructure investments. However, test scores and fees only increase in H along with higher teacher wages. This differential impact follows from a canonical oligopoly model with capacity constraints and endogenous quality: greater financial saturation crowds-in quality investments. Higher social surplus in H, but greater private returns in L underscores the importance of leveraging market structure in designing educational subsidies.
I25|Bride Price and Female Education|Although it is well known that traditional cultural practices can play an important role in development, we still have little understanding of what this means for development policy. To improve our understanding of this issue, we examine how the effects of school construction on girls’ education vary with a widely-practiced marriage custom called bride price, which is a payment made by the husband and/or his family to the wife’s parents at marriage. We begin by developing a model of educational choice with and without bride price. The model generates a number of predictions that we test in two countries that have had large-scale school construction projects, Indonesia and Zambia. Consistent with the model, we find that for groups that practice the custom of bride price, the value of bride price payments that the parents receive tend to increase with their daughter’s education. As a consequence, the probability of a girl being educated is higher among bride price groups. The model also predicts that families from bride price groups will be the most responsive to policies, like school construction, that are aimed at increasing female education. Studying the INPRES school construction program in Indonesia, as well as a similar program in Zambia, we find evidence consistent with this prediction. Although the program had no discernible effect on the education of girls from groups without bride price, it had large positive effects for girls from groups with a bride price. The findings emphasize the importance of the marriage market as a driver of educational investment and provide an example of how the cultural context of a society can be crucial for the effectiveness of development policy.
I25|Sanitation and Education|I explore whether the absence of school sanitation infrastructure impedes educational attainment, particularly among pubescent-age girls, using a national Indian school latrine construction initiative and administrative school-level data. School latrine construction substantially increases enrollment of pubescent-age girls, though predominately when providing sex-specific latrines. Privacy and safety appear to matter sufficiently for pubescent-age girls that only sex-specific latrines reduce gender disparities. Any latrine substantially benefits younger girls and boys, who may be particularly vulnerable to sickness from uncontained waste. Academic test scores did not increase following latrine construction, however. Estimated increases in enrollment are similar across the substantial variation in Indian district characteristics.
I25|Non-financial hurdles for human capital accumulation: landownership in Korea under Japanese rule|Abstract This study examined the relationship between land inequality and human capital accumulation in the Korean colonial period by using a panel data set from 1934 to 1942. Evidence of the adverse relationship between land inequality and the accumulation of human capital has thus far only been presented by using data from Western countries and from countries that achieved industrialization not under colonial occupation but by their own economic interest. The presented findings thus contribute to the body of knowledge on this topic and confirm the generalizability of the Galor model by analyzing the unique Korean context under Japanese rule in the early twentieth century. It is the first study to present evidence that inequality in landownership had an adverse effect on the level of public education in the Korean colonial period (i.e., it is a non-financial hurdle for human capital accumulation). By using a fixed effects model and a fixed effects two-stage least squares model with an instrumental variable estimation, this study exploits variation in inequality in land concentration across regions in Korea, accounting for the unobserved heterogeneity across these regions. Overall, this analysis establishes a highly significant adverse effect of land inequality on education in the Korean colonial period.
I25|Non-financial hurdles for human capital accumulation: landownership in Korea under Japanese rule|This study examined the relationship between land inequality and human capital accumulation in the Korean colonial period by using a panel data set from 1934 to 1942. Evidence of the adverse relationship between land inequality and the accumulation of human capital has thus far only been presented by using data from Western countries and from countries that achieved industrialization not under colonial occupation but by their own economic interest. The presented findings thus contribute to the body of knowledge on this topic and confirm the generalizability of the Galor model by analyzing the unique Korean context under Japanese rule in the early twentieth century. It is the first study to present evidence that inequality in landownership had an adverse effect on the level of public education in the Korean colonial period (i.e., it is a non-financial hurdle for human capital accumulation). By using a fixed effects model and a fixed effects two-stage least squares model with an instrumental variable estimation, this study exploits variation in inequality in land concentration across regions in Korea, accounting for the unobserved heterogeneity across these regions. Overall, this analysis establishes a highly significant adverse effect of land inequality on education in the Korean colonial period.
I25|On the train to brain gain in rural China| This study investigates the well-researched relationship between migration and the formation of human capital in the source region using a novel instrument: the existence of a local train station. We make use of Chinese panel data and of the fact that the decision to build a new train station is taken by the central government and unrelated to characteristics of a rural village receiving the station. As an intermediate result we find that train stations are negatively related to migration outflows, thus indicating that the facilitation of local employment through economic integration outweighs the reduction of migratory costs. Investigating variation within villages over time in the instrumental variables approach for the central research question, we see a positive effect of out-migration on educational attainment in the source region. Additional results suggest that the effect is stronger for male and young stayers.
I25|An Index of Regulatory Practices for Financial Inclusion in Latin America|The index assesses and compares the quality of regulations that influence financial inclusion in 8 Latin American countries. It defines three categories of regulatory practices: the enablers, which determine the overall quality of the financial environment; the promoters, which deal with specific market frictions; and the preventers which create distortions and barriers.
I25|Un indice de practicas regulatorias para la Inclusion Financiera en America Latina|El indice valora y compara la calidad de las regulaciones que influyen en la inclusion financiera de 8 paises de America Latina. Define tres categorias de practicas regulatorias: los facilitadores, que determinan la calidad del entorno financiero; los promotores, que abordan fallos de mercado especificos; y los obstaculizadores, que crean distorsiones y barreras.
I25|Calidad y Cobertura de la Educación Secundaria Pública y Privada en Colombia, y sus Costos Ocultos|Este documento describe la evolución de la cobertura de la educación secundaria en Colombia. Combina técnicas de evaluación de impacto y un análisis de costo-beneficio para comparar la calidad de la educación media pública con la privada. Se observa que el crecimiento de la matrícula pública está desplazando a la oferta privada, incluso en hogares en niveles socioeconómicos con capacidad de pago por educación privada. Se evidencia una gran variación en los resultados en las pruebas Saber 11 entre los colegios públicos. Asimismo, en algunas ciudades y estratos, hay estudiantes asistiendo a una oferta pública de menor calidad que la privada disponible, debido, en gran medida, a la falta de incentivos privados de los hogares. Finalmente, se encuentra que el gobierno podría generar beneficios sociales si incentivara en los hogares, vía el otorgamiento de becas parciales, el tránsito de colegios públicos a colegios privados. Beneficios similares se podrían generar si el gobierno regulara la educación privada de baja calidad en las ciudades y estratos con oferta pública de mayor calidad. Estos resultados llevan a cuestionar la magnitud de la expansión en la cobertura de la educación pública, a la vez que sugieren que al interior del sector público y privado, habría espacio para introducir incentivos diferenciales al desempeño.
I25|Políticas de País y Logros de Regiones: el Caso de la Calidad de la Educación Secundaria en Colombia|Este documento evalúa la convergencia a nivel municipal en el logro educativo de los colegios públicos y privados en el período 1980-2014, usando el test de Phillips y Sul (2007, 2009). Aunque los principios que dictaminan la provisión de educación pública son homogéneos en todo el país, y los esfuerzos que la descentralización de competencias y recursos hace para compensar las diferencias regionales, el logro educativo promedio de los diferentes municipios no evidencia patrones de convergencia global. No obstante, se establece la presencia de seis clubes de convergencia. Los primeros dos clubes, los cuales incluyen los municipios con mejor desempeño, están desproporcionalmente representados por colegios privados en municipios localizados en las principales áreas metropolitanas del país, mientras que los últimos tres clubes están compuestos principalmente por colegios públicos localizados en el litoral Pacífico y en la región Caribe. De esta forma, se hace evidente la necesidad de implementar reformas nacionales que no solo descentralicen el gasto, sino que también creen mecanismos que permitan mejorar la productividad en la provisión de servicios de educación de las diferentes regiones del país.
I25|Getting Girls to Schools! – Assessing the Impacts of a Targeted Program on Enrollment and Academic Performance|This is a short paper assessing the impacts of a targeted policy aimed to improve the quality of education for girls in India, i.e., the Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya (KGBV) program. Under this program residential schools were built for girls in grades 6–8 (often known as middle school) and were unique because it is one of the few programs that exclusively focuses on improving school infrastructure for girls. The program was restricted to individuals belonging to backward castes in India which provides exogenous identifying variation. I use this eligibility criteria along with cohort variation in exposure to the program introduced in 2004 to estimate the impact of KGBV on enrollment and academic performance. I find that potentially affected cohorts are more likely to have attended school and perform better on reading tests. I run placebo regressions with data from a pre-policy year and do not find any effects along these dimensions providing confidence in the identification strategy.
I25|Caste and the Indian Economy|Caste plays a role at every stage of an Indian's economic life; in school, university, the labor market, and into old age. The influence of caste extends beyond private economic activity into the public sphere, where caste politics determines access to public resources. The aggregate evidence indicates that there has been convergence in education, occupations, income, and access to public resources across caste groups in the decades after independence. Some of this convergence is likely due to affirmative action, but caste-based networks could also have played an equalizing role by exploiting the opportunities that became available in a globalizing economy. Ethnic networks were once active in many advanced economies, but ceased to be salient once markets developed. With economic development, it is possible that caste networks will cease to be salient in India. The affirmative action programs may also be rolled back and (statistical) discrimination in urban labor markets may come to an end, if and when there is convergence across caste groups. In the interim period, however, it is important to understand the positive and negative consequences of caste involvement across a variety of spheres in the Indian economy.
I25|Talkin’ ‘Bout My Generation: More Educated, But Less Skilled Canadians|Canada’s workforce has experienced a troubling slide in literacy and numeracy skills, despite higher levels of education and improvements in learning technology, according to a new report from the C.D. Howe Institute. In “Talkin’ ‘Bout My Generation: More Educated, But Less Skilled Canadians,” author Parisa Mahboubi compares results of international surveys from 2003 and 2012 and finds Canadians’ skill levels declining across all age cohorts studied.
I25|La dotación inicial de los recién nacidos en Argentina|En Argentina suelen alternarse con cierta periodicidad fuertes crisis económicas, altas tasas de inflación, momentos de cierta estabilidad, y luego una vuelta a tiempos de mayores desequilibrios. En ese contexto se gestan, nacen y tratan de desarrollarse aquellos que serán los protagonistas principales del futuro del país. Sin embargo, las situaciones de inestabilidad económica dejan sus marcas en las nuevas generaciones. Las dotaciones iniciales de los recién nacidos son las bases más elementales con las que un niño comienza su vida: tiempo de gestación y peso al nacer. Cuando se observa que cada vez son más los bebés que nacen prematuros y con bajo peso, el contexto económico comienza a tener un papel más relevante al respecto. Presentamos un primer análisis para entender el vínculo de factores económicos con la calidad inicial de los recién nacidos, tanto a nivel nacional como provincial.
I25|Firm-level Human Capital and Innovation: Evidence from China|Understanding the factors that may produce a sustained rate of innovation is important for promoting economic development and growth. In this paper, we examine the role of human capital in firms’ innovation by using a large sample of manufacturing firms from China. We use two firm-level datasets from China: one from metropolitan cities, and one from provincial small and medium sized cities. Patent applications are used as the measure of innovation. Human capital indicators used include skilled human capital (number of highly educated workers), general manager’s education and tenure, and management team’s education and age. We find that skilled human capital has a significant positive effect on firms’ innovation, while the management team’s age has a significant negative effect on innovation. The General Manager’s tenure plays a significant positive role in firm innovation in metropolitan cities, while it is the General Manager’s education that has a positive and significant effect on firms’ innovation in small and middle cities. We also find that the effect of R&D on patents is insignificant for firms in large cities, but it is positive and significant in the smaller and medium sized cities. We conclude by noting some policy issues for promoting innovation in developing economies.
I25|Nighttime Lights as a Proxy for Human Development at the Local Level|Nighttime lights are increasingly used by social scientists as a proxy for economic activity and economic development in subnational spatial units. However, so far, our understanding of what nighttime lights capture is limited. We construct local indicators of household wealth, education and health from geo-coded Demographic and Health Surveys (DHS) for 29 African countries. We show that nighttime lights are positively associated with these indicators across DHS cluster locations as well as across grid cells of roughly 50 x 50 km. We conclude that nighttime lights are a good proxy for human development at the local level.
I25|Resource-Richness and Economic Growth in Contemporary U.S|Between 1997 and 2014, US corn, soybean and cotton production almost fully converted to genetically modified crops. Starting around 2007, improved tight oil and shale gas technologies turned the declining US fossil fuel production into a booming industry. We study the effects of these two resource technology revolutions on US state income. We find that the shale revolution increased income in states abundant in oil and gas resources. States dependent on agricultural production also saw an increase in income, which we, however, attribute not to the GM innovation, but to a demand increase brought by the Energy Policy Act of 2005. We also document the resource boom indirect effects on other growth-enhancing activities, particularly, on private and public education expenditures, and distortionary taxation.
I25|Qualität statt Quantität? Steigender Wettbewerb um sächsische Studienplätze nach 2020 zu erwarten|Der im Jahr 2007 zwischen Bund und Ländern beschlossene Hochschulpakt, eingeführt mit dem Ziel, für die zunehmende Anzahl an Studienberechtigten einen Studienplatz bereitzustellen, läuft 2020 und damit in absehbarer Zeit aus. Entsprechend beraten die Länder bereits heute, wie sie trotz wegfallender Fördergelder eine hinreichende Finanzausstattung der Hochschulen sicherstellen. Der Freistaat Sachen reagiert mit der Hochschulentwicklungsplanung nach 2020 mit einer deutlichen Absenkung der Studierendenzahlen um mehr als 15 %. Vor dem Hintergrund einer konstant hohen Nachfrage nach Studienplätzen und eines etwaigen Fachkräftemangels wird diese Planung im vorliegenden Blickpunkt kommentiert.
I25|The IT Boom and Other Unintended Consequences of Chasing the American Dream - Working Paper 460|With the majority of all H-1B visas going to Indians, we study how US immigration policy coupled with the internet boom affected both the US and Indian economies, and in particular both countries’ IT sectors. The H-1B scheme led to a tech boom in both countries, inducing substantial gains in firm productivity and consumer welfare in both the United States and India. We find that the US-born workers gained $431 million in 2010 as a result of the H-1B scheme. In India, the H-1B program induced Indians to switch to computer science (CS) occupations, increasing the CS workforce and raising overall IT output in India by 5 percent. Indian students enrolled in engineering schools to gain employment in the rapidly growing US IT industry via the H-1B visa program. Those who could not join the US workforce, due to the H-1B cap, remained in India, and along with return-migrants, enabled the growth of an Indian IT sector, which led to the outsourcing of some production to India. The migration and rise in Indian exports induced a small number of US workers to switch to non-CS occupations, with distributional impacts. Our general equilibrium model captures firm-hiring across various occupations, innovation and technology diffusion, and dynamic worker decisions to choose occupations and fields of major in both the United States and India. Supported by a rich descriptive analysis of the changes in the 1990s and 2000s, we match data moments and show that our model captures levels and trends of key variables in validation tests. We perform counter-factual exercises and find that on average, workers in each country are better off because of high-skill migration.
