I26|Marriage market equilibrium, qualifications, and ability|We study marital sorting on academic qualifications and latent ability in an equilibrium marriage market model using the 1972 UK Raising of the School-Leaving Age (RoSLA) legislation as a natural experiment that induced a sudden, large shift in the distribution of academic qualifications in affected cohorts, but plausibly had no impact on the distribution of ability. We show that a Choo and Siow (2006) model with sorting on cohort, qualifications, and latent ability is identified and estimable using the RoSLA-induced population shifts. We find that the RoSLA isolated low ability individuals in the marriage market, and affected marital outcomes of individuals whose qualification attainment were unaffected. We also decompose the difference in marriage probabilities between unqualified individuals and those with basic qualifications into causal effects stemming from ability and qualification differences. Differences in marriage probabilities are almost entirely driven by ability.
I26|The Cliometric Model of Glutting: An Experimental Analysis|In this paper, we are interested in the behaviors taking place before the decision-making in terms of educational study choices. We report on an experiment whose aim is the production of data controlled in order to test the cliometric model of glutting developed by Diebolt (2001), and especially the sensitivity of individuals to expected wages and to the risk as related to a limited number of positions on the labor market.
I26|School Vouchers, Labor Markets and Vocational Education|We provide evidence on the long-run impact of vouchers for private secondary schools, evidence collected twenty years after students applied for the vouchers. Prior to the voucher lottery, students applied to either an academic or vocational secondary school, an important mediating factor in the vouchers’ impacts. We find strong tertiary education and labor market effects for those students who applied to vocational schools with almost no impact on those who applied to academic schools. The labor market gains for vocational students are strongest at the top of the distribution and null at the bottom of the distribution. We find additional long-run impacts on consumption, and teen-age fertility. The expected net present value of benefits to participants and to taxpayers was large and positive implying that the program was welfare improving unless net externalities were large and negative.
I26|Skill Biased Management: Evidence from Manufacturing Firms|This paper investigates the link between management practices and workforce skills in manufacturing firms, exploiting geographical variation in the supply of human capital. Skills measures are constructed using newly compiled data on universities and regional labour markets across 19 countries. Consistent with management practices being complementary with skills, we show that firms further away from universities employ fewer skilled workers and are worse managed, even after controlling for a rich set of observables and fixed effects. Analysis using regional skill premia suggests that variation in the price of skill drives these relationships.
I26|Seasonal Migration and Education of Children Left Behind: Evidence from Armenia|There is much evidence that migration of a parent affects the educational performance of children left behind (CLB). Nevertheless, there is no agreement on the direction of the impact. In this paper, we use Armenian school data and report evidence of a negative impact of parental seasonal migration on the educational performance of CLB. We employ a different approach than those used in the prior literature by (i) using the intensity of seasonal migration (the number of times the parent migrated) instead of a binary variable (whether the parent migrated or not) and (ii) the number of children entering first grade whose parent is a seasonal migrant as an instrument for the intensity of seasonal migration. We find that seasonal migration negatively affects the educational performance of CLB, and that it mainly affects boys; there is no significant impact on girls. Additionally, we find that using a zero-one dummy for migration as prior studies have done upwardly biases the IV estimate by approximately a factor of three, while our intensity measure yields more accurate results.
I26|How does for-profit college attendance affect student loans, defaults, and labor market outcomes?|For-profit providers are becoming an increasingly important fixture of U.S. higher education markets. Students who attend for-profit institutions take on more educational debt, have worse labor market outcomes, and are more likely to default than students attending similarly selective public schools. Because for-profits tend to serve students from more disadvantaged backgrounds, it is important to isolate the causal effect of for-profit enrollment on educational and labor market outcomes. We approach this problem using a novel instrument combined with a more comprehensive data set on student outcomes than has been employed in prior research. Our instrument leverages the interaction between changes in the demand for college owing to labor demand shocks and the local supply of for-profit schools. We compare enrollment and postsecondary outcome changes across areas that experience similar labor demand shocks but that have different latent supply of for-profit institutions. The first-stage estimates show that students are much more likely to enroll in a for-profit institution for a given labor demand change when there is a higher supply of such schools in the base period. Among four-year students, for-profit enrollment leads to more loans, higher loan amounts, an increased likelihood of borrowing, an increased risk of default, and worse labor market outcomes. Two-year for-profit students also take out more loans and have higher default rates and lower earnings. But they are more likely to graduate and to earn over $25,000 per year (the median earnings of high school graduates). Finally, we show that for-profit entry and exit decisions are at most weakly responsive to labor demand shocks. Our results point to low returns to for-profit enrollment that have important implications for public investments in higher education as well as for how students make postsecondary choices.
I26|Marriage Market Equilibrium, Qualifications, and Ability|We study marital sorting on academic qualifications and latent ability in an equilibrium marriage market model using the 1972 UK Raising of the School-Leaving Age (RoSLA) legislation as a natural experiment that induced a sudden, large shift in the distribution of academic qualifications in affected cohorts, but plausibly had no impact on the distribution of ability. We show that a Choo and Siow (2006) model with sorting on cohort, qualifications, and latent ability is identified and estimable using the RoSLA-induced population shifts. We find that the RoSLA isolated low ability individuals in the marriage market, and affected marital outcomes of individuals whose qualification attainment were unaffected. We also decompose the difference in marriage probabilities between unqualified individuals and those with basic qualifications into causal effects stemming from ability and qualification differences. Differences in marriage probabilities are almost entirely driven by ability.
I26|Educación y crimen: el impacto de la ampliación de la jornada escolar sobre la criminalidad en Bogotá alrededor de los colegios|La ampliación de la jornada académica en las escuelas oficiales ha sido una de las principales políticas públicas del Plan Nacional de Desarrollo (2014-2018) para mejorar la calidad de la educación en Colombia. Este trabajo evalúa el de la ampliación de la jornada sobre la criminalidad alrededor de los colegios. Específicamente, utilizando un panel de datos único y un modelo de Diferencias-en-Diferencias (DD), se encontró que la ampliación de la jornada en 3 horas adicionales disminuye los delitos medidos en cantidad de homicidios, lesiones personales, hurto a personas e incautación de droga alrededor de los colegios oficiales en Bogotá. No se encuentran efectos sobre los crímenes cometidos durante los fines de semana, esto implica que los resultados son robustos.
I26|Prestigio Universitario: ¿Qué tan importante es la elección de la institución de educación superior en la formación de salarios de los recién graduados?|Este trabajo busca estimar la importancia de la institución de educación superior en los salarios del primer empleo que perciben los recién graduados, mediante un modelo multinivel. Utilizando una gran cantidad de variables a nivel individual e institucional, los resultados indican que los salarios no solo están relacionados con las habilidades de los estudiantes, sino que un 13% de la variación de los salarios está explicada por las características de las instituciones donde estudiaron los individuos. Asimismo, se logra evidenciar que existe una gran heterogeneidad en las primas salariales que diferentes instituciones otorgan a sus egresados, aun cuando se controla por múltiples variables, mostrando que los retornos a estudiar una carrera universitaria varían mucho dependiendo del lugar de estudio.
I26|I know, therefore I am healthier? The role of education in health-related behaviors|To know how better economic conditions impact health-related choices is critical when formulating public policies that aim at improving the population’s health, both in terms of outcomes and habits. Through the use of two national surveys, we investigate the effect of one additional year of schooling on the amount of time of physical activity done per week, and on the servings consumed of fruits and vegetables per day, in urban Colombia. Furthermore, intending to find causal links, we exploited as a source of exogenous variation a change in regulation concerning basic education implemented in the 1970s, in a 2SLS framework. Our results suggest that higher levels of education have a positive impact on food consumption habits, and on the undertaking of physical activity, especially when it is done for leisure. Conversely, transport-motivated physical activity is unaffected by higher educational attainment, which points to the presence of protective factors in low SES individuals. For the consumption part, we find that access is a necessary condition for individuals to make healthy diet choices. K
I26|Isolating Peer Effects in the Returns to College Selectivity|This paper asks how a student’s classmates affect her returns to college. We exploit a “tracking” admission system at a selective Colombian university that led to large differences in mean classmate ability for students in the same programs. In a regression discontinuity design, we find that students in higher-ability classes were more likely to fail courses and drop out, and had lower earnings one decade later. Testable predictions from a human capital model with peer externalities show that individuals learned less in more able classrooms. Our findings suggest that exposure to higher-ability college peers can harm an individual’s career trajectory.
I26|"The Geography of Intergenerational Mobility: Evidence of Educational Persistence and the “Great Gatsby Curve"" in Brazil"|"This paper explores the variation in intergenerational educational mobility across the Brazilian states based on transition matrixes and univariate econometric techniques. The analysis of the national household survey (PNAD-2014) confirms a strong variation in mobility among the 27 states in Brazil and demonstrates a significant correlation between mobility and income inequality. In this sense, this work presents empirical evidence for the ""Great Gatsby Curve"" within a single country: states with greater income disparities present higher levels of persistence in education across generations. Finally, I investigate one specific mechanism behind this correlation – namely, whether higher income inequality might lead to a lower investment in human capital among children from socially vulnerable households. The paper delivers robust and compelling results showing that children born into families where the parents have not completed primary education have a statistically significant reduction in their chance of completing the educational system if they live in states with a higher level of income inequality."
I26|Preferences and Beliefs in the Marriage Market for Young Brides|Rajasthani women typically leave school early and marry young. We develop a novel discrete choice methodology using hypothetical vignettes to elicit average parental preferences over a daughter's education and age of marriage, and subjective beliefs about the evolution of her marriage market prospects. We find parents have a strong preference for delaying a daughter's marriage until eighteen but no further. Conditional on a marriage match, parents place little intrinsic value on a daughter's education. However, they believe the probability of receiving a good marriage offer increases strongly with a daughter's education but deteriorates quickly with her age on leaving school.
I26|Distance Learning in Higher Education: Evidence from a Randomized Experiment|Using a randomized experiment in a public Swiss university, we study the impact of online live streaming of lectures on student achievement and attendance. We find that (i) students use the live streaming technology only punctually, apparently when random events make attending in class too costly; (ii) attending lectures via live streaming lowers achievement for low-ability students and increases achievement for high-ability ones and (iii) offering live streaming reduces in-class attendance only mildly. These findings have important implications for the design of education policies.
I26|Early School Exposure, Test Scores, and Noncognitive Outcomes|We estimate the effects of receiving additional schooling before age five on cognitive and noncognitive outcomes, exploiting unique school entry rules in England that cause variation in the age at school entry and the effective length of the first school year, and combining survey data with administrative school records up to six years after exposure. We find significant effects on both cognitive and noncognitive outcomes at ages five and seven, particularly so for boys with a disadvantaged parental background. At age 11, effects on cognitive outcomes have disappeared, while there is still evidence for effects on noncognitive outcomes.
I26|Wages, Experience and Training of Women|We investigate the role of training in reducing the gender wage gap using the UK- BHPS which contains detailed records of training. Using policy changes over an 18 year period we identify the impact of training and work experience on wages, earnings and employment. Based on a lifecycle model and using reforms as a source of exogenous variation we evaluate the role of formal training and experience in defining the evolution of wages and employment careers, conditional on education. Training is potentially important in compensating for the effects of children, especially for women who left education after completing high school.
I26|Mothers and Fathers : Education, Co-residence and Child Health|We use four waves of Demographic and Health Surveys from Zimbabwe to evaluate the effect of mother’s and father’s education on child health outcomes. We identify causal effects using the 1980 education reform. A simultaneous-equation model is estimated to take into account possible selection and endogeneity biases. Our results suggest some specialization within parents, as mothers and fathers do not affect the same health outcomes of their under-5 children. Fathers matter more than mothers, and mother’s education improves health only when she is matched to a low-educated man. There is selection in our sample, as is usual. The inverse Mills ratio capturing the likelihood of living with one’s father or mother significantly affects child health. Last, parental educational sorting is shown to be important, so that estimation that does not take both mother’s and father’s education into account will produce biased results.
I26|Matching, cooperation and HIV in the couple|We examine how cooperation within the couple protects the partners from HIV infection using survey data from southern Africa. The respective impacts of education and cooperation on HIV risk for both wives and husbands are estimated in a joint estimation model. We fully discuss and test the conflictual approach of the couple against a cooperative framework derived from a simple matching model. Our findings suggest that the larger the number of decisions husbands and wives jointly make, the less likely it is that they are infected with HIV. This is robust to assuming that cooperation is endogenous in the wife equation. Freedom and trust are also significantly related to the likelihood of infection for both partners while the women's views about whether marital violence is acceptable are not. These effects may come from a reduced likelihood of extramarital affairs among men and women living in more cooperative partnerships.
I26|Life Expectancy and Parental Education in Germany|This study analyses the relationship between life expectancy and parental education. Based on data from the German Socio-Economic Panel Study and survival analysis models, we show that maternal education is related to children’s life expectancy – even after controlling for children’sown level of education. This applies equally to daughters and sons as well as to children’s further life expectancies examined at age 35 to age 65. This pattern is more pronounced for younger cohorts. In most cases, the education of the father is not significantly related to children’s life expectancy. Neither the vocational training nor the occupational position of the parents in childhood, which both correlate with household income, can explain the connection. The health behaviour of the children and the health accumulated over the life course appear as important channels. This study extends the previous literature that focused mostly on the relationship between individuals’ own education and their life expectancy. It implies that the link between education and life expectancy is substantially stronger and that returns to education are higher if the intergenerational component is considered.
I26|The Effect of Maternal Education on Offspring's Mental Health|We estimate the causal effect of maternal education on the mental health of mother’s children in late adolescence and adulthood. Theoretical considerations are ambiguous about a causal effect of maternal education on children’s mental health. To identify the causal effect of maternal education, we exploit exogenous variation in maternal years of schooling, caused by a compulsory schooling law reform in West Germany. Based on data from the German Socio-Economic Panel, we ﬁnd no evidence of a causal protective effect of maternal education on children’s mental health. Instead, our empirical results suggest a moderate negative effect of maternal education on the daughters’ mental health. We ﬁnd no effects for the sons. Our investigation of potential mechanisms is consistent with the hypothesis that the negative effect of higher maternal labor supply outweighs the positive effect of an expansion in household resources.
I26|Estructura Productiva y Desigualdad Salarial: Evidencia para América Latina|This paper studies the evolution of skill premia and its relationship with the productive structure for sixteen countries in Latin America, using microdata from household surveys and information from National Accounts for the period 1991-2015. The evidence suggests that the change in the productive structure is significantly correlated to the dynamics of wage inequality. In particular, when the share in total value added of sectors that are more intensive in high-skilled labor grows, the skill premium increases significantly. Este trabajo estudia la evolución de las brechas salariales por nivel educativo y su relación con la estructura productiva para 16 países de América Latina, utilizando microdatos de encuestas de hogares e información de Cuentas Nacionales en el período 1991-2015. La evidencia sugiere que el cambio en la estructura productiva está estrechamente correlacionado con la dinámica de la desigualdad salarial en la región. En particular, cuando crece la participación en el valor agregado de los sectores más intensivos en trabajo calificado, aumentan significativamente las brechas salariales por educación.
I26|Returns to Investment in Education: The Case of Turkey|This paper estimates private and social returns to investment in education in Turkey, using the 2017 Household Labor Force Survey and alternative methodologies. The analysis uses the 1997 education reform of increasing compulsory education by three years as an instrument. This results in a private rate of return on the order of 16 percent for higher education and a social return of 10 percent. Using the number of children younger than age 15 in the household as an exclusion restriction, the analysis finds that returns to education for females are higher than those for males. Contrary to many findings in other countries, private returns to those working in the public sector are higher than those in the private sector, and private returns to those who followed the vocational track in secondary education are higher than those in the general academic track. The paper discusses the policy implications of the findings.
I26|Test Questions, Economic Outcomes, and Inequality|Standard achievement scales aggregate test questions without considering their relationship to economic outcomes. This paper uses question-level data to improve the measurement of achievement in two ways. First, the paper constructs alternative achievement scales by relating individual questions directly to school completion and labor market outcomes. Second, the paper leverages the question data to construct multiple such scales in order to correct for biases stemming from measurement error. These new achievement scales rank students differently than standard scales and typically yield achievement gaps by race, gender, and household income that are larger by 0.1 to 0.5 standard deviations. Differential performance on test questions can fully explain black-white differences in both wages and lifetime earnings and can explain roughly half of the difference in these outcomes between youth from high- versus low-income households. By contrast, test questions do not explain gender differences in labor market outcomes.
I26|Institution, Major, and Firm-Specific Premia: Evidence from Administrative Data|We examine how a student’s major and the institution attended contribute to the labor market outcomes of young graduates. Administrative panel data that combine student transcripts with matched employer-employee records allow us to provide the first decomposition of premia into individual and firm-specific components. We find that both major and institutional premia are more strongly related to the firm-specific component of wages than the individual-specific component of wages. On average, a student’s major is a more important predictor of future wages than the selectivity of the institution attended, but major premia (and their relative ranking) can differ substantially across institutions, suggesting the importance of program-level data for prospective students and their parents.
I26|Matching, Cooperation and HIV in the Couple|We examine how cooperation within the couple protects the partners from HIV infection using survey data from Southern Africa. The respective impacts of education and cooperation on HIV risk for both wives and husbands are estimated in a joint estimation model. We fully discuss and test the con ictual approach of the couple against a cooperative framework derived from a simple matching model. Our ndings suggest that the larger the number of decisions husbands and wives jointly make, the less likely it is that they are infected with HIV. This is robust to assuming that cooperation is endogenous in the wife equation. Freedom and trust are also signi cantly related to the likelihood of infection for both partners while the women's views about whether marital violence is acceptable are not. These e ects may come from a reduced likelihood of extramarital a airs among men and women living in more cooperative partnerships.
I26|To educate a woman and to educate a man: Gender-specific sexual behaviour and HIV responses to an education reform in Botswana|Education has been suggested as a ‘vaccine’ against HIV infection, but there is not much causal evidence behind this claim. Moreover, the few studies that exist on the impact of education on HIV infection and related outcomes have focused mostly on women, despite the fact that there are reasons to expect the responses of women and men to differ. This study analyses mechanisms that link education to HIV with a focus on gender differences, using data from four nationally representative surveys in Botswana. To estimate the casual effect, an exogenous one-year increase of junior secondary school is used, which in previous studies has been found to reduce HIV infection rates and increase incomes. The key finding is that women and men responded differently to the reform. It led to delayed sexual debut by up to a year among women and an increase in risky sex among men, measured by number of concurrent sexual partnerships and the likelihood of paying for sex. The increase in risky sex among men is likely to be due to the reform’s positive impact on income. The school reform reduced the likelihood of HIV infection among women, but had no statistically significant impact on this variable among men.
I26|The Impact of Upper Secondary School Flexibility on Sorting and Educational Outcomes|This paper estimates the causal impact of an upper secondary curriculum reform in Sweden that increased students' course-taking flexibility in year 2000. In the most popular upper secondary program, it led to a significant decrease in mandatory mathematics requirements. Using administrative Swedish data, we estimate the causal impact of the reform on tertiary education outcomes and expected earnings using a differences-in-discontinuity identification strategy. The method compares students born immediately before and after the cutoff date. The inclusion of students born in neighboring non-reform cutoff years enables us to disentangle the school starting age effect from the unconfounded effect of the reform. We find no negative effects of the reduced mathematics requirements. Rather, we find a positive effect of the reform on students' probability of enrolling in, and earning a degree from, tertiary education. Our heterogeneity analysis suggests that relatively disadvantaged students were not negatively affected by the reform.
I26|Skills, education and fertility -and the confounding impact of family background|Skilled and educated women have on average fewer children and are more likely to remain childless than the less skilled and educated. Using rich Swedish register data, we show that these negative associations found in most previous studies largely disappear if we remove the impact of family background factors using twin (or sibling) fixed effects. For males, human capital measures are virtually unrelated to fertility, but this again masks the role of family background factors: more educated and skilled males tend to have more children than their less skilled peers once we use twin/sibling fixed effects to remove family background factors. Hence, for both men and women, human capital and fertility become more positively associated once the joint family components are removed, i.e. when studying the within-family associations. The one human capital measure which deviates from these patterns is non-cognitive ability, which has a very strong overall positive association with fertility, an association which instead is muted within families. We end by showing that these results can be reconciled in a stylized theoretical model where family-specific preferences for fertility shape the relative investments in different types of skills and traits when children are small as well as the choices, in terms of family formation and human capital investments, these children make when they enter into adulthood.
I26|The Effect of Education on Poverty: A European Perspective|This paper provides evidence on the causal relationship between education and poverty. I construct a novel database comprising compulsory schooling reforms in 32 European countries and use them as instruments for education. I find economically large poverty-reducing effects of education among people aged 30 to 80. This holds true for both objective measures of poverty (relative income poverty, lack of basic necessities, weak labor market attachment) and a subjective measure of poverty (self-assessed difficulties in making ends meet). An additional year of education thus reduces not only the likelihood of being classified as living in poverty but also the likelihood of considering oneself to live in poverty. Increases in labor force participation and full-time employment as well as better health are potential mechanisms behind these results.
I26|The Returns to Ability and Experience in High School Labor Markets: Revisiting Evidence on Employer Learning and Statistical Discrimination|In this paper, we extend existing models that use the NLSY 79 to document employer screening and learning by showing that the return to education and ability change with experience. Specifically, we test for and document a non-linear relationship between wages and ability as measured by the AFQT score at low levels of potential experience. For high levels of AFQT, wages appear to fall as AFQT increases. As experience increases, the relationship between wages and AFQT returns to a monotonic relationship. As a result much of the observed increase in the return to AFQT as potential experience increases is associated with a change in the shape of the relationship, and the increase in the return to AFQT at lower levels of AFQT is more modest. These results are robust using samples and models from previous papers on the subject, developing a broader sample using all waves of the NLSY 79, and analyzing the question using data from the NLSY 97. Finally, we find evidence that high AFQT workers without four years of college select into occupations that provide more training, perhaps sacrificing initial wages in order to build skills.
I26|The Causal Effects of Adolescent School Bullying Victimisation on Later Life Outcomes|We use rich data on a cohort of English adolescents to analyse the long-term effects of experiencing bullying victimisation in junior high school. The data contain selfreports of five types of bullying and their frequency, for three waves of the data, when the pupils were aged 13 to 16 years. Using a variety of estimation strategies - least squares, matching, inverse probability weighting, and instrumental variables - we assess the effects of bullying victimisation on short- and long-term outcomes, including educational achievements, earnings, and mental ill-health at age 25 years. We handle potential measurement error in the child self-reports of bullying type and frequency by instrumenting with corresponding parental cross-reports. Using a detailed longitudinal survey linked to administrative data, we control for many of the determinants of bullying victimisation and child outcomes identified in previous literature, paired with comprehensive sensitivity analyses to assess the potential role of unobserved variables. The pattern of results strongly suggests that there are important long run effects on victims - stronger than correlation analysis would otherwise suggest. In particular, we find that both type of bullying and its intensity matters for long run outcomes.
I26|Can Perceived Returns Explain Enrollment Gaps in Postgraduate Education?|Postgraduate-degree holders comprise a significant share of the workforce and have better labor-market outcomes than workers who only hold a first degree. To understand students' motives to obtain postgraduate qualifications and what drives socioeconomic gaps in this decision, we elicit intentions to pursue postgraduate education and beliefs about its returns in a sample of 1,002 enrolled university students. We document large gaps in perceptions about different immediate and later-life benefits of postgraduate education, both between first- and continuing-generation students and within the latter group. Differences in student beliefs about returns across socioeconomic groups can account for 70% of the gaps in intentions to pursue postgraduate studies. We also document large differences in students' current undergraduate experiences by socioeconomic background and find these to be predictive of perceived returns to postgraduate education.
I26|The Effects of Career and Technical Education: Evidence from the Connecticut Technical High School System|We examine the effect of admission to 16 stand-alone technical high schools within the Connecticut Technical High School System (CTHSS) on student educational and labor market outcomes. To identify the causal effect of admission on student outcomes, we exploit the fact that CTHSS utilizes a score-based admissions system and identify the effect of admission using a regression discontinuity approach. We find that male students attending one of the technical high schools are approximately 10 percentage points more likely to graduate from high school and 8 percentage points less likely to attend college, although there is some evidence that the negative effects on college attendance fade over time. We also find that male students attending a technical high school have quarterly earnings that are approximately 31% higher. Analyses of potential mechanisms behind these results reveal that male students that attend a technical high school have higher 9th grade attendance rates and higher 10th grade test scores. We find little evidence that attending a technical high school affects the educational or labor outcomes of women. These effects appear relatively broad based across different types of students in that we find little evidence of heterogeneity in these effects over student attributes like race and ethnicity, free lunch eligibility or residence in a poor, central city school district. However, when distinguishing between students based on the Career and Technical Education (CTE) offerings of the high school that these students likely would have attended, we find that the effects of admission to a CTHSS school are noticeably larger when the counterfactual high school has less CTE offerings.
I26|Preventing criminal minds: early education access and adult offending behavior|In this paper we estimate the impact of a nationwide public preschool expansion that took place in Spain over the 1990s on criminal behavior later in time. We exploit variation in enrollment rates across Spanish regions and birth-cohorts, and we link education data to a unique administrative crime dataset recording offenses committed in the region of Catalonia over the period 2009-2014. We find that for the average birth cohort, Catalan municipality and year, a 1 percentage point increase in preschool exposure at age 3 yields 1.6% fewer crime actions during youth and young adulthood. We are able to account for region of origin, birth cohort, time and local fixed effects, as well as several region and time-specific controls. Leveraging detailed information on types of crime committed, we propose a categorization of offenses into those likely to have been rationally planned and driven by economic motives, and those in which emotional factors and lack of self-control play a significant role. On average, we find the benefits of preschool to be larger and more robust on crimes belonging to the latter category, suggesting that non-cognitive skills play an important role in explaining the overall effect.
I26|Different Types of IT Skills in Occupational Training Curricula and Labor Market Outcomes|Due to an increasing diffusion of information technologies (IT), the labor market requires more and more so-called “IT skills”. Recent studies confirm that IT skills are relevant for individual labor market outcomes. However, so far researchers do not use a consistent definition and measure of IT skills. In our paper, we distinguish different types of IT skills that may lead to structurally different labor market out-comes like wages. To measure these different types of IT skills, we propose an innovative way of measuring skills based on training curricula of apprenticeship occupations. We use modern computational linguistics methods, i.e. a topic model-ling algorithm called Non-Negative Matrix Factorization. By doing so, we identify different types of IT skills like e.g. implementing ICT (Information and Communi-cations Technologies), developing applications, designing webpages or installing software, handling system technology, CNC (Computerized Numerical Control), CAD (Computer-Aided Design), and handling control technology. Our results show that although IT skills in general have a positive effect on wages, different types of IT skills are associated with differing labor market returns, e.g. general digital skills like ICT and developing applications relate to higher wages than technology-specific IT skills like handling system technology.
I26|Returns to higher education subjects and tiers in China - Evidence from the China Family Panel Studies|Using the recent China Family Panel Studies, we are able to identify the subjects studied of both college (2-3 years) graduates and university (4-5 years) graduates. For the latter group, we can further distinguish universities by the tier of selectivity (i.e. Key and Ordinary Universities). We take advantage of the rich information on the respondent’s school cohort and hukou status at age 12 and the mother’s age and education to estimate the simultaneous choice of subject and tier of prestige of higher education institutions (HEI) faced by university applicants. Using the doubly robust Inverse Probability Weighted Regression Adjustment (IPWRA) method to account for selection (on observables) into subjects and tiers, our treatment effect estimates suggest that OLS substantially underestimate the effect of attending more prestigious universities, for graduates of both genders in Law, Economics and Management (LEM). We also show that the recent massive expansion of the higher education sector have reduced returns to HE for all graduates, except for those studying LEM or Other non-STEM subjects at the most prestigious universities. Our results are robust to treating subjects as predetermined for the selection into HEIs by tiers of prestige.
I26|Early labor market prospects and family formation|We use quasi-random variation in graduation years during the onset of a very deep national recession to study the relationship between early labor market conditions and young females’ family formation outcomes. A policy-pilot affecting the length of upper-secondary education in Swedish vocational schools allows us to compare females who graduated into the onset of the Swedish financial crisis of the 1990s to those graduating during the final phase of the preceding economic boom while netting out the main effect of the policy. We find that graduating straight into the recession had negative labor market consequences during the first few years but we find no evidence of permanent labor market scars. In contrast, graduating into the crisis had lasting effects on family formation outcomes of low-grade students in particular. Those who graduated into the recession because of the policy-pilot formed their first stable partnerships earlier and had their first children earlier. Their partners had lower grades, which we show to be a strong predictor of divorce, and worse labor market performance. Divorces were more prevalent and the ensuing increase in single motherhood was long-lasting. These negative effects on marital stability generated persistent increases in the use of welfare benefits despite the short-lived impact on labor market outcomes. The results suggest that young women respond to early labor market prospects by changing the quality threshold for entering into family formation, a process which affects the frequency of welfare-dependent single mothers during more than a decade thereafter.
I26|Long-run Effects from Comprehensive Student Support: Evidence from Pathways to Education|We estimate long-run impacts to the Pathways to Education program, a comprehensive set of coaching, tutoring, group activities and financial incentives offered to disadvantaged students beginning in Grade 9. High school administrative records are matched to income tax records to follow individuals up to the age of 28, even when they leave the household or province. We find significant positive effects on persistence in postsecondary education institutions, earnings and employment. Program eligibility increased adult annual earnings by 19 percent, employment by 14 percent and reduced social assistance (welfare) receipt by more than a third.
I26|Distance Learning in Higher Education: Evidence from a Randomized Experiment|Using a randomized experiment in a public Swiss university, we study the impact of online live streaming of lectures on student achievement and attendance. We find that (i) students use the live streaming technology only punctually, apparently when random events make attending in class too costly; (ii) attending lectures via live streaming lowers achievement for low-ability students and increases achievement for high-ability ones and (iii) offering live streaming reduces in-class attendance only mildly. These findings have important implications for the design of education policies.
I26|Life Expectancy and Parental Education|This study analyses the relationship between life expectancy and parental education. It extends the previous literature that focused mostly on the relationship between individuals' own education and their life expectancy. Based on data from the German Socio-Economic Panel Study and survival analysis models, we show that maternal education is related to children's life expectancy - even after controlling for children's own level of education. This applies equally to women and men as well as to further life expectancies examined at age 35 to age 65. This pattern is more pronounced for younger cohorts. In most cases, the education of the father is not significantly related to children's life expectancy. The vocational training and the occupational position of the parents in childhood, which both correlate with household income, cannot explain the link. Children's health behaviour and the health accumulated over the life course appear as important channels. The findings imply that the link between education and life expectancy is substantially stronger and that returns to education are higher if intergenerational links are considered.
I26|Math Scores in High Stakes Grades|We investigate whether tests taken during a high stakes grade by German primary and secondary students produce higher math scores than in lower stakes grades. We identify a high stakes grade with the final grade of primary or secondary school, because good performance in that grade can affect future opportunities. Our difference-in-differences estimates show that high stakes increase math scores on average by 0.17 to 0.23 standard deviations, a sizeable effect.
I26|Accumulation of Human and Market Capital in the United States, 1975-2012: An Analysis by Gender|This paper covers a continuous and longer time period than previously possible to examine human and market capital because of research by Christian (2017). This paper focuses on the presentation and analysis of trends in human capital by gender. During 1975-2012 there were significant changes in participation by women, the wage gender gap, and educational attainment and time in household production by both women and men. Both the market and nonmarket sectors will be covered as well as multifactor productivity with and without human capital. (A previous paper (Fraumeni, et al. 2017) described the national income accounting system which underlies both this paper and the much earlier paper by Jorgenson and Fraumeni (1989).) New insights will be gained by looking in detail at the 1975-2012 time period.
I26|Risk-Adjusted Returns to Education|This paper looks at the joint impact of labour market risk and selection in to the labour market on returns to education. Accounting for non-employment risk leads to substantial changes in returns while wage risk has little impact. The risk- adjusted returns to both high school and college for males are larger than unadjusted returns. For females, risk leads to an increase in returns to high school but to a decrease in the returns to college while correcting for selection in to employment has large effects for females. The results suggest that failure to account for risk and selection in to employment when calculating returns to education leads to biased estimates.
I26|High Performing Peers and Female STEM Choices in School|Women have historically been underrepresented in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) jobs. There are concerns that the persistence of this gap over time is in part due to path dependence and the historical lack of high-performing women in these fields. This paper uses administrative data from China to examine the extent to which the presence of high-performing peers in mathematics affects the likelihood that women choose a science track during high school. Results indicate that exposure to a higher proportion of high-performing females increases girls' likelihood of majoring in STEM, while exposure to more high-performing males reduces it. There is little evidence that boys' major decisions are affected by their peers. Our results indicate that high-achieving girls in quantitative fields may have a role model or affirmation effect that encourages their female classmates to pursue a path in science.
I26|Secondary School Enrolment and Teenage Childbearing: Evidence from Brazilian Municipalities|This article investigates whether increasing secondary education opportunities influences childbearing among young women in Brazil. We examine a novel dataset reflecting the vast expansion of secondary education in Brazil between 1997 and 2009 and exploit variation in the introduction of schools across 4,884 municipalities to instrument for school enrolment. Our most conservative estimate suggests that for every 9.7 students enrolled there is one fewer teenage births. These findings are robust to a number of specifications and sensitivity tests. Our estimates imply that Brazil’s secondary school expansion accounts for 34% of the substantial decline in teenage childbearing observed over the same period. We further look at heterogeneous effects across a number of municipal characteristics and discuss what these results suggest about the mechanisms underlying the school-childbearing relationship.
I26|Education and Prosocial Behavior: Evidence from Time Use Survey|We use the extension of compulsory education from five to eight years in Turkey as an instrument for educational attainment to investigate the causal effects of education on prosocial behavior by utilizing Turkish Time Use Survey data. Ours is the first paper that investigates the causal effect of education on volunteering. We find that the education reform increased the education levels significantly, and increased education had a causal negative and significant impact on prosocial behavior of men as time spent in volunteering and helping others decreased. We also investigate the causal channels through which education decreases prosocial behavior. We find that schooling increased the likelihood of earning higher wages and work hours, which suggests that men substituted hours worked for time spent in prosocial activity as a result of an exogenous increase in their education levels. Our findings also suggest that education might have enhanced individualism and self-centrism as we find that time spent in leisure and sport activity increased. We do not find any significant effects of education on female prosocial behavior in Turkey, where female labor force participation rate at 32 percent has remained low and stagnant across the years.
I26|Catching up Is Hard to Do: Undergraduate Prestige, Elite Graduate Programs, and the Earnings Premium|"A commonly held perception is that an elite graduate degree can ""scrub"" a less prestigious but less costly undergraduate degree. Using data from the National Survey of College Graduates from 2003 through 2017, this paper examines the relationship between the status of undergraduate degrees and earnings among those with elite post-baccalaureate degrees. Few graduates of nonselective institutions earn post-baccalaureate degrees from elite institutions, and even when they do, undergraduate institutional prestige continues to be positively related to earnings overall as well as among those with specific post-baccalaureate degrees including business, law, medicine, and doctoral. Among those who earn a graduate degree from an elite institution, the present value of the earnings advantage to having both an undergraduate and a graduate degree from an elite institution generally greatly exceeds any likely cost advantage from attending a less prestigious undergraduate institution."
I26|International Mobility of Students in Italy and the UK: Does It Pay off and for Whom?|International student mobility is the most recognised element of Erasmus+, a major EU policy. Not enough is known about the causal effect of studying abroad on labour market outcomes. This is because most of the existing studies dismiss selection bias: the different composition of students opting and not opting for studying abroad. The purpose of this paper is to answer the following three questions, whilst accounting for selection bias. First, does international student mobility (ISM) have an effect on labour market outcomes? Second, do the returns to ISM vary between two countries with contrasting labour market and education systems? Third, do the returns to ISM differ according to the socio-economic background of the students? Results are compared between Italy and the UK using Italian Institute of National Statistics and UK Higher Education Statistics Agency graduate survey data. Using propensity score matching, the returns to study-related stays abroad are estimated on a set of labour market outcomes around six to twelve months and three years after graduation for undergraduates (UK and Italy) and postgraduates (Italy only). Results indicate that mobility is positively associated with some outcome variables under scrutiny. Mobile graduates seem to benefit from better employment chances than non-mobile graduates. Returns to ISM tend to be slightly higher among graduates in Italy. Mobility seems to matter most for uptake and completion of further post-graduate studies in Italy. It is the especially the socially disadvantaged mobile who opt for further education after graduation.
I26|Why Do Fiscal Multipliers Depend on Fiscal Positions?|The fiscal position can affect fiscal multipliers through two channels. Through the Ricardian channel, households reduce consumption in anticipation of future fiscal adjustments when fiscal stimulus is implemented from a weak fiscal position. Through the interest rate channel, fiscal stimulus from a weak fiscal position heightens investors'concerns about sovereign credit risk, raises economy-wide borrowing cost, and reduces private domestic demand. The paper documents empirically the relevance of these two channels using an Interactive Panel Vector Auto Regression model. It finds that fiscal multipliers tend to be smaller when fiscal positions are weak than strong.
I26|Returns to Investment in Education: The Case of Turkey|This paper estimates private and social returns to investment in education in Turkey, using the 2017 Household Labor Force Survey and alternative methodologies. The analysis uses the 1997 education reform of increasing compulsory education by three years as an instrument. This results in a private rate of return on the order of 16 percent for higher education and a social return of 10 percent. Using the number of children younger than age 15 in the household as an exclusion restriction, the analysis finds that returns to education for females are higher than those for males. Contrary to many findings in other countries, private returns to those working in the public sector are higher than those in the private sector, and private returns to those who followed the vocational track in secondary education are higher than those in the general academic track. The paper discusses the policy implications of the findings.
I26|GLOBALISATION AND GOVERNANCE: Returns to Investment in Education: The Case of Turkey|This paper estimates private and social returns to investment in education in Turkey, using the 2017 Household Labor Force Survey and alternative methodologies. The analysis uses the 1997 education reform of increasing compulsory education by three years as an instrument. This results in a private rate of return on the order of 16 percent for higher education and a social return of 10 percent. Using the number of children younger than age 15 in the household as an exclusion restriction, the analysis finds that returns to education for females are higher than those for males. Contrary to many findings in other countries, private returns to those working in the public sector are higher than those in the private sector, and private returns to those who followed the vocational track in secondary education are higher than those in the general academic track. The paper discusses the policy implications of the findings.
I26|Parental Beliefs about Returns to Different Types of Investments in School Children|In this paper, we study parental beliefs about the returns to different types of investments in school children. Using a representative sample of 1,962 parents in England, we document how parents perceive the returns to parental time investments, material investments and school quality, as well as the complementarity/substitutability between the different inputs. Both parental investments and school quality are perceived to be important and returns are perceived to be diminishing with higher investments. We further find that parental material investments are perceived as more productive if the child attends a high quality school. We find no differences in perceived returns to investments by the child’s initial human capital or gender and, surprisingly, by the parents’ socioeconomic background. We document a high degree of heterogeneity in perceived returns across respondents and document that perceived returns are highly correlated with actual investment decisions made by parents.
I26|Long-Run Effects from Comprehensive Student Support: Evidence from Pathways to Education|We estimate long-run impacts to the Pathways to Education program, a comprehensive set of coaching, tutoring, group activities and financial incentives offered to disadvantaged students beginning in Grade 9. High school administrative records are matched to income tax records to follow individuals up to the age of 28, even when they leave the household or province. We find significant positive effects on persistence in postsecondary education institutions, earnings and employment. Program eligibility increased adult annual earnings by 19 percent, employment by 14 percent and reduced social assistance (welfare) receipt by more than a third.
I26|The Impact of Early Investments in Urban School Systems in the United States|Cities in the United States dramatically expanded spending on public education in the years following World War I, with the average urban school district increasing per pupil expenditures by over 70 percent between 1916 and 1924. We provide the first evaluation of these historically unprecedented investments in public education by compiling a new dataset that links individuals to both the quality of the city school district they attended as a child and their adult outcomes. Using plausibly exogenous growth in school spending generated by anti-German sentiment, we find that school resources significantly increased educational attainment and wages later in life, particularly for the children of unskilled workers. Increases in expenditures can explain about 50 percent of the sizable increase in educational attainment of cohorts born between 1895 and 1915. However, increased spending did not close the gap in educational attainment between the children of skilled and unskilled workers, which remained constant over the period
I26|Improving educational pathways to social mobility. Evidence from Norway’s “Reform 94”|High school vocational education has a controversial history in the United States, largely due to a perceived tradeoff between teaching readily deployable occupational skills versus shunting mostly disadvantaged students away from the educational and career flexibility afforded by general academic courses. We study the effects of a nationwide high school reform in Norway that aimed to move beyond this tradeoff. Reform 94, implemented in one step in the fall of 1994, integrated more general education into the vocational track, offered vocational students a pathway to college through a supplementary semester of academic courses, and sought to improve the quality of the vocational track through greater access to apprenticeships. We identify the impacts of the reform through a difference-indiscontinuity research design, comparing students born just before and after the reform’s birthdate eligibility cutoff to students born around the same cutoff in placebo years. Linking multiple administrative registries covering the entire Norwegian population, we find that the reform substantially increased initial enrollment in the vocational track, but with different subsequent outcomes for different groups. More men complete the vocational track at the expense of academic diplomas, but this has no detectable impact on college-going and leads to reduced criminal activity and higher earnings in adulthood, especially among disadvantaged men. For disadvantaged women, the initial surge in vocational enrollment leads to fewer high school dropouts and more vocational degrees with the college-prep supplement, and hence an increase in the share of college-eligible women; however, this translates into only small and insignificant increases in college completion and adult earnings. We show that men overwhelmingly pursue vocational education in higher-paying skilled trade fields, while women almost exclusively pursue vocational education in lower-paying service-based fields, which helps in interpreting some of these results. Overall, the reform succeeded at improving social mobility, particularly among men, but it somewhat exacerbated the gender gap in adult earnings.
I26|Errors in the Dependent Variable of Quantile Regression Models|The popular quantile regression estimator of Koenker and Bassett (1978) is biased if there is an additive error term. Approaching this problem as an errors-in-variables problem where the dependent variable suffers from classical measurement error, we present a sieve maximum-likelihood approach that is robust to left-hand side measurement error. After providing sufficient conditions for identification, we demonstrate that when the number of knots in the quantile grid is chosen to grow at an adequate speed, the sieve maximum-likelihood estimator is consistent and asymptotically normal, permitting inference via bootstrapping. We verify our theoretical results with Monte Carlo simulations and illustrate our estimator with an application to the returns to education highlighting changes over time in the returns to education that have previously been masked by measurement-error bias.
I26|Accumulation of Human and Market Capital in the United States, 1975-2012: An Analysis by Gender|This paper covers a continuous and longer time period than previously possible to examine human and market capital because of research by Christian (2017). This paper focuses on the presentation and analysis of trends in human capital by gender. During 1975-2012 there were significant changes in participation by women, the wage gender gap, and educational attainment and time in household production by both women and men. Both the market and nonmarket sectors will be covered as well as multifactor productivity with and without human capital. (A previous paper (Fraumeni, et al. 2017) described the national income accounting system which underlies both this paper and the much earlier paper by Jorgenson and Fraumeni (1989).) New insights will be gained by looking in detail at the 1975-2012 time period.
I26|Scientific Education and Innovation: From Technical Diplomas to University STEM Degrees|This paper studies the effects of university STEM education on innovation and labor market outcomes by exploiting a change in enrollment requirements in Italian STEM majors. University-level scientific education had two direct effects on the development of patents by students who had acquired a STEM degree. First, the policy changed the direction of their innovation. Second, it allowed these individuals to reach top positions within firms and be more involved in the innovation process. STEM degrees, however, also changed occupational sorting. Some higher-achieving individuals used STEM degrees to enter jobs that required university-level education, but did not focus on patenting.
I26|"Long-term Effects from Early Exposure to Research: Evidence from the NIH ""Yellow Berets''"|"Can a relatively short but intense exposure to frontier research alter the career trajectories of potential innovators? To answer this question, we study the careers and productivity of 3,075 medical school graduates who applied to the Associate Training Programs (ATP) of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) during the turbulent period of the Vietnam War, 1965-1975. Carefully selecting on observables, we compare physicians who attended the program to those who passed a first admission screen but were ultimately not selected. We find that program participants were more likely to initially enter academic medicine, and less likely to switch to purely clinical endeavors as their careers unfolded. Over the life cycle, NIH trainees also garnered publications, citations, and grant funding at a much higher rate than synthetic controls. The direction of their research efforts was also durably imprinted by their training experience. In particular, NIH trainees appear to have acquired a distinct ""translational'' style of biomedical research which became an implicit training model for physician-scientists as ATP alumni came to occupy the commanding heights of academic medicine throughout the United States."
I26|The Effects of Schooling on Costless Health Maintenance: Overweight Adolescents and Children in Rural China|Obesity is an important global health problem. Although obesity is not directly related to access to health care or constrained by resource deprivation, overweight status is predominantly found in poor, less-educated populations. This paper seeks to identify the causal role of schooling in affecting obesity among children and adolescents, using new estimation methods that exploit unique panel data on young twins in China. The estimates indicate that higher levels of schooling negatively affect being overweight and positively affect healthy behavior, with a large component of the causal effects due to increased information on the benefits of maintaining a healthy weight. There is also evidence that the higher-income associated with increased schooling increases incentives to invest in health.
I26|Does Vocational Education Work? Evidence from a Randomized Experiment in Mongolia|This paper estimates the impact of admission to formal vocational secondary programs on labor market outcomes in Mongolia. We conducted public lotteries to allocate scarce slots for approximately 8,000 students who applied to oversubscribed trades in 10 vocational schools during 2010, 2011, and 2012. We find that admission to oversubscribed vocational schools in Mongolia led to significantly higher employment, and increased earnings for women. These positive impacts appear to be due to the acquisition of more skills in specific trades, greater work intensity, and increased employment opportunities in high-paying sectors.
I26|Rate of Return to Education in India: Some Insights|There is a general tendency in the literature to consider and analyse investment decisions on education, based upon the pecuniary rate of return, without focusing the `intrinsic' advantages of education. Without engaging in the inadequacy of such an approach, this paper presents the relationships between wage and education levels among employed persons from different socio-religious and occupational groups. Based on an analysis of the NSS 68th round data, the results show that in India, there are insignificant relationships between wages and education level, in most cases. However, persons with higher education level are able to get regular salaried jobs. In fact, even for those who are part of the socio-economically deprived sections, higher educational attainments facilitate better jobs. Diversification and exclusion problems are common features of job markets in India, as reflected in different indicators. Further, the paper also finds that wage differences in `formal' and `informal' sectors, `skill mismatch' and volatilities in job markets play important roles in job opportunities and returns to labour.
I26|A Comparison of Earnings Related to Higher Level Vocational/Technical and Academic Education|We use the earliest cohort of English secondary school leavers with newly available Longitudinal Education Outcomes data (622,000 pupils in 2002/03) to compare earnings of people with higher vocational/technical qualifications to those of degree holders. The unusually rich data allow us to estimate earnings differentials until the age of 30, controlling for a wide array of characteristics and full education trajectories. Our results show that initially higher earnings observed for people achieving higher vocational education disappear when people are in the mid-twenties. Depending on the type of university attended, male degree holders earn up to 18% more by age 30, while female graduates earn around 40% more. However, there is considerable heterogeneity by gender and subject area. There are high returns related to higher vocational/technical education in STEM subjects, which remain significantly above those of many degree holders by age 30.
I26|Enhancing the social integration of Roma in Slovak Republic|Roma account for almost one-tenth of the population in the Slovak Republic. They live mostly excluded from the general population in concentrated settlements, separated neighbourhoods or ghettos. The majority live in poverty and face social exclusion in almost all aspects of everyday life. Only a small share of Roma work, and a majority suffer from long spells of unemployment, their educational attainment is low, and a large number are illiterate. Social exclusion is further exacerbated by rising general animosity and mistrust between Roma and non-Roma groups. This calls for immediate policy action. The government should ensure easy access to all public services and provide additional support for the disadvantaged Roma communities. Individual policies should be effectively coordinated, because the problems that the Roma are facing are interconnected. A necessary precondition for successful Roma integration is the support of the general population. Policy interventions towards Roma integration should be accompanied by measures to eliminate the prejudices among parts of the majority population against their fellow citizens.
I26|Educational attainment, age and the consequences of job loss: empirical evidence from Germany|Education is a crucial determinant of labour market success. We investigate whether education is an appropriate means to cushion the negative consequences of job loss and study the role of age as a second major labour market factor. Using German Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP) data for the years 2000 to 2016, we analyse unemployment durations and unemployment-induced wage penalties for prime-age men. We show that individuals without formal qualifications face a significantly lower probability of finding a new job than workers with some kind of formal qualification, and hence face a higher risk of long-term unemployment. Furthermore, the duration of unemployment prior to finding a new job rises with age. This pattern is particularly pronounced for individuals with upper secondary education or no formal qualifications. Moreover, we find a negative relationship between unemployment and an individual’s subsequent wage. This depressing impact is significant only for unqualified workers and workers with intermediate vocational education. Yet, differences between educational groups are not statistically significant. Across all education groups, unemployment depresses subsequent wages more strongly at a higher age. However, the results suggest that this is due to longer unemployment spells of older workers, not age per se.
I26|What is happening to middle skill workers?|This report asks what is happening to middle-skill workers. Driven by mega trends such as automation, ageing and offshoring, the share of jobs whose wages placed them firmly in the middle of the wage distribution has been declining. Termed job polarisation, economists have observed the decline in the share of middle-skill jobs in the majority of OECD labour markets. One little explored question is where are these workers going? This report examines what workers are doing who in the past would have been employed in middle-skill jobs. The report first examines the traits of previous middle-skill workers to build a picture of the “typical” middle-skill worker. Using this profile, the report next examines what types of jobs a worker with the typical middle-skill profile is taking, and how likely such a worker is to be working. The study then analyses different metrics of job stability and compensation to put in perspective what shifts out of middle-skill work imply for labour market outcomes.
I26|Returns to different forms of job related training: Factoring in informal learning|This study aims at disentangling the returns to formal, non-formal and informal training and fills key knowledge gaps. Informal learning is found to be by far the most common form of job-related learning at work. Learning informally at work is found to be associated with 3.5% higher wages, on top of the wage returns of non-formal training which amount to about 11%. Work environments which apply high performance work organisation practices – i.e. where workers have more autonomy and work in teams – are found to nurture a training culture that yields high returns. Workers in these contexts are 12% more likely to experience informal learning. In addition, they also reap higher returns from the training they attend, both non-formal and informal. This suggests that HPWP may amplify the benefits of learning at work, possibly giving workers more opportunities to turn what they learn into immediate use because of the increased flexibility in organising once work.
I26|Earnings gaps among higher-educated workers withinmain cities insemi-industrializedandnewly industrialized Asian countries|This paper comparatively analyzes determinants of earningsand the gender earningsgapamong higher-educated workers in nine maincities inseven semi-industrializedandnewlyindustrializedAsian countries. Theanalysisfocuses on effects of specific qualificationsor skillsbeyonda bachelor fsdegree; such as a postgraduate degree, specific field of degree, or experience working or studying abroad. The results show some such attributespositivelyaffectearnings, although thesevaried by cityand gender.Adecomposition analysis also revealsthere isno gender gap among higher-educated workers in Delhi and Mumbai, whereas endowment or coefficient effects ongender gaps are detectedin othercities.
I26|Earnings gaps among higher-educated workers withinmain cities insemi-industrializedandnewly industrialized Asian countries|This paper comparatively analyzes determinants of earningsand the gender earningsgapamong higher-educated workers in nine maincities inseven semi-industrializedandnewlyindustrializedAsian countries. Theanalysisfocuses on effects of specific qualificationsor skillsbeyonda bachelor fsdegree; such as a postgraduate degree, specific field of degree, or experience working or studying abroad. The results show some such attributespositivelyaffectearnings, although thesevaried by cityand gender.Adecomposition analysis also revealsthere isno gender gap among higher-educated workers in Delhi and Mumbai, whereas endowment or coefficient effects ongender gaps are detectedin othercities.
I26|Schooling Investment, Mismatch,and Wage Inequality|This paper examines how policies, aimed at increasing the supply of education in the economy, affect the matching between workers and firms, and the wages of various skill groups. We build an equilibrium model where workers endogenously invest in education, while firms direct their technology toward skill intensive production activities. Search frictions induce mismatch on both extensive (unemployment) and intensive (over-education) margins, with ensuing wage consequences. We estimate the model using NLSY and O*NET data, and propose an ex-ante evaluation of prominent educational policies. We find that higher education cost subsidies boost college attainment, produce substantial welfare gains in general equilibrium, but increase wage inequality. These changes are associated with a substantial upward shift in the distribution of job complexity, which leads to worse allocations for high-school graduates who end up under-educated in less productive firms, while highly-educated workers match with more productive firms and experience less over-education during their careers.
I26|Female Science Advisors and the STEM Gender Gap|In an effort to reduce the gender gap in the fields of science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM), policymakers often propose providing women with close mentoring by female scientists. This is based on the idea that female scientists might act as role models and counteract negative gender stereotypes that are pervasive in science fields. However, as of yet, there is still no clear evidence on the role of mentor or advisor gender in reducing the STEM gender gap. We use rich administrative data from a private 4-year college to provide some of the first causal evidence on the impact of advisor gender on women's STEM degree attainment. We exploit a unique setting where students are randomly assigned to academic advisors – who are also faculty members – in their freshman year of college. A college advisor's main role is to provide students with one-on-one personalized mentoring regarding course and major selection. Students declare a major at the end of their freshman year, after having had the opportunity to repeatedly interact with their advisors. We find that being matched to a female rather than a male science advisor substantially narrows the gender gaps in STEM enrollment and graduation, with the strongest effects occurring among students who are highly skilled in math. In contrast, the gender of an advisor from a non-science department has no impact on students' major choice. Our results indicate that providing close mentoring or advising by female scientists can play an important role in promoting women's participation and persistence in STEM fields.
I26|The Value of U.S. College Education in Global Labor Markets: Experimental Evidence from China|One million international students study in the U.S. each year and the majority of them compete in global labor markets after graduation. I conduct a large-scale field experiment to study how employers in China value U.S. college education. I sent over 27,000 fictitious online applications to business and computer science jobs in China, randomizing the country of college education. I find that U.S.-educated applicants are on average 18 percent less likely to receive a callback than applicants educated in China, with applicants from very selective U.S. institutions underperforming those from the least selective Chinese institutions. The U.S.-China callback gap is smaller at high-wage jobs, consistent with employers fearing U.S.-educated applicants have better outside options and will be harder to hire and retain. The gap is also smaller at foreign-owned firms, consistent with Chinese-owned firms knowing less about American education. Controlling for high school quality, test scores, or U.S. work experiences does not attenuate the gap, suggesting that it is not driven by employer perceptions of negative selection. A companion employer survey of 260 hiring managers finds consistent and additional supporting evidence for the experimental findings.
I26|How Skills and Parental Valuation of Education Influence Human Capital Acquisition and Early Labor Market Return to Human Capital in Canada|Using the Youth in Transition Survey, we estimate a Roy model with a three-dimensional latent factor structure to consider how parental valuation of education, cognitive skills, and noncognitive skills influence endogenous schooling decisions and subsequent labor market outcomes. We find that the effect of cognitive skills on adult incomes arises by increasing the likelihood of obtaining further education. Furthermore, we find that both noncognitive skills and parental valuation for education play a larger role in determining income at age 25 than cognitive skills. Last, our analysis uncovers striking differences between men and women in several of the estimated relationships.
I26|How Skills and Parental Valuation of Education Influence Human Capital Acquisition and Early Labor Market Return to Human Capital in Canada|Using the Youth in Transition Survey we estimate a Roy model with a three dimensional latent factor structure to consider how parental valuation of education, cognitive skills and non-cognitive skills influence endogenous schooling decisions and subsequent labour market outcomes in Canada. We find the effect of cognitive skills on adult incomes arises by increasing the likelihood of obtaining further education. Further, we find that both non-cognitive skills and parental valuation for education play a larger role in determining income at age 25 than cognitive skills. Last, our analysis uncovers striking differences between men and women in several of the estimated relationships. Specifically, simulations of the estimated model illustrate that i) among the low skilled, women have much higher college graduation rates, ii) the age 25 earnings gradient by either skill measure is much flatter for women, and iii) parental valuation of education plays a larger role in influencing young women than men.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
I26|Books or babies? Incapacitation and human capital effects of extended compulsory schooling on the teenage fertility of ethnic minority women|This paper examines the effects of an increase in the compulsory school-leaving (CSL) age on the teenage fertility of Roma women, a disadvantaged ethnic minority in Hungary. We use a regression discontinuity design (RDD) identification strategy and show that raising the CSL age from 16 to 18 decreased the probability of teenage motherhood among Roma women by 6.8 percentage points and delayed early motherhood by two years. We contribute to the literature by exploiting a database that covers live births, miscarriages, abortions, and still births, and contains information on the time of conception precise to the week to separate the incapacitation and human capital effects of education on fertility. We find that higher CSL age decreases the probability of getting pregnant during the school year but not during summer and Christmas breaks, which suggests that the estimated effects are generated mostly through the incapacitation channel.
I26|Higher education fees as signals|"This paper argues that the fees paid for a degree may reveal private information about ability. In contrast with traditional signalling models, degrees need not be costlier for low-ability workers to acquire. This result follows when the labour market learns workers' types with delay, but only if their job requires high ability. Fees induce a separating equilibrium when they exceed the benefit of a low ability worker ""passing"" as high ability early in their career but are less than the life cycle penalty which high ability types would suffer. Raising fees in this setting exacerbates rather than ameliorates inefficient credentialing."
I26|School Vouchers, Labor Markets and Vocational Education|We provide evidence on the long-run impact of vouchers for private secondary schools, evidence collected twenty years after students applied for the vouchers. Prior to the voucher lottery, students applied to either an academic or vocational secondary school, an important mediating factor in the vouchers’ impacts. We find strong tertiary education and labor market effects for those students who applied to vocational schools with almost no impact on those who applied to academic schools. The labor market gains for vocational students are strongest at the top of the distribution and null at the bottom of the distribution. We find additional longrun impacts on consumption, and teen-age fertility. The expected net present value of benefits to participants and to taxpayers was large and positive implying that the program was welfare improving unless net externalities were large and negative. **** RESUMEN: En este trabajo estudiamos los impactos de largo plazo del programa de becas PACES para educación secundaria privada, para alumnos de bajos recursos, utilizando información recolectada veinte años después de que los estudiantes aplicaran a la beca. Previo a la asignación aleatoria, los estudiantes debían escoger entre un colegio académico o vocacional, factor importante en el impacto de las becas. Encontramos fuertes efectos sobre la educación superior y el mercado laboral para aquellos estudiantes que aplicaron a colegios vocacionales y casi ningún impacto sobre aquellos que aplicaron a un colegio académico. Las ganancias laborales de los estudiantes vocacionales son más fuertes en la parte superior de la distribución y nulas en la parte inferior. Se encuentran impactos adicionales de largo plazo sobre consumo y embarazo adolescente. El valor presente neto esperado de los beneficios de los participantes y los contribuyentes fue positivo y de gran magnitud, lo que significaría mejoras sustancialmente en el bienestar social, a menos de que existieran externalidades netas grandes y negativas.
I26|Vocational or General Education? The Effect Upper Secondary Education Track Choice|Abstract In response to recent technological changes and the worsening outcomes of non-college educated workers, governments around the world are becoming more interested in whether different types of secondary education (vocational vs. general) might play a role in providing young people the skills they need to succeed after they graduate. Silliman and Virtanen (2019) studies labor-market returns to vocational versus general education – using a quasi-experiment created by the centralized admission process in Finland. Admission to the vocational track increases annual income by 7 percent at age 31, and the benefits show no signs of diminishing with time. Moreover, admission to the vocational track does not increase the likelihood of working in jobs at risk of replacement by automation or offshoring. We observe significantly larger returns for people who express a preference for vocational education in their applications to secondary school and whose previous school performance was mediocre (at best). These findings, coming from a period characterized by rapid technological change, provide new evidence that vocational track may offer an important pathway into the labor market.
I26|Labor Market Returns to Vocational Secondary Education|Abstract We study labor-market returns to vocational versus general secondary education using a regression discontinuity design created by the centralized admissions process in Finland. Admission to the vocational track increases annual income by 7 percent at age 31, and the benefits show no signs of diminishing with time. Moreover, admission to the vocational track does not increase the likelihood of working in jobs at risk of replacement by automation or offshoring. Consistent with the notion of comparative advantage, we observe significantly larger returns for people who express a preference for vocational education in their applications to secondary school.
I26|The Education Gradient in Health: The Case of Obesity in the UK and US|Obesity is gaining increasing attention as an issue requiring public policy initiatives. We examine the determinants of obesity in middle age, with particular attention to the role played by educational attainment. Applying quantile regression methods to longitudinal data sets from the UK and the US, we estimate the schooling effect on the distribution of Body Mass Index (BMI), the primary measure of obesity. Conditioning on childhood BMI and other characteristics of childhood, we confirm health disparities across education groups, establish that this is not a disguised income gradient and extend the current literature by showing that the education effect is greater for the upper quantiles of the BMI distribution, where obesity is indicated. We further show that the finding of variation in health returns to education along the conditional distribution of BMI, which is not revealed by conventional least squares methods, is robust across various specifications and with respect to a test addressing the potential endogeneity of education. Our similar findings across data from the UK and the US, despite the differences in public health policies and means of access to health care services, further reinforce the argument that education, in itself, plays an important role in determining at least this aspect of health status.
I26|Changing the subject: a further examination of the returns to postgraduate education|An investigation is made of the wage return to postgraduate degrees in the UK, crucially differentiating between subject of study for both undergraduate and postgraduate degree over the period 2014-2017. Positive rewards to postgraduate qualifications are found regardless of classification of undergraduate degree. Social Sciences undergraduates are most likely to change subject at postgraduate and see wage gains, implying that they gain transferable skills from their undergraduate degree to allow them to pursue a different career path should they wish. Business and Finance is a popular choice for postgraduates, which often provides significant wage gains for individuals, regardless of their undergraduate subject.
I26|High school dropout for marginal students. Evidence from randomized exam form|We exploit the assignment of exam form in a high-stakes Norwegian high school exam to estimate the impact of exam form on exam results, later school performance, graduation and longer run outcomes. Results indicate that written exams significantly reduce exam grades and reduce the probability of passing relative to the alternative oral exam, particularly for initially low-performing students. Because passing the exam is mandatory to obtain a high school diploma, this translates into reduced high school graduation rates that remain significant over time, permanently shifting a group of marginal students to drop out of high school entirely. IV estimates on labor market earnings are close to zero, but these results are too imprecise to draw firm conclusions.
I26|The Causal Effects of Adolescent School Bullying Victimisation on Later Life Outcomes|We use rich data on a cohort of English adolescents to analyse the long-term effects of experiencing bullying victimisation in junior high school. The data contain self-reports of five types of bullying and their frequency, for three waves of the data, when the pupils were aged 13 to 16 years. Using a variety of estimation strategies - least squares, matching, inverse probability weighting, and instrumental variables - we assess the effects of bullying victimisation on short- and long-term outcomes, including educational achievements, earnings, and mental ill-health at age 25 years. We handle potential measurement error in the child self-reports of bullying type and frequency by instrumenting with corresponding parental cross-reports. Using a detailed longitudinal survey linked to administrative data, we control for many of the determinants of bullying victimisation and child outcomes identified in previous literature, paired with comprehensive sensitivity analyses to assess the potential role of unobserved variables. The pattern of results strongly suggests that there are important long run effects on victims - stronger than correlation analysis would otherwise suggest. In particular, we find that both type of bullying and its intensity matters for long run outcomes.
I26|Maternal Education and Infant Health Gradient: New Answers to Old Questions|Recent studies have highlighted the importance of locality on well-being indicators such as health, later-life income, formation of human capital and fertility outcomes. By using data from the National Vital Statistics System, this paper provides an in-depth investigation of the well-documented relationship between mother's education and in- fant health. The study focuses on differential effects of mother's education on infant health outcomes across localities based on income status by using birthweight and low birthweight as measures for infant health. I find substantial non-linear effects of mothers' high school completion on infants' health outcomes and such effects are masked when specifying mother's education as a linear variable. More importantly, mother's education and infant health relationship is concentrated in relatively poorer geographic areas. This can partially be explained by drastic improvements in utilization of health services among educated mothers residing in poorer areas compared to mothers with lower levels of education. The overall findings imply that mother's education can act as a substitute for lack of external health inputs and provides cushion against adverse environmental factors in poorer areas.
I26|A dynamic model of effort choice in high school|I estimate a dynamic model of educational decisions that allows for observed and unobserved differences in initial ability. Each year students choose their level of effort by deciding over the academic level of their study program and the likelihood of end-of-year performance. Good performance is costly, but necessary to continue in the program. This replaces traditional approaches, which assume performance follows an exogenous law of motion. I use the model to investigate high school tracking policies and obtain the following results: (1) encouraging underperforming students to switch to less academic programs substantially reduces grade retention and dropout, (2) the resulting decrease in the number of college graduates is small and insignicant, and (3) a model that assumes performance is exogenous ignores a change in unobserved study effort, leading to large biases and falsely concluding there would be an important negative impact on graduation rates in higher education.
I26|Redistribution Through Education: The Value of Public Education Spending|This chapter assesses how publicly funded education affects the income distribution. It discusses and compares different approaches to measuring the consequences of government education spending. The empirical quantification of the private returns to education, the estimation of the elasticity of school enrollment to public spending in the sector, and the identification of ageearnings profiles are the building blocks of the analysis. The methods are implemented using aggregate level data and cross-sectional household surveys from Chile and Ghana. Real-world data limitations are taken into account. From the country comparison, we identify differences in how families demand education, how labor markets “value” human capital, and how public initiatives might shape income inequality and poverty. The analysis illustrates the extent to which conventional incidence analysis informs about the distributional effects of fiscal expenditure on education.
I26|The Returns to Ability and Experience in High School Labor Markets: Revisiting Evidence on Employer Learning and Statistical Discrimination|In this paper, we extend existing models that use the NLSY 79 to document employer screening and learning by showing that the return to education and ability change with experience. Specifically, we test for and document a non-linear relationship between wages and ability as measured by the AFQT score at low levels of potential experience. For high levels of AFQT, wages appear to fall as AFQT increases. As experience increases, the relationship between wages and AFQT returns to a monotonic relationship. As a result much of the observed increase in the return to AFQT as potential experience increases is associated with a change in the shape of the relationship, and the increase in the return to AFQT at lower levels of AFQT is more modest. These results are robust using samples and models from previous papers on the subject, developing a broader sample using all waves of the NLSY 79, and analyzing the question using data from the NLSY 97. Finally, we find evidence that high AFQT workers without four years of college select into occupations that provide more training, perhaps sacrificing initial wages in order to build skills.
I26|The Effects of Career and Technical Education: Evidence from the Connecticut Technical High School System|We examine the effect of admission to 16 stand-alone technical high schools within the Connecticut Technical High School System (CTHSS) on student educational and labor market outcomes. To identify the causal effect of admission on student outcomes, we exploit the fact that CTHSS utilizes a score-based admissions system and identify the effect of admission using a regression discontinuity approach. We find that male students attending one of the technical high schools are approximately 10 percentage points more likely to graduate from high school and 8 percentage points less likely to attend college, although there is some evidence that the negative effects on college attendance fade over time. We also find that male students attending a technical high school have quarterly earnings that are approximately 31% higher. Analyses of potential mechanisms behind these results reveal that male students that attend a technical high school have higher 9th grade attendance rates and higher 10th grade test scores. We find little evidence that attending a technical high school affects the educational or labor outcomes of women. These effects appear relatively broad based across different types of students in that we find little evidence of heterogeneity in these effects over student attributes like race and ethnicity, free lunch eligibility or residence in a poor, central city school district. However, when distinguishing between students based on the Career and Technical Education (CTE) offerings of the high school that these students likely would have attended, we find that the effects of admission to a CTHSS school are noticeably larger when the counterfactual high school has less CTE offerings.
I26|The Cliometric Model of Glutting: An Experimental Analysis|In this paper, we are interested in the behaviors taking place before the decision-making in terms of educational study choices. We report on an experiment whose aim is the production of data controlled in order to test the cliometric model of glutting developed by Diebolt (2001), and especially the sensitivity of individuals to expected wages and to the risk as related to a limited number of positions on the labor market.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
I26|European Social Fund’s lifelong learning and regional development: a case study|The aim of this paper is to evaluate the first impacts of the European Social Fund (hereafter ESF) lifelong learning interventions on the regional development. As is well known, lifelong learning is defined as the all purposeful learning activity, undertaken throughout life, on an ongoing basis, with the aim of improving knowledge, skills, and competence within a personal, civic, social and/or employment-related perspective (CEC, 2000). Beyond the benefits, lifelong learning represents an advantage for the regional economy that could be measured in terms of both estimation of direct impact on domestic demand and evaluation of impacts on the performance of the local economies. The combination of these two kinds of effects generates a positive impact on a wider scale: a higher and skilled workforce attracts more investment, contributing to improve the well-being of a local economy. The case study is the Veneto region. The applied methodologies used in the case study are both a survey and an econometric model. In the first case, the utilized method approaches the topic from a microeconomic perspective, while in the second case the approach is purely macroeconomic.
I26|Why Do Fiscal Multipliers Depend on Fiscal Positions?|The fiscal position can affect fiscal multipliers through two channels. Through the Ricardian channel, households reduce consumption in anticipation of future fiscal adjustments when fiscal stimulus is implemented from a weak fiscal position. Through the interest rate channel, fiscal stimulus from a weak fiscal position heightens investors’ concerns about sovereign credit risk, raises economy-wide borrowing cost, and reduces private domestic demand. We document empirically the relevance of these two channels using an Interactive Panel Vector Auto Regression model. We find that fiscal multipliers tend to be smaller when fiscal positions are weak than strong.
I26|Human capital consequences of missing out on a grammar school education|What is the value added of grammar schools? This paper disentangles the effect of selection into an academic rather than a vocational track from that of individual background on long-term human capital. Identification relies on a fuzzy regression discontinuity design, using entry test scores for grammar schools, selective secondary schools in England, and estimating discontinuities in school assignment directly from the data. We find that for the marginal admitted student, grammar attendance positively affects educational attainment, likely due to higher-ability peers, while adult labour market outcomes and health are not affected. Observed differences in human capital by school type can largely be traced back to background.
I26|"The geography of intergenerational mobility: Evidence of educational persistence and the ""Great Gatsby Curve"" in Brazil"|"This paper explores the variation in intergenerational educational mobility across the Brazilian states based on Markov transition matrixes and univariate econometric techniques. The analysis of the national household survey (PNAD-2014) confirms a strong variation in mobility among the 27 federative units in Brazil and demonstrates a significant correlation between mobility and income inequality. In this sense, this work presents empirical evidence for the existence of the ""Great Gatsby curve"" within a single country: states with greater income disparities present higher levels of persistence in educational levels across generations. Finally, I investigate one specific mechanism behind this correlation - namely, whether higher income inequality might lead to a lower investment in human capital among children from socially vulnerable households. The paper delivers robust and compelling results showing that children born into families where the parents have not completed primary education have a statistically significant reduction in their chance of completing the educational system if they live in states with a higher level of income inequality."
I26|Does microfinance have an impact on borrower's consumption patterns and women's empowerment?|This paper conducts a thorough data analysis using cross-sectional data from a study carried out in Mexico including over 16,500 observations. In the study, clusters were selected in areas Compartamos Banco, a Microfinance institution (MFI), has not lent in before. The clusters were randomly assigned to either the treatment or the control group. The analysis suggests that Microfinance has a significant positive effect on school and food expenditure but no apparent effect on entrepreneurship. Using regression analysis, a significant positive effect on women's empowerment and its positive effect on total consumption is found.
I26|Heterogeneous spillover effects of children's education on parental mental health|Despite extensive research on nonmarket returns to education, direct and spillover effects on mental health are widely unstudied. This study is the first to analyze heterogeneous intergenerational effects of children's education on parents' mental health. Given ambiguous theoretical implications, I explore potential mechanisms empirically. Using Survey on Health, Ageing and Retirement in Europe (SHARE) data, I estimate IV regressions, exploiting countrylevel variation in compulsory schooling reforms. Increasing children's education reduces parents' long-term probability of developing depression. Fathers and more educated sons drive this beneficial effect. Since mental illness is frequently undiagnosed, the findings may help improve elderly-specific health care provision.
I26|Educational mismatch and mobility|With increasing educational attainment in Germany, the issue of inefficient human capital allocation gains importance. Especially overeducation seems to be a problem, since more and more highly educated individuals are required to take jobs that do not match their educational level, settling for lower wages than their peers. This raises the question, how these individuals perform in these jobs and whether they have an advantage compared to their adequately educated colleagues performing the same job. The career mobility model suggests that this is indeed the case, with overeducated workers being more prone to take up on-the-job training, to climb up the career ladder, or to eventually leave to professions more suitable to their educational level. Our empirical analysis, using the German SOEP, confirms this theory for Germany. We find that overeducated workers have a significantly higher probability to take up on-the-job training than adequately educated workers and, at least in certain jobs, have a higher probability to move to jobs that better match their educational level. Furthermore, we find that overeducated workers experience higher wage growth than their colleagues in all job types.
I26|The Combined Role of Subsidy and Awareness in Uptake of Stigmatized Products|Can a combination of common policy interventions better stimulate the demand for health products that are widely available and well-known but whose demand may be curtailed by cultural norms? This paper studies the joint role of awareness and subsidy in increasing the demand for sanitary pads â€” a product that is ubiquitous but related to social taboo in many countries. We conduct a field experiment in Nepal in which a randomly selected group of women receive menstrual health-related awareness. In addition, both treatment and control groups face a randomly varied effective price for sanitary pads induced through allocation of discount coupons. We find that the awareness treatment shifts the demand curve to the right. Furthermore, the shift is not parallel â€” the impact is largest at the 50% discount level where the coupon redemption increases by 23 to 26 percentage points. We also find modest spillover effects of the awareness treatment. Our results suggest that combining subsidy with awareness could be a more cost-effective strategy to increase take-up of health technology whose demand is constrained by social stigma.
I26|The Market Value of Public Education - A Comparison of Three Valuation Methods|Publicly provided education is both an important public expenditure and a relevant in-kind transfer, often to the poorest households. This paper compares three methods to value education services and their distributive impact. The methods are: (i) The first method is cost of provision, according to which education is worth what it costs the state to provide it; (ii) The second method is to value educational services using the labor market as the measure of their worth; (iii) The third is to match private educational expenditures, paid for by students or their parents, with equivalent public education services, and then value the latter according to the price of the former. The results from all three approaches do not fall far from each other. The imputed income from publicly provided education reduces inequality by between 3 and 4 Gini points and increases incomes by about 6%. My conclusion is that the value of public education in Brazil is close to 6% of household income and it is quite distributive, whatever the valuation method used.
I26|Higher education and economic development: can public funding restrain the returns from tertiary education?|This paper examines whether the contribution of tertiary education to economic growth and income per capita depends on the structure of public education budgets. The analysis resorts to a panel of 41 countries over the period 1970-2010. The empirical approach is based on system GMM regressions and Hierarchical Linear Models, which allow dealing with endogeneity concerns and parameter heterogeneity. The estimates show that budget imbalances against basic schooling seem to undermine the achievement of productivity gains from higher education.
I26|Skills for the 21st Century: Findings and Policy Lessons from the OECD Survey of Adult Skills|The OECD Survey of Adult Skills is the jewel in the crown of its Programme for the International Assessment of Adult Competencies (PIAAC). This paper argues that the findings and policy lessons from the project to date justify the high hopes which were placed in PIAAC when detailed planning for the project began in 2003. First, it presents a brief recap of PIAAC and its two predecessor international skills surveys. Second, it outlines the main themes which have been investigated to date using data from PIAAC. Third, the main findings and policy lessons drawn from PIAAC are highlighted. Finally, looking forward to the second cycle of PIAAC, for which planning is now underway, the paper suggests some priority areas for improvements to the survey design in order to add to its analytical usefulness and enhance its utility to policy makers.
I26|Degrees of Poverty: The Relationship between Family Income Background and the Returns to Education|Drawing on the Panel Study of Income Dynamics, we document a startling empirical pattern: the career earnings premium from a four-year college degree (relative to a high school diploma) for persons from low-income backgrounds is considerably less than it is for those from higher-income backgrounds. For individuals whose family income in high school was above 1.85 times the poverty level, we estimate that career earnings for bachelor’s graduates are 136 percent higher than earnings for those whose education stopped at high school. However, for individuals whose family income during high school was below 1.85 times the poverty level, the career earnings of bachelor’s graduates are only 71 percent higher than those of high school graduates. This lower premium amounts to $300,000 less in career earnings in present discounted value. We establish the prevalence and robustness of these differential returns to education across race and gender, finding that they are driven by whites and men and by differential access to the right tail of the earnings distribution.
I26|Health Shocks, Human Capital, and Labor Market Outcomes|Health, human capital, and labor market outcomes are linked through complex connections that are not fully understood. We explore these links by estimating a flexible yet tractable dynamic model of human capital accumulation in the presence of health shocks using administrative data from Chile. We find that (i) human capital mitigates the negative labor market effects of health events, (ii) these alleviating effects operate through channels involving occupational choice, the frequency of exposure to health events, and access to health care, and (iii) the effect of health shocks on labor market outcomes is heterogeneous across industries and types of diagnoses.
I26|The Impact of Public Libraries on School Achievement: The Case of Medellin| This paper explores the relationship between public libraries and school achievement. Medellin counts on a system of public libraries. However, public library parks are part of a separate system. The library parks are understood as cultural centers for social development that seek to encourage the meeting of citizens and to develop educational activities that involve the digital culture. The project began in 2004 and was consolidated until 2011 with the introduction of 9 different library parks. Using an approach of differences-in-differences and matching techniques, we explore the effect of the library parks in Medellin on school performance. We found a significant effect on the performance of the language test in the students treated, especially in the long-term specification. Key Words: Public libraries, school achievement, impact evaluation, public investment. JEL Classification: C33, H54, H76, I2, I26.
I26|For Better or Worse? The Effects of Physical Education on Child Development|This study analyses the effects of regular physical education at school on cognitive skills, non-cognitive skills, motor skills, physical activity, and health. It is based on a very informative data set, the German Motorik-Modul, and identifies the effect by using variation in the required numbers of physical education lessons across and within German federal states. The results show improvements in cognitive skills. Boys' non-cognitive skills are adversely affected driven by increased peer relation problems. For girls, the results suggest improvements in motor skills and increased extra-curricular physical activities. Generally, we find no statistically significant effects on health parameters.
I26|Local Competitiveness and Labour Market Returns in a Transition Economy: Evidence from Vietnam|This paper examines the relationship between the quality of provincial governance and labour market returns in Vietnam. We find that better provincial governance has a positive effect on labour market wages for wage-earning workers. The finding is consistent across estimators, even after controlling for worker characteristics, geographic regions, urban context, economic sector and industry type. A better competitive environment for business attracts more firms to enter the market, which in turn creates greater demand for labour. Subsequently, higher demand for labour pushes up wages. Our unique contribution is that we considered the influence of provincial governance on the business environment and labour market returns.
I26|Tracking pupils into adulthood: selective schools and long-term well-being in the 1958 British cohort|We explore the effect of tracking pupils by ability into different secondary schools on adult health, well-being and labour outcomes in England. We address selection bias by balancing individual pre-treatment characteristics via entropy matching, followed by parametric regressions estimated via OLS and IV approaches. Ability tracking does not affect long-term health and well-being, while it marginally raises hourly wages for low-ability pupils, compared to a mixed-ability system. Cognitive and non-cognitive abilities measured prior to secondary school are more significant and positive predictors of adult outcomes. Particularly, non-cognitive skills may have a protective role for adult health for lower cognitive ability children.
I26|Overeducation Wage Penalty among Ph.D. Holders: An Unconditional Quantile Regression Analysis on Italian Data|The wage effect of job-education vertical mismatch (i.e. overeducation) has only recently been investigated in the case of Ph.D. holders. The existing contributions rely on OLS estimates that allow measuring the average effect of being mismatched at the mean of the conditional wages distribution. This paper, instead, observes the heterogeneity of the overeducation penalty along the wage distribution and according to Ph.D. holders' study field and sector of employment (academic/non-academic). We implement a Recentered Influence Function (RIF) to estimate an hourly wage equation and compare PhD holders who are over-educated with those who are not. The results reveal that overeducation hits the wages of those Ph.D. holders who are employed in the academic sector and in non-R&D jobs outside of the academic sector. Instead, no penalty exists among those who carry out R&D outside the Academia. The size of the penalty is higher among those who are in the mid-top of the wage distribution and hold a Social Science and Humanities specialization.
I26|The Impact of Compulsory Education on Employment and Earnings in a Transition Economy|In 1966 the minimum school-leaving age was increased from 14 to 15 years in Poland. This was a result of extending the primary school education from 7 to 8 years. At the same time, the reform did not affect the education system at post-primary levels, that is the system of secondary and higher education. In result, all education tracks were extended by one year. Using the regression discontinuity design and data from the Polish LFS (2001-2005), we find that the reform had no impact on men's and women's hourly earnings and employment rate. A similar finding was reported earlier for a few Western European countries. However, our study is the first one to estimate the impact of the compulsory schooling extended in a centrally planned economy on the individuals' labour market outcomes in the period of economic transition. Besides, we find that the reform had a negative impact on the hourly earnings of individuals with primary education.
I26|The Wage Premium from Foreign Language Skills|The globalization of labour markets makes language skills one of the key competences required by employers nowadays. Our purpose is to estimate the wage premium from foreign language skills (FLS) earned by the Poles. We also want to find out whether this premium is affected by the fact of working in Poland or abroad. The Poles seem to be a good case study, because the Polish language is not used for international communication, while as much as 58% of Poles command at least one foreign language and 5% of Poles earn their income abroad. We use data from three waves (2012-2014) of the Human Capital Balance survey with a pooled sample of about 35,000 individuals. We estimate wage equation with the Heckman correction for selection to employment and we check for robustness with propensity score matching. We find that the advanced command of a foreign language bring a 6% wage premium to individuals working in Poland and 22% to those working abroad. Interestingly, those working in Poland earn a much higher wage premium from proficiency in Spanish (29%), Italian (20%) or French (19%) than from proficiency in English (8%). But the English language is the only foreign language that brings a wage premium to Poles working abroad.
I26|The Impact of Compulsory Schooling on Earnings. Evidence from the 1999 Education Reform in Poland|In 1999, a reform of education was implemented in Poland, which added one year to the shortest available educational path, leading to the acquisition of basic vocational education. In the new system, students choosing this path acquire one more year of general education, which, according to the authors of the reform, should improve the student's position in the labor market, as the inadequate general skills were identified as the main deficit of basic vocational education prior to the reform. Using the regression discontinuity design and data from the Polish LFS, we find that an additional year of general education has led to an increase in hourly wages of men, but not of women, who completed basic vocational schools.
I26|Is additional schooling worthless? Revising the zero returns to compulsory schooling in Germany|This study estimates the effect of compulsory schooling on earnings. For identification, I exploit a German reform that extended the duration of secondary schooling in the 1960s. I find that hourly wages increase by 8% per additional year of schooling. This result challenges a study by Pischke and von Wachter (2008) who find zero returns to schooling using the same survey data and reform. I show that their small and insignificant estimates suffer from unconsidered institutional details. A complementary analysis using social security records confirms significant effects on earnings, but yields no effects on employment and eligibility for public transfers.
I26|Quiet Please! Adverse Effects of Noise on Child Development|Noise pollution is detrimental to health and to cognitive development of children. This is not only true for extreme levels of noise in the neighborhood of an airport but also to traffic noise in urban areas. Using a census of preschool children, we show that children who are exposed to intensive traffic noise significantly fall behind in terms of school readiness. Being exposed to additional 10 dB(A) compares to about 3 months in kindergarten. We contribute to the literature and the policy debate by working with administrative data and focusing on everyday exposure to noise. The proposed method is easily applied to other regions. We assess the public costs of different abatement instruments and compare the costs to the benefits. It turns out that the commonly used abatement measures like quiet pavement or noise protection walls in densely populated areas of about 3,000 to 5,000 inhabitants per km2 can be cost efficient, even with a conservative assessment of the benefits.
I26|The Effects of a Parenting Program on Maternal Well-Being: Evidence from a Randomized Controlled Trial|This paper evaluates how the Triple P parenting program affects maternal well-being. We analyze data from a randomized controlled trial and a separate sample of mothers from a deprived neighborhood without a control group. For the latter, we generate a control group using SOEP survey data and evaluate the validity of this procedure. Overall, our results show a positive effect of Triple P on maternal well-being – with the largest effects appearing three years after treatment. Thus, we illustrate that maternal well-being is an additional channel through which parenting programs, as examples of early childhood interventions, benefit families.
I26|Multigrading and Child Achievement|"We exploit Italian law DPR 81/2009, which determines class composition, as an instrument to identify the causal e ect of grouping students of di erent grades into a single class (multigrading) on children cognitive achievement. This article focuses on 7-yearold students|those at the beginning of their formal education. Results suggest that attendance in multigrade classes versus single-grade classes increases students' performance on standardized tests by 15{20 percent of a standard deviation. The positive impact of multigrading only appears for children sharing their class with peers from higher grades and is relatively stronger for students from disadvantaged backgrounds."
I26|The Returns from Training in Colombia: Evidence from a Longitudinal Survey|In this paper we explore the wage returns from training in Colombia, using data from the “The Social Longitudinal Survey” between 2009 and 2010. Using the longitudinal component of the data, we control for time invariant individuals’ unobserved heterogeneity and, following Wooldridge (1995), we correct for sample selection in panel data. Our results suggest that there is a positive return from training. The magnitude of the estimates suggests an increase in wages between 7% and 9%. We find that OLS overestimate the effects of receiving training. This suggests that individuals who receive training are the ones with high unobserved skills. We also find that trainees increase their probability of being continuously employed, suggesting an improvement in individuals’ working conditions. **** RESUMEN: Este documento explora los retornos de la capacitación para el trabajo en Colombia usando los datos de la Encuesta Longitudinal de Fedesarrollo entre 2009 y 2010. Los datos panel nos permite controlar por la heterogeneidad no observada de los individuos, que no cambia en el tiempo. Para controlar por el sesgo de selección, utilizamos la metodología de corrección propuesta en Wooldridge (1995). Los resultados sugieren que los retornos a la capacitación para el trabajo son positivos y significativos, entre el 7% y 9%. Adicionalmente, los resultados indican que la mayor capacitación incrementa la probabilidad de continuar empleado, sugiriendo una mejora en las condiciones laborales de los individuos.
I26|Elitism in Higher Education and Inequality: Why Are the Nordic Countries So Special?|Abstract Countries in which there are two channels of education may have a separating equilibrium in which individuals with high abilities learn in elite universities and individuals with low ability learn in standard ones. Elite universities have higher budgets, better scholars, better labs and a better student network, resulting in the human capital of these students having a higher productivity in the more competitive tradable sector.
I26|Long-Term Gains from Longer School Days|This paper examines whether additional time in school affects labor market outcomes and educational attainment in adulthood. We leverage within and across city and cohort variation covering a large-scale reform that increased the Chilean elementary and secondary school day by 30 percent between 1997 and 2010. Exposure to full-day school increases educational attainment and earnings when students are in their 20s and 30s. In addition, we find evidence of delayed childbearing among women, and some occupational upskilling. These labor market effects are not concentrated in any particular subgroup, but are widespread throughout the population. JEL classification: I26; I25; J24; H52
I26|Skills, Signals, and Employability: An Experimental Investigation|As skills of labor-market entrants are usually not directly observed by employers, individuals acquire skill signals. To study which signals are valued by employers, we simultaneously and independently randomize a broad range of skill signals on pairs of resumes of fictitious applicants among which we ask a large representative sample of German human-resource managers to choose. We find that signals in all three studied domains - cognitive skills, social skills, and maturity - have a significant effect on being invited for a job interview. Consistent with the relevance, expectedness, and credibility of different signals, the specific signal that is effective in each domain differs between apprenticeship applicants and college graduates. While GPAs and social skills are significant for both genders, males are particularly rewarded for maturity and females for IT and language skills. Older HR managers value school grades less and other signals more, whereas HR managers in larger firms value college grades more.
I26|Government education expenditures, pre-primary education and school performance: A cross-country analysis| Using data from OECDâ€™s PISA, Eurostat and World Bankâ€™s WDI, we explore how child cognitive outcomes at the aggregate country level are related to macroeconomic conditions, specifically government education expenditures and early education experience. We find that both government expenditures in education and attendance to early child care are associated with better later school performance. We also consider different childcare characteristics such as duration and quality, which appear to have significant effects Our results may imply that policies encouraging childcare expansion should also take into account quality issues.
I26|Vocational High School Graduate Wage Gap: The Role of Cognitive Skills and Firms|Comparing cohorts born between 1951 and 1994, we document and interpret changes in the wage differential among graduates from secondary education with a vocational and a general curriculum. The wage gap initially increased and then decreased. We find that these changes cannot be attributed to simple compositional shifts in the economy, but instead relate to important changes in worker allocation to firms that are heterogeneous in wage policies: the demise of assortative matching between workers and firms that worked out favourably for vocational graduates.
I26|Is Additional Schooling Worthless? Revising Zero Returns to Compulsory Schooling in Germany|This study estimates the effect of compulsory schooling on earnings. For identification, I exploit a German reform that extended the duration of secondary schooling in the 1960s. I find that hourly wages increase by 6%-8% per additional year of schooling. This result challenges prior findings for Germany of zero returns to schooling, obtained by using the same survey data and reform. I show that the earlier estimates suffer from unconsidered institutional details. A complementary analysis using social security records confirms significant effects on earnings, but yields no effects on employment and take-up of public transfers.
I26|Labor-Market Returns to Higher Vocational Schooling|This paper examines the labor-market returns to a new form of postsecondary vocational education, vocational master's degrees. We use individual fixed effects models on the matched sample of students and non-students from Finland to capture any time-invariant differences across individuals. Attendance in vocational master's programs leads to higher earnings of eight percent five years after entry even if selection on unobservables is twice as strong as selection on observables. Earnings gains are similar by gender and age, but they are marginally higher for health than for business or technology and trades.
I26|Race-Blind Admissions, School Segregation, and Student Outcomes: Evidence from Race-Blind Magnet School Lotteries|"We know surprisingly little about the influence of race-blind school admissions on student outcomes. This paper studies a unique reform where a large, urban school district was federally mandated to adopt a race-blind lottery system to fill seats in its oversubscribed magnet schools. The district had previously integrated its schools by conducting separate admissions lotteries for black and non-black students to offset the predominantly black applicant pools. The switch to race-blind lotteries dramatically segregated subsequent magnet school cohorts. I show that race-blind admissions caused the more segregated schools to enroll students with lower average baseline achievement and to employ lower value-added teachers due to sorting. I also find that segregation is further exacerbated by ""white flight"" as white students transfer out of the district after attending more segregated schools. Ultimately, the mandated segregation decreases student standardized test scores and four-year college attendance. I provide suggestive evidence that the impact of racial segregation is partially mediated by changes to peer baseline achievement."
I26|The Eﬀect of College Education on Health and Mortality: Evidence from Canada|We investigate the returns to college attendance in Canada in terms of health and mortality reduction. To do so, we ﬁrst use a dynamic health microsimulation model to document how interventions which incentivize college attendance among high school graduates may impact their health trajectory, health care consumption and life expectancy. We ﬁnd large returns both in terms of longevity (4.2 years additional years at age 50), reduction in the prevalence of various health conditions (10-15 percentage points reduction in diabetes and 5 percentage points for stroke) and health care consumption (28.4% reduction in lifetime hospital stays, 19.8 for specialists). We ﬁnd that education impacts mortality mostly by delaying the incidence of health conditions as well as providing a survival advantage conditional on having diseases. Second, we provide quasi-experimental evidence on the impact of college attendance on long-term health outcomes by exploiting the Canadian Veteran’s Rehabilitation Act, a program targeted towards returning WW-II veterans and which incentivized college attendance. The impact on mortality are found to be larger than those estimated from the health microsimulation model (hazard ratio of 0.216 compared to 0.6 in the simulation model) which suggest substantial returns to college education in terms of healthy life extension which we estimate around one million canadian dollars.
I26|Externalidades de la educación bajo la estimación de modelos multinivel: un enfoque por tipo de trabajador|Externalidades de la educación bajo la estimación de modelos multinivel: un enfoque por tipo de trabajador Externalities of education under the estimation of multilevel models: an approach by type of worker Andrés Felipe Sarria A.* * Magíster en Economía Aplicada de la Universidad del Valle (Colombia). Profesor de la Facultad de Ciencias Económicas y Empresariales de la Universidad Santiago de Cali. Dirección postal: 763531 Palmira (Colombia). andres.sarria00@usc.edu.co. Resumen Esta investigación pretende determinar la presencia en Santiago de Cali de externalidades positivas del capital humano (educación) sobre los ingresos individuales de las personas ocupadas en la ciudad. Se utilizó la Encuesta de Empleo y Calidad de Vida 2013 para el municipio de Santiago de Cali, con la cual se construyeron anidamientos denominados “tipos de firmas”, diferenciados por su dotación en capital humano. Por medio de la estimación de ecuaciones mincerianas bajo la metodología de modelos jerárquicos de dos niveles, se encontró evidencia que relaciona las características del entorno laboral (tipos de firmas) con los ingresos laborales a nivel individual. Es de aclarar que las estimaciones se ejecutaron después de realizar pruebas de sesgo de selección. Además, se llevó a cabo el mismo análisis diferenciando el efecto de las externalidades entre individuos “cualificados” y “no cualificados” como lo plantea el modelo teórico de Moretti (2004). Palabras clave: externalidades, capital humano, educación, tipos de firmas. Clasificación JEL: I26, J24, J31. Abstract This research intends to examine whether in Cali (Colombia), there are positive externalities for human capital (education) regarding individual incomes of working individuals, using the Survey of Income and Life Quality 2013, with which groups called “types of business” were formed, differentiated by their endowment in human capital. Through the estimation of Mincerian equations (under the methodology of hierarchical models) it is found evidence that relates the characteristics of the working environment with individual behavior. It should be clarified that the estimates were developed after performing test of selection bias. In addition, the same analysis is carried out by differentiating the effect of externalities between “qualified” and “unskilled” individuals, as proposed by Moretti (2004). Keyword: externalities, human capital, education, types of firms. JEL Codes: I26, J24, J31. 1. INTRODUCCIÓN Los efectos de la educación sobre los ingresos a nivel individual son bien conocidos debido al gran volumen de investigaciones sobre ese tema. Desde Mincer (1974) se empezaron a desarrollar estudios que buscan encontrar una relación consistente entre educación e ingresos a nivel individual. En la mayoría de esos estudios se ha revelado la existencia de una correlación positiva entre las variables mencionadas. Sin embargo, es posible pensar que la educación no solo tiene un efecto directo en los ingresos de las personas, también se debe considerar un efecto indirecto vía externalidades. En la mayoría de los estudios que relacionan la educación con el ingreso (ecuación minceriana) no se tienen en cuenta los efectos indirectos (externalidades) de la educación, y por lo tanto se niega la posibilidad de que un individuo reciba algún tipo de beneficio en términos de ingreso procedente de la concentración de capital humano de la firma o lugar de trabajo al cual pertenece (Marcelo, 2005). Al no tener en cuenta la posible existencia de externalidades por educación, se podría estar subvalorando o sobrevalorando su papel en el bienestar individual y social. Dado lo anterior, el objetivo general de esta investigación es determinar la relación entre la concentración de capital humano de los diferentes tipos de firmas1 o empresas del municipio de Santiago de Cali y los ingresos laborales a nivel individual. Teniendo en cuenta el modelo planteado por Moretti (2004), también se busca señalar la existencia de una diferencia en ganancias por concentración de capital humano entre trabajadores cualificados y no cualificados. El documento está estructurado de la siguiente manera: primero se hará una revisión de la literatura acorde al tema de investigación, en la que se hace referencia a los trabajos de carácter nacional e internacional más relevantes sobre este tópico; acto seguido, se lleva a cabo la exposición del modelo de Moretti (2004), que compone el marco. 2. ANTECEDENTES Una de las motivaciones para llevar a cabo un estudio de externalidades surge del trabajo de Psacharopoulos (1994), quien indaga sobre la rentabilidad de la inversión en educación a escala global. En esta investigación se encuentra que la rentabilidad social por nivel educativo es menor que la rentabilidad individual, por lo tanto, se estaría en presencia de externalidades negativas de la educación, resultado que está en contra de la teoría económica e intuición, pero que incentiva a profundizar e innovar en el tema y su problemática. Según sus resultados, las rentabilidades sociales por nivel educativo de la educación primaria, secundaria y superior son, respectivamente, 20%, 11,4% y 14%, mientras que a nivel individual para los mismos niveles educativos la rentabilidad es de 27,7%, 14,7% y 21,7%. Para llegar a estos resultados se estimó los rendimientos de la educación a nivel individual y social bajo funciones de costo beneficio, con las cuales no se tienen en cuenta los posibles efectos spillover de la educación. Por otro lado, la investigación que más se acerca a lo que busca este estudio es la de Marcelo (2005), en la que el autor busca determinar la relación entre la inversión en educación y las externalidades en los salarios individuales en Bogotá. Sus resultados avalan la existencia de externalidades positivas de la educación por nivel educativo en esa ciudad, donde el 38,8% de la variabilidad del ingreso individual es explicado por las características de las vecindades, mientras que el 46,7% es explicado por factores individuales. Castellar y Uribe (2001) también consideran que para estudiar las externalidades de la educación se deben tener en cuenta dos dimensiones, la individual y la colectiva, referentes al segmento donde convive el individuo. Utilizando una metodología de estimación de datos panel bajo el concepto de endogenización de las externalidades, los autores encuentran que la rentabilidad social de la educación es mayor que la individual, confirmando la existencia de externalidades positivas de la educación. En este caso se trata la externalidad como un componente fijo y por lo tanto se modela en la estimación, encontrando que un año promedio adicional de educación en un segmento induce un aumento de 9,4% de los ingresos de los individuos pertenecientes a ese segmento. Rodrigo (2010) estudia las externalidades de capital humano en México, con especial interés en la educación superior. A partir de una estimación bajo la metodología de mínimos cuadrados ordinarios y el marco teórico de Moretti (2004), el autor encuentra que aumentos de un año en la escolaridad promedio de una localidad, están asociados con un incremento entre 4% y 7% del salario promedio; un aumento en 1% de la proporción de egresados de educación superior está asociado con un aumento entre 0,7% y 1%, efecto entre 50% y 70% mayor que el efecto asignado al aumento de egresados de educación media superior. Rauch (1991) lleva a cabo una exploración empírica de las ganancias de la productividad desde la concentración de capital humano, trabajando específicamente con las ciudades de Estados Unidos. Para llevar a cabo su objetivo, introduce en la ecuación de ingresos la media del capital humano agregado del mercado laboral local. Los resultados corroboran la presencia de externalidades de capital humano positivas, encontrando que un año adicional de educación media aumenta la productividad media de los factores en 2,8%; resultado muy similar al de Lucas (1988), quien construye un modelo teórico de crecimiento de largo plazo, basado en el capital humano como motor de crecimiento económico y suponiendo que la economía de Estados Unidos estaba en la senda de crecimiento equilibrado descrita en su modelo. El autor encuentra que un año adicional de educación media eleva la productividad en 3,2% En un trabajo similar, Moretti (2004) estima efectos spillover en los ingresos de trabajadores de diferentes ciudades, con distintas proporciones en cuanto al número graduados de educación superior. El autor utiliza datos longitudinales para estimar un modelo de selección no aleatoria de los trabajadores entre las ciudades. Los resultados muestran que aumentos de un punto porcentual en la oferta de graduados universitarios aumenta los salarios de los individuos que abandonaron la escuela secundaria en 1,9%, los graduados de la escuela secundaria en 1,6% y los graduados universitarios en 0,4%, ratificando lo que predice su modelo sobre las externalidades de la educación según el tipo de trabajador. Acemoglu y Angrist (2001) se preguntan qué tan grandes son las externalidades del capital humano en Estados Unidos. Para responder a esta cuestión plantean la estimación de los retornos privados de la educación y su efecto externo, empleando la metodología de mínimos cuadrados en dos etapas, utilizando como variables instrumentales las leyes de educación obligatoria y trabajo infantil en Estados Unidos. Partiendo de los datos censales de ese país durante el periodo 1960—1980, los autores encuentran retornos externos estadísticamente no significativos de alrededor del 1%, que en su mayoría van desde —1% al 3%. En contraste, utilizando datos del censo de 1990 se hacen estimaciones de la tasa de retorno externa significativas de 4% o más. A pesar de este último resultado, los autores advierten que las deducciones y el análisis elaborado por ellos mismos ofrecen poca evidencia de externalidades de la educación positivas en los ingresos. Fan y Ma (2012) estiman los retornos externos de la educación para China. Utilizando datos longitudinales, los autores examinan los cambios salariales asociados a la proporción de graduados universitarios en las provincias de ese país. El modelo de efectos fijos muestra que los rendimientos externos de la educación son cero. Sin embargo, estimando el modelo mediante el método de efectos variables, donde la participación de los graduados universitarios se instrumenta por el número de universidades con un estatuto especial, se encuentran retornos externos de la educación de 10% a 14%. Como particularidad, en este trabajo se rescata que los rendimientos no son significativos para los trabajadores altamente educados, mientras que para los no educados el efecto es positivo y significativo, corroborando nuevamente lo postulado por Moretti (2004). Resultado contrario al anterior encuentra Heuermann (2009), quien para el oeste de Alemania, utilizando una metodología de datos panel, estima que aumentos en la cuota regional de trabajadores cualificados aumentan el salario de los trabajadores altamente cualificados en 1,8%. Por otro lado, los trabajadores no cualificados ven incrementar sus ingresos en 0,6% ante aumentos del 1% en la proporción de trabajadores cualificados. Este resultado es contrario al descrito en el modelo de Moretti (2004), en el que se supone que el efecto competencia lleva a que el salario de los trabajadores cualificados se vea diezmado por el aumento de trabajadores de su tipo. 3. MARCO TEÓRICO Un modelo teórico que capta el efecto de las externalidades de la educación sobre los salarios individuales, es el propuesto por Moretti (2004), que a partir de una función de producción Cobb—Douglas tiene en cuenta dos tipos de trabajadores, cualificados y no cualificados, considerados sustitutos imperfectos, lo que indica el cumplimiento de los efectos spillover propuestos desde Marshall (1920). Es de aclarar que el modelo teórico de Moretti (2004) define a las ciudades como conglomerados o anidamientos de segundo nivel, consideradas economías competitivas que producen un único bien “Y” comerciado en el mercado nacional. Para el desarrollo del modelo teórico de la presente investigación, no se consideran ciudades sino tipos de firmas que producen un único tipo de bien “Y”, lo que permite una mayor desagregación y probabilidad de interacción entre individuos, ya no pertenecientes a ciudades sino a tipos de firmas. En términos formales el modelo parte de la siguiente función de producción: Donde N1j cuantifica el total de trabajadores “cualificados” en el tipo de firma j; N0j es el número de trabajadores “no cualificados” en j; Kj se toma como el capital dado por los tipos de firmas. Por último,?0j y ?1j mide la productividad de cada tipo de trabajador y permite captar el efecto derrame (spillover) del capital humano. La forma funcional de este último parámetro (en logaritmos) es la siguiente: En este caso ?i representa el efecto del propio capital humano en la productividad del individuo. Se debe tener en cuenta que ?1?>??0 debido a que el capital humano del trabajador 1 (cualificado) es mayor que el del trabajador 0 (no cualificado). Por otro lado, (?) mide el efecto de la proporción de trabajadores cualificados (proporción de trabajadores con educación superior) sobre la productividad del individuo. De esta manera, si ? = 0 no existirían externalidades derivadas de la educación, ya que la proporción de trabajadores cualificados dentro de un tipo de firma no afectaría el salario en términos individuales. En caso contrario, si ? > 0 existirían externalidades de la educación. Dado que el modelo supone un mercado competitivo, el problema de maximización de los beneficios conduce a que el salario sea igual a la productividad marginal del trabajo. De esa forma se tiene que: Donde: ; Capital por trabajador. ; Proporción de trabajadores cualificados. Para conocer el efecto de las externalidades de la educación sobre los salarios, se debe obtener la variación del salario para cada tipo de trabajador ante un cambio marginal en la proporción de trabajadores con educación superior (cualificados) en el tipo de firma. Se tiene entonces que: Para los trabajadores no cualificados el resultado es positivo, pues el efecto de sustitución imperfecta (dos primeros sumandos de (6)) y el efecto spillover (tercer sumando) va en dirección positiva. Este resultado indica que los trabajadores no cualificados se benefician aun en ausencia de los efectos spillover, debido a que la complementariedad con trabajadores cualificados aumenta su salario. Por otro lado, para los trabajadores cualificados los efectos van en sentido contrario. El efecto precio (primeros dos sumandos de (5)) disminuye el salario ante el aumento en la oferta de trabajadores de su propio tipo, mientras que el efecto spillover lo aumenta (tercer sumando). Esto quiere decir que el efecto total depende de cuál de los dos domine. 4. METODOLOGÍA Para captar las externalidades de la educación provenientes del entorno donde trabaja el individuo, es necesaria la aplicación de modelos jerárquicos o multinivel, pues esta metodología de estimación tiene en cuenta la variación entre tipos de firmas a nivel educativo y su influencia en el salario promedio del individuo. Desde ese punto de vista, la diferencia en los ingresos individuales no solo es explicada por las características propias de las personas, sino por el entorno en el cual se desenvuelven laboralmente. En específico, la dotación de capital humano de los diversos tipos de firmas donde trabajan los individuos puede explicar parte de la variación de los ingresos individuales: a este efecto se le conoce como externalidad de la educación. Para la aplicación de los modelos multinivel es necesario que la estructura de los datos de la población a estudiar sea jerárquica. En este caso la población consta de dos jerarquías, el primer nivel integrado por los individuos y el segundo nivel por los tipos de firmas o empresas donde los individuos desarrollan su actividad productiva. Para la construcción de los tipos de firmas, se tienen en cuenta dos criterios de similitud: la actividad2 a la que se dedica la empresa y el tamaño3 de esta, definido por el número de trabajadores de la empresa según el artículo 2 de la ley 905 de 2004, modificado en esta investigación en la última categoría4, con la intención de lograr un mayor balance en la muestra de tipos de firmas. Con el cruce de estos criterios se busca especificar “tipos de firmas” diferentes entre sí, pero con similitud dentro de ellas por parte de sus integrantes (trabajadores). Para mayor claridad, se debe especificar que los “tipos de firmas” en este caso hacen referencia a grupos de individuos que trabajan en empresas perteneciente a un mismo sector o actividad productiva y con un mismo tamaño de empresa, por ejemplo: los individuos que trabajan en empresas del sector industrial en plantas con un personal mayor a los 100 trabajadores pertenecerían a un mismo tipo de firma, que se definiría como un tipo de firma “industrial grande”. La caracterización de la muestra y la estimación del modelo jerárquico se realiza con base en la información de la Encuesta de Empleo y Calidad de Vida para Cali (2013), con la cual se construyen las diferentes variables a nivel de individuos y de tipos de firmas, y se realizan los respectivos controles para obtener, además de una estimación global, resultados que diferencian por tipo de trabajador (cualificado y no cualificado). 4.1. Modelos multinivel El estudio de los modelos jerárquicos que se lleva a cabo a continuación tiene como base las interpretaciones propuestas por Velasco (2006) y Valens (2007). Por este motivo en la siguiente explicación se trabaja con la misma notación y línea argumentativa. El caso básico de los modelos multinivel se conoce como modelo nulo, que supone la no existencia de variables explicativas tanto para el nivel 1 como para nivel 2. Otro nombre que toma dicho planteamiento es el de modelo con intercepto aleatorio. La estructura básica del modelo es la siguiente: En los modelos multinivel se descompone en dos términos: De esta forma la ecuación (7) quedaría de la siguiente manera: En donde se tiene que: Aquí ?00 vendría siendo el salario promedio en la población de firmas; esta es la parte constante o sistemática de la ecuación; u0j representa el efecto aleatorio a nivel 2 (tipos de firmas) que constituye el ingreso diferencial del tipo de firma j y eij es el efecto aleatorio a nivel uno. La relevancia del modelo nulo radica en que justifica o no la utilización de los modelos multinivel, debido a que con este se puede captar si la variación de los ingresos individuales es explicada en alguna medida por las diferencias de capital humano de las firmas. En el caso de que la variación del capital humano de los tipos de firmas no explique la varianza de los ingresos, no se justificaría la utilización de este tipo de modelos (no existirían externalidades de la educación). Se tiene entonces que: Si la estimación arroja que ?2u0 es no significativa, no se debería emplear un modelo jerárquico, sino más bien trabajar con modelos de regresión lineal clásicos, como MCO. Dado lo anterior, el primer paso a desarrollar es la estimación del modelo nulo, con el cual se pretende probar la necesidad de plantear un modelo en niveles. Después de llevar a cabo la estimación del modelo nulo se debe plantear un modelo con variables explicativas en ambos niveles, con el objetivo de reducir la varianza desconocida (14) de la variable dependiente, en este caso los ingresos en términos logarítmicos (LNWi). La varianza desconocida VAR(yij), como se planteó anteriormente, estaría compuesta por las varianzas de las características individuales y de los tipos de firmas. Al incluir los regresores se esperaría que esa varianza se empiece a reducir, debido a que ya se están teniendo en cuenta características a nivel individual y de tipo de firma para explicar el comportamiento de los salarios. Al tener en cuenta p variables explicativas a nivel 1 y a la proporción de cualificados como variable del segundo nivel, el modelo planteado sería el siguiente: Donde xpij representa las características individuales tenidas en cuenta para explicar el comportamiento de los salarios y EDU0j corresponde al stock de educación del tipo de firma j medido por la proporción individuos cualificados en el interior de un tipo de firma. Por otro lado, usualmente se trabaja con el ingreso por hora como variable dependiente. Sin embargo, dicho modelo está condicionado por el supuesto de que la elasticidad del ingreso por hora trabajada es unitaria (Castellar y Uribe, 2001). En caso de que no se cumpla el supuesto, se debe trabajar con el ingreso mensual como variable dependiente e incluir las horas trabajadas como variable de control (Quiñones, 2011). En caso de que se cumpla la hipótesis de elasticidad unitaria del ingreso por hora trabajada, sería conveniente hacer la modelación con el ingreso por hora como variable dependiente, ganando eficiencia en la estimación (Castellar y Uribe, 2001). Como se planteó anteriormente, el stock de educación de los tipos de firmas (proporción de educados) es la variable principal a nivel 2, ya que el objetivo de la investigación se basa en las externalidades de la educación. Esta variable representa una educación por la que el individuo no ha pagado, pero que se espera influya en el salario de las personas (externalidad). Teniendo en cuenta lo anteriormente planteado, el modelo tendría la siguiente especificación: Donde xpij representa las variables o características del individuo que determinan su salario (educación, experiencia, sexo, estado civil, horas trabajadas, estrato socioeconómico, posición en el hogar y raza) y w0j las variables a nivel firma que afectarían el salario del individuo perteneciente a ese grupo (proporción de personas con educación superior en la firma j). 4.2. Caracterización a nivel de tipos de firmas Antes de la estimación del modelo econométrico, es importante hacer una descripción de la muestra estudiada. En primera instancia, se evidencia en la figura 1 que los ingresos promedio de los tipos de firma presentan una alta volatilidad5, hecho que se articula con la idea de que existen diferencias notables en las características de dichos grupos. La relevancia de la tabla 2 se evidencia al compararla con los resultados de la tabla 3, que representa los ingresos promedio para los diez tipos de firma con menor proporción de individuos cualificados. En este caso, los ingresos promedio están por debajo del millón de pesos, excepto el caso de las firmas medianas dedicadas a la agricultura, ganadería o silvicultura. Este resultado muestra claramente que los ingresos promedio de los tipos de firmas con menor proporción de individuos cualificados son más bajos que el de los tipos de firma con mayor concentración de cualificados. Por último, en la figura 3, que muestra los ingresos promedio y la proporción de individuos cualificados para el total de tipos de firmas tenidos en cuenta, se puede observar que a medida que los ingresos promedio bajan, la proporción de individuos cualificados también desciende, relación que es acorde con la hipótesis planteada en la investigación. Sin embargo, solo con la estimación del modelo econométrico se podría confirmar la causalidad entre ambas variables. En ese sentido, con la modelación se busca conocer cómo y en que magnitud un cambio marginal en la proporción de individuos cualificados de los tipos de firmas afecta los ingresos a nivel individual, tanto para personas cualificadas como no cualificadas. 5. RESULTADOS ECONOMÉTRICOS 5.1. Modelo nulo Como se expresó en la metodología, el modelo nulo debe ser el primer paso para la estimación econométrica de los modelos jerárquicos, debido a que este justifica o no la implementación de modelos multinivel. En la tabla 4 se observan los resultados de este modelo, donde ?0 es el punto de corte, que representa el ingreso promedio en términos logarítmicos de todos los trabajadores. La varianza de los ingresos medios de todos los tipos de firmas (varianza entre—tipos de firmas, ?2µ0 ) es de 0.105, con una desviación típica de 0.026. Dado lo anterior, el estadístico t corresponde a un valor de , que, al ser contrastado con el valor crítico de la distribución T—Student a un nivel de significancia del 1%, permite concluir que la varianza a nivel dos es significativa a la hora de explicar las diferencias en los ingresos individuales. Por lo tanto, se concluye que existen diferencias entre los tipos de firmas, en el sentido de que tienen ingresos medios diferenciados, los cuales deben ser explicados por sus características. Por otro lado, la varianza de los ingresos de los trabajadores dentro de los tipos de firmas (varianza entre—trabajadores o intratipo de firma, ?e2) es de 0,568 con una desviación típica de 0,012. Al igual que la anterior, es significativa al aplicar la prueba T—Student. Concluyendo que existen diferencias significativas entre los ingresos de los trabajadores en el interior de los tipos de firmas. Estos resultados indican que hay variación residual significativa en el modelo nulo. Es decir que tanto las diferencias individuales como las diferencias entre tipos de firmas explican el comportamiento de los ingresos. Se debe entonces utilizar modelos multinivel, puesto que su proceso de modelación consiste en expandir el modelo, lo que implica introducir variables en ambos niveles que logren explicar el comportamiento de los ingresos. En este caso se tiene en cuenta la proporción de individuos cualificados como una característica a nivel dos que incide en el comportamiento de los ingresos a nivel individual. Por último, en la tabla 4 se encuentra el coeficiente de correlación intragrupo: Este coeficiente indica que del total de la varianza de los ingresos de los trabajadores, el 16% corresponde a la varianza entre tipos de firmas. En otras palabras, la diferencia entre los ingresos obtenidos por los trabajadores es explicada en dicha proporción por el “efecto tipo de firma”: Trabajar en un determinado tipo de firma sí es relevante a la hora de percibir los ingresos. La pregunta a responder a continuación es: ¿la proporción de individuos cualificados dentro de los distintos tipos de firmas es una característica que explica la varianza de los ingresos a nivel individual? En otras palabras, ¿existen externalidades de la educación y, por lo tanto, tipos de firmas con mayor capital humano tienen mayor efecto en los ingresos individuales? 5.2. Modelo multinivel Antes de realizar la estimación del modelo jerárquico, es necesario observar la existencia o no de sesgo de selección en la estimación de la ecuación de ingresos. Para tal fin, en primera instancia se estimó un modelo probit (ver Anexo 1), con el que se capta la probabilidad de obtener ingresos mayores a cero, para posteriormente calcular la inversa de la razón de Mills (?i). En la estimación de ese modelo se tuvieron en cuenta las siguientes variables explicativas: • Estado civil • Sexo • Posición en el hogar (jefe de hogar o no) • Edad • Edad al cuadrado El resultado relevante en la estimación de este modelo es (?i), que refleja la probabilidad estimada de que el individuo “i” esté ocupado y por lo tanto obtenga ingresos laborales. Acto seguido, se incluye (?i) en el modelo multinivel de externalidades de la educación para disponer de una medida de sesgo de selección. Como se puede observar en el Anexo 2, este coeficiente da no significativo6 y por lo tanto se rechaza la hipótesis de sesgo de selección en el modelo, resultado que implica la no necesidad de incluir ?i en el modelo econométrico. Dado lo anterior, se procede a la estimación del modelo multinivel de externalidades de la educación. En la tabla 5 se encuentran los resultados del modelo. Primero se analizan los resultados para el modelo que considera ambos tipos de individuos (cualificados y no cualificados). Se destaca que las variables a nivel individual (nivel 1) son todas significativas y cumplen con el signo esperado. La rentabilidad privada de la educación muestra que un año adicional en la escuela genera aumentos en los ingresos del 6,4% en promedio, resultado acorde en la dirección (signo) pero menor que el encontrado por Marcelo (2005), quien estima una tasa de retorno privada de 12% bajo la utilización de modelos multinivel por conglomerados para la ciudad de Bogotá. La experiencia cumple con la condición de rendimientos marginales decrecientes expuesta por Mincer (1974). Mayores niveles de experiencia generan incrementos en los ingresos hasta llegar a un máximo, a partir del cual aumentos en la experiencia afectan de forma negativa los ingresos percibidos. Dicho fenómeno es aprobado por el signo de los coeficientes de las variables experiencia y experiencia al cuadrado, positivo y negativo, respectivamente. También se encontró que los individuos casados tienen salarios en promedio por encima de los no casados, específicamente 5,97% más, resultado que es coherente con la intuición, pues el matrimonio incentiva aumentar los ingresos percibidos por parte de los individuos casados. Por otra parte, el hecho de ser mujer reduce el ingreso laboral percibido con respecto a los hombres en 10,06% en promedio, resultado similar al de Galvis (2010), quien estima que en promedio los hombres ganan 10% más que las mujeres. Por último, ser jefe de hogar aumenta los ingresos con respecto a los otros miembros de la familia, y no ser “blanco” disminuye los ingresos con respecto a los “blancos”, resultados acordes con lo encontrado por Astorquiza (2015). Para el caso de las personas cualificadas y no cualificadas los resultados para las variables de primer nivel son muy similares. En todos los casos se cumple con los signos esperados y la mayoría de coeficientes son significativos, excepto sexo e indígena para los cualificados y estado civil, mulato y negro para los no cualificados. Por otro lado, la hipótesis de elasticidad ingreso—hora—trabajada unitaria es rechazada a cualquier nivel de significancia en todos los modelos, resultado que defiende la inclusión de las horas trabajadas como variable de control, y el logaritmo del ingreso mensual como variable dependiente en la estimación, como lo propone Quiñones (2011). En cuanto al objetivo principal de la investigación, el modelo jerárquico de retornos privados y externalidades de la educación permite comprobar la existencia de externalidades positivas asociadas a la proporción de individuos cualificados en los tipos de firmas, resultado que contrasta con lo encontrado por Psacharopoulos (1994). En los tres casos, aumentos en la proporción de individuos cualificados generan incrementos en los ingresos individuales, fenómeno explicado según Moretti (2004) por el aumento en la productividad que conlleva estar rodeado de personas más capacitadas. En la estimación para ambos tipos de trabajadores, se observa que un aumento de 10% en la proporción de individuos cualificados genera un incremento de 7,43% en los ingresos individuales. Este coeficiente es significativo al 1%, probando estadísticamente que el contexto social tiene incidencia en el comportamiento de las variables individuales. Acto seguido, se comprueba la implicación teórica fundamental del modelo de Moretti (2004): se observa que para el caso de las personas cualificadas un incremento del 10% en la proporción de individuos cualificados lleva a incrementos en su salario del 5,7%, mientras que los individuos no calificados aumentan sus ingresos en 7,5%. El resultado anterior comprueba la principal implicación del modelo de externalidades de la educación planteado por Moretti (2004), quien sostiene que una mayor concentración de capital humano en el entorno de trabajo tiene un mayor efecto en los ingresos de las personas no cualificadas que en los cualificados. 6. CONCLUSIONES Es importante recordar el concepto clásico de externalidad, formalizado por Baumol y Oates (1975), según el cual una externalidad se presenta cuando en los argumentos de una función individual se tienen en cuenta variables exógenas a la decisión del individuo y por las cuales no paga (recibe) por los beneficios (costos) que le ocasionen. Desde esta definición, se puede entender que las externalidades terminan generando asignaciones ineficientes en el mercado, debido a que los precios no captan este fenómeno en condiciones de libre mercado. En esta investigación, desde el punto de vista de la educación, se pudo captar la presencia de externalidades de esta, dando a entender que el beneficio social de la educación es mayor que el beneficio netamente privado, factor o fenómeno que no se tiene en cuenta a la hora de asumir los costos de la educación y, por lo tanto, no se refleja en los precios, conduciendo a la economía a una asignación ineficiente de este recurso, fundamental en el crecimiento de largo plazo de un país. Como se pudo observar en la estimación econométrica, la externalidad de la educación tiene un efecto positivo sobre los ingresos de los individuos, mostrando que si el mercado no tiene en cuenta los beneficios de esa externalidad y no los refleja en el precio de mercado de ese servicio, se estaría produciendo muy poca mano de obra educada desde el punto de vista social. Otra conclusión importante que se puede destacar de la investigación es el cumplimiento de la implicación principal del modelo de Moretti (2004), quien planteó un modelo bajo el supuesto de sustitución imperfecta de mano de obra, encontrando que las personas no cualificadas se ven más beneficiadas que las personas cualificadas de la concentración de capital humano en el lugar de trabajo. Esta implicación se confirma con la estimación econométrica del modelo de externalidades, mostrando que para los individuos no cualificados un aumento del 10% de personas cualificadas en el lugar de trabajo generaría un aumento del 7,5% en los ingresos laborales, mientras que para las cualificadas sería apenas del 5,7%. Este resultado muestra que el efecto competencia entre individuos cualificados termina reduciendo el impacto positivo del efecto spillover de una mayor concentración de cualificados; sin embargo, el coeficiente es positivo, por lo que el efecto spillover es mayor que el de competencia. Teniendo en cuenta los resultados, el cuerpo de evidencia refuerza la importancia de la provisión pública de educación, garantizando un acceso más fácil a ella, principalmente a la educación superior debido a su efecto positivo no solo en la tasa de retorno individual, sino también en el retorno social, evidenciado por la presencia de externalidades positivas de la educación. Además de la accesibilidad, se debe tener en cuenta la relevancia de la calidad de la educación, fundamental para garantizar un mayor efecto spillover, que garantice un mayor impacto en la productividad de los trabajadores cualificados y no cualificados ante aumentos en la proporción de individuos educados en su entorno de trabajo. Por último, dados los resultados obtenidos, sería conveniente por parte de las firmas y como política pública incentivar las interacciones sociales en el interior de las empresas, específicamente entre trabajadores cualificados y no cualificados, como política que pretenda la generación de externalidades positivas de la educación, aprovechando la existencia de métodos de aprendizaje como learning by watching y learning by doing. Notas 1 Los tipos de firmas hacen referencia a sectores económicos con un tamaño específico. En la metodología se lleva a cabo una definición más detallada de este concepto. teórico principal de la investigación; posteriormente, se plantea la metodología a utilizar en la que se justifica y describe detalladamente la estructura teórica de los modelos multinivel o jerárquicos. En las tres secciones finales se presentan las características descriptivas más relevantes dado el objetivo de investigación, se analizan los resultados después de aplicar la técnica de modelos multinivel y, por último, se exponen las conclusiones. 2 Las actividades tenidas en cuenta son: agricultura, industria manufacturera, suministro de electricidad/gas/agua, construcción, comercio, hoteles y restaurantes, transporte, intermediación financiera, actividades inmobiliarias, administración pública, educación, y servicios sociales y de salud. 3 Según el artículo 2 de la ley 905 de 2004 se considera microempresa si la planta de personal no supera los 10 trabajadores, pequeña empresa si tiene entre 11 y 50 trabajadores, mediana si tiene entre 51 y 200 trabajadores. 4 Según la ley 905 del 2004 una empresa se considera mediana cuando cuenta entre 51 y 200 empleados. Para este caso se modifica a un máximo de 100 empleados con el objetivo de lograr un mejor balance de la muestra. 5 En el anexo 3 se especifica cada uno de los tipos de firmas, del 1 al 39. Solo se etiquetaron los números impares para conservar orden. En el anexo 3 se tienen en cuenta todos los tipos de firmas. 6 La razón inversa de Mills se identifica en el Anexo 2 como imr. REFERENCIAS Acemoglu, D. y Angrist, J. (2001). How large are human—capital externalities? Evidence from Compulsory schooling laws. NBER Macroeconomics Annual,15, 9—59. Astorquiza, B. (2015) ¿Coexisten los fenómenos de discriminación salarial y segmentación ocupacional hacia las minorías étnico—raciales residentes en Santiago de Cali? Revista de Economía del Caribe,15, 93—120. Baumol, W. y Oates, W. (1975). The theory of environmental policy. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice—Hall. Castellar, C. y Uribe, J. (2001). Una aproximación econométrica a la tasa de retorno social de la educación. Revista Sociedad y Economía, 1, 77—102. Fan, W. y Ma, Y. (2012). Estimating the external returns to education: evidence from China. Trabajo presentado en 16th IZA European Summer School in Labor Economics, Alemania. Galvis, L. (2010). Diferencias salariales por género y región en Colombia: una aproximación con regresión por cuantiles. Revista de Economía del Rosario, 13(2), 235—277. Heuermann, D. (2009). Human capital externalities in Western Germany (Discussion Paper Series n.° 03/2009). Institute for Labour Law and Industrial Relations in the European Community (IAAEG). Lucas, R. (1988). On the mechanics of economic development. Journal of Monetary Economics, 22(1), 3—42. Marcelo, D. (2005). Rentabilidad social e individual de la educación: una interpretación a partir de los modelos jerárquicos (tesis de maestría). Universidad Nacional: Bogotá. Marshall, A. (1920). Principles of economics (8th ed). London: Macmillan and Co. Mincer, J. (1974). Schooling, experience, and earnings. New York, NY: National Bureau of Economic Research. Moretti, E. (2004). Estimating the social returns to higher education: evidence from longitudinal and repeated cross—sectional data. Journal of Econometrics,121, 175—212. Psacharopoulos, G. (1994). Returns to investment in education: A global update. World Development, 22(9), 1325—1343. Quiñones, M. (2011). Diferencias regionales y capital humano: examinando las brechas en los salaries de los individuos en Colombia (tesis de maestría). Universidad del Valle, Cali. Rauch, J. (1991). Productivity gains from geographic concentration of human capital: evidence from the cities (Working Paper n.° 3905). Cambridge, MA: National Bureau of Economic Research. Rodrigo, R. (2010). Externalidades de la educación superior en México: un análisis multidimensional. Trabajo presentado en III Conferência Latino Americana e Caribenha das Capacitações e Desenvolvimento Humano, Brasil. Valens, M. (2007). Calidad de la educación superior en Colombia: un análisis multinivel con base en el ECAES de Economía 2004. Revista Sociedad y Economía,13, 132—154. Velasco, F. (2006). Modelo lineal general jerárquico. Revista de Ciencias Básicas UJAT, 4(2), 20—28.
I26|The scope of the external return to higher education|This article examines whether the productivity spillovers from a large share of highly educated workers occur within regions, sectors and/or firms. To distinguish between these possibilities, I follow a two-stage procedure to estimate a Mincerian wage equation using matched employer-employee panel data on individual earnings and educational attainment. The results indicate that the scope of higher education spillovers is very limited. Most of the identified spillovers occur within firms, being a factor of 2-3 larger than those operating outside the firm. The spillovers that take place outside the firm are restricted within the own sector and only occur on short distances from the working place. The limited scope confirms the view that higher education spillovers foster aggregate productivity through the exchange of tacit knowledge, which is heavily dependent on face-to-face contact.
I26|Pay for locally monitored performance? A welfare analysis for teacher attendance in Ugandan primary schools|To achieve the twin objectives of incentivizing agent performance and providing information for planning purposes, public sector organizations often rely on reports by local monitors that are costly to verify. Received wisdom has it that attaching financial incentives to these reports will result in collusion, and undermine both objectives. Simple bargaining logic, however, suggests the reverse: pay for locally monitored performance could incentivize desired behavior and improve information. To investigate this issue, we conducted a randomized controlled trial in Ugandan primary schools that explored how incentives for teachers could be designed when based on local monitoring by head teachers. Our experiment randomly varied whether head teachers' reports of teacher attendance were tied to teacher bonus payments or not. We find that local monitoring on its own is ineffective at improving teacher attendance. However, combining local monitoring with financial incentives leads to both an increase in teacher attendance (by 8 percentage points) and an improvement in the quality of information. We also observe substantial gains in pupil attainment, driven primarily by a reduction in dropouts. By placing a financial value on these enrollment gains, we demonstrate that pay for locally monitored performance passes both welfare and fiscal sustainability tests.
I26|Field of study and family outcomes|This paper uses administrative data from 16 cohorts of the Dutch population to study the relationship between field of study and family outcomes. We first document considerable variation by field of study for a range of family outcomes. To get to causal effects, we use admission lotteries that were conducted in the Netherlands to allocate seats for four substantially oversubscribed studies. We find that field of study matters for partner choice, which for women also implies an effect on partners' earnings. Fertility of women is not affected and evidence for men is mixed, but we find evidence for intergenerational effects on children's education. This means that field of study does not only affect individual labor market outcomes but also causally influences other important dimensions of a person's life.
I26|Human Capital, Growth, and Asset Prices|Human capital investment is one of the most important drivers of growth. In this paper, I enhance the endogenous growth model of Kung and Schmid (2015) by an educational choice decision of the household. The engine of growth in the extended model is a composite of firm-side R&D capital stock and a household-side human capital stock. As households are able to allocate their time to labor, leisure and educational activities, the model allows to simultaneously study labor and education choices. The parameters of the non-linear model can be estimated by advanced Bayesian methods, allowing to study the return on human capital conditional on the data.
I26|Multigrading and child achievement|We study how multigrading, which is mixing students of different grades into a single class, affects children’s cognitive achievement in primary school. We build instruments to identify the causal effect of multigrading by exploiting an Italian law that controls class size and grade composition. Results suggest that attendance in multigrade versus single-grade classes increases students’ performance on standardized tests by 19 percent of a standard deviation for second graders, and it has zero effect for fifth graders. The positive impact of multigrading for second graders appears to be driven by children sharing their class with peers from higher grades. This last finding rationalizes the absence of a multigrade effect for fifth graders.
I26|Adult education, the use of Information and Communication Technologies and the impact on quality of life: a case study|In recent years, there has been a growing interest among scholars on Information and Communication Technologies (ICTs) and their beneficial effects on elderly wellbeing; almost all contributions support the positive impact of ICTs among older population because their use has been demonstrated to enhance social participation and psychosocial wellbeing. This paper contributes to the extant literature by using a specific and comprehensive measure of quality of life, the WHOQol-Bref, on a sample of 341 individuals attending the University of Third Age in an Italian town. Through different model specifications, we are able to demonstrate the positive impact of ICTs’ use on elderly quality of life. Results corroborate the findings of existing literature and provide insight on possible policy measures framed in an active aging approach.
I26|Liquidity constraints, opportunity cost and post-secondary education. Evidence from Colombia|We provide new and clear evidence about the importance of liquidity constraints for post-secondary vocational education. Using two discontinuities that are used to allocate seats in free vocational education and eligibility for educational grants, we exploit the relationship between OLS and IV estimates of returns to education to test for the presence of short run liquidity in the fashion of Card (2001). Eligibility to financial aid increases enrollment in vocational education between 8 to 13 percentage points. Furthermore, we find that when we instrument post-secondary schooling with eligibility for financial aid IV estimates are larger than OLS estimates, suggesting that compliers to this instrument are individuals with high returns to education but who were not enrolling in post-secondary education before due to liquidity constraints. However, when the instrument is not linked with the cost of education IV estimates are not significantly larger than OLS estimates. Our analysis focuses on access to free vocational education, hence our results shed lights on the importance of the opportunity cost.
I26|Does Education Affect Attitudes Towards Immigration? Evidence from Germany|Using data from the German Socio-Economic Panel and exploiting the staggered implementation of a compulsory schooling reform in West Germany, this article finds that an additional year of schooling lowers the probability of being very concerned about immigration to Germany by around six percentage points (20 percent). Furthermore, our findings imply significant spillovers from maternal education to immigration attitudes of her offspring. While we find no evidence for returns to education within a range of labour market outcomes, higher social trust appears to be an important mechanism behind our findings.
I26|Efectos de la Desregulación del Sistema Universitario en el Mercado Laboral en Perú|In 1995 the Peruvian’s university system was reformed, the requirements for the entry of new universities were relaxed, the result of this reform was an relevant increases in the number of universities (around 218 % between 1996 and 2017). The reform caused a significant proportion of workers, especially those born after 1980 to pursue higher education, which in the absence of the reform would they not have been able to access to the university system. Differences in the exposure to the reform in terms of the workers’ year of birth, allow me to recover positive causal effects of higher education on wages and labor conditions, mainly a lower probability of labor informality.
I26|Sir! I'd Rather Go to School, Sir!|Military service is a popular method of army recruitment for governments of developing countries that are particularly prone to conflict. This study contributes to the largely under-researched issues of military service by looking at an unintended consequence of a military service exemption policy and answering a principal question: is there a fear of conscription among the youth? It uses a discontinuity in the military service law in an under-researched country, Iran, and offers causal evidence that fear of conscription entices young men to get more education against their will. This exogenous increase is used to estimate returns to education.
I26|The State, Determinants, and Consequences of Skills Mismatch in the Ethiopian Labour Market|The study analyses the incidence of labour market mismatch, identifies the correlates of skills mismatch that shed light on the causes of the problem, and investigates its consequences on well-being. It is the first attempt to formally study skills mismatch in the urban labour market in Ethiopia. Using several indicators of qualification mismatch, we find that about a quarter of employees are mismatched with over-qualification being the more prevalent problem. In comport with findings for developed countries, our analysis reveals overqualified worker report lower job satisfaction compared to the well-matched. We also find that skill-mismatch, particularly over education lowers wages; while education is positively and significantly associated with wage, overeducated workers earn less than those well-matched for their level of education. This implies a wage penalty associated with over-qualification even in a developing country context. Our study highlights that labour market mismatch is not only a phenomenon of the developed world but also the developing countries. Hence, skills mismatch needs to be a key aspect of labour market policy making along with issues of decent and productive work.
I26|Economists’ Musings on Human Capital Investment: How Efficient is Public Spending on Education in EU Member States?|In this paper we perform stochastic frontier analyses to assess the quality of public spending on education in Europe. To measure the corresponding efficiency, three dimensions are taken into account: (1) quantity (tertiary educational attainment), (2) quality (PISA scores in the area of science), and (3) inclusiveness (proxied by the inverse of young people not in employment, training or education (NEET rates)). All EU Member States are covered over the period 2002 – 2015. Based on pooled and fixed effects regressions, the EU Member States' efficiency scores are assessed both with a view at an EU-wide frontier to allow for cross-country comparisons as well as concerning country-specific frontiers to identify individual trends and possibly remaining deficiencies. The results reveal that some Member States manage to achieve high efficiency in all observed output dimensions 'quantity', 'quality' and 'inclusion', such as e.g. the Netherlands and the United Kingdom - which implies that there is not necessarily a trade-off between the individual output dimensions. Evidence suggests, moreover, that most Member States made remarkable progress over time in terms of efficient use of public resources in reaching large numbers of highly educated young adults. With a view at quality and inclusiveness of public spending on education, however, in many Member States seems to remain still room (and need) for further improvements.
I26|Effectiveness of Private and Public High Schools: Evidence from Finland| A number of papers have compared the effectiveness of private and public schools in different institutional settings. However, most of these studies are observational and do not utilize experimental or quasi-experimental design to evaluate the value-added or the effectiveness of private schools in comparison to public schools. This study focuses on private and public high schools in Helsinki, the capital city of Finland. We use two different methods to compare private and public schools, value-added estimation and regression discontinuity design (RDD). Although based on somewhat different assumptions, both methods allow us to evaluate the causal effect of private schools on the exit exam results in high school. We find that private schools perform marginally better than public schools, but the difference in performance is small and statistically insignificant according to both methods. Various robustness and validity checks strengthen our RDD results and the validity of the discontinuity design.
I26|Development Economics Meets the Challenges of Lagging U.S. Areas: Applications to Education, Health and Nutrition, Behavior, and Infrastructure|This chapter examines the development economics evidence base for insights into policy reforms that would benefit struggling areas in the United States. My focus is on improving education, physical and mental health, infrastructure, and institutions. First, consistent with findings on education policy effectiveness, I propose raising the legal minimum dropout age (prospectively to 19), providing better information about the benefits of completing high school, supporting targeted paraprofessional tutoring, and providing family financial incentives for attending school and graduating from high school. Second, to improve health outcomes in struggling areas, the focus is using and building on existing effective health and nutrition programs and services, identifying ways to include more families who are eligible for but not participating in these programs. Moreover, the recent development and behavioral economics evidence base has extended our understanding of the psychological, cognitive, and economic behavioral lives of the poor; the literature highlights the ways that poverty can impede cognitive functioning, with implications for policies to uplift lagging U.S. areas. Third, a review of evidence on the benefits of improving lagging rural and urban area transportation infrastructure points to the likely benefits of improved connectivity for lagging U.S. areas: reversing the legacy of past discriminatory policies, encouraging sector-based clusters, and extending access to high-speed internet. Finally, the chapter highlights the relevance of some cross-cutting themes in development economics, including the high returns to reliable household microdata and the importance of improving institutions to enable more inclusive, substantial, and lasting progress.
I26|Increased Compulsory School Leaving Age Affects Secondary School Track Choice and Increases Dropout Rates in Vocational Training Schools|This paper examines the effects of increasing the compulsory school leaving (CSL) age from 16 to 18 in Hungary using a regression discontinuity design (RDD) identification strategy. The new CSL age was introduced for those entering their first year of elementary school in 1998. Identification is based on compliance with the age of elementary school start rule. Compliance with the age rule creates a discontinuity in the probability of starting school under the higher CSL age regime around a cutoff date of birth. The treated cohort had known about the change since age 6. This fact allows for testing on how the increase affected forward-looking decision making about secondary school track choice which occurs at age 14. The legislation change resulted in an increased probability that children would choose the academic high school track instead of vocational training schools. At the same time, those choosing vocational training schools are more likely to drop out under the higher CSL age scheme. Potential explanations of increased dropout rates include a decrease in the quality of teaching in vocational training schools due to supply constraints, and a shift in student composition to include more students from lower socioeconomic backgrounds.
I26|The Effects of Increased Compulsory School Leaving Age on the Teenage Fertility of Roma Women, a Disadvantaged Ethnic Minority|This paper examines the effects that an increase in compulsory school-leaving (CSL) age has on the teenage fertility (both motherhood and pregnancy) of Roma women, a disadvantaged ethnic minority in Hungary. We use a regression discontinuity design identification strategy based on exact date of birth. Increasing the CSL age from age 16 to 18 decreased the probability of teenage motherhood among Roma women by 6.8 percentage points. The higher CSL age delayed first birth-giving by two years. We exploit a unique database that covers live births, miscarriages, abortions, and still births, and contains information on the time conception precise to the week.We propose that the impact of the legislative change can be explained by the incapacitation effect of education: the higher CSL age decreases the probability of getting pregnant during the school year but not during summer and Christmas breaks.
I26|Field of Study and Family Outcomes|This paper uses administrative data from 16 cohorts of the Dutch population to study the relationship between field of study and family outcomes. We first document considerable variation by field of study for a range of family outcomes. To get to causal effects, we use admission lotteries that were conducted in the Netherlands to allocate seats for four substantially oversubscribed studies. We find that field of study matters for partner choice, which for women also implies an effect on partners' earnings. Fertility of women is not affected and evidence for men is mixed, but we find evidence for intergenerational effects on children's education. This means that field of study does not only affect individual labor market outcomes but also causally influences other important dimensions of a person's life.
I26|Early Labor Market Prospects and Family Formation|We use quasi-random variation in graduation years during the onset of a very deep national recession to study the relationship between early labor market conditions and young females' family formation outcomes. A policy-pilot affecting the length of upper-secondary vocational tracks allows us to compare females who graduated into the onset of the Swedish financial crisis of the 1990s to those graduating during the final phase of the preceding economic boom while netting out the main effect of the policy. We find pronounced, but short-lived, negative labor market effects from early exposure to the recession for low-grade students in particular. In contrast, we document very long-lasting effects on family formation outcomes, again concentrated among low-grade students. Young women who graduated into the recession because of the policy-pilot formed their first stable partnerships earlier and had their first children earlier. Their partners had lower grades, which we show to be a strong predictor of divorce, and worse labor market performance. Divorces were more prevalent and the ensuing increase in single motherhood was long-lasting. These negative effects on marital stability generated persistent increases in the use of welfare benefits despite the short-lived impact on labor market outcomes. The results suggest that young women respond to early labor market prospects by changing the quality threshold for entering into family formation, a process which affects the frequency of welfare-dependent single mothers during more than a decade thereafter.
I26|The effects of educational mismatch on inventor productivity. Evidence from Sweden, 2003-2010|This paper investigates the influence on inventor productivity of the imperfect occupational match, measured as the number of years of education in excess and in deficit to the required level (educational mismatch). The empirical model draws on a unique database that matches information about individual inventor characteristics, such as age, experience and gender, with patenting performance in Sweden over the period 2003-2010. The results suggest that over-educated (OE) inventors file a number of patents higher than inventors who are appropriately matched (RE), but perform poorly than well-matched inventors who hold a similar level of education. Conversely, under-educated (UE) inventors file a total number of patents lower than inventors who are well-matched (RE), but more than well-matched ones who hold the same level of education. These results conform to the hierarchical pattern of ORU model, well-documented in the literature relating the employees’ wages to educational mismatch (i.e. RE>OE>UE). We find that significant differences in returns to education across match and mismatch categories remain even after controlling for individual ability. Our findings are robust to controlling for differences between younger and older inventors, geographical areas and industry of work.
I26|Could Easier Access to University Improve Health and Reduce Health Inequalities?|This paper estimates the impact of university education on medical care use and its income related inequality. We do this by exploiting an arbitrary university eligibility rule in Sweden combined with regression discontinuity design for the years 2003-2013 for students who graduated 2003-2005. We find a clear jump in university attendance due to university eligibility. This jump coincides with a positive jump in prescriptions for contraceptives for females but also a positive jump in mental health related hospital admissions for males. Analysis of the inequality impact of tertiary eligibility finds no clear impact on medical care use by socioeconomic status of the parents. The results imply that easing access to university for the lower ability student will lead to an increase in contraceptive use without increasing its socioeconomic related inequality. At the same time, the results highlight that universities may need to do more to take care of the mental health of their least able students.
I26|The Long-Term Impact of Education on Mortality and Health: Evidence from Sweden|There is a well-documented large positive correlation between education and health and yet it remains unclear as to whether this is a causal relationship. Potential reasons for this lack of clarity include estimation using different methods, analysis of different populations and school reforms that are different in design. In this paper we assess whether the type of school reform, the instrument and therefore subgroup identified and the modelling strategy impact the estimated health returns to education. To this end we use both Regression Discontinuity and Difference in Differences applied to two Swedish school reforms that are different in design but were implemented across overlapping cohorts born between 1938 and 1954 and follow them up until 2013. We find small and insignificant impacts on overall mortality and its common causes and the results are robust to regression method, identification strategy and type of school reform. Extending the analysis to hospitalisations or self-reported health and health behaviours, we find no clear evidence of health improvements due to increased education. Based on the results we find no support for a positive causal effect of education on health.
I26|The Returns to College Choice: Loans, Scholarships and Labor Outcomes|To estimate causal eff ects of college choice, we exploit eligibility rules for student loans in a regression discontinuity design. Loan programs induce students to pursue college degrees that are more expensive and prolonged relative to technical education. Although higher education is profi table, the marginal return of college is identical to that of technical education when students are about 30 years old. The college premium seems to increase over time, possibly off setting the initial experience gap and covering cost diff erences under moderate discount rates. We study the eff ects of debt burden on college choice using a similar cutoff rule for scholarships.
I26|The Long-Run Effects of Teacher Collective Bargaining|We analyze how exposure to teacher collective bargaining affects long-run outcomes for students, exploiting the timing of state duty-to-bargain law passage in a cross-cohort difference-in-difference framework. Among men, exposure to a duty-to-bargain law in the first 10 years after passage depresses annual earnings by $2,134 (3.93 percent), decreases weekly hours worked by 0.42, and reduces employment and labor force participation. The earnings estimate implies that current duty-to-bargain laws reduce earnings by $213.8 billion annually. Effects grow with time since law passage, are largest among nonwhites, and are not evident for women. Duty-to-bargain laws reduce male noncognitive skills, supporting the labor market findings.
I26|Endogenous skill-biased technology adoption: Evidence from China’s college enrollment expansion program|China’s college expansion program, which was implemented in 1999 significantly increased the share of college-educated workers in the urban labor force. We find that returns to education were not responsive to changes in local skill supply be- tween then and 2009. To explain the trend, we develop a model of endogenous technology adoption and predict that increasing the share of college-educated work- ers leads firms to adjust their use of production technology. We construct supply shocks in local labor markets based on policy-driven variations in the changes of college enrollment quotas across cities. Using panel data from over 20,000 large manufacturing firms, we find that an enlarged college-educated labor force causes skill-intensive firms to invest more in capital and R&D as well as employ more workers, evidence that supports the theory of endogenous technology adoption.
I26|The impact of higher education on the living standards of female graduates| There have been many studies of the impact of higher education (HE) on the wages and earnings of graduates. However, for working women, the variation in wages only explains 30% of the variance in net family income. To understand the overall impact of HE on the living standards of female graduates, we explore the wider impact of HE. We exploit the rich cohort study data in the UK to show that, for women, acquiring HE quali cations increases net family income by around 20%. We fi nd that this increase is driven by higher wages, more working hours and assortative mating, which drives higher partner earnings. We show that the impact on women's own earnings is more important in their early 30s but the role of assortative mating becomes increasingly important at older ages. We compare two cohorts of women born 12 years apart and we show that the overall impact of HE on incomes has remained relatively unchanged. The impact on female labour supply has increased slightly, but this has been counteracted by a smaller wage effect. The role of assortative mating has become no less important. These results shed new light on the benefi ts for women of pursuing HE in the context of ever increasing participation rates.
I26|Gender, Competitiveness, and Study Choices in High School: Evidence from Switzerland|Willingness to compete has been found to predict individual and gender differences in educational choices and labor market outcomes. We provide further evidence for this relationship by linking Swiss students' Baccalaureate school (high school) specialization choices to an experimental measure of willingness to compete. Boys are more likely to specialize in math in Baccalaureate school. In line with previous findings, competitive students are more likely to choose a math specialization. Boys are more likely to opt for competition than girls and this gender difference in competitiveness could partially explain why girls are less likely to choose a math-intensive specialization.
I26|For better or worse? – The Effects of Physical Education on Child Development|This study analyzes the effects of regular physical education at school on cognitive skills, non-cognitive skills, motor skills, physical activity, and health. It is based on a very informative data set, the German Motorik-Modul, and identifies the effect by using variation in the required numbers of physical education lessons across and within German federal states. The results show improvements in cognitive skills. Boys’ non-cognitive skills are adversely affected driven by increased peer relation problems. For girls, the results suggest improvements in motor skills and increased extra-curricular physical activities. Generally, we find no statistically significant effects on health parameters.
I26|Overeducation wage penalty among Ph.D. holders. An unconditional quantile regression analysis on Italian data|The wage effect of overeducation has only recently been investigated in the case of Ph.D. holders. The existing contributions rely on OLS estimates that allow measuring the average effect of being educationally mismatched at the mean of the conditional wage distribution. This paper, instead, observes the heterogeneity of the overeducation penalty along the hourly wage distribution and according to the study field and sector of employment (academic/non-academic) of Ph.D. holders. We estimate a Recentered Influence Function. The results reveal that overeducation hits the wages of those Ph.D. holders who are employed in the academic sector and in non-R&D jobs outside of the academic sector. Instead, no penalty exists among those who carry out R&D outside the Academia. The size of the penalty is higher among those who are in the mid-top of the wage distribution and hold a Social Science and Humanities specialization.
I26|The Causal Effect of Education on Chronic Health Conditions|Studies using education policy reforms to isolate causal effects of education on health produce mixed evidence. We analyse an unusually large sample and study chronic health conditions. For identification, we use two major education reforms, one that raised the minimum school leaving age and one that affected the broader educational attainment distribution. This method generated precise estimates of the impact of education on a comprehensive range of health conditions. Our results indicate that extra education, at the lowest end or higher up the attainment distribution, has little impact on the prevalence of chronic illness. The one interesting exception is diabetes.
I26|Demographic Uncertainty and Generational Consumption Risk with Endogenous Human Capital|This paper uses a model with overlapping generations to demonstrate that human capital accumulation can potentially attenuate factor price movements in response to birth rate shocks. Specifically, we show that if education spending per child is inversely related to the size of the generation, then there will be less movement in factor prices in response to the relative size of each generation. The degree of this attenuation effect will depend on the effectiveness of education spending in producing human capital. We also demonstrate that this attenuation effect tends to concentrate generational consumption risk around the generation subject to the birth rate shock. In a limiting case, we show that an i.i.d birth rate shock translates into an i.i.d. generational consumption shock. In other words, each generation bears all of the risk associated with their own demographic uncertainty. As a final exercise, we demonstrate that if the tax rate funding education spending varies with the size of the generation rather than education spending per child, then human capital does not influence the dynamic behavior of the economy in response to a birth rate shock.
I26|The returns to schooling unveiled|We bring together the strands of literature on the returns to education, its spillovers, and the role of the employer shaping the wage distribution. The aim is to analyze the labor market returns to education taking into account who the worker is (worker unobserved ability), what he does (the job title), with whom (the coworkers) and, also crucially, for whom (the employer). We combine data of remarkable quality exhaustive longitudinal linked employer-employee data on Portugal with innovative empirical methods, to address the homophily or reflection problem, selection issues, and common measurement errors and confounding factors. Our methodology combines the estimation of wage regressions in the spirit of Abowd, Kramarz, and Margolis (1999), Gelbach's (2016) unambiguous conditional decomposition of the impact of various omitted covariates on an estimated coefficient, and Arcidiacono et al.'s (2012) procedure to identify the impact of peer quality. We first uncover that peer effects are quite sizeable. A one standard deviation increase in the measure of peer quality leads to a wage increase of 2.1 log points. Next, we show that education grants access to better-paying firms and job titles: one fourth of the overall return to education operates through the firm channel and a third operates through the job-title channel, while the remainder is associated exclusively with the individual worker. Finally, we unveil that an additional year of average education of coworkers yields a 0.5 log points increase in a worker's wage, after we net out a 2.0 log points return due to homophily (similarity of own and peers' characteristics), and 3.3 log points associated with worker sorting across firms and job titles.
I26|Estimating a Model of Qualitative and Quantitative Education Choices in France|We estimate a structural model of education choices in which individuals choose between a professional (or technical) and a general track at both high school and university levels using French panel data (Génération 98 ). The average per-period utility of attending general high school (about 10,000 euros per year) is 20% higher than that of professional high school (about 8000 euros per year). About 64% of total higher education enrollments are explained by this differential. At the same time, professional high school graduates would earn 5% to 6% more than general high school graduates if they both entered the labor market around age 18. The return to post-high school general education is highly convex (as in the US) and is reaped mostly toward the end of the higher education curriculum. Public policies targeting an increase in professional high school enrollments of 10 percentage points would require a subsidy of 300 euros pervyear of professional high school.
I26|Leadership experiences, labor market entry, and early career trajectories|We study how leadership experiences before labor market entry affect subsequent labor market performance, using a regression discontinuity design to isolate the causal effects. The design is applied to elections of representatives at Swedish student union (SU) councils. Archive data on winning and losing candidates at three major Swedish universities are mapped to register data on their subsequent labor market careers. The results show that students who acquired a position in the SU councils are more likely to have a rapid transition into employment than candidates who just missed getting to get such a leadership role. The employment effects are not confined to workplaces, organizations, or industries where previous candidates are employed, suggesting that the benefits of having been a student representative are general in nature. Elected representatives are more likely to hold a well-paid job within three years, but not thereafter. Overall, our estimates suggest that leadership experiences before labor market entry boost individuals’ initial career trajectories, whereas mid-term outcomes appear unaffected.
I26|Vocational High School Graduate Wage Gap: The Role of Cognitive Skills and Firms|Comparing cohorts born between 1951 and 1994, we document and interpret changes in the wage differential among graduates from secondary education with a vocational and a general curriculum.. The wage gap initially increased and then decreased. We find that these changes cannot be attributed to simple compositional shifts in the economy, but instead relate to important changes in worker allocation to firms that are heterogeneous in wage policies: the demise of assortative matching between workers and firms that worked out favourably for vocational graduates.
I26|Has the college wage premium continued to rise? Evidence from multiple U.S. surveys|This paper examines trends in the college wage premium (CWP) by birth cohort across the five major household surveys in the United States: the Census/ACS, CPS, NLSY, PSID, and SIPP. We document a general flattening in the CWP for birth cohorts 1970 and onward in each survey and even a decline for birth cohorts 1980–1984 in the NLSY. We discuss potential reasons for this finding and show that the empirical discrepancy is not a function of differences in composition across surveys. Our results provide crucial context for the vast economic literatures that use these surveys to answer important policy questions about intertemporal changes in the returns to skill.
I26|Education and Labor Market Consequences of Student Protests in Late 1970s and the Subsequent Military Coup in Turkey|1970s witnessed violent, widespread, and highly-politicized student protests in Turkey. Small protests turned into bloody street clashes, the death toll exceeded 5,000, and a military coup came in - which resulted in mass arrests. Universities were at the center of the conflict and violence. We present a comprehensive empirical analysis of the education and labor market consequences of this political turmoil on cohorts directly exposed to educational disruptions. First, we document that the number of new admissions and graduates in post-secondary education declined significantly due to the turmoil. We report the decline in post-secondary graduation ratio to be around 6.6-7 percentage points for the exposed individuals. Second, we estimate a counterfactual wage distribution for the exposed cohorts using semi-parametric methods and check whether the turmoil affected the wage and occupation distributions. We find that the decline in educational attainment due to the turmoil pushed the exposed population toward medium- and low-income occupations, and compressed their wages toward the minimum wage. Finally, we use the unexpected decline in educational attainment as an IV to estimate returns to schooling. Our IV estimates suggest that the returns to an additional year of schooling range between 11.6-14 percent for men. In a heterogeneous-outcome framework, these IV estimates can be interpreted as the average causal effect of an additional year of schooling in post-secondary education.
I26|Labor-Market Returns to Higher Vocational Schooling|This paper examines the labor-market returns to a new form of postsecondary vocational education, vocational master’s degrees. We use individual fixed effects models on the matched sample of students and non-students from Finland to capture any time-invariant differences across individuals. Attendance in vocational master’s programs leads to higher earnings of eight percent five years after entry even if selection on unobservables is twice as strong as selection on observables. Earnings gains are similar by gender and age, but they are marginally higher for health than for business or technology and trades.
I26|Returns to Higher Education in China: Evidence from the 1999 Higher Education Expansion Using Fuzzy Regression Discontinuity|China experienced a 47% expansion in higher education enrolment between 1998 and 1999, and a six-fold expansion in the decade to 2008. In this paper, we explore a fuzzy discontinuity in the months of births induced by the expansion to study the returns to higher education in China. We find that the mean years of education increased by roughly one full year around the cut-off point of the 1999 expansion as defined by months of births. Importantly, each additional year of university education induced by the 1999 higher education expansion increases monthly wage income by 21%, whereas the corresponding OLS estimate is only 8%. Our findings are insensitive to alternative window widths, functional forms, or the exclusion of the self-employed. Moreover, the returns to degrees also appear to vary by gender, with lowers returns to women except when they are the only child in the family.
I26|ProPelled: The Effects of Grants on Graduation, Earnings, and Welfare|We estimate effects of the Pell Grant—the largest US federal grant for college students—using administrative data from Texas public colleges and a discontinuity in grant generosity for low-income students. Within four-year institutions, eligibility for additional grant aid significantly increases first-time students' degree completion and later earnings. Our estimated impacts on earnings alone are enough to fully recoup government expenditures within 10 years, suggesting that financial aid likely pays for itself several times over.
I26|The Effects of Education on Health: An Intergenerational Perspective|This paper presents evidence of substantial causal effects of parental education on children's health behaviours and long-term health. We study intergenerational effects of a compulsory schooling increase in Germany after World War II, which was implemented across federal states at different points in time. Maternal schooling reduces children's smoking and overweight in adolescence. The effects persist into children's adulthood, reducing chronic conditions that often result from unhealthy lifestyles. We find no effects of paternal education. Children's peer environment early in life and increased investments in their education are possible effect channels. The intergenerational effects exceed the direct effects on health.
I26|Labor Market Returns to Education and English Language Skills in the People's Republic of China: An Update|We reexamine the economic returns to education in the People's Republic of China (PRC) using data from the Chinese General Social Survey 2010. We find that the conventional ordinary least squares estimate of wage returns to schooling is 7.8%, while the instrumental variable estimate is 20.9%. The gains from schooling rise sharply with higher levels of education. The estimated returns are 12.2% in urban provinces and 10.7% in coastal provinces, higher than in rural and inland areas. In addition, the wage premium for workers with good English skills (speaking and listening) is 30%. These results are robust to controls for height, body mass index, and English language skills, and to corrections for sample selection bias. Our findings, together with a critical review of existing studies, confirm the growing significance of human capital as a determinant of labor market performance in postreform PRC.
I26|Labor Market Effects of High School Science Majors in a High STEM Economy|This paper explores the association between studying science at the higher secondary stage and labor market earnings using nationally representative data on high school subject choices and adult outcomes for urban males in India. Results show that those who studied science in high school have 22% greater earnings than those who studied business and humanities, even after controlling for several measures of ability. These higher earnings among science students are further enhanced if the students also have some fluency in English. Moreover, greater earnings are observed among individuals with social and parental support for translating science skills into higher earnings. Science education is also associated with more years of education, likelihood of completing a professional degree, and among low ability students, working in public sector positions.
I26|Race-Blind Admissions, School Segregation, and Student Outcomes: Evidence from Race- Blind Magnet School Lotteries|This paper studies a school district that was federally mandated to adopt a race-blind lottery system to fill seats in its oversubscribed magnet schools. The district had previously integrated its schools by conducting separate admissions lotteries by race to offset its predominantly black applicant pools. The change dramatically segregated subsequent magnet school cohorts. More segregated schools enroll students with lower baseline achievement and employ lower valueadded teachers. Segregation is further exacerbated by “white flight” as white students transfer out of the district after attending more segregated schools. Ultimately, mandated segregation decreases student test scores and college attendance.
I26|Education Level and Mating Success: Undercover on Tinder|In this study, we examine the impact of an individual’s education level on her/his mating success by means of a field experiment on the mobile dating app Tinder, using a sample of 3,600 profile evaluations. In line with previous studies from the field of evolutionary psychology, our results indicate a heterogeneous effect of education level by gender: while females strongly prefer a highly educated potential partner, we cannot accept this hypothesis for males. Additionally, in contrast with previous literature on partner choice in an offline context and on classic online dating websites, we do not find any evidence for educational assortative mating, i.e. preferring a partner with a similar education level, on mobile dating apps such as Tinder. We argue that this is due to our research design, which allows us to examine actual (instead of stated) mate preferences in a dating market without search frictions and social frictions.
I26|Labor Market Effects of High School Science Majors in a High STEM Economy|This paper explores the association between studying science at the higher secondary stage and labor market earnings using nationally representative data on high school subject choices and adult outcomes for urban males in India. Results show that those who studied science in high school have 22% greater earnings than those who studied business and humanities, even after controlling for several measures of ability. These higher earnings among science students are further enhanced if the students also have some fluency in English. Moreover, greater earnings are observed among individuals with social and parental support for translating science skills into higher earnings. Science education is also associated with more years of education, likelihood of completing a professional degree, and among low ability students, working in public sector positions.
I26|How Important Are Fixed Effects and Time Trends in Estimating Returns to Schooling? Evidence from a Replication of Jacobson, Lalonde and Sullivan, 2005|A substantial and rapidly growing literature has developed around estimating earnings gains from two-year college degrees using administrative data. These papers almost universally employ a person-level fixed effects strategy to estimate earnings premia net of fixed attributes. We note that the seminal piece on which these papers build, Jacobson, Lalonde and Sullivan (Journal of Econometrics, 2005), provides theoretical and empirical evidence for the importance of additionally differencing out individual time-trends. The subsequent literature has not followed suit. Through replication we ask whether this matters. We show that it does, and further that these person-level time-trends need not be computationally burdensome in large administrative data. We recommend them as a unifying econometric standard for future work.
I26|Does Education Affect Attitudes Towards Immigration? Evidence from Germany|Using data from the German Socio-Economic Panel and exploiting the staggered implementation of a compulsory schooling reform in West Germany, this article ﬁnds that an additional year of schooling lowers the probability of being very concerned about immigration to Germany by around six percentage points (20 percent). Furthermore, our ﬁndings imply signiﬁcant spillovers from maternal education to immigration attitudes of her offspring. While we ﬁnd no evidence for returns to education within a range of labour market outcomes, higher social trust appears to be an important mechanism behind our ﬁndings.
I26|The Impact of Dual Apprenticeship Programs on Early Labour Market Outcomes: A Dynamic Approach|This study examines the impact of enrolling into dual apprenticeship programs in secondary education on six early employment outcomes. Our contribution to the literature is threefold. First, we estimate – within the same, Belgian secondary education framework – the effects of two distinct types of dual programs that combine part-time school- or training centre-based instruction with an apprenticeship in a firm. Second, these effects are identified by estimating a dynamic model capturing subsequent educational and labour market outcomes to control for the dynamic selection of students into dual programs. Third, this approach enables us to distinguish between the programs' direct effects (conditional on educational achievement) and indirect effects (via educational achievement). We find evidence for short-term labour market advantages but only for the program with the most days of in-field training. With these findings we contribute to the international discussion on the optimal design of vocational programs.
I26|Teaching, Gender and Labour Market Incentives|The concentration of women in the teaching profession is widely noted and generally attributed to gender differences in preferences and social roles. Further, gender segregation exists within this profession – women make up almost all of the primary and pre-primary teaching cohorts, while men who choose to become teachers tend to specialise in secondary schooling and administrative roles. To what extent is this gender structure in teaching a response to economic incentives from the labour market? Our research addresses this question by studying the effects of wage structure on the decision to become a teacher. In particular, we ask what the most attractive choice is for a graduate given the wage structure of the previous graduate cohort. We show that the labour market, especially the relative returns to education across occupations for men and women, can explain these vocational choices in the Australian context. Women with bachelor qualifications receive higher returns as teachers, while men with bachelor qualifications receive higher returns in other occupations. In contrast, while both men and women with postgraduate qualifications earn higher returns in other occupations, the difference is consistently smaller for women than men. Women face a lower opportunity cost for becoming a teacher compared to men. A more balanced gender representation among teachers seems unlikely given the existing structure of returns to education, by gender, across professions.
I26|Education spillovers within the workplace|Education policies depend in part on the presence of externalities, but very little evidence exists to confirm the existence of such externalities. In this paper we investigate if there are spillover effects from education within peer groups at the workplace. We estimate the effect of increasing the share of higher educated workers in close peer groups on wages, using a rich data source linking workers to workplaces and specific occupations. Our empirical approach accounts for the endogenous sorting of workers into peer groups and workplaces, and, at the same time avoids the reflection problem. In our main specification we find statistically significant but economically small peer effects across all occupations.
I26|Skills for the 21st Century: Findings and Policy Lessons from the OECD Survey of Adult Skills|The OECD Survey of Adult Skills is the jewel in the crown of its Programme for the International Assessment of Adult Competencies (PIAAC). This paper argues that the findings and policy lessons from the project to date justify the high hopes which were placed in PIAAC when detailed planning for the project began in 2003. First, it presents a brief recap of PIAAC and its two predecessor international skills surveys. Second, it outlines the main themes which have been investigated to date using data from PIAAC. Third, the main findings and policy lessons drawn from PIAAC are highlighted. Finally, looking forward to the second cycle of PIAAC, for which planning is now underway, the paper suggests some priority areas for improvements to the survey design in order to add to its analytical usefulness and enhance its utility to policy makers.
I26|How Redistributive Policies Reduce Market Inequality: Education Premiums in 22 OECD Countries|What explains the large cross-country variation in the wage premium for higher education? Economic analyses of wage differentials by education point to technological change and globalisation, but we know little about the impact of different types of public policies. We argue that public education spending and tax-transfer policies contain the spread of “education premiums” through material incentives (decommodification) and attitudinal responses, i.e. changing attitudes towards education premiums and the motivation to request a maximum return on individual investment in education. The empirical analysis relies on a new dataset of education premiums constructed from Luxembourg Income Study microdata, covering 22 OECD countries between 1989 and 2014. We provide evidence that taxation levels and public education spending particularly affect education premium levels and changes within countries. For the literature on income inequality, these findings imply the need to pay attention more systematically to redistributive policies shaping the “market” distribution of incomes.
I26|The Persistence of the Gender Earnings Gap: Cohort Trends and the Role of Education in Twelve Countries|Studying twelve countries over 30 years, we examine whether women’s educational expansion has translated into a closing gender earnings gap. As educational attainment is cohort-dependent, an Age-Period-Cohort analysis is most appropriate in our view. Using the Luxembourg Income Study (LIS) data, we show that while in terms of attainment of tertiary education women have caught up and often even outperform men, substantial gender differences in earnings persist in all countries. These results are consistent with the composition of the top earnings decile. Using Blinder-Oaxaca decomposition methods, we demonstrate that the role of education in explaining the gender earnings gap has been limited and even decreased over cohorts. Contrary, employment status as well as occupation explain a more substantial part in all countries. We conclude that earnings differences at levels far from gender equality likely also persist in the future, even if the “rise of women” in terms of education continues.
I26|The Effect of a University Degree in English on International Labour Mobility|I investigate the effect of studying in English language on international labour market mobility for university graduates from a non-English speaking country. I exploit the introduction of Master of Arts degrees in English when students where enrolled in their Bachelor as an instrument for studying in English. I find that studying in English increases the individual’s probability of working abroad by 11.2 percentage points. I also estimate the effect of an English degree on wages, and I find that graduates in English benefit almost a 60 percent increase in wage compared to graduates in national language. Finally, I provide evidence that the strong effect on wages can be explained because individuals who study in English self-select into more remunerative labour contracts and economic sectors
I26|The Effect of College Education on Health and Mortality: Evidence from Canada|We investigate the returns to college attendance in Canada in terms of health and mortality reduction. To do so, we first use a dynamic health microsimulation model to document how inter-ventions which incentivize college attendance among high school graduates may impact their health trajectory, health care consumption and life expectancy. We find large returns both in terms of longevity (4.1 years additional years at age 51), reduction in the prevalence of various health conditions (10-15 percentage points reduction in diabetes and 5 percentage points for stroke) and health care consumption (27.3% reduction in lifetime hospital stays, 19.7 for specialists). We find that education impacts mortality mostly by delaying the incidence of health conditions as well as providing a survival advantage conditional on having diseases. Second, we provide qua-si-experimental evidence on the impact of college attendance on long- term health outcomes by exploiting the Canadian Veteran's Rehabilitation Act, a program targeted towards returning WW-II veterans and which incentivized college attendance. The impact on mortality are found to be larger than those estimated from the health microsimulation model (hazard ratio of 0.216 com-pared to 0.6 in the simulation model) which suggest substantial returns to college education in terms of healthy life extension which we estimate around one million canadian dollars.
I26|The Effect of College Education on Health and Mortality: Evidence from Canada|We investigate the returns to college attendance in Canada in terms of health and mortality reduction. To do so, we first use a dynamic health microsimulation model to document how interventions which incentivize college attendance among high school graduates may impact their health trajectory, health care consumption and life expectancy. We find large returns both in terms of longevity (4.1 years additional years at age 51), reduction in the prevalence of various health conditions (10-15 percentage points reduction in diabetes and 5 percentage points for stroke) and health care consumption (27.3% reduction in lifetime hospital stays, 19.7 for specialists). We find that education impacts mortality mostly by delaying the incidence of health conditions as well as providing a survival advantage conditional on having diseases. Second, we provide quasi-experimental evidence on the impact of college attendance on longterm health outcomes by exploiting the Canadian Veteranâ€™s Rehabilitation Act, a program targeted towards returning WW-II veterans and which incentivized college attendance. The impact on mortality are found to be larger than those estimated from the health microsimulation model (hazard ratio of 0.216 compared to 0.6 in the simulation model) which suggest substantial returns to college education in terms of healthy life extension which we estimate around one million canadian dollars.
I26|Do MincerianWage Equations Inform How Schooling Influences Productivity?|We study the links between the Mincerian wage equation (the crosssectional relationship between wages and years of schooling) and the human capital production function (the causal effect of schooling on labor productivity). Based on a stylized Mincerian general equilibrium model with imperfect substitutability across skill types and ex ante identical workers, we demonstrate that the mechanism of compensating wage differentials renders the Mincerian wage equation uninformative for the human capital production function. Proper identification of the human capital production function should take into account the equilibrium allocation of individuals across skill types.
I26|Labor Market Outcomes and Postsecondary Accountability: Are Imperfect Metrics Better than None?|No abstract is available for this item.
I26|The Effect of Education on Health and Mortality: A Review of Experimental and Quasi-Experimental Evidence|Education is strongly associated with better health and longer lives. However, the extent to which education causes health and longevity is widely debated. We develop a human capital framework to structure the interpretation of the empirical evidence. We then review evidence on the causal effects of education on mortality and its two most common preventable causes: smoking and obesity. We focus attention on evidence from Randomized Controlled Trials, twin studies, and quasi-experiments. There is no convincing evidence of an effect of education on obesity, and the effects on smoking are only apparent when schooling reforms affect individuals’ track or their peer group, but not when they simply increase the duration of schooling. An effect of education on mortality exists in some contexts but not in others, and seems to depend on (i) gender; (ii) the labor market returns to education; (iii) the quality of education; and (iv) whether education affects the quality of individuals’ peers.
I26|Do Human Capital Decisions Respond to the Returns to Education? Evidence from DACA|This paper studies the human capital responses to a large shock in the returns to education for undocumented youth. We obtain variation in the benefits of schooling from the enactment of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) policy in 2012, which provides work authorization and deferral from deportation for high school educated youth. We implement a difference-in-differences design by comparing DACA eligible to non-eligible individuals over time, and we find that DACA had a significant impact on the investment decisions of undocumented youth. High school graduation rates increased by 15 percent while teenage births declined by 45 percent. Further, we find that college attendance increased by 25 percent among women, suggesting that DACA raised aspirations for education above and beyond qualifying for legal status. We find that the same individuals who acquire more schooling also work more (at the same time), counter to the typical intuition that these behaviors are mutually exclusive, indicating that the program generated a large boost in productivity.
I26|The Impact of Education on Family Formation: Quasi-Experimental Evidence from the UK|We examine the impact of educational attainment on fertility and mating market outcomes. Using a regression discontinuity design, we exploit an extension of the compulsory schooling age from 15 to 16 in 1972 in the UK. The change was binding for a quarter of the population. Simple plots of the raw data show substantially lower teen fertility rates across the threshold of the reform, but no impacts on abortions and no impact on completed fertility by age 45. In the mating market, the reform induced both men and women to marry more educated mates, consistent with positive assortative mating. We show that timing of the teen fertility reduction coincided with the timing of the extra induced schooling and that the probability of marrying a peer in the same academic cohort rose. These results suggest that school attendance may have important direct effects, in addition to and separate from the human capital effects of education.
I26|The Effect of Education on Mortality and Health: Evidence from a Schooling Expansion in Romania|This paper examines a schooling expansion in Romania which increased educational attainment for successive cohorts born between 1945 and 1950. We use a regression discontinuity design at the day level based on school entry cutoff dates to estimate impacts on mortality with 1994-2016 Vital Statistics data and self-reported health with 2011 Census data. We find that the schooling reform led to significant increases in years of schooling and changes in labor market outcomes but did not affect mortality or self-reported health. These estimates provide new evidence for the causal relationship between education and mortality outside of high-income countries and at lower margins of educational attainment.
I26|The Production of Cognitive and Non-cognitive Human Capital in the Global Economy|A country’s welfare depends on its ability to accumulate cognitive and non-cognitive human capital. In this paper, we model the productions of cognitive and non-cognitive human capital in general equilibrium. We use revealed comparative advantage to infer countries’ non-cognitive and cognitive productivities without a direct measure for the non-cognitive dimension. Our model also delivers analytical expressions for how non- cognitive and cognitive productivities can be aggregated into a single human-capital quality index, or HCQI, and how HCQI relates to output per worker. Our model allows us to obtain the values of non-cognitive and cognitive productivities and HCQI, using publically available data for a sample of mostly high-income countries. We find that: 1. many countries with low test scores have high non-cognitive productivities; 2. the hard-to-measure non-cognitive human capital is important for HCQI, and HCQI is important for output per worker; 3. the trade-o¤ between cognitive- and non-cognitive productivities can be visualized and analyzed using an iso-HCQI curve: e.g. uneven cognitive and non-cognitive productivities tend to lower HCQI; 4. this trade-o¤ can be quantified, and has policy implications: e.g. excessive attention to test scores may decrease aggregate output; 5. international trade matters, theoretically, for HCQI, because the gains from trade help to compensate a country for uneven productivity across human capital types: e.g. the iso-HCQI curve would have a very different shape under free trade.
I26|The Consequences of Academic Match between Students and Colleges|"We consider the effects of student ability, college quality, and the interaction between the two on academic outcomes and future earnings. Both ability and college quality strongly improve outcomes and earnings. We find little evidence to support the ""mismatch"" hypothesis that college quality and ability interact in substantively important ways. All students benefit from attending higher quality colleges. Our estimates imply that resorting students to eliminate mismatch, without changing the capacity of any colleges, would raise expected graduation rates by only 0.6 percentage points and mean earnings by $400 per year. The substantial gains for students who move to higher quality colleges under this reshuffling roughly cancel out the losses of students who move down."
I26|Quantifying Family, School, and Location Effects in the Presence of Complementarities and Sorting|We extend Altonji and Mansfield’s control function approach to allow for multiple group levels and complementarities. Our analysis provides a foundation for a causal interpretation of multilevel mixed effects models in the presence of sorting. In our empirical application, we obtain lower-bound estimates of the importance of school and commuting zone inputs for education and wages. A school/location combination at the 90th versus 10th percentile of the school/location quality distribution increases high school graduation and college enrollment probability by at least .06 and .17, respectively. Treatment effects are heterogeneous across subgroups, primarily due to nonlinearity in the educational attainment model.
I26|Quantifying Family, School, and Location Effects in the Presence of Complementarities and Sorting|We extend Altonji and Mansfield’s control function approach to allow for multiple group levels and complementarities. Our analysis provides a foundation for a causal interpretation of multilevel mixed effects models in the presence of sorting. In our empirical application, we obtain lower-bound estimates of the importance of school and commuting zone inputs for education and wages. A school/location combination at the 90th versus 10th percentile of the school/location quality distribution increases high school graduation and college enrollment probability by at least .06 and .17, respectively. Treatment effects are heterogeneous across subgroups, primarily due to nonlinearity in the educational attainment model.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
I26|Accounting for Unobservable Heterogeneity in Cross Section Using Spatial First Differences|We develop a simple cross-sectional research design to identify causal effects that is robust to unobservable heterogeneity. When many observational units are dense in physical space, it may be sufficient to regress the “spatial first differences” (SFD) of the outcome on the treatment and omit all covariates. This approach is conceptually similar to first differencing approaches in time-series or panel models, except the index for time is replaced with an index for locations in space. The SFD design identifies plausibly causal effects, even when no instruments are available, so long as local changes in the treatment and unobservable confounders are not systematically correlated between immediately adjacent neighbors. We demonstrate the SFD approach by recovering new cross-sectional estimates for the effects of time-invariant geographic factors, soil and climate, on long-run average crop productivities across US counties — relationships that are notoriously confounded by unobservables but crucial for guiding economic decisions, such as land management and climate policy.
I26|Elite Schools and Opting In: Effects of College Selectivity on Career and Family Outcomes|Using College and Beyond data and a variant on Dale and Krueger’s (2002) matched-applicant approach, this paper revisits the question of how attending an elite college affects later-life outcomes. We expand the scope along two dimensions: we examine new outcomes related to labor force participation, human capital, and family formation and we do not restrict the sample to full-time full-year workers. For men, our findings echo those in Dale and Krueger (2002): controlling for selection eliminates the positive relationship between college selectivity and earnings. We also find no significant effects on men’s educational or family outcomes. The results are quite different for women: we find effects on both career and family outcomes. Attending a school with a 100-point higher average SAT score increases women’s probability of advanced degree attainment by 5 percentage points and earnings by 14 percent, while reducing their likelihood of marriage by 4 percentage points. The effect of college selectivity on own earnings is significantly larger for married than for single women. Among married women, selective college attendance significantly increases spousal education.
I26|The Effect of Grade Retention on Adult Crime: Evidence from a Test-Based Promotion Policy|This paper presents the first analysis in the literature of the effect of test-based grade retention on adult criminal convictions. We exploit math and English test cutoffs for promotion to ninth grade in Louisiana using administrative data on all public K-12 students combined with administrative data on all criminal convictions in the state. Our preferred models use the promotion discontinuity as an instrument for grade retention, and we find that being retained in eighth grade has large long-run effects on the likelihood of being convicted of a crime by age 25 and on the number of criminal convictions by age 25. Effects are largest for violent crimes: the likelihood of being convicted increases by 1.05 percentage points, or 58.44%, when students are retained in eighth grade. Our data allow an examination of mechanisms, and we show that the effects are likely driven by declines in high school peer quality, lowered non-cognitive skill acquisition, and a reduction in educational attainment. However, we find little effect on juvenile crime, which suggests the effects on adult criminal engagement are driven by worse job market prospects and non-cognitive skills that stem from lower educational investments by students. Using the method proposed by Angrist and Rokkanen (2015), we also estimate effects of grade retention away from the promotion cutoff and show that our results are generalizable to a larger group of low-performing students. Our estimates indicate that test- based promotion cutoffs lead to large private and social costs in terms of higher levels of long-run criminal convictions that are important to consider in the development and use of these policies.
I26|The Impact of Tertiary Study on the Labour Market Outcomes of Low-qualified School Leavers: An update|This paper is an update of a previous study by Treasury (Tumen et al, 2015). It assesses the impacts of post-school education on the labour market outcomes of young people who leave school without the NCEA level 2 qualification. Specifically, it estimates the effects of low-level tertiary study on the employment rates, benefit receipt rates and earnings of young people who left school without completing NCEA level 2 and then enrolled at a tertiary institution while they were aged 15–21. The benefits of the further education are measured by comparing the students’ post-study outcomes with those of matched comparison groups of other young people who also left school without NCEA level 2 but did not undertake any tertiary education. The current study differs from the previous one in that we allow the students in our study population a longer time period in which to start and complete their tertiary study and track their outcomes for a greater number of years after completion. The findings are similar to the findings of the previous study. Just over half (51%) of those who enrolled in a level 1–4 certificate programme had achieved a qualification by the time they were 22 years of age. Three years after finishing, the students who completed a qualification were 9.1 percentage points more likely to be employed and 4.8 percentage points less likely to be receiving a benefit than their matched comparisons. Five years after finishing, they were 9.2 percentage points more likely to be employed and 5.9 percentage points less likely to be on a benefit than their matched comparisons. While completion of a tertiary qualification was associated with positive employment impacts, we find no evidence of positive impacts on participants’ level of earnings, after controlling for their employment status. In addition, the employment benefits of tertiary study were confined to the students who completed a qualification and were not experienced by the 49% who did not.
I26|School-to-work transition and vocational education: a comparison across Europe|"Youth unemployment is a major problem that the economic systems face. Given this issue, we assess whether school-to-work transition is easier for individuals with secondary vocational education with respect to general secondary education. We want to explore which vocational systems across Europe produce better effects. We use data from a module on ""Entry of young people into the labour market"" from the 2009 European Labour Survey and we estimate a multinomial probit models allowing for violation of the irrelevance of the alternative assumption. We find that in countries with the dual vocational system, vocational education improves employability whereas in countries with school-based vocational system results are mixed and only in some cases they are significantly positive. We provide policy implications showing that vocational systems can improve school-to-work transitions and that the dual vocational structure appears to be an effective system. Given the relevance of youth unemployment, we provide valuable information on how to mitigate this problem. The use of cross-country comparisons offers great insights on which vocational systems appear to be well-suited to enhance employability."
I26|Flipped Classroom Methodology for Hybrid Learning in the Higher Education Context: Students' Satisfaction and Performance|The recent emergence of hybrid education, defined as one that combines face-to-face and online classes, has tried to overcome the weaknesses of the teaching exclusively online. The main goal of this paper is to identify the best methodologies and instruments of the hybrid education in order to develop all its educational potential. In this regard, we have addressed the satisfaction of the students with the hybrid teaching format compared to the exclusively online, as well as their perception with the new Flipped Classroom (FC) methodology as opposed to the traditional methodology in which theory is explained in class and practice is implemented at home. In addition, we have also evaluate the learning outcomes and grades of the students enrolled in these hybrids courses as compared to those enrolled in exclusively online courses. The findings of the research show a high degree of students’ satisfaction with the hybrid format and with the application of the FC methodology, as well as higher success rates and lower withdrawal rates in this hybrid courses.
