I29|Intelligence and Slave Exports from Africa|This article examines the role of cognitive ability or intelligence on slave exports from Africa. We test a hypothesis that countries which were endowed with higher levels of cognitive ability were more likely to experience lower levels of slave exports from Africa probably due to comparatively better capacities to organise, corporate, oversee and confront slave traders. The investigated hypothesis is valid from alternative specifications involving varying conditioning information sets. The findings are also robust to the control of outliers.
I29|Intelligence and Slave Exports from Africa|This article examines the role of cognitive ability or intelligence on slave exports from Africa. We test a hypothesis that countries which were endowed with higher levels of cognitive ability were more likely to experience lower levels of slave exports from Africa probably due to comparatively better capacities to organise, corporate, oversee and confront slave traders. The investigated hypothesis is valid from alternative specifications involving varying conditioning information sets. The findings are also robust to the control of outliers.
I29|Birth Cohort Size Variation and the Estimation of Class Size Effects|We present evidence that the practice of holding back poorly performing students affects estimates of the impact of class size on student outcomes based on within-school variation of cohort size over time. This type of variation is commonly used to identify class size effects. We build a theoretical model in which cohort size is subject to random shocks and students whose performance falls below a threshold are retained. Our model predicts that initial birth cohort size is mechanically related to the grade-level share of previously retained students once these cohorts reach higher grades. This compositional effect gives rise to an upward bias in class size effects exploiting variation in birth cohort size. Using administrative data on school enrollment for all primary schools in one federal state of Germany, we find support for this compositional effect. Correcting for the resulting bias in a unique dataset on standardized test scores for the full student population of third graders, we find that not only are smaller classes beneficial for language and math test scores, but also for reducing grade repetition.
I29|The Health-Related Consequences to Police Stops as Pathways to Risks in Academic Performance for Urban Adolescents|Several heuristic models posited that environmental stress disrupt adolescents' engagement and performance in school, but few studies have identified police as a source of such stress. We examined whether police stops, direct and vicarious instances, predicted decrements in adolescents' grades via their psychological (i.e., depressive and anxiety symptoms) and health(i.e., sleep problems and self-rated health statuses) stress responses. We also examined whether the observed correlates varied across ethnic-racial and gender groups. To do so, we used two waves of longitudinal survey data from the Fragile Families and Child Well-Being Study.Children completed surveys when they were, on average, ages 9 and 15. Results illustrated that direct and vicarious police stops at age 15 predicted lower grades contemporaneously,controlling for adolescentsâ€™ self-rated health, sleep, and performance on the Woodcock-Johnson tests at age 9. Psychological distress, sleep problems, and self-rated health at age 15 partially mediated the relations between police stops and grades. The negative consequences of vicarious police stops were specific to the boys and girls of color; vicarious police contact did not predict adolescents' grades for White boys and White girls. We discussed the implications of our results as they pertain to policing and adolescent development.
I29|The competencies of headmasters in students´ practice reflection at the departmental schools in Czech Republic|Aim of papers based on summarizing the results of the authors? survey on the analyses of headmasters? competencies and theirs reflection by students of the study programme Educational management. The goal of the paper is to define and discuss headmasters? competencies reflections of professional practice by educational management students in terms of their theoretical knowledge, practical skills, management and human resources management development potential. From the perspective of future management of the students, authors? research results support the assumption that educational management students gained experience by this professional praxis in the time of study. The research questions is: What headmasters?competencies are more important for students´ educational management practice?
I29|The material development of EFL vocabulary learning via constructivism-based mobile application|The study aims at developing EFL vocabulary learning mobile application to enhance students? vocabulary knowledge and retention. The researcher attempted to develop the mobile application based on constructivism theory to learn vocabulary. The application consists 3 parts: Preview, Review 1 and Review 2. The participants were 20 second-year students at Suranaree University of Technology, in Thailand. The application is developed based on Cordova hybrid apps framework and standard web technologies (HTML5, JavaScript and CSS). The vocabulary pretests, post-tests and delayed post-tests, student questionnaires and interviews are employed to collect data. Based on the case study, the results show the constructivism-based vocabulary learning mobile application has positive effects on improving students? vocabulary in terms of vocabulary knowledge and retention; and students express positive opinions towards the implementation of the mobile application. The study concludes with the positive outcomes in further develop the learning application for EFL vocabulary learning.
I29|Teacher Candidates ? The Sooner The Better?|Considering the teacher training undergraduate programs prepared by Turkish Board of Higher Education, students in English Language Teaching departments in Turkey do not have a chance to experience a real classroom setting until they take the course titled ?Teaching Practice?, which is offered in the final - 4th - year. With the belief that theory must be simultaneously supported with practice, an innovative approach is used in the Department of English Language Teaching (ELT) in the Education Faculty of ?stanbul Kültür University (IKU), where teacher candidates start getting first-hand experience from the very beginning ? the 1st year. This study evaluates this approach, comprised of four steps, which enable students to get engaged in real life classroom and teaching settings as well as gaining hands-on experience. Carried out with a qualitative aspect, the study went on for three years involving the current 2nd, 3rd and 4th year students in the ELT department. After each step; namely, ?classroom observation, teacher interviews, school visits, and actual teaching?, three research questions were asked: ?How was your experience??, ?What did you learn??, ?In what way do you think this experience will contribute to you as a future teacher?? Feedback was received from the students in the form of written reflection reports and transcriptions of focus group meetings held regularly in groups of 10-15 on a voluntary basis. Common themes about each step were sorted out from the data and supported by actual words of students. The findings suggest that these four steps contribute to teacher candidates? attitudes towards teaching profession in that they start to internalize what they learn theoretically and will probably end up forming their own teaching philosophy thanks to a great variety of input they receive throughout this process.
I29|Opinions and Expectations of Students of Economics in a Turkish University|With a population of more than 80 million, Turkey has a great number of young people wishing to get a university degree and have an edge in the competition for a job. However, to what extent they have a clear idea about the department they choose is a question mark. This study focuses on the opinions of 3rd grade university students in the Department of Economics at ?stanbul Kültür University. It aims to compare the motivational factors through which these students decided to study Economics with their current points of view about this field of study. It also analyzes students? career expectations and beliefs about job opportunities after graduation. In order to gather data, students were given questionnaires and a descriptive analysis was carried out. In addition, a focus group meeting with the students was organized. Common themes emerged from the transcriptions of the meeting were supported by students? actual sentences. Findings reveal that a surprising number of students have different ideas from the time they started studying Economics, both from positive to negative and negative to positive, which might suggest that during the critical phase of choosing a career path, most students are not fully aware of what is waiting for them. Moreover, almost two thirds of the students do not have high hopes of getting a decent job due to the nonstable economy and the problem of unemployment in the country.
I29|Taste Missions ? A new and innovative approach to improve pupil?s health through food literacy|What makes food, health and children so interesting? Food is one of the primary sources to human life that through a healthy lifestyle can be influencing the future of every individual. Especially children with their future ahead are an important target group that needs focus, since habits are often established at an early age (Piaget, 1969), which also is the case in regards to food and health. To secure the public health and wellbeing of future generations, and to ensure a more sustainable environment and world, we find that teaching children about food, nutrition and health is essential in order to develop a healthy relationship to food and eating habits (Bas?kale, et al., 2009). Learn4Health, an EU Erasmus+ project, was created in 2016 to develop new and innovative methods to food literacy in European schools, to promote a broader knowledge of the origin of food and food systems, and to foster better health practices through new knowledge and self-efficiency. In the project, we seek to develop several innovative and new approaches that aim to increase food knowledge through interdisciplinary hands-on activities. It is our belief, that such methods can foster motivation and a better understanding of when, what and how food is grown, and thereby improve pupils action competencies in relation to food and health now and in the long-term. This paper focuses on one of the Learn4Health activities, Taste Missions, developed, implemented and evaluated by Wageningen University & Research and aims to illustrate how hands-on food activities can benefit pupils in European public schools. Further, it will describe, analyze and conclude upon the activity, and finally, summarize by discussing Taste Missions in the larger Learn4Health context and in the broader perspective of the public by presenting the HOFA Handbook.
I29|Action Research on Asynchronous Inter-Cultural Communication Video Exchanges|Japanese university students studying the sciences often lack opportunities to communicate globally with other students in English. In order to offer opportunities to such students an asynchronous inter-cultural communication video exchange (ICVE) was included as classroom activities as a part of the syllabus the presenters? classroom. The aim was to open the way for students to deepen inter-cultural understanding while practicing their English language skills. Students were put into groups, and during the semester each group recorded 4 videos. The videos were exchanged with international students studying at a university in Finland. At the end of the semester in the first year of the ICVE, questionnaire was conducted to uncover the students? perspectives about the ICVE. The results showed about 70 % of students felt that 4 videos during one 15 week semester was too many. Nevertheless, all of the students said they would you recommend the ICVE to a friend. The results also indicated: more time is needed to practice before shooting the video, the students should/did enjoy/ed themselves, and group members should have been changed for each video recording. From the results the following year?s ICVE was planned resulting two main changes: the number of videos being reduced from four to three, and, the members of each group being different for each video recording. At the end of the semester a similar questionnaire was conducted. This presentation shares the results from the second year of the ICVE and discusses how the ICVE can be conducted concurrent with other activities in the syllabus. Also a comparison of the results of the two years of questionnaires feedback will also be highlighted. This presentation will help others who are considering establishing their own inter-cultural global communication exchange activity through video exchanges in their classrooms.
I29|Evaluating Policy and Practicality in Tokyo Metropolitan Government?s Pre-Olympic English Language Pedagogy|In a context of increased internationalization and in preparation for the 2020 Olympics in Tokyo, in 2014 Japan?s Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology (MEXT) released the ?English Education Reform Plan? which aimed to implement English education reform through elementary, lower and upper secondary schools. A year later, the Tokyo Metropolitan Board of Education (TMBOE) distributed the Welcome to Tokyo series of textbooks to all students at grade five and above at public elementary schools in the Tokyo Metropolitan area. The general intention was to bolster young students? English skills. However, rather than focusing on language acquisition, critics have revealed that two main discourses are repeated throughout the policy documents issued by both MEXT and TMBOE. Namely, ?developing human resources? and ?nurturing Japanese identity.? Hiroshi Miyashita has argued that ?careful attention should be paid to these measures because they have potential to lead students to exclusivism or even nationalism without extra care? (Miyashita, 2017). In regards to the subtext and efficacy of these policies, this paper examines the Welcome to Tokyo series. By means of discourse analysis and taking into consideration content, lexical range, representation of race and gender, word frequency and structure, I question the text?s overall suitability for effective English language acquisition in an increasingly internationalized environment. To conclude, a brief summary offering suggestions for improvement and advice for educators in this context will be provided.
I29|Love as a key element to wellbeing|This presentation is based on the new scientific book Love Around Us - The Role of Love in Education, Parenting and Romantic Relationships (Kaarina Määttä & Satu Uusiautti, eds.) published by Peter Lang in 2018, and also the previous book Many Faces of Love (Kaarina Määttä & Satu Uusiautti, authors), published by Sense Publishers. In the presentation it will be discussed research on love as a key element of health, wellbeing and positive human development. People live in a network of relationships and their ability to build and maintain realationships is an important strength. Love has many definitions and also many forms and faces. The presentation provides a comprehensive analysis on love in various areas of human beings? life ? the emergence and manifestation of romantic love in various phases of life, love in education, love for work, for fellow humans ? and in relation to other phenomena, such as friendship, play, and creativity. When dissecting love along the course of life, parental love and also grandparental love secures children's well-being and teachers´ pedagogical love trusts in pupils' learning. The first taste of falling in love can manifest itself in the form of the sweet poison of love and still is quite far from actual love. The ability to love is an important, yet difficult, skill. There are numerous theories that explain the phases of long-lasting marriages and divorces, too. Nevertheless, love does not retire and the fascination of love does not fade, not even in senior age. Other topical phenomena of love are, for example, love for work and the successful combination of work and family.Love in its whole gamut is connected to human wellbeing and development in different areas and phases of human life. Love, as its best, is manifested by the endeavor to make things develop, grow, and come forward, whether love falls on other people, art, science, ideas, or nature. A world where it is safe to love is a world where it is safe to live. The presentation concentrates on the best sides of love and I conclude that love, in its various forms, makes the best health insurance.
I29|The Statistics Online Class|Technology is a norm in today?s life, particularly in higher education. Incorporating technology and technological tools in higher education has a wide range of applications, and people are trying to integrate them within teaching and learning. Two of the main challenges that people face are individual technological skills and cost associated with the use of technology. The aim of this presentation is to show how faculty with minimal technological skills and no financial cost could be able to create an online class. Through this talk broad explanation about available online resources will be discussed. Also, the pilot project (case study) about online class in statistic from American University of Sharjah will be presented with results indicating a successful implementation.
I29|The Art Of Reading: Enhancing Reading Comprehension Strategies In The Esp Classroom|At present, the main pedagogical considerations of using professionally-oriented materials in the English for Specific Purposes (ESP) classroom in Ukraine call for the content-based instruction to provide effective language learning within new academic contexts determined by the changes in the educational system of the country and the demands of the global job market. Special emphasis is to be put on effective reading strategies and methodologically relevant reading materials incorporated in the meaningful language training of learners expected to meet the requirements of Common European Framework of Reference for Languages. Reading as an effective instrument for study and social interaction serves a universal educational means as it teaches language learners to process information from different sources properly. Thus techniques, tasks and activities to enhance reading comprehension in the ESP classroom are to be chosen carefully in the content-based instruction framework that aims at the development of all language areas and linguistic skills. Language proficiency is considered a key to quality education, sustainable professional growth and life self-development.
I29|The training process of Teaching Assistants who mostly teach pupils with SEND in mainstream classrooms|Inclusive education has become increasingly valued every year over the past decade within the implementation of education. Regarding this, the training situations of Teaching Assistants (TAs) is gaining more importance when working with pupils with SEND (special educational needs and disabilities) in mainstream education classrooms. This proposed study is an exploration of the training factors that influence the role of TAs when teaching students with SEND in mainstream classrooms in England during their one-year training. I will adopt an interpretivist approach, using a multiple case study design to explore the degree of relationship between the training factors and the role implementation of TAs when teaching pupils with SEND in mainstream classrooms in England during an eight-month period. This proposed multi-method study will feature 12 case studies, and each of those case studies will involve a trainee TA. By using the semi-structured interview and non-participant observation methods for each of the case studies, through this proposed study I am seeking to make a meaningful contribution to educational knowledge in different ways. My aim is to increase the understanding of the influence level of training on TAs? personal knowledge and professional skills. This should further our understanding of the connection between TAs? training and the quality, nature and differentiation of education in the classroom. I am also seeking to find out whether there is a gap between the training of TAs and the role requirements of TAs, regarding the teaching of students with SEND in mainstream classrooms.
I29|Teaching computer programming for industrial engineering without teacher|"The C programming language is widely used in computer and industrial engineering. Because of that, such programming language is also widely used as a language to teach programming to industrial engineering students. In Spain, many universities use this language compulsory in the first year, or even in higher courses. Our experience shows that learning computer programming in four months is an arduous task, but curricula require it. Such learning process is also tough by the fact that many students can not attend classes regularly and, even if they attend, sometimes the class is no longer at the level they require. In this work we develop a series of files in ""presentation"" format (.ppsx) that allows students to see several explanations about the most complicated programming C topics: functions, arrays, structures, strings, arrays with structures... This multimedia material includes explanations (voice-over), and animations with examples. Students can watch and listen to the explanations whenever they want and wherever they want (tablet, PC, phone?). Surveys made to students reveal that it is also interesting for students who regularly attend classes, and they prefer to use this course material only at home, outside of regular classes."
I29|Teacher perception using the mobile phone in the teacher working group; age matters|This study examined senior teachers and junior teachers at primary school to show their mobile phone activity level among teacher working group in Lampung Province in 5 districts. The category of junior teachers are teachers whom are under 32 years (246 teachers) and senior teachers are categorised among teachers whom are over 50 years (304 teachers) and the total respondent is 550 teachers. There are two main elements of this research. Firstly, there is perception on the activity on junior teachers and senior teachers in primary school in teacher working group in Lampung Province. The research found that senior teachers are more active and care about being a part of teacher working group as compared to junior teachers, but both of them said that teacher working group helps them to improve their competencies. Secondly, there is a perception of the activity by junior teachers and senior teachers in the mobile phone group chat in the teacher working group. The result indicates that the junior teachers perceive themselves as experts (63% of the respondents) in using mobile phone, higher than senior teachers (23%). The result has also found that not all junior teachers were engaged in the group chat in teacher working group (72%), and the same pattern was seen among senior teachers as only 75% of them were engaged in group chat. There is a different perception of activity between junior teachers and senior teacher in collaborative learning through the mobile phone in teacher working group based on t-test with an independent sample test. The data indicates (2 tailed) 0.011 compare to the table
I29|Coping Mechanisms Of Philippine Students? Left Behind By Ofw Parents|Students nowadays are experiencing school life without the presence of their parents. While many children have experienced a decline in classroom performance while parents are away, many were also found to have performed excellently through various mechanisms. This study investigates the influence of coping mechanisms towards the academic performance of students with OFW parents. A survey was conducted to students who were academically high performing for the school year 2013-2014 and 2014-2015. A total of 142 students from Catholic schools in Davao del Sur were given questionnaires and ten underwent the Key Informant Interview. Using Multiple Regression Analysis, it was determined that of the eight coping mechanisms tested only three were found to be significant, namely: active coping, planning and the use of instrumental support. Based on the findings, it is recommended that schools must define policies that would support the creation of a separate program for students with OFW parents with the emphasis on the significant predictors.
I29|AUTO-SHIFT APPLICATION PILOT (ASaP) Control System: An Invention for a Trainee Friendly and Danger Free Driving Vehicle|The facilitation of effective driving lesson is the preoccupation of every Technical Vocational Education (TVE) institution offering driving competency program. It is observed that with one steering wheel unit the driving lessons are delayed since both trainee and trainer will take turns positioning in the same steering wheel during demonstration and application of driving competencies. Likewise, the safety of both trainer and trainee is at stake since the trainer?s control of the trainee?s manipulation of the steering wheel and pedals is done only through verbal instruction. This development study aimed to invent Auto-Shift Application Pilot (ASaP) control system to be used in innovating a trainee friendly and a danger-free school driving vehicle. ASaP controls the functioning of the two sets of the steering wheel and two sets of pedal respectively for the trainer and the trainee to facilitate teaching-learning of car driving competencies. Using descriptive design, test and evaluation of the functionality and aesthetic design of ASaP control system were conducted by 5 school driving trainers and 15 driving trainees as respondent. Results showed that ASaP control system is highly functional with the mean score of 4.6 and competitive in its aesthetic design with the mean score of 4.2. It is recommended that this ASaP control system is installed in a school driving vehicle for a trainee friendly and trainee danger free driving lessons.
I29|Film Education in the Therapeutic Process. Filmmaking Workshops for Pediatric Cancer Patients|It goes without saying that any cancer experience may result in a psychological trauma and become an emotional challenge for both the patient and her/his family. It may be argued that it is even more traumatic when it affects children. In my presentation I will focus on a relatively new idea of using film education as an element of psychiatric therapy of pediatric cancer patients.Although filmmaking arose from cinema therapy, which uses film projections during psychotherapy sessions, it has evolved into a form requiring the active involvement of patients in filmmaking. As a form of artistic expression it creates an opportunity for the patient to vent their fears and stress in a creative way (well-known art therapy profits) but it also constitute key elements of achieving resilience. I would like to have a closer look at the basic meaning, conceptualization as well as the goals of resilience theory. By emphasizing the importance of positive factors and mechanisms, resilience theory explains the phenomenon of children?s, adolescents? or adults? positive adaptation despite adverse life conditions, traumatic events and hostile environments.The filmmaking workshops for pediatric cancer patients of the Foundation for Children with Cancer Diseases ? Blood Cell (Fundacja dla Dzieci z Chorobami Nowotworowymi ? Krwinka) organized in 2015, 2016 and in 2017 (in cooperation with a psychotherapist working with children and their families) became for me an opportunity to implement my theoretical research, confronting theory with practice as well as for my further studies in this field.
I29|Factors That Affect Thai University Students? Reading Competence|This research study was conducted to survey factors that affect the reading competence of Thai university students. The participants were the second year undergraduate English major students who registered to study ?English Reading? at Kasetsart University. The research tools used in this study were a survey questionnaire and a semi-structured interview. The statistical method for data analyses were percentage, mean value (x) and standard deviation (SD). A summary was made of key points from the semi-structured interview. Based on both statistical data of the questionnaire and an interview, it was found that the major factors were firstly an inadequate knowledge of vocabulary and sentence structure, followed by a lack of background knowledge, an inability to grasp the main ideas and lastly the inability to understand the writer?s purpose and style.
I29|Not Only Children Matters ? Problems With Preschool Film And Media Education In Poland|Film and media education in the case of preschool-age-children is a particularly complicated matter. There are many different factors, including the question of methodology, challenges which stem from the learning abilities and skills of young children, that should be discussed. But I will concentrate on institutional deficiencies and social stereotypes connected with preschool film and media literacy and try to indicate the main obstacles audiovisual education in Poland deals with. The question to be asked is: should programmes/institutions dealing with early childhood film and media education and lacking state support focus on children? Or perhaps it is more crucial to address their parents and educators in order to change their attitudes, stereotypical thinking, prejudices or just habits.
I29|Waning Student Engagement with Lifelong Learning?: A Case Study|Capstone experiences for graduating seniors have garnered growing attention as we see a cultural shift in the understanding of a college degree?s purpose. With exponentially increasing costs associated with acquiring a college degree, it is no wonder that we see the world?s focus turn to its ROI. Many feel the returns from this investment are best demonstrated by colleges with job placement rates and average starting salaries of its graduates. Unfortunately, for many academics, they feel such a focus demands curriculum be changed to suit equipping students with ready-to-use job skills at the cost of truly teaching critical skills necessary to be a life-long learner. Many feel this causes students to disengage from their learning, and instead concentrate only on skills that will directly help them in their first job. It is possible to help students see beyond the direct relation of their education to a job, and engage with them on a higher level, pushing them academically in ways that create better students and better professionals. This paper will provide a case study of a capstone class of graduating senior accounting students who are asked to collaboratively set the agenda of their learning as the last step in their formal education as a way to engage them with the act of learning itself, and the many forms it can take outside the classroom.Best practices will be presented to get students fully engaged in the process of collaboratively setting the agenda for the class, as well as pitfalls to avoid. Instructors will have the most success with such student collaboration if they focus on the desired learning outcomes of the course, and pre-emptively design ways in which that learning can occur. Guiding the students to activities that best suits their learning, seemingly by their design, is the desired outcome. The class in the case to be presented creates a conference and hosts local business professionals who attend- thus the student becomes the teacher as the culminating outcome for the course.
I29|Methods To Overcome Common Listening Problems Encountered By Thai Students Learning English|Listening is one of the most important skills in learning English as a foreign language. The purpose of this study aimed at investigating problems Thai Students face when listening to spoken English and factors affecting students? listening skills. The participants were 401 undergraduate non-English major students who registered to study Communicative English for Careers in the academic year 2016. They were all Thai. The research instruments used in this study were a questionnaire and a semi-structured interview. The statistical techniques used were percentages with the mean value (x) and standard deviation (SD). The findings revealed that the major problem was not being able to have words repeated. The second largest problem was not being able to remember what was heard when distinguishing between similar sounding words. This was followed by not being able to grasp the main ideas. Factors affecting students? listening skills were unfamiliar vocabulary, speakers? speech rates, speakers? accents, a lack of background knowledge about the topic that they hear and a lack of concentration.
I29|Primary school teachers' beliefs about disciplines of leadership a learning organization by individual and organisational levels|According to Senge (1990) the leadership is based on five disciplines. On the basis of their focus the disciplines can be divided into two categories: the personal level (personal mastery and mental models) and the organizational level (shared vision and team learning). Systems thinking involves both levels. The aim of this study was to find out which disciplines of leadership of a learning organization are prevailing in the teachers? beliefs, in order to develop a leadership model of an effective educational institution at personal and organizational levels. The interviews of 45 primary school teachers from 28 Estonian schools were analyzed by the method of targeted thematic analysis. Both, group- and person-oriented approaches were used to investigate the differences between the average results of groups and between the teachers with different profiles (Bergman et al., 2003; Cohen et al., 2007). It appeared that the personal mastery as well as mental models appeared substantially more frequently in teachers? interviews than the disciplines related to the organizational level (systems thinking, shared vision and team learning). However, the frequency of mentioning systems thinking was especially low, which may be related to the lack of the relevant theoretical knowledge of teachers. The model of effective management of an educational institution created on the basis of the results of this study.
I29|The need for the development of formal qualifications for TVET Lecturers|TVET - Technical and Vocational Education and Training has been part of the South African education and training system for a very long time. Interest in TVET peaked in recent years because it has fuelled extraordinary economic growth in some countries. During 2010 to 2013 enrolments at TVET colleges has increased from 350 000 to 650 000. The 2030 target is to have an enrolment of 2.5 million in TVET colleges. In the White Paper on Post-school Education and Training, the TVET sector is seen to be ?the cornerstone of the country?s skills development system in order to address the country?s critical skills shortages?. However, the same White Paper hints at the current shortcomings experienced in respect of lecturing staff: the current lecturing staff complement is inadequate for the growing student numbers; they are inadequately trained; or are not specializing in the disciplines they teach. Therefore, the sector is very poorly prepared for the massive development drive mentioned in the White Paper. In order to rectify this the Department of Higher Education published The Policy on Professional Qualifications for Lecturers in Technical and Vocational Education and Training. Because there is no training facilities for TVET College lecturers, colleges were more often than not, forced to appoint lecturers from their own graduates because no other trained personnel are available. Universities and Universities of Technology are being tasked to develop formal qualifications for TVET college lecturers. This will ensure the future lecturers will have a path to specialized qualifications in order to build capacity in the TVET system.
I29|Reaching each student?s potential though Differential Instruction approaches to enhance the 21 century learning and career readiness|In the ever-increasing global society, educational systems become increasingly diverse. The diversity comes in various forms, cultural and linguistic differences, learning preferences and styles, ability and disability. The trend in current educational systems is to tap into each student?s potential. Unfortunately conventional methods do not always work when students? needs are more unique. Many teachers do not have the educational background or training to know how to teach students whose learning needs may vary from the norm. Also, teachers frequently do not have consistent access to interventionists that are well trained in knowing how to provide an environment that meets the needs of all students, no matter what their academic needs may be. One way to ensure successful education for all students is by providing Differentiated Instruction (DI). Differentiated Instruction is a model that is founded on the basic principles of Universal Design for Learning. This form of support ensures that regardless of the students? learning preferences and cognitive learning profiles, they have an opportunity to learn through approaches that are suitable to their needs.When implemented by classroom teachers, it not only improves the educational outcomes of the students with special needs but benefits all students in that it accommodates learning styles as well as the scope of unique learning needs that are evident in the typical classroom setting. Differentiated Instruction also is recognized as an evidence-based best practice in education and is highly effective when it is actively implemented in Tier One, Tier Two, and Tier Three of the Response to Intervention (RTI) model. While many are familiar with the term, Differentiated Instruction, what is missing is that many teachers do not understand what strategies are implemented in the classroom that create the unique learning environment for each student within the same setting. With knowledge of a variety of instructional strategies, teachers can facilitate optimal learning for all students, with and without a disability. Facilitation of DI also avoids inaccurate perceptions about the students? learning abilities, unnecessary referrals for special education evaluations, and inaccurate decisions about the presence of a disability. In this presentation, we will illustrate the fundamentals of Differentiated Instruction and provide a variety of strategies that are considered best practices in enhancing the learning of all students in the educational setting.
I29|Information Technology Project with Augmented Reality|This research aimed to study and design information technology project with Augmented Reality for learning and teaching. It was a case study. The sample group was 8 students who studied the special problem course and 20 users were used to evaluate the systems. The methods of data collection were questionnaires and information technology projects. The key performance indicators in this study included 8 information technology systems, usability of system, the accuracy and completeness of system. The instruments used in this study were: time to develop information system and evaluate users? document. The data were analyzed by mean and standard deviation. The results of this research found that 6 information technology systems submitted in time and 2 information technology systems had been delayed for one month. For the system evaluation, it was found that the mean score of systems acceptance was 4.25 and the standard deviation was 0.15. The students and users expressed positive attitudes towards instruments of learning and information technology systems.
I29|A Survey of the use of Mobile Phones among Senior Secondary School Students in Lagos State, Nigeria|Globally, the use of mobile phones among adults and youths, especially teenagers, in secondary school has increased dramatically in recent years. The study was a survey of the use of mobile phones on senior secondary school students in Lagos state. The descriptive survey research design was used for the study. Simple random sampling technique was used to select 450(180 male and 270 female); (301 public and 149 private) Senior Secondary School Students from 70 secondary schools across the 57 Local Government Areas (comprising the 20 original Local Government Areas and 37 Local Council Development Areas) in Lagos State. The instrument used for data collection was a self-designed 15-item questionnaire designed on five-point Likert scale with a reliability coefficient (r) of 0.85 obtained through a test-retest method. The data collected were analysed using frequency counts and simple percentages while t-test was used to test the only hypothesis stated in the study. The results showed that there were diverse operations that senior secondary school students perform on their mobile phones. These range from making voice calls, internet browsing, chatting to downloading music/movies and snapping pictures. The results also showed that majority of the students in senior secondary schools used their phones to browse social networking sites but they rarely used their mobile phones to download school work or assignment. The findings also revealed that there was no significant difference between gender and the use of mobile phones among senior secondary school students. It was recommended that some major stakeholders (parents, guardians and teachers) in education should monitor the kind of activities that their children/wards/students perform with their mobile phones. Teachers can also encourage the use of mobile phones by giving students tasking projects and/or assignment that will enhance educational attainment.
I29|Implementing Comprehensive Interventions to Support Student Success in Online Learning|The innovation and maturity of education technology has enabled online learning to be more accessible and manageable than ever before. Online education becomes so appealing as programs of study can be pursued with the flexibility in time and space. However, the most pressing challenge posed is student attrition that has significant quality and economic impacts on the institutions. In response to the negative influences brought by high dropout rates, educational institutions have striven to implement strategies to improve students? learning experiences and assist them in successfully achieving their academic goals. This presentation first reviews Tinto?s student integration model as the theoretical framework. This presentation depicts a survey of literature to highlight significant factors that lead to a student?s decision on withdrawal from a course or program. This presentation also summarizes an assortment of evidence-based practices in relation to student retention. Finally, a case study is portrayed to examine the implementation of interventions in an online university. Student persistence is a vital part of the institution?s survival. A continuing monitoring and evaluation system plays a key role in improving student satisfaction and success.
I29|A Shift To Subjective Tests|This article reports on a descriptive study which attempts to reveal the recent trend in the world, a shift from objective testing to subjective testing not only in achievement tests but also in high stakes testing. Mostly done in ?True-False or Multiple Choice? formats, the so-called objective tests offer administrations nothing but merely a number, which is commonly thought to be objective scoring; however, the need to evaluate higher thinking skills, self-expression, interpretation, imagination and/or subtlety of the test takers stands over there untouched. On one hand, measuring such abilities of learners which would never be assessed by classical methods attracts all the decision makers in educational settings, a burden itself which may be costly, time-consuming and hard to justify on the other. Perhaps most people might agree on the idea that classic tests are too artificial, common and even a 6-year-old child can easily predict the learning outcome and what the reason of the test is without having any prior testing knowledge. Moreover, standardized tests are also taught to force the administrations use the ?guess factor? about the test takers and would not give any clues on the individual differences of the participants. That is why ignoring the standard tests results, more and more face to face interviews and writing exams are conducted in quite many settings including education, business, human relations etc. to better understand if the required qualities could be demonstrated by the candidates in pre-prepared everyday situations.
I29|Vocabulary Teaching. Practical Applications from the Literature|There has been an increasing interest in the field of vocabulary learning in a second language in the last decade and a significant amount of empirical research has been carried out on the subject. The area of vocabulary teaching, however, has not received a similar attention from researchers. Vocabulary teaching, which is understood here to be teacher and classroom-oriented, needs to be established as an area of research which would ultimately lead to a theory of vocabulary teaching. This research often provide practical information for classroom practices. This study aims to present a detailed literature review about the research focusing on practical issues in vocabulary teaching. The presentation projects to provide practical information and practices which may inspire help ELT teachers in their classrooms. Also some practices may be discussed with the audience. We, as teachers, need more practice than theory.
I29|Using Narrative to Enhance Students? Understanding of Challenging Life Events: A Conceptual Approach|The history of narrative analysis in psychology spans several decades and initially was fed by two distinctive streams, the psychoanalytic focus on life stories and the wide-ranging contributions of Bruner, who expanded the boundaries of what cognitive psychology could encompass. As the field developed, personality theory, developmental approaches, and neuroscience, for instance, all offered valuable perspectives on how persons construct identity and make meaning by visiting and revisiting their life stories. In an upper-level undergraduate course, students immerse themselves in narrative theory, analyze journal articles, view videos, listen to podcasts, and read fictional and non-fictional writing on language and metaphor, memory, friendship, immigration and asylum seeking, and suffering, among other themes. Each student chooses one film or memoir from a wide variety of disparate cultural perspectives, and then examines the protagonist?s struggles and accomplishments using narrative principles and dense reading of scientific works on racism, grief and loss, terminal illness, and other pertinent challenges and barriers the protagonist faces. Students report that this assignment, along with others embedded in the course structure such as a discussion board, help them see significant and often painful life events in a new way. It is hoped that the still-tentative use of narrative in psychology education will serve to enhance both empathy and critical judgment, a benefit that will redound to students and potentially to their communities.
I29|Students? perception of the importance of entrepreneurship development in universities: The case of a South African universit|Entrepreneurship plays a vital role in economic prosperity, and its promotion as a solution to unemployment has been highlighted as a high priority by the South African government. Currently, Higher Education Institutions in South Africa experience a constant need to produce more entrepreneurial graduates. In order to do so, these institutions have to foster and promote an entrepreneurial culture amongst students. However, the question can be asked: are universities doing enough to support and develop entrepreneurship? The purpose of this paper is to examine South African students? perceptions on the role of the university that they are currently enrolled at, in developing entrepreneurship. The results provide this university with valuable insights that may enable them to re-invent the entrepreneurship objectives of the university.
I29|Students? motivations and attitudes toward entrepreneurship at a South African Higher Education Institution|The fact that entrepreneurship plays a vital role in contributing to the promotion of economic. In recent decades, the South African government has highlighted that entrepreneurship training especially in Higher Education Institutions (HEI?s), is of utmost importance. The decision to be an entrepreneur is determined by specific factors based on an individual?s motivation and attitude. However, in order for HEI?s to create and foster an entrepreneurial culture, it is important to determine the entrepreneurial motivations and attitudes of the students. Descriptive analysis and one-sample t-tests indicated that students at the HEI feel they can easily pursue a career in self-employment if they wished to do so, and that the most important reason for wanting to start their own business was to become an independent person.
I29|To what extent is the Course Experience Questionnaire applicable to Japanese Education?|With a shift towards global education and ?world-class? universities, reliable methods to measure the quality of courses becomes more pertinent. The quality of Japanese higher education has been questioned. Simultaneously, the quality assessment system in Japanese higher education has been called fragmented. The Course Experience Questionnaire (CEQ) is recognised as a statically reliable and valid tool for assessing the efficacy of courses and is used in higher education in many countries around the world including Australia and the UK. Therefore, there is potential for its use in Japanese institutions. However, it is based on Western concepts of student learner theories. Confucian values influence Japanese education. Therefore, the extent to which the CEQ could be applicable for use in Japanese higher education requires examining. However, this remains largely unexplored. In this paper first, Japanese academia is examined using two constructs: 1. Hofstede?s cultural dimensions, and 2. a Confucian framework. The findings are then used to examine concepts within the CEQ, to unearth their applicability within Japanese education. This study reveals there are potentially complex ramifications related to implementing the CEQ as a tool for measurement in Japanese higher education. Further research into student learner theories in a Japanese context is recommended to find a way forward for global assessment in higher education.
I29|The Convergent Phenomena Of Internationalisms In English And Albanian Language|This research aims to cover the morphological and semantic differences in form and meaning of internationalisms in English and Albanian language. We will try to find out the similarities in form and differences in meaning of internationalisms in English and Albanian language. With the method of contrastive analysis (Ivir, 1968); we will try to analyze pairs of words that have the same form in both of the languages, English and Albanian, but the semantic field of Albanian words is wider than in English language. With the help of translation paradigms from Albanian to English language translated exclusively from native English speakers we will try to analyse pairs of internationalisms whose meaning overlap to a certain level but the scope of meanings in Albanian language is wider than in English language. The direction of our research is from Albanian to English language. With the help of subjective technique, comparing the surface structures of internationalisms and objective technique, working with the corpus, one-way, bidirectional translation, and group test of Gjorgevic (Gjorgjevic, 1982) we will try to find out internationalisms with the same form and whose meaning overlap to a certain level but the scope of meanings in Albanian language is wider than in the English language.
I29|The effects of the Leaving Certificate points on progression in higher education in Ireland|In Ireland entry into higher education undergraduate courses is processed by the Central Applications Office (CAO) and can be applied through many routes. The most common application is based upon the Leaving Certificate Examination results. Those applying through such a facility are referred to as standard entrants. The Leaving Certificate Examination is a terminal exam which occurs at the end of the Senior Cycle in post-primary schools in the Republic of Ireland. Students may take examinations in a number of subjects with results being awarded in the form of grades. These grades are then assigned a points value. Candidates also have the option of sitting a Higher or Lower paper with the Higher paper being the more difficult choice. As a result the grades achieved in a Higher paper are worth more points than those from a Lower paper. Those students with the highest points are offered places on the most sought after programmes. There are also students classified as ?non standard entrants? who access higher education by other means than the Leaving Certificate examination. Having achieved their place in higher education though the various entry routes the statistics show that the dropout rate among first year students is significant. This research set out to examine whether there are any differences in retention rates among a number of different categories of student within an Institute of Technology in Dublin. Those categories are male, female entrants and standard and non-standard entrants. Leaving Certificate points achievement was also be used as a variable in analysing retention. A dataset was utilised in SPSS to examine five hypothesis.
I29|Parental Behaviour As Correlates Of Anxiety Related Emotional Disorders Among Normal Children: Implications For Positive Mental Health|In the family set up, parents continue to be the caregivers and playmates during the childhood and pre-adolescent stages. During these stages, parents also become more concerned with teaching children how to behave (or how not to behave) in various situations. At these stages, the need for parents to manage the children?s budding autonomy in the hope of instilling a sense of social propriety and self-control while taking care not to undermine his curiosity, initiative and feeling of personal competence becomes very critical. Achieving emotional competence is very crucial to children?s social competence, their ability to achieve personal goals in social interaction while continuing to maintain positive relationship with others. This study employed a descriptive research design to investigate parental child rearing behaviours as correlates of anxiety related emotional disorder among normal children. The sample consists of 780 school children with the age range of 7 ? 10 years who were randomly selected from twenty primary schools in Ondo State, Nigeria. The instrument for data collection was a questionnaire consisting of three sections A, B and C. Section A contained items on the children?s bio-data (Age, School, Sex and caregiver). However, only children living with their biological parents were used for the study. Section B dealt with the parental child rearing behaviours with a 40 item likert type scale. The response formats range from Never=1. Rarely=2, Sometimes=3, Often=4, and Almost always=5. This section was designed to provide profile of parent?s behaviours toward their children with important domains of their involvement, being positive, monitoring, consistency in discipline and corporal punishment. Section C contain 20 items bothering on the perceived anxiety by the children based on the domain of: separation anxiety, social and specific phobia, panic anxiety and generalized anxiety. Scoring ranged from never=1, sometimes=2, often=3, and always=4.The findings revealed among others that there is a significant relationship between parental inconsistent discipline (Fcal=8.488>Ftab=3.86), corporal punishment (Fcal=11.771>Ftab=3.86) and child anxiety. However there was no significant relationship between parental involvement (Fcal=0.126>Ftab=3.86), positive parenting (Fcal=2.050>Ftab=3.86), poor parental monitoring (Fcal=2.101>Ftab=3.86) and children anxiety disorder.Parents were thereafter counselled on appropriate child rearing practices for positive parent-child relationship and positive mental health.
I29|Jazz Pedagogy: Incorporating Authentic Jazz Articulations into Solo and Jazz Ensemble Performance / Flute Performance|When performing jazz music, especially jazz in the swing style, utilizing authentic articulation is essential. However, in many jazz arrangements, specific articulations are not notated in the ensemble parts. In addition, when performing improvised solos, ensemble members must create their own articulations based upon their knowledge of articulation style, the tempo of the tune and the rhythms they choose to play. Since many students are not knowledgeable in this area, they must rely on their jazz ensemble director to supply them with the information necessary to perform with correct articulation. Unfortunately, many jazz ensemble directors also do not have the knowledge necessary to instruct students on how to properly articulate in the jazz style. As a result, students do not use authentic articulations when performing their jazz ensemble parts or when improvising solos. The purpose of this paper is to provide jazz ensemble directors and ensemble members with the information necessary to incorporate correct, authentic jazz swing articulations into solo and ensemble performance. There are five basic types of jazz articulations used when playing jazz swing music. They are back-accent, hard, slur, half and doodle tonguing. These articulations can be used separately but are most commonly played in combination with each other to provide the most authentic jazz articulation style. Using correct jazz articulations will allow students to perform in a more authentic jazz style, greatly enhancing their performance skills and their understanding of the jazz idiom.
I29|Cultural Diversity Values Embedded in Children?s Literature|This study investigated the cultural diversity values embedded in children?s stories of the age 8-12 years in the Arab World presented by the characters of the stories, taking Jordan as a case study. The following questions were raised: 1- What are the cultural diversity values embedded in children stories for the age of 8-12 years? 2- What are the characters in children stories in terms of gender (male ? female), age (child-adult-old), and types (human-animal) that represented these values? Thirty three stories were chosen and analyzed using a developed checklist of the cultural diversity values, and Child, Potter & Levine (1971) classification of characters. Findings revealed that the cultural diversity values in children?s stories were not sufficient as they should be according to the used scale.
I29|Charismatic Teaching|"Teaching is often considered a difficult job ""that seems easy"" (Labaree, 2000). Theory of education, educational psychology and other sciences have explored factors such as teaching methods used by successful teachers, the effects of teachers´ backgrounds or teachers´personal characteristics and behaviours (for example enthusiasm, empathy, communication skills, etc.). There is no doubt students like to attend some teachers´ classes more than the other´s. There are some reasons make teachers attract students - the trait which appeared in pedagogical texts is called teacher charisma.To shed more light on the concept, we conducted a pilot study using the Czech translation of a Taiwanese scale measuring teacher charisma within a group of students of Czech Technical University in Prague, Czech Republic."
I29|Summer Bridge Programs: Championing Inclusion and Decreasing Socio-Economic Gaps|This paper explores the ways in which Summer Bridge Programs champion equity and inclusion amongst underrepresented and first-generation college students. By supporting these students with course instruction, tutoring, and peer mentorship during the summer term, bridge programs aim to create an inclusive approach to education and narrow achievement gaps, especially along socio-economic lines. Additionally, instructors serve as peer educators, playing a pivotal role in advocating equity and inclusion for all students who enter university. University Summer Bridge Programs aim to narrow the achievement gap between the performances of college-going students and first-generation college students. Two such programs at the University of California, Los Angeles and Nevada State College are the focus of this talk. Each program employed the narrative approach of asking students, peer educators, and teachers to exchange their life stories as a way of: raising awareness about identity capital, encouraging identification with others, and inspiring transformation through self actualization. This approach allows students, peer educators, and teachers to display forms of empathetic witnessing, enabling students to explore one another?s layered identity. This talk not only discusses the needed academic organization, institutional support, didactics, and pedagogical strategies behind the bridge model, but it also includes findings and outcomes about first-generation students? perceived academic pathways. Ultimately, bridge programs demonstrate how a community of educators, alumni, and peer mentors pivotally create an inclusive environment that paradigmatically provides access and stimulates success in education. These programs support students in the discovery of both their voice and identity capital in order to encourage them to assert their agency.
I29|Familiarization Activities ? Achieving a Good Understanding of the CEFR Levels and Descriptors|The Common European Framework of Reference for Languages: Learning, teaching, assessment (CEFR) integrates concepts related to target language learning/teaching and assessment from a number of different theoretical studies and focuses on meaningful target language use in real-life situations. The six-level framework with positively worded ?can do? statements refers to performances validated for particular proficiency levels. The CEFR includes many descriptor scales to encourage language users to develop differentiated profiles. The main function of descriptors is to help align language curricula, teaching and assessment, selecting illustrative descriptors according to educators? relevance to the particular context. To relate local language curricula, teaching and assessment to the CEFR, a group of local experts need to be aware of reference levels and illustrative samples to start validating their claims. A good understanding of the CEFR levels and descriptors can be achieved through familiarization activities. Their effectiveness will be discussed and analysed in the presentation and paper.
I29|Does One Size Fit All? An Exploration of Second Chance Student Transitions in Higher Education|This is an exploratory study considering the concept of transition within higher education among second chance learners coming from Further Education and Training (FET). In particular, this paper explores how students use Communities of Practice (CoP). There is a wide body of literature around first year experiences in higher education However, less is known about the evolving experience of the student in HE.This process involves moving from being ?an outsider? to shifting identity to becoming engaged student in HE within a broader social context. Prior experiences and previous educational encounters affect how students? experience HE and suggest that a one-size-fits-all approach will not work in this context. HE can present challenges to students from working-class backgrounds in terms of their ways of doing things and their identities. It can also lead to positive change in others. Student identities, relationships and participation evolve and change over time. This paper argues that HE institutions need to be more facilitative of differences in students, their knowledge and ways of knowing. However HE institutions, teaching practices and the curriculum need to adapt to come consider students' position and experience, their cultural capital . Students entering HE from a FET experience come with an established community of practice perspectiveResearch in Communities of Practice (CoP) (Lave and Wenger, 1991) by Tobbell and O?Donnell (2013) have identified that students evolve to engage with practices of the community leading to changes in identity through participation. New students are peripheral participants in this community, full participants have acquired the valued practices of the community. Engagement with full participants allows new students to become part of the community. This brings about a change in the students? identity through interaction with the community of practice. Mature students may encounter barriers and challenges in this process because of previous educational experiences which may influence positively or negatively new educational experiences (Bamber and Tett 2000).
I29|Increasing the passing rate in HAMK's Electrical and Automation studies|The purpose of this article is to present how the accumulation of credits has developed over the last ten years in Häme University of Applied Sciences Electrical and Automation Engineering study programme.Degree programme in Electrical and Automation Engineering has managed successfully to almost double the number of students able to gain over 55 credits in a year over the period of ten years. This good development springs from systematic monitoring, student caring culture and innovative teaching and learning methods. These are based on healthy and self-imposed working environment.Progression of studies can be encouraged with resolute work. The credit gain changes described in this article are not an accumulation of coincidences. Accumulation of credits is one of the defining factors of financing in the effectiveness gauge, but long-term and effective results are only possible if there are invests towards quality. Continuous development as described by the quality system is highlighted specially during the alteration progress.
I29|Solutions which could support generation of Z in case of choosing the proper career path|The difference between generations can be observed in multiple perspectives of value system, lifestyle and consumer behaviour. This is similar in terms of preferences for choosing workplaces. In our research, we focus on the Z generation, which is garnering more and more importance from the perspective of recruitment, in order to understand the factors they take into consideration when choosing among career paths, the solutions they think are successful for them when planning their career path, and the supporting of their personal development. In the qualitative phase of the research, we conducted mini focus groups (30 group interviews), while our quantitative phase encompassed standardised questionnaires (filled out by 1200 participants). This study introduces the partial results of these project phases.
I29|Pre-service classroom teachers' scientific epistemological beliefs and attitudes toward science|The purpose of this study is to examine pre-service classroom teachers? scientific epistemological beliefs and their attitudes towards science. Sample of the study consisted of 98 students pursuing their third year in primary teacher education department of Faculty of Education at Giresun University which is located at Northeastern part of Turkey. Data for the study was collected through the use of ?Scientific Epistemological Beliefs Scale? and ?Attitudes toward science scale?. Scientific epistemological beliefs scale was developed by Elder (1999) and adapted into Turkish by Acat, Tüken & Karada? (2010). Attitudes toward science were assessed by utilizing an attitude scale consisted of 34 items which was constructed by using items from various attitude scales. Data was analyzed through statistical techniques such as means, t-test and regression analysis. Findings of the study showed that pre-service classroom teachers? scientific epistemological beliefs differentiated for the dimensions of the scale from naive to sophisticated beliefs. There was not a significant difference between male and female pre-service teachers in terms of scientific epistemological beliefs and attitudes toward science. The results of the study also showed that there is a positive correlation between the scientific epistemological beliefs and attitudes towards science.
I29|Be Our Guest: Formative Assessment v.s. Paper Midterms|Educators generally agree that despite years of study and testing, some college graduates lack the confidence and the ability to communicate effectively in English. The Be Our Guest Midterm Assessment Project aims to improve motivation and communicative ability by replacing paper midterms with classroom-based, formative assessment. This action research paper introduces and evaluates a 3-session lesson plan that was implemented in a Japanese junior college EFL setting. A group of 30 multi-level students prepared to interact with a visiting Japanese professional in English. The guest functioned as a relatable example of students? future L2 self in the workforce. Scaffolded assignments required students to listen to a presentation, then process relevant information, next initiate communication and reflect. This study took a mixed method approach in convergent strands where quantitative pre- and post- surveys provided numerical data for test v.s. project results comparison and qualitative self-reflection essays were used to discover what aspects students found valuable. The data from the above sources were triangulated to produce an evaluation of the potential for structural implementation of PBLT and assessment within junior college communicative English courses.The project structure not only proved helpful in assessing students? ability, but surveys showed that students were generally satisfied with their performance. Pre-activity many insisted that they can?t because they need more English. Post-task many had formed individual learning goals, wanting to use English better. Though both low- and high-level students were anxious about communicating with a stranger, their anxiety was largely mitigated by the collaborative structure, the predictability of assignments and the freedom to look back at previously studied strategies.Future research could focus on cataloging approaches currently in use that allow for more student autonomy and mitigate performance anxiety within PBLT. The design, implementation, and evaluation of such an assessment project would be desirable as well.
I29|A Comparative Study Of Lecturer Quality And Support For Research Output In Selected Public And Private Universities In Southwest, Nigeria|The study set out to compare the quality of lecturers available in and the support for research and publication in selected public and private universities in southwest Nigeria. The descriptive survey research design was adopted for the study. Stratified random sampling technique was used to select 77 (40 public and 37 private) lecturers from 12 (six public and six private) selected universities in southwest Nigeria. Research and Knowledge Dissemination Questionnaire for Academic Staff in Nigerian Universities (RKDQ-ASNU) with a reliability coefficient of 0.75, which had been used in a previous study, was used for data collection. The data collected were analyzed using frequency counts and simple percentages while t-test was used to test the hypotheses at 0.05 level of significance. The results showed that the quality of lecturers (as measured by cadre/status/grade and qualification) employed by public universities was higher and better than those employed in private universities. On a general note, lecturers in public universities enjoyed more support for research and publication than their counterparts in private universities but lecturers in private universities were found to be better than their counterparts in public universities in terms of access to financial support for compulsory annual research leave and organization of seminars and conferences for staff by the institutions. Based on the findings of the study, it was recommended that private universities should recruit high caliber staff with requisite academic qualifications and provide an enabling environment for their lecturers to develop on the job through improved conditions of service and job security. Proprietors of public and private universities should allocate adequate funds to research activities in their institutions by granting more access to research grants and providing more financial support for lecturers to attend conferences, workshops and seminars.
I29|Elaboration Techniques In A Suggestopedic Foreign Language Class|The present article deals with the elaboration techniques of Suggestopedia-Desuggestopedia in particular, and provides practical hints to foreign language teachers who are willing to make their lessons intriguing as well as effective in terms of language acquisition. As adult students are often very sensitive to their own mistakes and find it difficult to overcome the psychological barriers which prevents them from freely expressing themselves in the foreign language, Suggestopedia-Desuggestoedia comes to the rescue by introducing some very effective elaboration techniques which will turn the learning process into a project-game full of numerous, pleasant games and exercises, which students do not perceive as drills. The Suggestopedic elaboration techniques always provide a double-plan view point.
I29|A comparative assessment of delivery methods of mathematics and technology enhanced learning|This paper is concerned with the delivery methods of mathematics in engineering subjects and the use of technology enhanced learning in higher education systems. Anecdotal evidence suggests that there is a lack of interest in mathematical modules by engineering students in recent years, a trend that appears to be growing. At the same time, many universities have invested heavily in e-learning tools in an effort to engage students. This report aims to investigate whether these tools are a support or barrier when teaching mathematics to engineering students, and to examine if they have had any effect on student engagement. The report also investigates student opinions of technology enhanced learning versus traditional methods of teaching.
I29|A competence development approach for flexible, autonomous and self-directed development of education in technology contexts|The vocational education system is affected by the speed of technology and vocational change. Challenges arise for engineering-technology teachers to keep up with the creation of new education. In an ever faster cycle of development and delivery, engineering-technology teachers are to be educated to acquire domain knowledge for new vocational tasks and transform this into relevant learning tasks for students. To contribute to such engineering-technology teacher challenge, the Teacher Training Institute of Fontys University of Applied Sciences designed a competence development approach for self-directed development of competence in the didactisation of new vocational tasks in technology contexts. The approach described in this paper is based on the modelling of knowledge for new vocational tasks and the didactisation of that knowledge through generic technology and engineering concepts, into meaningful learning activities for students. It is the premise of reuse of technology concepts and didactics, transferable across technology contexts, which is important to the flexible development and delivery of new education. The paper describes how the competence development approach is designed, implemented and evaluated at Fontys University of Applied Sciences, Technical Teacher Education Institute.
I29|Uncovering expectations and perceptions of the final year UG dissertation - supporting the student research journey and enhancing their graduate attributes|The aim of this study was to understand the experience of Applied science undergraduate (UG) project supervision. The final year UG research project has been coined the pedagogy of the 21st century. The diversity of supervisory styles is a key strength of project modules but is a source of student perceived inequality of experience in a high stakes terminal assessment. This project engaged final year UG students in a collaboration designed with inclusivity and partnership in mind. Student ?researchers? were equal partners and project evolution was led through their involvement in all aspects; study design, methods, resource development and dissemination of the outputs. The overall goal and impact of the project was to provide structure and support to dissertation students and supervisors alike by developing research informed resources that are accessible, engaging and student centred. Three themes were regularly identified; education, practical and emotional support. A key finding was that the student-supervisor relationship strongly influences student experience, satisfaction and success. However, whilst 75 % of students strongly agreed that a good student/supervisor partnership positively affects the success of the final project, only 40 % felt strongly that they had managed to build a partnership with their supervisor. The team used the emergent themes to pull together a ?making supervision work? help guide, a visual model of how the student-supervisor partnership can support the development of skills and progression towards independence. To support this further, a list of discussion points were put together by student researchers aimed at making supervision more effective without making the process a prescriptive one. The answers are personal to each supervisor/student pair but the use of a standard set of questions provides parity, clarity and structure.This project is readily scalable and we strongly believe that this strategic collaboration will see improvements in the student/staff experience of UG supervision.
I29|A New 21st Century Classroom Management Model For Pre-Service Social Studies Teacher Development|A new five-step model consisting of simulation, learning process activation through brain-based learning approach, instructional design through active learning approach, knowledge sharing under coaching, and reflective thinking was systematically developed and proposed to enhance classroom management skills in 21st century. Seventy-two pre-service social studies teachers in Thailand were selected through the purposive sampling method. The single-group interrupted time-series design was employed during the implementation of the proposed model. Data were analyzed using basic statistical methods such as means and standard deviation to examine the pre-service teachers? happiness in learning, and one-way repeated measures ANOVA to examine learning achievement, and classroom management skills in 21st century. The results revealed that after participating in the study, the pre-service teacher had higher learning achievement and classroom management skills at the same statistical significance level of .01. In addition, they were happy in a course with the implementation of the systematically developed model.
I29|Inequalities in adolescent learning: Does the timing and persistence of food insecurity at home matter?|We investigated inequalities in learning achievements at 12 years by household food insecurity trajectories at ages 5, 8 and 12 years in a longitudinal sample of 1,911 Indian children. Estimates included extensive child and household controls and lagged cognitive scores to address unobserved individual heterogeneity in ability and early investments. Overall, household food insecurity at any age predicted lower vocabulary, reading, maths and English scores in early adolescence. Adolescents from households that transitioned from food insecurity at age 5 to food security at a later age, and adolescents from chronically food insecure households had the lowest scores across all outcomes. There was heterogeneity in the relationship between temporal occurrence of food insecurity and cognitive skills, based on developmental and curriculum-specific timing of skill formation. Results were robust to additional explanations of the “household food insecurity gap”, i.e. education and health investments, parental and children's educational aspirations, and children's psychosocial skills.
I29|Fachkräftemangel in der Pflege: Kritische Situationsbewertung und Skizzierung einer Handlungsalternative|Das Bundeskabinett hat am 01.08.2018 das Pflegepersonal-Stärkungsgesetz beschlossen. Unter anderem ist darin die Einstellung von 13.000 zusätzlichen Pflegefachkräften vorgesehen. Angesichts der derzeitigen Mangelsituation in diesem Berufsfeld bestehen starke Zweifel, ob diese Stellen adäquat besetzt werden können. Zukunftsprojektionen für das Jahr 2030 zeigen, dass sich die Pflegekraftlücke noch deutlich vergrößern wird. Auch der Zugriff auf bislang unerschlossene Arbeitskräftepotenziale wird zur Schließung nicht ausreichend sein. Die soziale Dramatik dieses Problems verbietet eine abwartende Haltung. Bisher beschlossene Maßnahmen sind zu kleinteilig und zu reaktiv angelegt. Es sind kurzfristig Handlungen erforderlich, die einen aktiven Lösungsbeitrag in einer substanziellen Größenordnung leisten. Vorgeschlagen wird in einem stark fokussierten Handlungsansatz die Errichtung einer groß dimensionierten Pflegefachschule (10.000 Plätze) in einem Drittland. Es wird ein begründeter Kriterienkatalog für die Auswahl geeigneter Länder vorgestellt. Als potenziell geeignetes Land wird Vietnam diskutiert.
I29|Do planning prompts increase educational success? Evidence from randomized controlled trials in MOOCs|Massive Open Online Courses are a promising educational innovation. Yet, they suffer from high drop-out rates. As a remedy, we propose a planning prompt and test its effect on course completion and further outcomes such as course engagement and satisfaction in four large-scale randomized controlled trials. The results reveal an overall null effect on the completion rate, ruling out effect sizes beyond the [-7%, 3%] interval. However, this overall effect masks heterogeneity across and within courses: In one course the planning prompt increases course completion by 19%, highlighting the importance of replications in slightly different contexts. Using random causal forests, we also reveal tendencies for differential effects by subgroups. Better targeting could hence improve the effectiveness of planning prompts in online learning.
I29|â€œThis one is 400 Libyan dinars, this one is 500â€ : Insights from Cognitive Human Capital and Slave Trade|One of the most disturbing contemporary episodes in human history that has been decried globally is the recent Libyan experience of slave trade, where migrants captured end-up being sold as slaves. We contribute to the understanding of this phenomenon by investigating the role of cognitive human capital in slave trade. To this end, we use the historic intelligence and slave trade variables respectively, as the independent and outcome variables of interest. Our findings show a negative relationship between slave trade and cognitive human capital. Hence, slave trade is more apparent when cognitive human capital is low. The Ordinary Least Squares findings are robust to the control for outliers, uncertainty about the model and Tobit regressions. We substantiate why from the perspective of massive sensitisation and education, the non-contemporary relationship between cognitive ability and slave trade established in this study has contemporary practical policy relevance in efforts to stem the tide of clandestine travel to Europe through countries in which clandestine migrants are captured and sold as slaves.
I29|“This One Is 400 Libyan Dinars, This One Is 500”: Insights from Cognitive Human Capital and Slave Trade| One of the most disturbing contemporary episodes in human history that has been decried globally is the recent Libyan experience of slave trade, where migrants captured end-up being sold as slaves. We contribute to the understanding of this phenomenon by investigating the role of cognitive human capital on slave trade. To this end, we use the historic intelligence and slave trade variables, respectively, as the independent and outcome variables of interest. Our findings show a negative relationship between slave trade and cognitive human capital. Hence, the slave trade is more apparent when cognitive human capital is low. The Ordinary Least Squares findings are robust to the control for outliers, uncertainty about the model and Tobit regressions. We substantiate why from the perspective of massive sensitization and education, the non-contemporary relationship between cognitive ability and slave trade established in this study has contemporary practical policy relevance in efforts to stem the tide of clandestine travel to Europe through countries in which clandestine migrants are captured and sold as slaves.
I29|Higher education funding reforms in England|Reforms in higher education funding, which have taken England from offering free-of-charge, full-time undergraduate studies to being one of the most expensive systems in the OECD, have led to a reduction in the participation gap among those entering university from higher and lower socio-economic groups. Returning to free higher education would not enhance equity: students are still disproportionately from high-income households.
I29|Higher Education Funding Reforms: A Comprehensive Analysis of Educational and Labour Market Outcomes in England|This paper investigates the impact of changes in the funding of higher education in England on students' choices and outcomes. Over the last two decades - through three major reforms in 1998, 2006 and 2012 - undergraduate university education in public universities moved from being free to students and state funded to charging substantial tuition fees to all students. This was done in conjunction with the government offering generous means-tested maintenance grants and loans. Using detailed longitudinal micro-data that follows all students attending state schools in England (more than 90 percent of all school-aged children) from lower education to higher education, we document the socio-economic distributional effects of the 2006 and 2012 policy reforms on a comprehensive set of outcomes, including enrolment, relocation decisions, selection of institution, program of study, and performance within university. For a subset of students, we track them after completing higher education, allowing us to study the labour market effects of the policy reforms. Despite the substantial higher education funding reforms, we do not find large aggregate effect on student enrolment or on other margins. Moreover, the small negative impacts found on enrolment were largely borne on those in higher parts of the wealth distribution - reducing the enrolment gap across socioeconomic groups.
I29|Efectos (algunos no esperados) de la Acreditación de Alta Calidad en las Universidades Colombianas|Esta investigación analiza el efecto, en las universidades, de recibir la acreditación institucional de alta calidad sobre variables relacionadas con la calidad educativa. Como metodología se plantean dos modelos: un modelo generalizado de diferencias en diferencias y un modelo gradual de diferencias en diferencias con información de las universidades colombianas entre 2009 y 2015. Esta investigación encuentra que la acreditación institucional de alta calidad tiene un efecto positivo sobre la inclusión social, la calidad de los nuevos estudiantes, la calidad de los profesores, la calidad de los nuevos graduados, y la tasa de graduación. También se encuentra que la acreditación disminuye la producción científica. Finalmente, no observamos ningún efecto de la acreditación sobre la inversión en propiedades, planta y equipo (PPE) y los gastos de investigación por profesor.
I29|Higher education funding reforms: a comprehensive analysis of educational and labour market outcomes in England|This paper investigates the impact of changes in the funding of higher education in England on students’ choices and outcomes. Over the last two decades – through three major reforms in 1998, 2006 and 2012 – undergraduate university education in public universities moved from being free to students and state funded to charging substantial tuition fees to all students. This was done in conjunction with the government offering generous means-tested maintenance grants and loans. Using detailed longitudinal micro-data that follows all students attending state schools in England (more than 90 percent of all schoolaged children) from lower education to higher education, we document the socio-economic distributional effects of the 2006 and 2012 policy reforms on a comprehensive set of outcomes, including enrolment, relocation decisions, selection of institution, program of study, and performance within university. For a subset of students, we track them after completing higher education, allowing us to study the labour market effects of the policy reforms. Despite the substantial higher education funding reforms, we do not find large aggregate effect on student enrolment or on other margins. Moreover, the small negative impacts found on enrolment were largely borne on those in higher parts of the wealth distribution – reducing the enrolment gap across socioeconomic groups.
I29|L'héritage de l'éducation sur 25 ans : Une comparaison des tendances au Québec et dans le reste du Canada|(in French) L'étude utilise les données provenant de 14 des vagues de l'Enquête sociale générale (ESG), réalisée par Statistique Canada auprès des ménages canadiens. Les enquêtes retenues contiennent pour des années de 1986 à 2011 des informations sur le plus haut niveau d'éducation des répondants et ceux de leurs parents (père, mère). L'analyse estime la probabilité qu'un répondant, de plusieurs cohortes des 25-39 ans, soit gradué de l'université conditionnellement au fait qu'un parent (ou les deux) ont, eux aussi, obtenu un diplôme universitaire. Les probabilités estimées selon le sexe des répondants et des parents permettent de dégager un premier portrait la mobilité intergénérationnelle. Dans un deuxième temps, quatre indices de mobilité sont calculés selon des matrices de type Markovien caractérisant les liens entre nombre d'années d'études de répondants et des parents pour quatre sous-périodes d'années. Enfin, les deux enquêtes sur l'évaluation internationale des compétences des adultes (IALSS 2003 et PIECA 2012), qui présentent les mêmes informations, sont mises à contribution pour estimer des élasticités intergénérationnelles d'éducation et établir un lien entre le quartile de l'indice socio-économique international de la profession des parents et le nombre d'années d'études des répondants. Les résultats indiquent des progressions des niveaux d'éducation des répondants par rapport à ceux de leurs parents. Cependant, les dernières années suggèrent une persistance des écarts d'éducation entre les générations et de la corrélation parents-enfants adultes. En général, les persistances caractérisées sont plus élevées au Québec que pour le Reste du Canada. Abstract (in English, working paper is in French) The study is based on 14 waves of Statistics Canada? General Social Survey. The selected surveys conducted between 1986 and 2011 have information on the highest education level of respondents and their parents (father, mother). The analysis estimate the probability that a respondent, from many cohorts of persons aged 25-39 years, is a university graduate, conditional that one parent (or both of them) were also a university graduate. The estimated probabilities by gender of respondents and parents offer a first overview of intergenerational education mobility in Canada and Québec. In a second phase, four index of mobility are computed with Markovian type matrices which characterize the relationships between respondents and parents number of years of education over four year-periods. Lastly, two international surveys on adult skills (IALSS 2003 and PIAAC 2012), with similar data, are used to estimate intergenerational education elasticities and linking up the international socio-economic index of parental occupation and respondents years of education. The results indicate a clear stepping up of respondent?s education levels compare to their parents. Nonetheless, the latest years suggest that educational gaps between generations persist as well as the parents-children correlation. The describe persistences are greater in Québec than in the Rest of Canada.
I29|Developing a Service Quality Model for Private Higher Education Institutions in Lebanon|Objective –The objective of this study is to identify and implement the most suitable and prominent dimensions for service quality, which is key for the development of a successful model. Within a competitive academic environment, Lebanese higher education institutions are forced to develop their own dimensions of service quality and offer higher quality services than their competitors. Therefore, identifying the key dimensions of service quality in the Lebanese higher education sector is a priority for universities, to improve their overall services and maintain high levels of retention. The foremost condition to success is a well-developed service quality assessment process to evaluate university services. This paper aims to investigate the most effective service quality assessment tool for Lebanese universities, in addition to the corresponding dimensions of service quality and their impact on the satisfaction of the students. Methodology/Technique – This study undertakes a comprehensive review of recent studies dealing with different aspects of service quality models and the corresponding service quality dimensions are presented and discussed. Considering the proved and established qualities and capabilities of the SERVQUAL model and the urgent need for service quality assessment for private higher education institutions in Lebanon, a modified SERVQUAL model with seven dimensions is proposed and highlighted as a potential model for assessing service quality in the Lebanese higher education sector. Findings – Based on the comprehensive literature review carried out, it was noted that the SERVQUAL instrument is the most prominent model used in recent investigations to assess service quality in the higher education sector. Novelty – Choosing the proper and the most influential service quality model is one of the crucial challenges faced in higher education
I29|Asian Segregation and Scholastic Achievement: Evidence from Primary Schools in New York City|This paper examines the effects of Asian segregation on students' academic performance in New York City primary schools. We use exogenous variation in the share of Asian students across cohorts and schools stemming from a fertility shock among Asian population in the Chinese year of the Dragon. A one-percentage-point increase in Asian student share reduces non-Asian math and ELA scores by 0.03 and 0.05 standard deviations. The effects are largest among black and Hispanic students. We find little evidence of effects among white students. The findings suggest that desegregation policies may generate net benefits in terms of student achievement.
I29|Welfare Activation and Youth Crime|We evaluate the impact on youth crime of a welfare reform that tightened activation requirements for social assistance clients. The evaluation strategy exploits administrative individual data in combination with geographically differentiated implementation of the reform. We find that the reform reduced crime among teenage boys from economically disadvantaged families. Stronger reform effects on weekday versus weekend crime, reduced school dropout, and favorable long-run outcomes in terms of crime and educational attainment point to both incapacitation and human capital accumulation as key mechanisms. Despite lowered social assistance take-up, we uncover no indication that loss of income support pushed youth into crime.
I29|Can Reduced Child Support Make Joint Custody Bad for Children? The Role of Economic Incentives in U.S. Divorce Law on Child Outcomes|This paper examines the effect of economic incentives generated by U.S. divorce and custody law on a range of child health and human capital measures. State laws vary widely in the treatment of child support under joint custody. While some states require no child support in joint custody cases, other states require fathers with joint custody to pay the same child support as those without custody. Merging family and child data from the SIPP with state-level data on economic incentives for joint custody, we find that fathers' joint custody decisions are significantly affected by the incentives generated by reduced child support. These incentives have negative effects on children's human capital development and health, with economic incentives for joint custody leading to significantly lower educational attainment as well as worse attitudes toward school and child health. Parental characteristics and time use data suggest that economic incentives for joint custody may limit children's time spent with relatively high quality mothers, as fathers pursue joint custody in response to the policy.
I29|Teachers’ environmental knowledge and pro-environmental behavior: An application of CNS and EID scales|Environmental education’s teachers are responsible to endow students with the knowledge, values, attitudes and skills necessary to protect and sustain the environment. The current study investigates Greek teachers’ environmental attitudes, behavior and knowledge via Connectedness to Nature Scale (CNS) and Environmental Identity (EID) Scale. The approach combines applied methodological research like item analysis and Factor Analysis. Teachers’ derived scores in both scales were high confirming their positive attitudes in terms of the environment. Furthermore, teachers have positive environmental attitudes, showing pro-environmental behavior but also a moderate level of environmental knowledge.
I29|Why are some online courses more open than others?|This paper studies the determinants of the intellectual property license of the Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) provided on a French platform. While they can opt for a traditional intellectual property right license, the vast majority chooses among creative commons licenses. Considering the ordering in terms of degree of openness of these licenses, we study the course-, teacher- and institution-related factors driving this decision. We observe that the field of study of the course and the characteristics of the institution providing the course play a role. We explain this result by the teachers' variable awareness and preferences with regard to open practices. We also find support for the idea that those willing to raise revenues by selling goods complementary to the MOOC (e.g. a textbook, certificate of completion or bundle of courses) are less likely to choose an open license.
I29|École, rationalité scientifique et démocratie au début du 21 e siècle?: épuisement ou renouvellement d’une alliance séculaire'|With the generalization of science teaching, school has become a place of science and society interplay. Securing the recruitment of scientific manpower and transmitting a scientific culture is a double aim that has justified scientific teaching for several decades. In this article, the author studies the recent reformulation of this double aim. To do so, the author focuses on the European discourse on education and scientific teaching in a first part, and, in a second part, studies how educational materials such as textbooks echo this discourse in three different national contexts. This analysis shows that science remains introduced as a favored activity and way of thinking. Despite this common trait, recent changes tend to influence science teaching and various approaches are proposed in the scrutinized countries in order to educate future citizens. JEL Codes: I29
I29|Heterogeneous Peer Effects and Rank Concerns: Theory and Evidence|Using a theoretical model where students care about achievement rank, I study effort choices in the classroom and show that rank concerns generate peer effects. The model’s key empirical prediction is that the effect on own achievement of increasing the dispersion in peer cost of effort is heterogeneous, depending on a student’s own cost of effort. To test this, I construct a longitudinal multi-cohort dataset of students, with data on the geographic propagation of building damages from the Chilean 2010 earthquake. I find that higher dispersion in home damages among one’s classmates led, on average, to lower own Mathematics and Spanish test scores. To be able to test the theory, I develop a novel nonlinear difference-in-differences model that estimates effect heterogeneity and that relates observed damages to unobserved cost of effort. I find that some students at the tails of the predicted cost of effort distribution benefit from higher dispersion in peer cost of effort, as predicted by the theoretical model. This finding suggests that observed peer effects on test scores are, at least partly, governed by rank concerns.
I29|Higher Education Funding Reforms: A Comprehensive Analysis of Educational and Labor Market Outcomes in England|This paper investigates the impact of changes in the funding of higher education in England on students' choices and outcomes. Over the last two decades - through three major reforms in 1998, 2006 and 2012 - undergraduate university education in public universities moved from being free to students and state funded to charging substantial tuition fees to all students. This was done in conjunction with the government offering generous means-tested maintenance grants and loans. Using detailed longitudinal micro-data that follows all students attending state schools in England (more than 90 percent of all school-aged children) from lower education to higher education, we document the socio-economic distributional effects of the 2006 and 2012 policy reforms on a comprehensive set of outcomes, including enrolment, relocation decisions, selection of institution, program of study, and performance within university. For a subset of students, we track them after completing higher education, allowing us to study the labor market effects of the policy reforms. Despite the substantial higher education funding reforms, we do not find large aggregate effect on student enrolment or on other margins. Moreover, the small negative impacts found on the enrolment were largely borne on those in higher parts of the wealth distribution â€“ reducing the enrolment gap across socio-economic groups.
I29|Ethical Sensitivity of Accounting Students: Evidence from Malaysia|The goals of ethics education include the fostering of awareness about ethical components in managerial decision making and assist the students to apply ethical analysis to daily business activities. It is claimed that the inclusion of ethics in accounting curriculum can give students guidance as to how to deal with the real business situations. This paper investigates the importance of ethical sensitivity of accounting students and how ethics education would affect them. Specifically, it attempts to examine how attending ethic classes would affect their decision making. Questionnaires were distributed to 114 final year accounting students at the beginning of the semester (pre) and at the end of the semester (post). Interviews were also conducted to understand the issues of the study. Paired sample t-tests were employed to analyze the data. The results appear to suggest that the final year accounting students understand the importance of ethics in general. The paired sample t-tests results show that after attending the ethic classes, their ethical sensitivity improved. However, when they were given some ethical situations to assess, the students indicated that they possessed moderate ethical sensitivity for both pre and post results.
I29|Digital technologies and learning outcomes of students from low socio-economic background: An Analysis of PISA 2015|The use of digital technologies for learning is high on the policy agenda and is believed to benefit disadvantaged groups of students especially. This study assesses the extent to which the association between learning outcomes and the use of digital technologies differs systematically between students with different socio-economic statuses. We start by summarizing the existing evidence on the causal effects of digital technologies on learning outcomes. We highlight the relative lack of evidence on the pedagogical use of digital technologies on disadvantaged students when compared to the general student population. The overall consensus emerging from the literature is that the causal effect of digital technologies is mixed. While it is unclear whether disadvantaged students are differently affected by them, the available evidence does not suggest that digital technologies contribute to further disparities in students' learning outcomes. Using data from PISA 2015, we document that students from low socio-economic backgrounds start using digital devices later in life, have slightly less access to ICT at home and tend to use ICT less intensively especially in out-of-school activities than their counterparts. In the multivariate analysis, we find a positive association between disadvantaged students' achievement and the use of ICT for some purposes, but only among those students who use ICT less intensively. However, we find no evidence that this association is systematically different from that of students from higher socio-economic backgrounds. The exception is the use of ICT outside of school for general purposes by low-intensity users: in this case, disadvantaged students would particularly benefit from using ICT more intensively. Furthermore, we also find that - among low-intensity users of ICT - the probability of being a resilient student is positively correlated with the use of ICT at school for educational purposes and at home for schoolwork and general purposes. More generally, our research suggests that low-intensity users of ICT are likely to be using ICT sub-optimally, both at home and at school, and would benefit (in terms of PISA scores) from using ICT more intensively. However, the fact that medium and high-intensity users of ICT typically would not gain from additional ICT use is consistent with the hypothesis that the relationship between use of ICT and learning outcomes is inversely U-shaped.
I29|Higher Education Funding Reforms: A Comprehensive Analysis of Educational and Labor Market Outcomes in England|This paper investigates the impact of changes in the funding of higher education in England on students' choices and outcomes. Over the last two decades – through three major reforms in 1998, 2006 and 2012 – undergraduate university education in public universities moved from being free to students and state funded to charging substantial tuition fees to all students. This was done in conjunction with the government offering generous means-tested maintenance grants and loans. Using detailed longitudinal micro-data that follows all students attending state schools in England (more than 90 percent of all school-aged children) from lower education to higher education, we document the socio-economic distributional effects of the 2006 and 2012 policy reforms on a comprehensive set of outcomes, including enrolment, relocation decisions, selection of institution, program of study, and performance within university. For a subset of students, we track them after completing higher education, allowing us to study the labor market effects of the policy reforms. Despite the substantial higher education funding reforms, we do not find large aggregate effect on student enrolment or on other margins. Moreover, the small negative impacts found on the enrolment were largely borne on those in higher parts of the wealth distribution – reducing the enrolment gap across socio-economic groups.
I29|The Risk and Time Preferences of Young Truants and Their Parents|We use an incentivized experiment to measure the risk and time preferences of truant adolescents and their parents. We find that adolescent preferences do not predict school attendance and that a unique police-school partnership program targeting school absences was most effective in reducing the truancy of adolescents with relatively risk-averse parents.
I29|Does homeownership affect education outcomes?|Homeownership has important economic implications for society and individuals. At the social level is the greater civic engagement that homeowners tend to exhibit, while at the individual level an important outcome associated with housing tenure is better education outcomes, especially for children. The causal impact of tenure, in particular of homeownership, on education is mediated through a range of mechanisms. Evidence for the direct benefit of homeownership itself is less clear, though positive impacts associated with homeownership are stronger for low-income households.
I29|Steve Jobs or No Jobs? Entrepreneurial activity and performance among Danish college dropouts and graduates|Abstract Are college dropouts successful entrepreneurs? Other than anecdotal evidence on illustrious college dropouts who managed to become self-made billionaires, there is only limited empirical evidence to answer this question. This paper addresses this issue by investigating the relationship between college dropout or graduation and entrepreneurship activity as well as performance. Using information from the Danish labor market register, we identify college students, whether these students graduate, and if they registered a new venture. We find that a larger share of dropouts starts a business, but this reflects the endogeneity of the decision to exit from college. On average, becoming an entrepreneur does not allow dropouts to escape from their punishment in the labor market.
I29|The transmission of health across 7 generations in China, 1789-1906|We study the intergenerational transmission of health using linked registered data from China between 1789 and 1906. We first document the intergenerational correlations across 7 generations. We then identify intergenerational causal associations comparing children born from twin mothers or fathers. In particular, we find a strong and persistent intergenerational elasticity between mothers and children of about 0.52. The intergenerational association from fathers is much weaker and seems to be largely driven by genetic factors. The estimates remain relatively stable up to generation 5 and are robust to different checks. Overall, our results highlight the nurturing role of women in explaining the intergenerational transmission of health, stressing the key role played by women in affecting children's health outcomes in developing countries.
I29|Institutional statements and individual perceptions of sustainability in Mexican business schools|The objective of this paper is to analyze how business schools of Mexican universities deal with the concept of sustainability as part of their educational task. In order to achieve a comprehensive vision, this study considers the environmental, the social, and the economic components of sustainability. After discussing the conceptual dimensions of education for sustainability, the empirical part of the paper consists of two sections: a content analysis of how official university documents handle the concept of sustainability and a survey of professors’ and students’ perceptions of sustainability. The analysis shows that both professors and students in the Management and Accounting disciplines need to extend their understanding about the economic and environmental aspects of sustainability. The results of this study provide information that can guide the efforts made by institutions of higher learning for training their professors and offering a comprehensive education for their students in all three components of sustainability.
I29|Education Technology: An Evidence-Based Review|In recent years, there has been widespread excitement around the potential for technology to transform learning. As investments in education technology continue to grow, students, parents, and teachers face a seemingly endless array of education technologies from which to choose—from digital personalized learning platforms to educational games to online courses. Amidst the excitement, it is important to step back and understand how technology can help—or in some cases hinder—how students learn. This review paper synthesizes and discusses experimental evidence on the effectiveness of technology-based approaches in education and outlines areas for future inquiry. In particular, we examine RCTs across the following categories of education technology: (1) access to technology, (2) computer-assisted learning, (3) technology-enabled behavioral interventions in education, and (4) online learning. While this review focuses on literature from developed countries, it also draws upon extensive research from developing countries. We hope this literature review will advance the knowledge base of how technology can be used to support education, outline key areas for new experimental research, and help drive improvements to the policies, programs, and structures that contribute to successful teaching and learning.
I29|The marketisation of higher education - symptoms, controversies, trends|"Marketisation of higher education accompanying the development of a market economy having expressed, among others, the ""imitation"" of management models specific to the enterprise sector, an adaptation of the market terminology, changing roles of students and the importance of their satisfaction with the study causes still a lot of controversy in the academic community, dividing it into supporters and opponents of the current process with a strong predominance of the first group. The aim of this article is to present the arguments and opinions of supporters and opponents of the process of marketization of higher education with a particular emphasis on changes in students roles at nowadays universities. In the article the results of desk research as well as the author's own research will be used. Research carried out by the author were of a qualitative nature and were conducted with an application of In depth Interview method because of the need for full and cogent opinions of the respondents. The research was carried out among 16 representatives of Polish universities, i.e. among Deputy Chancellors (for marketing and development of the university) or departments managers responsible for marketing of the university. For the study there were selected two (public and private) colleges of 8 Polish cities that are capitals of provinces or districts. As measuring instruments, the study used an interview scenario with an average degree of standardization and a voice recorder. Interviews were carried out at the premises of the universities, in the period from 2015 - 2016. They lasted between 1-2,5 hours, depending on the degree of involvement of the university in marketing activities. Supporters of marketisation argue that this process will turn universities into more flexible, more efficient and more responsive to the needs of society, the economy, students and parents institutions. Opponents pay attention to the cultural, intellectual and pedagogic consequences of this process. Both groups conclude that there is no turning back from this process and it cannot be avoided."
I29|Mathematical Thinking Undefended on The Level of The Semester for Professional Mathematics Teacher Candidates|Mathematical thinking skills are very important in mathematics, both to learn math or as learning goals. Thinking skills can be seen from the description given answers in solving mathematical problems faced. Mathematical thinking skills can be seen from the types, levels, and process. Proportionally questions given to students at universities in Indonesia (semester I, III, V, and VII). These questions are a matter of description that belong to the higher-level thinking. Students choose 5 of 8 given problem. Qualitatively, the answers were analyzed by descriptive to see the tendency to think mathematically used in completing the test. The results show that students tend to choose the issues relating to the calculation. They are more use cases, examples and not an example, to evaluate the conjecture and prove to belong to the numeric argumentation. Used mathematical thinking students are very personal (intelligence, interest, and experience), and the situation (problems encountered). Thus, the level of half of the students are not guaranteed and shows the level of mathematical thinking.
I29|The Influence Of Implementation Brain-Friendly Learning Through The Whole Brain Teaching To Students’ Response and Creative Character In Learning Mathematics|The purpose of this study was to determine whether the application of learning brain-friendly through the whole brain teaching a positive effect on the character of creative students, to study the response of the students, and to determine whether the students' response to the application of learning brain-friendly through the whole brain teaching positively correlated with the character of creative students in mathematics. The research method used is quantitative. The instruments used are student questionnaire responses related to the application of brain-friendly learning through the whole brain teaching and observation sheet on student creativity in the learning of mathematics after the implementation of this method. Results of research with correlation analysis show that the greater significance of the alpha value (5%), which means accepting and rejecting H0 Ha which means students' response to the application of brain-friendly learning through the whole brain teaching is not positively correlated with the creative character of students in the learning of mathematics. The average score of the students' response to this methodology very well categorized in the amount of 85%. The results of the observation of the creative character of the students after the implementation of this method, the average score of 68% were categorized quite creative
I29|Menilai Prestasi Belajar melalui Penguatan Self Regulated Learning dan Kecerdasan Emosional Siswa pada Pembelajaran Matematika<BR>[Assessing Learning Achievement through Strengthening Self-Regulated Learning and Student Emotional Intelligence on Mathematics Learning]|Learning in school is a process which is complex and comprehensive. The existence of the learning process may make changes in the student, either intellectually or spiritual. The changes that occur are not only intellectually influenced by intelligence, but may also be with emotional intelligence and the ability to self regulated learning in learning. Associated with the condition, then the purpose of the research was to analyze the influence of the self regulated learning and emotional intelligence against the achievements of learning math students.
I29|The Influence Of Implementation Brain-Friendly Learning Through The Whole Brain Teaching To Students’ Response and Creative Character In Learning Mathematics|The purpose of this study was to determine whether the application of learning brain-friendly through the whole brain teaching a positive effect on the character of creative students, to study the response of the students, and to determine whether the students' response to the application of learning brain-friendly through the whole brain teaching positively correlated with the character of creative students in mathematics. The research method used is quantitative. The instruments used are student questionnaire responses related to the application of brain-friendly learning through the whole brain teaching and observation sheet on student creativity in the learning of mathematics after the implementation of this method. Results of research with correlation analysis show that the greater significance of the alpha value (5%), which means accepting and rejecting H0 Ha which means students' response to the application of brain-friendly learning through the whole brain teaching is not positively correlated with the creative character of students in the learning of mathematics. The average score of the students' response to this methodology very well categorized in the amount of 85%. The results of the observation of the creative character of the students after the implementation of this method, the average score of 68% were categorized quite creative
I29|Micro-Supply Capacity Assessment and Quality of Education for the Public Sector Schools in Punjab (Pakistan)|Education is an essential input for economic development and is one of the basic human rights. Basically, education provides and contributes to the quality of human assets to achieve all development goals, such as poverty reduction, gender empowerment, improving human capital, and enhances socioeconomic benefits. However, unfortunately, education is the one of the deprived sector and its targets have not been achieved in Pakistan in the past decades. This paper contributes to understanding the micro-supply capacity assessment for the public sector schools of Punjab, using annual school census 2014 and monthly schools reports. It adopts the micro-supply capacity assessment method prepared by the World Bank consulting firm GEDESO (2014). The study shows that 45 percent schools in Punjab are deficient with respect to infrastructure and faculty. Out of 45 percent deficient schools 69 percent are primary schools. Overall, more than 50 percent students are enrolled in the deficient schools. To enroll the 3.2 million school-age children and enhance the quality of education, the government of Punjab should focus on the development of infrastructure and minimizing of lack of faculty, especially in the primary schools.
I29|Returns to Education through Access to Higher-Paying Firms: Evidence from US Matched Employer-Employee Data|We use administrative US matched employer-employee data merged with detailed information on individuals' academic records to assess the extent to which returns to education are mediated by the sorting of workers across firms. We present three results. First, we confirm findings in the earlier literature of large pay differences across higher education degrees. Second, we show that up to one quarter of pay premiums for higher degrees are explained by between-firm pay differences. Third, higher degrees are associated with greater representation at the best-paying firms. We conclude that employer heterogeneity is an important factor in mediating the returns to education.
I29|Punishment and Inequality at an Early Age: Exclusionary Discipline in Elementary School|We fill an important gap in prior research by assessing (1) the prevalence of exclusionary discipline in elementary school; (2) racial disparities in exclusionary discipline in elementary school; and (3) the association between exclusionary discipline and aggressive behavior in elementary school. Using the Fragile Families Study, we estimate that more than 1 in 10 children born 1998-2000 in large US cities were suspended or expelled by age nine (most in third grade). We also find extreme racial disparity; upwards of 30% of non-Hispanic black males were suspended or expelled, compared to 8% of non-Hispanic white or other-race males. Disparities are largely due to differences in childrenâ€™s school and home environments rather than to behavior problems. Furthermore, we find suspension or expulsion associated with increased aggressive behavior in elementary school. These results are robust to a rich set of covariates, within-individual fixed-effects, matching methods, and sensitivity checks for reverse causality and selection. Our results imply that school discipline policies relying heavily on exclusionary punishment may be fostering childhood inequality.
I29|Using data from universities with different structure of academic year to model student attrition|Pooling the data from a number of universities into a single sample poses a problem for researchers who are performing regression analysis of student attrition. Academic year can be divided into different academic terms in different universities, and this discrepancy has to be taken into account. This paper considers a problem of using data with different periodicity in the framework of discrete-time event history analysis and gives an example of an estimated attrition model.
I29|Knowledge and attitudes of forestry students on nature and protected areas in Greece|The study and academic training of citizens in issues of forest and protected areas shapes the environmentally friendly attitudes to graduates. Attitudes include public beliefs and assessments of ecosystem management activities. In education it is necessary to redefine our values and ethical norms and obligations towards man and the natural environment. The field of study and gender have an impact on environmental attitudes and behaviors of students. The protected areas are subject to ample scientific research and have educational interest. The purpose of this research is to measure attitudes on Protected Areas (PA) of Forestry students in Greece. The questionnaire used as a research tool, based on the scale FVS (Forest Values Scale) which is suitably adapted for PA. Based on the results of this survey it was found that the majority of the sampled students showing more biocentric attitude to Protected Areas which is largely due to the subject of their studies. With regard to gender on the positive attitude towards the environment was found to be statistically significant in favor of women. Students largely support positive environmental attitudes and found that there is a relationship between the level of knowledge about protected areas and the attitude towards the environment.
I29|Cross-Cultural Competence Of Students : A Case Study Of International School Of Tourism|Cultural Competence is a concept about learning proper principles of another culture to be applied to the daily life of people in the era of globalization with cultural and racial diversities, advances in science and technology, which people can quickly and easily communicate with others. These issues may affect human?s way of life, beliefs, attitudes and behaviors towards cultural diversity. The integration of the ASEAN Economic Community is one of the factors contributing to the increasing of cultural exchanges, as well as rapidly changes in demographic, economic, and political and social environment may be the cause of cultural adaptation that people are facing and these could lead to a conflict of cultures. Nowadays, focusing the study on cultural competence is very important for education. The purpose of the study can lead promote cultural and cross-cultural competence of students, and raise their cultural awareness, cultural knowledge, and cultural skill on other cultures.
I29|The Dual Nature of Emotions: Relationships with Motivations and Instructional Changes|Recently, researchers called for more research to examine the reciprocal nature of emotions, and how emotions influence individuals? motivations and changes in various learning contexts (Darby, 2008; Poon et al., 2012). In the current mixed-methods study, we examined longitudinally teachers? emotions about their involvement in a professional development program, and how emotions impacted their program motivation and instructional changes. To explain the reciprocal nature of emotions, and the interplay between motivations, emotions and changes, we used the theoretical framework of Control Value (CVT, Pekrun, 2006). The CVT states that individuals? emotions and motivations in academic-related behavior will depend upon the extent to which they believe they have some amount of control and the extent to which they value that behavior. A total of 90 teachers participated in a six-week summer Research Experiences for Teachers (RET) program at the National High Magnetic Field Laboratory (Magnet Lab) in Florida, United States over a period of seven years. Teachers were mentored by a scientist, thus allowing them to learn science and valuable research skills. The RET program was funded through the National Science Foundation (NSF) and has been shown to have a positive impact on teachers? thinking, motivation, and science instruction (Dixon & Wilke, 2007; Pop et al., 2010). These 90 RET attendees were contacted after their attendance and were invited to take part in the current study; 67 teachers responded to the study invitation, and thus completed the study survey. A mixed-methods study design was employed in the current study, in a two-phase approach. In the first phase of the study quantitative data was collected via online surveys, and in the second phase of the study, in-depth interviews were collected from selected participants to augment the quantitative results. Overall, study results showed that emotions played an important role in teachers? engagement in the RET program and triggered changes in thinking and science teaching practices. We found differences in emotions before and after teachers? engagement in the RET program, and differences in emotions between teachers from different grade levels. Positive correlations were found among teachers? motivations, emotions and changes to their teaching practices suggesting the powerful nature of emotions. Further, qualitative results showed how particular individuals view their emotions as a catalyst for change in their motivation for learning, and changes to their instructional practices. Contributions from study findings are discussed in relationship with teacher learning and professional training.
I29|Hallmarks Of School-Based Management: Their Impact To Quality Improvement Among Public Secondary Schools|AbstractThis study is anchored on the premise that school-based management (SBM) training improves the capability of the school heads in their school governance along the following domains: Instructional Supervision, Leadership and Administration, Fiscal Management, Human Resource Development, Monitoring and Evaluation, and Planning and Development. The improved capabilities and competencies of school heads are manifested in the interventions employed in addressing the developmental needs and challenges encountered in their respective schools. It presupposes that with the acquired knowledge and skills, school heads have developed good practices in governing their respective schools of assignment .Results of the study show that school principals significantly differ in the extent of application of their knowledge and skills in school based management approaches. Student outcomes can be most powerfully impacted through improvements in curriculum and instruction, and school-based management efforts were found to have failed in addressing these areas in the school systems of public secondary schools. The school based management approaches are significant factors in affecting the development of performance standards of students and staff in the public secondary school system. Such results imply that the secondary schools should establish a substantial realization of their vision, mission and goals embarking on institutionalizing quality improvement measures in all areas of program provisions as their mandate in their respective school systems.
I29|Writing problems and Writing Strategies of English Major and Non-English Major Students in a Thai University|The purposes of this study are to explore the writing problems and investigate the writing strategies related to the process-based approach of university EFL writing in Thailand. The study was conducted with eighty second-year Thai undergraduate students, including both English majors and non-English majors at Burapha University. The participants were asked to write a paragraph in English about their problems and to complete a three-part questionnaire. The qualitative and quantitative data collected from the questionnaire and drafts of paragraph writing were analyzed. The data are in the process of being analyzed and the results will then be reported. This present study could help teachers of English and writing instructors to resolve the writing problems and find a range of effective strategies to improve the writing of EFL students in English.
I29|Life-Long Learning -perspective in life career|"Life-Long Learning can be interpreted as a response to of contemporary challenges. Today almost everyone commonly understands what Life-Long Learning is but when we look about it closer that meanings of LLL can be so different. Learning is can be presented for example as a unique phenomenon described as a way of life or as something that takes place in our daily interactions with "" the world"" around us or maybe be explained like great idea of education.This paper will show how LLL and human knowledge about Life-Long Learning are conceptualized in perspective of career and political-economic and social discourse. This paper will present the most relevant information based on results of studies (autobiographical narrative texts of life-F.Schütze) that was carried out under PHD project on 2015-2006 in Gdynia (Poland)."
I29|First schools of Muslim Women in Georgia (1906-1912)|Nearly hundred years (1783-1878) lasted the process of integration of the Caucasus into Russia. Territory of the Caucasus was officially called the Caucasus region or Krai (Caucasus region was divided into the Northern Caucasus and Transcaucasia), with its center in Tiflis (present-day Tbilisi, capital of Georgia). The Head of the Caucasus region was Viceroy (1844-1882, 1905-1917), in 1882-1905 - Vicegerent (namestnik) of civil part of the Caucasus. A third of Caucasian population represented Muslims, who tried to preserve their religious identity. They abstained from gaining an education at the state schools and restrained themselves only with a religious education. The Russian administration decided to take under its control an education for Muslims. The Viceroy of the Caucasus Mikhail Vorontsov (1844-1854) launched an initiative to establish Muslim schools, that would be state-approved education in Russian for Muslims. In 1847-1849 two schools were opened in Tiflis ? for Sunni (Muslim school of the Teachings of Umar) and for Shia Muslims (Muslim school for Aliev sect) where Russian language, arithmetic, history and geography were also taught. After 2 years more 6 schools were opened: two of them for Sunni in Derbend and Shemakha and for Shia Muslims in Baku, Shemakha, Shusha and Elizavetpol. In 1853 separate Caucasian Education District was created and subordinated to the Ministry of Education of Russian Empire along with the other districts. At that time there were 1917 Muslim schools (25742 pupils) in the Caucasian Education District. However, in Georgia only from 1882 the activity of the Muslim community began to open schools for Muslim girls.In the previous work, a history of Muslim women education and first schools in Tiflis will be discussed based on Georgian archives (Caucasus Islamic society in Georgian archives 1800-1917) relative to Caucasian Muslim community and protected materials in the periodical press.
I29|Online Supervision of Teachers in the Expanding K-12 Online Teaching World|In today?s word, we are becoming more wired and tech savvy every day. Whole cities, metro systems, universities and school districts have free internet access as we become more technologically embedded in our interconnected world. Many schools offer K-12 students online classes, some districts even requiring that students take an online class before graduating and other districts becoming fully online with no ?brick and mortar? classrooms. Despite the growing demand for online teachers, university teacher preparation programs are slow to develop programs to meet the need. Many options exist to broaden the field experience with supervision using online technologies and supports like online synchronous and asynchronous discussion boards, collaborative or self-reflective video analysis and review, and live, real time chats and feedback. Tools such as these can lead the way to program development and expansion to better prepare future teachers for teaching in the K-12 online environment.
I29|Exploring the Components of Core Competencies on Establishing the Concept of SW Gifted Persons|In 2016, Korean Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning selected 30 Classes for the SW Gifted(CSWG) through public contest. The selected CSWG taught the SW gifted for 100 hours per year. The Korean Government attempt to differentiate the SW gifted education from existing the Computer Science Gifted education. In order to achieve this attempt, it was necessary to establish the identity of the SW gifted education. And the first step of this attempt was the establishment of the concept of SW gifted persons. This study aims to provide reference model for directions and objectives of SW gifted education. In order to achieve the goals introduced above, we conducted the research in the following steps. First, we selected the concept of ICT-based creative talented person as a base model to establish the concept of SW gifted person. The selected base model composed three core competencies which were ?knowledge and technology competencies?, ?synthesizing and creativity competencies?, and ?personality competencies?. Second, we developed survey tools, like questionnaires, to investigate participant?s recognition of SW gifted person. The survey tools was composed of three components: ?computational thinking?, ?entrepreneurship?, and ?social responsibility?. Each of the components composed seven elements as follows. The components of computational thinking composed ?abstraction?, ?problem decomposition?, ?algorithms and procedures?, ?data collect, analysis, and presentations?, ?automation?, ?parallelization?, and ?simulation?. The components of entrepreneurship composed ?innovativeness?, ?insight?, ?patent power?, ?positive drive?, ?morality?, ?orientation for the future?, ?collaboration capabilities?. The components of social responsibility composed ?the spirit of self-sacrifice?, ?a consciousness of social problem?, ?social responsibility?, ?empathic ability?, ?sense of duty?, ?social considerations?, ?sense of community service?. Third, we developed on-line survey system by using Google functions and surveyed opinion polling. Finally, we analyzed the collected opinion data. To identify what we summarized and synthesized participant?s opinions that average values and agreement level by using frequency analysis. Also, in order to compare opinions that average values and agreement level based on whether or not participant?s various experiences and competencies we computed t-value, F-value, and x2 verification.[This research was supported by Korea Foundation for the Advancement Science & Creativity(KOFAC)]
I29|Information Technology Project System Model|This research aimed to study and design information technology project model for learning and teaching. It was a case study. The sample group was 10 students who studied the special problem course and 30 users were used to evaluate the systems. The methods of data collection were questionnaire and information technology systems. The key performance indicators in this study included 10 information technology systems, usability of system, the accuracy and completeness of system. The instruments used in this study were: time to develop information system and evaluate users? document. The data were analyzed by percentage and mean. The results of this research found that 10 information technology systems could be delivered in time and information technology project system model included 5 components: analysis module, logical design module, physical design module, implementation module and testing module. The students and users in this study expressed positive attitudes towards instruments of learning and information technology systems.
I29|Student Problems According to Parental Perceptions: A Case Study|"The purpose of this study is to identify the problems of pupils in a public primary school through the perceptions of their parents. An embedded multiple case study, one of the patterns of case studies was used in the study. The study was conducted on the parents of third and fourth year pupils in a primary school located in Selcuklu district of province of Konya in Turkey in the academic year 2016-2017. The ""Problem Survey List for Children"" developed by Owen (2008) was applied to the parents of a total of one hundred eighty-four pupils, including ninety-one girls and ninety-three boys in this study. The items most marked by the parents were dreaming during the day, unable to get started homework on time, feeling anger to the authority and wandering in the room. The items least marked were stealing, hitting other pupils in the classroom, and lying. As a result of the evaluation of the data, it was seen that the most and least marked items were the same in the third and fourth grades, and the other items showed similar characteristics in this direction. Individual interviews with pupils and parents was decided in order to understand the causes of the marked items and to help solve the problems. Additionally, organization of group guidance activities towards the problem areas and presentation / seminar work to solve issues were aimed. Strengthening cooperation between school and family and increasing the effectiveness in the studies by including the class teachers in the process were aimed in order for the study to be conducted to achieve the desired results."
I29|The views of prospective teachers regarding the incivility level of the teaching staff|Workplace incivility is low-intensity deviant behavior with ambiguous intent to harm the target, in violation of workplace norms for mutual respect. ?ncivility behaviors are characteristically rude and discourteous, displaying a lack of regard for others. Incivility constitutes rude, insensitive, disrespectful, and thoughtless behavior with ambiguous intent to harm that is directed toward individuals (Pearson et al., 2000), teams, groups, and organizations. For example, talking down to others, not listening, belittling others, withholding information, paying little attention or showing little interest in others? opinions, making demeaning or derogatory remarks to someone and avoiding someone.The purpose of this work, determining the views of teacher candidates for incivility level of teaching staff. In the study, data will collect from 300 prospective teachers. Research applications and data analysis is underway.
I29|?This is what happens when a tutor believes in you? ? Setting up a student journal to facilitate community cohesion|This pilot project sought to identify whether creating a community through setting up a student-run academic journal would increase self-efficacy and academic achievement. The project was set up in a small university campus of less than 2000 students, with a view to extending the project to the whole university population of 38,000 students if successful. Participants were recruited through posters on the campus and through a recruitment desk at the entrance to the student recreation area (opportunity sample). At the recruitment desk, a random sample of people were asked to fill out the questionnaire, and this questionnaire was also given to the participants at the initial meeting. A total of 30 questionnaires were completed.The participants then went through the process of creating a student journal, and were assigned roles by the Editor. Once the journal had been published, the participants were asked to complete the questionnaire again. Comparisons were made between the two sets of results to determine the outcome. Once the results of the academic year had been released, the academic marks were also taken into account in comparison with the general population of the immediate university campus. Although the sample size for the second questionnaire was small, it was clear that the participants felt that they were part of a community after the project than before, with a stronger sense of belonging. They were also more confident in their academic abilities and their future employability. All students involved achieved a 2:1 degree classification or higher, with 90% of the overall journal team achieving a 1st class honours degree classification. The Editor also won an award for academic excellence due to her involvement with the creation of the journal.
I29|Kuwaiti Undergraduate Problems with Cohesion in EFL Writing|This study is designed to investigate the present situations of Kuwaiti undergraduate students of English, and their attitudes towards the writing process. Specifically, the study aimed to address the following research questions: (1) What are the characteristics of the texts produced by Kuwaiti undergraduate students in terms of cohesion and quality? (2) Is there a relationship between cohesive devices? measures and text evaluation scores? The main objective of the researcher was to concentrate on dealing with the macro level cohesive devices in students? descriptive English writing. The participants in this study were 128 Kuwaiti college students of English in the first and second year of study at Kuwait University, College of Arts. A mixed methods design of both qualitative and quantitative research methodology was utilized to analyze the participants? written texts. In addition, the framework of Halliday and Hasan?s (1976) theory of cohesion was used to analyze the written products of the participants. The findings revealed that there was a notable difference in the students? use of cohesive devices in terms of frequency. Students overused certain types of cohesive devices (reference, conjunction, and lexical) while neglecting to use the others (substitution and ellipsis). The analysis also revealed that the correlation coefficient between writing scores and reference cohesive device is positive and statistically significant, since only the reference cohesive device was highly correlated with score.
I29|The contribution of the use of asking questions strategy to improve critical thinking among students|The study aimed to identify the effect of using the skill of asking questions, which is one of the higher-order thinking skills, in promoting critical thinking among Arab students at a school in East Jerusalem, on the subject of reading comprehension in Arabic. The researcher has used the quasi-experimental method on a study sample of (20 ) students. The results showed that students performed better in the pre-exam on the realistic questions, while they faced a problem in the discretionary and analytical questions, however, after teaching them in the post- exam the responses were closer to the correctness in the discretionary questions, and the answers were correct in analytical questions.The study recommended the need to work on the use of the skill of asking questions, because it helps the teacher and student together in developing a student's ability of thinking, answering the questions clearly, and working on implementing this skill .It also help students understand the lessons, memorizing them and retrieve them easily. In addition, there is a need for diversification in the questions and in the times of the classes, in order to enable the student to continue to listen to the teacher during the class.
I29|An empirical study about a bystander's behaviour and psychological state in bullying|The objective of this research is to clarify empirically about the relationship of a bystander's behaviour of bullying and psychological state of bystanders. To decrease bystander of bullying is effective to resolve bullying. However, the number of bystanders indicate a tendency to increase in Japan. The percentage of bullies who were reported by their classmates was 10% until 2010. It decreased to around 3% recently. In this research, the hypothesis that low consciousness of others raise the number of bystanders was formed. As a methodology, the questionnaire to 300 ordinary citizens was carried out. As a result of the survey, especially multidimensional sympathies, consciousness of others, and Japanese version of the Buss-Perry Aggression Questionnaire correlated to a bystander's behaviour of bullying. In conclusion, the effort towards to raise consciousness of others is useful to decrease a number of bystanders.
I29|The State of Instructional Management of Teachers in the Social Studies Based on the National Standard-based Curriculum, Thailand|This study aimed to investigate the current state of social studies instructional management of teachers based on the current standard-based National Basic Education Curriculum B.E. 2551 of Thailand, including its obstacles and limitations, and the proposal for further development. It was a mixed-method research: quantitative method consisted of 150 participants obtained by systematic random sampling. They were educational supervisors and teachers teaching in the Social Studies, Religion and Culture Learning Area in public schools. Statistics for data analysis were the percentage, mean, and standard deviation. In the qualitative part, the key informants were 18 social studies teachers and educational supervisors purposively selected for in-depth interviews. The research findings were as follows: (1) the current practice of teachers regarding social studies instructional management was not in accordance with the underlying concepts and expectation as prescribed in the national core curriculum, even though social studies teachers and educational supervisors had high level of comprehension in it. The teachers tended to organize their social studies lesson plans based on guidelines in textbooks published by private publishers rather than compile them based on the curriculum itself; the prevalent method of instruction was the lecturing method while integrated teaching was rarely practiced; also, evaluation of learning outcomes tended to focus on knowledge rather than on thinking skills and performance; (2) the teachers and educational supervisors agreed at the high level with the principles of standard-based curriculum which had been responsive to the present information-based society rather than the former content-based curriculum prescribed by the Ministry of Education as in the past; thus, they were highly satisfied with the national core curriculum in the Social Studies, Religion and Culture Learning Area; (3) the main obstacles and limitations in social studies instructional management were those concerning the curriculum itself, curriculum implementation, roles of educational supervisors and school principals, all of which contributed to the weakening of the school academic system and the relatively poor student achievements; and (4) regarding the guidelines for further development of social studies instruction management, the following points were addressed: (4.1) the schools should seriously and continuously develop the teachers and support them on their teaching performance; and (4.2) the curriculum itself should be reviewed for further development including the continued emphasis on the enhancement of standard-based curriculum, and the reduction of some overlapping contents within and among the learning areas.
I29|New Humanistic Methods in For?ign Language Teaching ? Suggestopedia - Desugestopedia|This article provides a brief review of the basics and the advantages of Suggestopedia-Desuggestopedia (Reservopedia), the Bulgarian contribution to the world's educational methodology, one of the most humane and the most effective of all.Suggestopedia-Desugestopedia is a non-manipulative method of learning both in foreign languages and in any other subjects for all ages at the level of reserves - potential, unused brain / mind capacities. This means at least three to five times faster, easier and deeper training, internal freedom, increased motivation to learn, joyful training and healing or prophylactic effects.Suggestopedia-Desuggestopedia aims to tap the hidden potential of human abilities, especially memory and intellect, and in a pleasant and beneficial way to facilitate the learning process. To do so, it is necessary to apply the seven laws of Suggestopedia simultaneously, namely love, freedom, the teacher's conviction that something extraordinary is happening, the increased teaching material, partial-global proportion, the golden proportion and the application of classical art and aesthetics.
I29|The Impact Of Authentic Assessment On Academic Performance, Higher Order Thinking, And Perceptions Of Authenticity In Online Undergraduate Psychology Courses|Authentic pedagogy is a broad term that describes an active learning perspective with a focus on the construction of meaning and intellectual quality in the learning process. Although most of the work associated with authentic pedagogical approaches have been done in conjunction with elementary and secondary school reform, there is little research on the use of authentic pedagogical models of instruction in higher education, and even less research on models of authentic assessment. This presentation will report on a study which examined the effect of authentic assessment on measures of academic performance, higher order thinking, and perceptions of authenticity in online undergraduate psychology courses. The presentation will discuss issues related to implementation of authentic assessment approaches in online course delivery and impact of this pedagogical model on learning outcomes in higher education.
I29|Impact Of An Innovative Model For Developing Standards For Online Courses In Higher Education|Online education has become an important part of the landscape of higher education. Indeed, approximately 80% of colleges and universities offer online courses as part of their standard schedule of courses. As online course offerings have become commonplace, accrediting agencies have come to include examination of institutional criteria for setting standards and measuring the quality of those offerings as part of routine site evaluations. Concerns about which standards should be used and how to meet the scrutiny of accreditation agencies have prompted institutions to explore options for pre-formatted checklists of online course quality.Despite a broad range of possible products and services, many institutions are challenged to find instruments that both meet the critical need of establishing guidelines for online course design, and allow sufficient adaptability to meet unique institutional and programmatic needs and characteristics. In addition, rigid, standardized instruments have prompted faculty to question whether the instruments exert too much influence, restrain their academic freedom, and restrict their choices for methods of instruction. This presentation will report on an innovative model utilized at one institution to address the challenges of creating its own standards for online course design quality and the outcomes of that effort.
I29|International students? transition from pathway program to mainstream university: Insights and challenges|This paper is one facet of a larger research project focusing on a case study of an Australian pathway program and involving both student and teacher respondents. The first exposure to higher education (HE) is a particularly vulnerable time for many international students as they cope with challenges on multiple fronts, including their acculturation into a new academic environment. Despite prolific literature on international postgraduate students, it is this formative undergraduate stage of their academic development that has been least studied, especially within the context of a pathway program. Based on focus groups of international students who have successfully completed such a program and are now undertaking a mainstream university degree program, some comparisons are between these two educational frameworks, especially in relation to how successfully this transition is made. Key concerns raised by the students include the mismatch between the pedagogical approach operating within the pathway program and that at mainstream university, the latter proving much more challenging and demanding, and the perennial difficulties with English language proficiency at an academic level, especially the impact on students? assignments. Implications and recommendations are discussed.
I29|Strategy for Excavating Best Practice of Scientific and Cultural Contents|Since the 1960s, the Korean Government has been carrying out various projects aiming at the popularization of science. The science popularization projects conducted by the Korean Government could be classified by the ages as follows. 1960s was the beginning stage, 1970s and 1980s was the formation stage, and from 1990s can be regarded as the extension stage of scientific and cultural activities. The Korean government's science popularization project has encountered a great turning point in 2016. The most important reason for this turning point is the beginning of a new paradigm by the Fourth Industrial Revolution. Under such circumstances, the Korean government is in the process of establishing a strategy for developing, disseminating, and managing scientific and cultural contents suitable for the Fourth Industrial Revolution era. In order to achieve such the project?s goal successfully, we have benchmarked the best practices of scientific and cultural contents. Benchmarking strategy for excavating the best practice of scientific and cultural contents proceeded step by step as follows. First, benchmarking countries were selected. To this end, the R&D investment cost ratios in terms of GDP, national science and technology innovation competency rankings, and national brand ranks have been considered in total. Five benchmarking countries were selected based on these evaluation criteria, and the results were the United States, Japan, Germany, the United Kingdom, and China. Second, we proposed an analytical framework for excavating best practices in scientific and cultural contents. The proposed analytical framework for analyzing scientific and cultural contents was designed to analyze the service types of contents, the country of production, the field of study, the user types of contents service, technological areas related to the Fourth Industrial Revolution, and learning value. In this paper the technical fields related to the Fourth Industrial Revolution were classified as follows. AR(Argumented Reality)/VR(Virtual Reality)/MR(Mixed Reality), Artificial Intelligence(AI), ICBM(Internet of Things, Cloud, Big Data, Mobile), Robot and so on.?This research was supported by Korea Foundation for the Advancement Science & Creativity(KOFAC)?
I29|Educating to Dialogue: connecting an argumentative approach to Mediation and Educational Transactional Analysis. Some tranSkills signposts for promoting inclusive and participative societies|The acquisition of relational skills is one of the main goals of an educational system that aims at promoting non-violent, inclusive and participative societies. Dialogue is the key factor for such purpose, acting both as a means and as a goal that education ought to achieve. According to this perspective, education to dialogue matches ethical-behavioural aspects (dialogue as expression of interconnectedness) and logical-argumentative competences (dialogue as instrument of communication). Such elements trace connected dimensions: (1) the ability of managing a healthy communication, which implies both correct reasoning and effective expression; (2) the ability of creating and managing a situation of communicative reciprocity, which is an instrument for preventing and transforming conflict. The goal of this paper is to outline some conceptual and methodological signposts for the education to dialogue in light of the classical notion of ?maieutic?, by drawing perspectives, concepts and methodologies from both Conflict Mediation and Educational Transactional Analysis. This transkills outline is directed to those who are professionally involved at all levels of education, with the purpose of offering a first conceptual framework for developing programmes and proposals aimed at introducing and empowering communicative attitudes and skills.
I29|Impact of Gamification strategy on academic achievement and achievement motivation toward learning|The current study aims to determine the effect of Gamification strategy on academic achievement and achievement motivation among students of the second stage of basic education in Muscat Governorate. The current research sample has reached (68) students divided into an experimental group (34) and a control group (34). The quasi-experimental approach has been used for the application of the study, as well as the descriptive analytical methodology for the analysis & interpretation of previous Arabic and foreign studies addressing the subject of Gamification strategy, motivation and academic achievement. To assess such effect, researchers have used an educational electronic game for the application of Gamification strategy, motivation scale and achievement test (pre & post). The study found the existence of statistically significant differences at a level of significance (? = 0.05) between the experimental group and the control group in the increase of motivation for the experimental group, in addition to the existence of statistically significant differences at a level of significance (? = 0.05) between the experimental group and the control group in the increase of academic achievement for the experimental group.
I29|What View of Science Discovery Best Fits the Science Learning Game?|This paper presents a view of science discovery that has the potential to change the way we construct learning games in science. This view is based on the work of a nineteenth century philosopher and scientist whose work, supported by a new generation of historians of science, counters the traditional view of scientific discovery as induction--the notion that new ideas are built from the bottom up so to speak, from particular experience to general concept. The alternative to this view is one that insists that scientific discovery is an ?ideas first? leap of creative understanding termed ?abduction.? It proceeds as follows: (1) A surprising fact, C, presents itself to an individual; (2) a big idea (H) is then suggested that, if true, would render C a matter of course; (3) this then leads the individual to conclude that there is reason to believe that H is true. This view of knowledge, we will argue, complements efforts to bolster the educative aspect of a game in a way that contributes to, rather than detracts from, the all important immersive aspect of that same game.
I29|The zone of proximal teacher development under the microscope: Reflections of a teacher educator|This paper sheds light on the personal practices, experiences and research of a teacher educator, and asks the question whether a teacher educator?s inquiries might lead to a better understanding of the complexities of teaching and learning- both for the teacher educator and his/ her student teachers. The author, who has been a teacher educator for the past 25 years, reflect on his own research in pre-service teacher education, and what he and his students have learned from the joint interventions they engaged in. The three interventions reflected upon in this paper, were conceptualized to provide possible solutions to three of the perennial issues that plague teacher education, namely (a) the problem of the apprenticeship of observation; (b) the problem of enactment; and (c) the problem of complexity. Although the research is contextualized in South Africa, literature shows that these are issues of international concern. Using a qualitative research design, the author explores realistic examples of learning from practice for practice, and learning in practice, that he has implemented and researched, as possible solutions to these problems. The findings of three qualitative research studies are examined, and its affordances to enhance the professional development of student teachers is discussed. The theoretical framework is scaffolding student teachers? professional development across the zone of proximal teacher development- Warford?s take on the well-known Vygotskyan concept. The first set of research data deals with case-based teaching in pre-service teacher education. Case-based teaching provokes engaged learning, and provides student teachers with a better understanding of the complexities of the teaching profession. The second set of research data explores the affordances of a technique called prolepsis. Prolepsis refers to an approach where a teacher educator structures a learning opportunity in a way that assumes that the student teachers know more than they actually do. In this case, undergraduate student teachers were expected to teach biology to school learners on Saturdays for an entire year, and to take responsibility for meeting all the requirements set by the Department of Education. The third set of research data refers to a first year excursion for student teachers that the author initialized, and insights that emerged over 10 years of presenting the excursion curriculum. During the four-day excursion, student teachers engage in learning tasks as Homo ludens (the playing human). In this paper the excursion is viewed from a neo-Vygotskian perspective of activity theory.
I29|Spoken Corpora and Corpus-Informed Language Pedagogy: Implications Arising from Research|Defined in its broadest sense as large databases illustrating actual language use, corpora have proved to be influential in enabling researchers to develop innovative perspectives not only in linguistics but also in a number of applied disciplines including speech recognition or machine translation. One discipline on which language corpora have tremendous effect is the field of language teaching. Although the research on corpus-informed language pedagogy is mostly dominated by the findings through the analysis of written corpora, it is now widely acknowledged that spoken corpora which are slower to emerge compared with written corpora could also offer great potential for language pedagogy. This study sets out to review the major findings from the research on spoken corpora and current instructional treatments with the purpose of discussing the ways of expanding spoken-corpus-informed pedagogy to language classrooms.
I29|The Use of Metadiscourse in Spoken InterLanguage of EFL Learners: A Contrastive Analysis|Considered as one of the indispensable parts of spoken communication, metadiscourse is defined as the self-reflective linguistic devices used to organize discourse and signal speakers stance towards the listener and/or towards the content of the communication without adding anything to the propositional content. Insights into the significance of metadiscourse as a means of facilitating communication, supporting position and increasing comprehension have led to an upsurge of interest in researching the use of metadiscourse from a variety of perspectives focusing mainly on written language, albeit with little concern for spoken language. Learner language studies have also tended to investigate the metadiscourse focusing mostly on written interlanguage, leaving the spoken language by learners mostly unexplored. This study investigates metadiscoursal features in Turkish EFL learners? spoken interlanguage within the framework of Contrastive Interlanguage Analysis based on the two well-known interlanguage corpora (i.e. LINDSEI-TR and LOCNEC) as the data source. Findings of the study are discussed and presented in connection with pedagogical implications for spoken English.
I29|Learn4Health, a European project creating health and food literacy through innovative interdisciplinary teaching and learning methods|Research documents what educators know: Healthy pupils and students are better prepared to learn (Kristjánsson et al., 2010; KL, 2015). This paper focuses on the thesis that innovative practical methods for learnings related to health and food issues create a rewarding educational experience for pupils and students while meeting academic standards in math, reading, science, social studies, art, music and more. For this reason and many more, we created Learn4Health, a project with interdisciplinary roots.Every day, in Universities across the globe, courses are being created to embrace blended learning approaches. Classes are now being developed with focus on more effective learning and better student outcomes (Jones, 2016). However, the concept of blended learning between higher educational institutions and public schools is relatively new. This paper outlines an exploratory study of blended learning initiated by Learn4Health, an Erasmus+ Strategic Partnership including twelve partners in total, representing 6 European countries (DK, ES, SI, NL, UK and LT). Each country is represented by one higher educational institution and one primary and/or secondary school.With point of departure in the globalized food systems consumers, especially children, being increasingly disconnected from understanding how and where their food is produced, the paper provides an overview of the development and expected implementation process of a new blended learning programme. The practical methods discussed are problem based learning, an experimental approach to learning involving hands on/learning by doing approach, and an ?open school? approach reaching out to local community enterprises and farms.Another Learn4Health key tool to be addressed in this paper is foodscapes, a multi-valenced concept centered around food environments. Finally, Learn4Health is about having fun and developing lifelong food literacy skills to understand the nature of food and our own impact as consumers and citizens on health status, environment, social and economic factors. Literacy is the cornerstone of the project, and we will thus discuss the concept?s relevance and impact on health in relation to Learn4Health.
I29|Book reviews in academic journals: patterns and dynamics|Abstract Book reviews play important roles in scholarly communication especially in arts and humanities disciplines. By using Web of Science’s Science Citation Index Expanded, Social Sciences Citation Index, and Arts & Humanities Citation Index, this study probed the patterns and dynamics of book reviews within these three indexes empirically during the past decade (2006–2015). We found that the absolute numbers of book reviews among all the three indexes were relatively stable but the relative shares were decreasing. Book reviews were very common in arts and humanities, common in social sciences, but rare in natural sciences. Book reviews are mainly contributed by authors from developed economies such as the USA and the UK. Oppositely, scholars from China and Japan are unlikely to contribute to book reviews.
I29|Transmisión de la religiosidad y homofobia|Se considera homofobia todas aquellas actitudes negativas y discriminatorias hacia las personas homosexuales. Hay evidencia que sugiere que cuando estas miradas o creencias se transforman en comportamientos, las consecuencias para las personas homosexuales son muy negativas. Al analizar los orígenes de las actitudes homofóbicas, la literatura encuentra a la religión como una de las fuentes con importancia. En este estudio analizamos la asociación entre la intensidad de la actividad religiosa en la adolescencia y las actitudes homofóbicas en etapa adulta. Los datos utilizados en este estudio fueron obtenidos de la encuesta International Social Survey Programme (ISSP) 2008 Religión III. Los resultados muestran tres aspectos interesantes. Primero, la transmisión de las creencias religiosas durante la adolescencia está asociada positivamente con la homofobia en la edad adulta. Segundo, a mayor educación los individuos tienden a ser menos homofóbicos y tercero, a pesar de que la intensidad de la transmisión religiosa incrementa la homofobia, la educación es dominante en el sentido que la interacción entre la trasmisión religiosa y la educación tiene un efecto marginal negativo en la homofobia.
I29|Economies of scale and governance of library systems: evidence from West Virginia|Abstract Public libraries are a billion dollar industry in the United States. We explore the institutional determinants of public library technical efficiency using data from West Virginia. We first document considerable cross-district variation in library efficiency. While the average library district in our sample is between 81 and 90% efficient depending upon the year and measure, there are many district-years that are under 50%. We then explain our technical efficiency measures as a function of institutional variables reflecting the type of district and sources of funding. We find consistent evidence that urban libraries are more inefficient, perhaps because they are too small to achieve sufficient economies-of-scale in production of library services. In addition, we find revenue from local sources is associated with reduced efficiency, contrary to what would be predicted by local public goods producer theory.
I29|Efficiency, But At What Cost? Evidence from a DEA Analysis of WV School Districts|West Virginia schools are consistently below the national average on the NAEP. Using Data Envelopment Analysis, we estimate the technical efficiency of West Virginia school districts. We find less variation in technical efficiency in West Virginia than in similar studies conducted in other states. This appears to be because of state policy imposing homogeneity of input usage. Due to the limited variation in technical efficiency across districts, we cannot analyze how non-school inputs such as socioeconomic factors affect technical efficiency across districts. Summary statistics organized by county economic status, however, suggest that socioeconomic status plays a role. Our results highlight an important limitation of DEA analysis on schools.
I29|Does it pay to study abroad? Evidence from Poland|Tertiary education has been perceived in Poland as a key determinant of success in the labour market, as clearly shown by the increase of the net enrolment ratio in tertiary education from 9.8% in 1990 up to 40.9% in 2009. However, as tertiary education becomes more and more popular, it does not signal skills as well as before. It seems that employers may treat students' participation in international exchange programs as a new signaling tool since according to them international students’ skills – both cognitive and non-cognitive – are well above the average. On the other hand, students participating in exchange programs underline a positive impact of studying abroad on their personal development, i.e. on their general skills. Thus, from a theoretical point of view we may expect a positive correlation between studying abroad and wages, which follows from both signaling theory and human capital theory. On the average, 16% of European students report a positive impact of participation in Erasmus exchange program on their incomes, but interestingly, those from the CEE countries, including Polish students, report it much more often. The aim of this paper is to determine whether studying abroad for at least one semester has an impact on wages of higher education graduates in Poland. To answer this question, an extended Mincer wage equation was estimated using OLS on the basis of data from the nationwide tracer survey of Polish graduates conducted in 2007 (Graduate Tracer Study 2007). The hourly net wage rate in the first job after graduating from a higher education institution was the dependent variable in the wage equation. In order to reduce the selection bias, a number of variables were included in the model to reflect students’ abilities and skills, as well as their previous international experience. The results of the analysis show that Polish students who completed at least one semester of studies abroad, enjoy a wage premium of 28% in their first workplace after graduation. Interestingly, this wage premium is particularly high in case of graduates with low abilities and skills and – consequently – of a low social and economic status. This may indicate that studying abroad contributes to a reduction of social inequality.
I29|Promoting Student Research with Science Fairs: Case Studies of Exemplary Programs|There is increased discussion and recognition of the importance of project-based learning in education (Chin & Chia, 2004; Krajcik, Czerniak, & Berger, 1998; Lam, Cheng, & Ma, 2009). Full-inquiry science research projects develop science content and develop and assess all of the standards-based science process skills and inquiry skills. In the dawn of project-based learning moving beyond talk and into implementation, full-inquiry science research should be the gold standard of independent project work.We propose that policy people, leaders, and teachers have the following three main goals for science fairs: (a) Winning Goal, (b) Quantity Goal, and (c) Quality Goal. These goals may not be explicitly stated but they do shape behavior. The winning goal is common but focusing efforts on elite students doing elite projects may limit the amount of students participating. For this research we selected programs that were exemplary in maximizing participation but yet were interested in quality research. Case study analyses of science research programs in Costa Rica, Ireland, and Marlborough, Massachusetts were conducted. Interviews of leaders, supporters, and students were conducted. These interviews and supporting documents were analyzed. Each of these case studies is described and conclusions from comparing programs are presented. The research can inform existing science research programs and places seeking to establish science research programs.
I29|eCAP : Videos to Help School Principals Implement PLCs|IntroductionIn Ontario, over the past few years, and despite some improvement in PISA test scores (CECM, 2012) and provincial testing (OQRE, 2014), studies have shown that Francophone students are still falling behind their Anglophone peers in several subjects, such as mathematics.Since 2005, the Ontario Ministry of Education has been asking their principals to implement a new organizational structure: a professional learning community (PLC). This practice, if well developed, generates many benefits. For teachers, it provides a way of working which contributes to professional satisfaction and development, and reduces non-attendance (Linder, Post and Calabrese, 2012). For students, we observed higher academic success and reduced absenteeism (Hord and Sommers, 2008). Several studies show that principals do not know how to implement PLCs because they have not received the required training (Cranston, 2007). Moreover, Marshall (2010) argues that some principals do not have the necessary competencies to implement PLCs. BackgroundEducators recognize the importance of shifting learning from the individual process prevalent in traditional schools, to a collaborative process that is aligned with the aim to improve student learning (DuFour, DuFour and Eaker, 2008). However, a few research studies have been conducted in primary and secondary Francophone schools in Ontario Leclerc and Moreau (2011) identified some conditions that principals must apply to successfully implement PLCs: vision/mission, collaborative culture, scheduled meetings and analysis of student data.Since studies have proven that a professional learning community contributes to professional development for teachers and academic success for students, the Ministry of Education strongly encourages principals to implement one in their school. To apply this new organizational structure, principals need the required competencies and knowledge regarding the conditions favoring the implementation of a PLC. Whereas some schools are considered advanced in their application of this model, others do not know how to implement the necessary changes (IsaBelle, Génier, Davidson and Lamothe, 2013).Methodology The aim of our study is to investigate how schools with advanced PLCs have been able to apply this novel structure. We performed qualitative research in eight elementary and secondary schools in Ontario. We interviewed and filmed eight principals, twenty teachers and three education leaders. ResultsIn addition to the common conditions previously identified as necessary for the implementation of a PLC, other key elements were discovered: responsibility for student success, commitment from the district school board, etc. Besides these results, online resources (videos) from eCAP will also be presented at the conference.
I29|Metaphors of Istanbul in ?The Black Book? by Orhan Pamuk: An Interdisciplinary Approach to Architecture Design|This study presents the outcomes of the ?Interdisciplinary Design Studio? of the third year of first term in architectural design curriculum at the School of Architecture at Meliksah University in Turkey. In this studio, by extracting metaphors narrated on urban everyday life in the novel, the students are expected to design an exhibition space in Istanbul through reading ?The Black Book?, a ?personal encyclopedia of Istanbul? as it is coined by the author Orhan Pamuk. The aim of the project was to demonstrate the productive role of the literature that can be helpful for the development of not only numerous design concepts and design scenarios, but techniques as well corollary. Therefore, the outcome of the examples of studio works of the students demonstrating the process and techniques developed to design of an exhibition hall providing the visitors with an astonishing spatial experience of the narrative world of the novel is selected as a particular case for this study.
I29|Relating To Robots: Using Technology With Autistic Learners|For the past decade and longer there has been much activity and research involving the use of technology in education. This is especially true for diverse learners, who have difficulty learning with the traditional pedagogies used in teaching. Learners with autism syndrome have shown significant positive interactions when dealing with robots rather than human beings. Even though many of the anecdotes and suggested methods in this research paper are focused on applications for students with autism, these same strategies can be effectively applied to a variety of diverse learners. The specific information regarding students with autism not only enables students to learn the content in a variety of formats, but also helps to prepare them to have fruitful, productive lives after their schooling and for the rest of their days. Results of studies have indicated that students become more interested and actively engaged in their classes, and have a higher level of retention than students in traditional online and onsite classes. It is important to empower students to become active, involved learners, and provide them with the incentives to achieve academic success. This is a work in progress, and future renditions will include not only anecdotes dealing with youngsters with autism, but also with those diagnosed with deafness and those who are severely mentally challenged with down?s syndrome and other disorders.
I29|Teachers? Perceptions of High-Stakes Testing|In recent years, the issue of high-stakes testing has been widely debated in the field of education. Studies have shown that high-stakes tests do little to promote learning in schools, yet there are still widely used. While many studies have examined how testing affects students, schools, and communities, little research has been done to determine how teachers perceive high-stakes tests. It is important for us to study not only how these tests impact our students, but how teachers feel about them as well. This study will use a structured survey to question elementary school educators from three Midwestern schools. The purpose of the study is to determine the viewpoints, opinions, and attitudes that teachers have regarding high-stakes tests. The results show that teachers feel there are some benefits to high-stakes testing, in that it allows students to be compared to their peers. The majority of teachers surveyed, however; felt the weakness of such testing outweighs the benefits. Teachers cite pressures from testing and feel that tests are not a valid way to assess what students know. Tests also shape curriculum in that more time is spent in tested subjects, while time spent in untested subjects is reduced or eliminated.
I29|Modelling Culturally Responsive Teaching: A Case-Based Study in the Malaysian Setting|Heterogeneity in the Malaysian school system has divided students of various cultural and ethnic backgrounds. The chances of getting a group of multicultural students in a classroom are far slimmer in the rural areas than in schools situated in the urban areas. The classroom composition in the urban areas displays a different pattern depending on the location of the schools. With this imbalance, Malaysia?s existence as a multicultural nation lies more in name than in reality. With the call for greater enhancement of unity and integration among ethnic community in schools (Preliminary Report Malaysia Education Blueprint 2013-2025, this study intends to examine the significance of the Third Space theory by looking through the lens of Culturally Responsive Teaching (CRT). Gay (2000) defines culturally responsive teaching as using the cultural knowledge, prior experiences, and performance styles of diverse students to make learning more appropriate and effective for them; it teaches to and through the strengths of these students. While the Third Space theory (Bhabha, 1994) accentuates the importance of using students home/community experiences to that of schools, which is thus far being sidelined in the Malaysian setting. The Third space is an interstice or a place in-between which is imperative for students who come from diverse cultures. This investigation therefore aims to 1. draw out the elements of CRT for teachers. 2. model these elements to be used in the secondary school English language classrooms and 3. determine teachers/students responses towards CRT. Two short stories (Malaysian-based stories) are chosen. A mixed method approach will be used employing primarily qualitative inquiry through phenomenological approach (interviews with teachers and students and classroom observations will be conducted) and a set of questionnaire to elicit pertinent information on teachers common practices in the English classrooms.20 schools from 4 regions in Malaysia will be identified and Form 4 students (and their teachers) will be selected as respondents. The findings from teachers/students responses will point to the direction of how teachers have afforded the spaces for CRT through infusing CRT skills in language classrooms. Through this investigation, teachers and students responses of the use of CRT elements/materials in the English language classrooms are recorded and analysed to determine their willingness/reluctance to adopt this approach in the classroom.
I29|Culturally Responsive Teaching in the Higher Learning Institutions|This paper presents an evident that there is a need for Culturally Responsive Teaching (CRT) in English language classrooms in higher learning institutions. CRT is relatively a new concept to be explored in the Malaysian educational setting and studies have been conducted and researchers suggested trainings to help teachers to manage their racially diverse classroom should be carried out (Tengku Nor Rizan, Nooreiny, & Manisah, 2013; Faizah, 2014). With an increase enrolment of international students to Malaysian higher learning institutions, the teachers teaching in the universities who prepare the students with English language proficiency and also other related English courses should be equipped the with culturally responsive pedagogy. Semi-structured interviews were carried out to 9 English language teachers teaching in 2 different language faculties from two universities in the country to find out if the teachers do have traits of CRT. The findings show that teachers do have traits of becoming culturally responsive and welcoming the idea of becoming culturally responsive in the classroom.
I29|?The teacher life chose me?: Investigating graduates? teaching career decision|Understanding what motivates prospective teachers to enter the profession has the potential to contribute to making teacher recruitment more attractive; to strengthening teacher education programmes, in order to meet the goals and aspirations of enrolled candidates; and to ensuring an overall positive school experience through the provision of appropriate mentor support. This information becomes even more important for universities which have undergone changes in the levels at which teacher education degrees are offered. Such is the case of Sultan Hassanal Bolkiah Institute of Education (SHBIE), a Graduate Faculty in Universiti Brunei Darussalam. Since 2009, SHBIE has become a Graduate School of Education. This means that the faculty no longer offers teacher education degrees at the undergraduate level. Instead, to prepare candidates for a career as a teacher, SHBIE offers an 18-month full time Master of Teaching qualification. With this in mind, the aims of the present study were twofold: first, to examine the motives of Master of Teaching students for choosing a career in teaching; and second, to compare the motives of these students with those who were in an undergraduate teacher preparation programme in SHBIE before it became a Graduate School of Education. Data for the present study were collected from 100 Master of Teaching students, using an open-ended questionnaire. Responses were coded and categorised according to extrinsic, intrinsic and altruistic motivations. This was done in order to compare the results of this study with those reported by Yong (1995). His study, conducted more than 2 decades ago, involved 133 SHBIE undergraduates who were training to become teachers in Brunei Darussalam. Findings revealed major differences between the two groups of students. For instance, while extrinsic motives were the dominant determinants for SHBIE students entering the teaching profession two decades ago, intrinsic motives were the most prominent amongst current SHBIE graduates. In addition, the graduates cited a number of intrinsic and altruistic reasons for choosing teaching, which are not found in Yong?s study. Another interesting finding relates to the graduates? perceptions of their teaching-related abilities and perceived sense of expertise in areas related to their first degree. The results of the present study have important implications to facilitate teacher education.
I29|Exploring the Types of e-Learning Contents for the Scientifically Gifted|In 1998, Korean Ministry of Science and Technology selected the Institute for the Scientifically Gifted (ISG) through public contest. The selected ISG taught the scientifically gifted for 100 hours and around 30% of the class was taught online. When the ISG was first established, the curriculum and textbook were not fully developed and it was difficult to find teachers for the classes which made it impossible to teach class offline for 100 hours. As a result of the establishment of the ISG, cyber education for the scientifically gifted was able to start.The ISG began by using the bulletin board system (BBS) for their cyber education for the scientifically gifted. For example, the teacher would upload information on offline classes and discussion subjects while the scientifically gifted would upload questions or tasks they had completed. However, the development of e-Learning contents for the scientifically gifted to self-direct their studies was insufficient. The usage of the BBS to share files and information has continued to this day, 2016.20 years have passed, now in 2016, since cyber education for the scientifically gifted began. However, not much has changed, which shows that cyber education for the scientifically gifted is at its peak. Many reasons for the unchanging cyber education for the scientifically gifted can be found. First, the classes from the ISG does not count as regular class time. Second, the prejudice against cyber education that states that cyber education only assists offline education and that with only cyber education, high-quality education for the gifted cannot be taught. Third, one of the critical success factors of cyber education is the development of high-quality content services, but the development and usage of e-Learning contents suited for the scientifically gifted has been done lazily.As a result of the reasons above, in this study we explore the types of e-Learning contents for the scientifically gifted. In order to achieve this study?s goal, we performed research following certain steps. First, we analyzed the characteristics of the scientifically gifted. Second, we defined the six types of e-Learning contents (i.e. tutorial-oriented, simulation-based, instructional material-oriented, task-oriented, discussion-oriented type) which were most fitting for the gifted. Third, we analyzed the best types of the e-Learning contents for the scientifically gifted by using the online survey system. For this study, the professional group participated in an online survey system in order to gather their opinions.
I29|Construction of MLN based proofing system for daily route monitoring|Daily route is a collection of data consisted of geographical points with time of a day and can be obtained easily from mobile device with GPS. Rd = {(GpX, GpY, T)}. A detection model for data abnormality has various applications including protection of child or elderly person from missing.In this paper we build a first order logic based proofing system of daily route integrated with Markov property. From a set of daily route data, we construct a graph consist of a few cluster nodes and linking edges by eliminating most of intermediate geo-points. Our proofing system is collection of FOL expressions consisted of triplet with instance, slot name, and slot value, where the instances are represented by the cluster node in graph and slot name by the edge. A challenge in this problem is automatic clustering for identification of node from continuously updated daily route data. We present an incremental learning method for updating daily route
I29|Student Dropout in Higher Education: An Application of Hazard Functions|Hazard functions are a part of survival analysis which is a branch of statistics dealing with failure in mechanical systems and death in biological organisms e.g. lifetime or reliability of machine components, survival times of patients in clinical trials. Here, the interest is focused on a group of individuals, for which there is a defined point event, often referred to as failure, arising after a length of time, referred to as the failure time. To gain more insight into student dropout we examine the application of hazard functions in higher education. In such a model, the probability is investigated that the student will complete/leave a degree in a given year conditional on him/her having ?survived? the programme up to that point. This may allow a wider analysis as it captures both students who have and have not completed their studies and examines the impact of selected variables for the duration of student?s higher education course.
I29|Social Policy for Education: Assessing Needs of Turkey|Social policies generally refer to the social welfare interventions aimed to resolve social problems on employment, housing, education, health and social services. Education, as a major field of welfare system, is quite significant for social policy framework. Hence, social welfare state has important responsibilities on providing education facilities and services for whole society. At this point, there is a strong need for effective policies which can resolve problems in education settings and optimise education processes for best learning and teaching. When examining the case of Turkey, it can be seen that there are some social policy practices in education which mainly consist of social assistance programs and social responsibility initiatives. Stipends, course materials and other supports for students, food and housing services of schools, preventive health services are some of welfare practices for education. There are also some education policies pursued by National Education Ministry to increase schooling rates at all education levels, decrease drop-out rates, bring more special education facilities into service and provide technical and material support for all government schools. Besides, some civil initiatives and private institutions conduct various projects to improve vocational education, promote school attending and provide needed equipments for schools. Unfortunately, all these efforts can not be an effective and holistic framework towards solution of school problems. It is obvious that there has been various ongoing social problems in school settings in Turkey such as violence, harassment, substance abuse, family-related problems, mental health problems. There is a remarkable lack of social policy in this field. This actually indicate a need for enhanced social services and social work in schools. In this regard, this study suggests some effective social policies for education and refers to the significance of school social work services in Turkish school settings.
I29|Voicing as an Indicator of Interlanguage|Voicing is one of the primary segmental features of consonants in all natural languages. Voice Onset Time (VOT) has been determined to be the most prominent indicator of the voicing property of consonants. However, it can only be measured for plosives, since there is a clear time interval between the burst of the plosive and the closure of the vocal folds. Research has proved that voiced plosives have negative VOT, whereas voiceless plosives have positive VOT in most languages. This basically means that vocal folds start to vibrate before the burst of voiced plosives, while they have delayed vibration for voiceless plosives. VOT, which has also been suggested to be a factor in determining non-native accent, has been measured for a number of languages. We can assume that VOT values of plosives in a second language of learners bear similarities to those of the first language rather than to those of the second language. Therefore, this study aims to analyze the VOT values in English spoken by Turkish speakers of English. The study serves to distinguish Turkish-accented English with digital means. The participants were proficient and fluent speakers of English. They read some carrier words containing syllabi starting with the six plosives (/p/, /b/, /t/, /d/, /k/, /g/) in English, and they were recorded with the help of a PC and an omni-directional microphone in a sound-treated environment. VOT values were measured using Praat version 5.3.63. Obtained VOT values from the recordings were compared with existing, standard VOT values previously identified for both English and Turkish. Our findings demonstrated that proficient Turkish speakers of English articulate plosives in a rather dissimilar fashion to that of native speakers of English.
I29|The relationship between budgetary factors and the effective application of the budgeting process in public se|Public institutions such as secondary schools find themselves under pressure to provide effective and efficient services to their constituencies, which is an exercise that calls for more effective budgeting. The current study investigated the extent to which the budgeting process was implemented effectively and the relationship between budgetary factors in the budgeting process in public secondary schools was determined.A survey was used to garner data from educators in public secondary schools. To analyse data exploratory factor analysis, mean testing and correlation analysis were performed. The findings from the study indicated that educators participated in the budgeting process in which budget control and not budget planning was performed. Educators were eager to participate in the budgeting process. The execution of the budgeting process was characterised by co-ordination and communication. The recommendations were training and development should be instituted prior to educators? involvement in the budgeting process and that budget planning should receive attention.
I29|Teacher Candidates? Perceptions On A New Technique: In-Class Debate In Kindergarten|In-class debate has been used starting from the older grades of primary school and above educational levels but it is not common in younger students? classes. Research shows that in-class debate used in higher education levels has a positive effect on students? development. It gives students the opportunity of cooperative learning and peer tutoring. This way, in-class debates cultivate the active engagement of the participating students. When teachers use debates as a daily activity in their classes, they can easily observe the students? developmental levels in different areas and may plan activities for students who show low performance. Since it is an influential technique for both students and teachers when used in the older grades, it was thought that, after giving suitable education to kindergarteners, in-class debate can also be used in kindergarten level. The purpose of this qualitative study was to analyze teacher candidates? perceptions on this new technique used in preschools: in-class debate. Based on this purpose, for 4 weeks, the researcher worked with 12 teacher candidates who have been teaching in the classrooms of 60 to 72-month-old-children. Before the study, the researcher conducted a one-week workshop for these teacher candidates on how in-class debate can be used in kindergartens. After the workshop, the teacher candidates prepared their two-week plans where they added ?in-class debate games? in their daily activities. These plans were examined ahead by the researcher and conducted in the classes by the teacher candidates under the supervision of the researcher. For the last two week, the teacher candidates observed the children focusing on their cognitive, socio-emotional and language development. Finally, the teacher candidates were interviewed based on their comparisons of their observations of the children and what their perceptions about in-class debate technique used in kindergarten. The teacher candidates explained that in-class debates used as daily activities scaffold children?s development in different areas. They also mentioned that they learned how to involve children actively in their own learning and they overall evaluated the study as successful. According to findings of the study, suggestions were given to teachers and academicians who are working with teacher candidates.
I29|Considering Responsible Research and Innovation in Science Education Teaching Approaches at Primary Level|The paper targets to identify the potential of Responsible Research and Innovation (RRI) in the teaching-learning process specific for science education, designed to primary students (3rd and 4th forms). In this respect, a specific case study is analyzed: a unit dedicated to natural nanomaterials, having the objective of increasing the students? awareness related to the existence and usage of such materials. During the lessons, experimental approaches were introduced with the view to emphasize the nanoparticles in natural nanomaterials, but also to establish correlations between their structure and function.The overall objective of the research was to analyze advantages and limitations of the teaching strategy which tried to consider RRI dimensions in science lessons. Specific research objectives are oriented on: analysis of the efficacy of the teaching methods used in the classroom - mostly of the 6E Model: Engage, Explore, Explain, Elaborate, Exchange, Evaluate (OS1), and analysis of the way in which RRI becomes efficiency in the educational process (OS2). The data collection process took into consideration the learning objects proposed by the teaching unit and the semi-structured interview conducted with the primary teachers. The whole analysis and the interpretation led us to the following conclusion: introducing RRI dimensions in the teaching strategy - even from early ages - positively motivates students and stimulates their active participation during the science lessons, determining so an intense process of deep learning of the related scientific content and developing of a desirable social behavior in relation to social and educational environment.
I29|What Do Educational Superintendents Think About Mathematics Reform in Turkey?|Starting in 2004-2005 Turkish education system went through a reform starting with elementary school and moving up to all levels. The middle school (grades 6-8) mathematics curriculum in Turkey also changed in terms of its content, emphasis and pedagogy. This study aims to evaluate and compare the current curriculum with that used prior to 2005. Superintendents (n=47) working in Istanbul, participated in the study. Data of the study was collected through a questionnaire developed by the researchers based on related literature and experts? opinions. The questionnaire consisted of 10 open-ended, eight multiple-choice and 31 Likert type questions.According to the study findings, 80% of the superintendents agreed that with the mathematical activities offered in the new curriculum students develop critical thinking skills. Additionally, 85% of them agreed that the said mathematical activities develop independent thinking skills. Of the superintendents 87% agreed that students engage in higher order thing skills during these activities. Only 9% of the superintendents thought that various teaching methods are being used in schools. Also 24% of the superintendents and 26% of them agree that teachers and students respectively had adopted to their new roles defined by the constructivist pedagogy. One major finding was that 18% of the superintendents agreed that the national curriculum takes the socio-economic level of students whereas that percentage was 13 with respect to the infrastructure of schools. Compared to the previous mathematics program, 47% of the superintendents thought that the new program was more successful in teaching mathematics. Furthermore 18% of the superintendents agreed that class size does not affect the applicability of the curriculum. Even though, half of the superintendents (49%) thought that teachers followed the new program?s recommendations in planning their lessons, 82% of them wrote that the most commonly used teaching method was lecturing. Thus, only 26% of them observed that the recommended teachings methods were used in classrooms. Moreover, 38% of the superintendents mentioned that teachers continued using conventional teaching methods; 15% of them voiced concern that parents, students, principals and even teachers did not truly accept the pedagogy endorsed by the new program. Though the new program puts an emphasis on use of mathematics in daily life, 19% of the superintendents found this aspect lacking in application. The findings of this study might be useful in future revisions and implementations of the national mathematics program.
I29|The role of governing boards in developing HEIs: the case of Kazakhstan|Kazakhstan, located in the heart of Asia between Russia and China, has a centuries-long history and rich culture. In 1991 when the Soviet Union collapsed a new independent state appeared on the map. Nowadays, Kazakhstan is a young and fast-growing country. Having completed two decades of the post-Soviet period and responding to the challenges of the market in terms of globalization, Kazakhstan moves to a new stage of social and economic development and pays a special attention to education market. Institutional autonomy and shared governance system of higher education institutions are the mechanisms that Kazakhstan is implementing to enhance the development of higher education. The proposed paper explores the role of Boards of Trustees and Boards of Overseers in Kazakhstani higher education institutions as elements of shared governance. These governing boards are a new phenomenon in Kazakhstani university governance system in the post-soviet era. In most countries governing boards were created historically. For example, in the USA the people (Trustees) gathered as a charity group who decided to create an institution. In other words, the Boards of Trustees were a base of establishing the University. In comparison with the USA approach, Kazakhstani Boards of Trustees or Overseers were established artificially in the mid of 2000 and later when the universities took the initials steps toward institutional autonomy assisted in enhancing shared governance system. Newly created Boards had to be developed at the point of two systems: the old one that is more centralized and the new one that differs from the previous one aiming at autonomous streaming. Establishing new Boards has caused a lot of challenges. Firstly, the system required additional policy changes to accept the innovation and it had to be aligned accordingly. Secondly, the people in academia needed to be ready for the system. People mindset and cultural peculiarities can be a strong factor that may resist the change or set back the clock. The role of governing boards of Kazakhstani higher education institutions differs from the systems the concept was borrowed from. However, the tailored version of the Boards in Kazakhstan serves as a considerable asset to higher education institutions, regardless the challenges of implementation.
I29|Educational Management and Educational Needs of Teaching Staff|Educational Management is a relatively new field of educational practice and a new empirical science and educational program in the Czech Republic. The paper deals with the introduction of aims and subject of educational management, its structure and problems with definition of and roles and possibilities of continuing training and education of educational and/or school managers especially in the context of curriculum reform in the Czech Republic. The paper at its final part introduces the major results of the research, conducting within formal re-training educational program. This research was focused on intentions and perspective effects of continuing education of employees of educational organizations from their point of view and from the point of view of management of educational organization.
I29|The quality of teaching and its impact on university students' motivation|The goal of the paper is to discuss the impact of the quality of teaching on university students' motivation to learn and study at university. The paper is based on the analysis of available scientific literature and the results of the authors' questionnaire survey among students of the College of Regional Development in Prague, the Masaryk Institute of Advanced Studies of the Czech Technical University in Prague and the School Management Centre of the Faculty of Education of Charles University in Prague that was focused on students' motivation to study at university and their ideas about future career. The survey was conducted from February to May 2016. The relevant data were obtained from 416 students. The results show some interesting tendencies in students' attitudes to learning and studying at university. Students often complain of the quality of teaching, particularly of theoretical subjects without obvious connections and practical applications. This dissatisfaction significantly reduces students' motivation to learn and study at university. Many students go to work rather than to school to earn money and get experience.
I29|The Contribution of Open And Distance Education System on Life-Long Learning Process: The Case of Anadolu Univ|Education is a key factor that makes people healthier, enhances income distribution, decreases poverty rates, promotes productivity by encouraging technological advance, leads up economic growth and decreases unemployment rates. The process of education had been limited to childhood and youth but today, that point of view is abandoned. Today, the concept of life-long learning shapes education policies all over the World. In terms of this, contributions of the systems of open and distance education, which have been developed rapidly in parallel with information and communication Technologies, to the mission of life-long learning is discussed in literature. The purpose of this study is to reveal at which rate Anadolu University Open and Distance Education System contributes to the life-long learning. As the indicators of that contribution, the people that are registered to secondary university, are handicapped, are either an arrestee or an detainee and are old were analyzed. The results are in line with the hypothesis of Anadolu University Open and Distance Education System contributes to life-long learning target largely.
I29|EXPERIENTIAL LEARNING: GlobalDNA SIMULATION FOR TEACHING INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS COURSES|The use of simulations in business education started in 1957, since then, hundreds of simulations have been developed and/or introduced in the classroom. In this paper, we present a literature review of the impact that business simulations have in developing decision-making skills, integrative, experiential learning, and teamwork skills. Building on the generative learning theory, experiential learning theory and bloom?s taxonomy, we tested the simulation GlobalDNA with a sample of undergraduate students divided into 4 groups. The objective was to obtain feedback of the applicability and benefit of using this software to teach decision-making in international business courses from a student and instructor experience perspectives. Results showed GlobalDNA being applicable to senior level or capstone international business strategy courses and appropriate as an experiential learning tool. Students we asked, at the end of the class to submit introspective summaries regarding the software program. We found supporting evidence and student perceived benefits for implementing simulations into the international business curricula to represent the experiential learning prong, and GlobalDNA provided a relevant backdrop for it.
I29|Does it pay to study abroad? Evidence from Poland|Tertiary education has been perceived in Poland as a key determinant of success in the labour market, as clearly shown by the increase of the net enrolment ratio in tertiary education from 9.8% in 1990 up to 40.9% in 2009. However, as tertiary education becomes more and more popular, it does not signal skills as well as before. It seems that employers may treat students' participation in international exchange programs as a new signaling tool since according to them international students? skills ? both cognitive and non-cognitive ? are well above the average. On the other hand, students participating in exchange programs underline a positive impact of studying abroad on their personal development, i.e. on their general skills. Thus, from a theoretical point of view we may expect a positive correlation between studying abroad and wages, which follows from both signaling theory and human capital theory. On the average, 16% of European students report a positive impact of participation in Erasmus exchange program on their incomes, but interestingly, those from the CEE countries, including Polish students, report it much more often. The aim of this paper is to determine whether studying abroad for at least one semester has an impact on wages of higher education graduates in Poland. To answer this question, an extended Mincer wage equation was estimated using OLS on the basis of data from the nationwide tracer survey of Polish graduates conducted in 2007 (Graduate Tracer Study 2007). The hourly net wage rate in the first job after graduating from a higher education institution was the dependent variable in the wage equation. In order to reduce the selection bias, three groups of variables depicting students? abilities and skills were included in the model. The results of the analysis show that Polish students who completed at least one semester of studies abroad, enjoy a wage premium of 35% in their first workplace after graduation. Moreover, the wage premium is higher in case of graduates holding Bachelor?s degree (48%) than those with Master?s degree (26%).
I29|Flexible Frameworks for Blended Learning in Higher Education|Pressures to adopt new technology-based online solutions to enable increased flexibility in delivering higher education have accelerated in pace. The primary reasons for this growth concern ongoing debates about costs of residential on-campus courses and resulting economies of scale; demands for more student-centred and flexible approaches, providing students with more choices in learning; technology ubiquity, portability and their affordances providing solutions to identified student needs; and the impact of MOOC experiences and lessons learnt, rolling back into mainstream open and on-campus teaching. Based on case study analysis, this paper examines experiences in developing open and blended learning solutions for predominantly campus-based education and identifies longer-term impacts on changing core practices. The first case explores the impact of distance and open education courses and course resources and activities re-purposed to replace conventional on-campus teaching; the second a re-engineered continuing professional education course converted to distance and blended learning; the third describes how a conventional course structure, quality assurance and sustainable improvements were made through the introduction of blended and online solutions; and the forth case explores the impact of an institution?s use of MOOCs as a catalyst to effect changes in mainstream courses and programs. Arising from the cases described, the paper identifies key concepts that support improved opportunities for success in adopting open and blended learning. The paper concludes by outlining a curriculum design framework, based on recent research and practice that facilitates sustainable and transferable improvements to learning and teaching in universities adopting open and blended learning strategies.
I29|The Competing Values Framework of Administrators Among Private Colleges in the National Capital Region|This study attempted to identify the competing values framework, differences on organizational culture, management practices, and skills of administrators utilizing the descriptive-evaluative method to 150 randomly selected respondents from private colleges in the Philippines. Data gathered were then computed for interpretation using percentage, weighted mean, t-test, and ANOVA. Results showed that the present and preferred organizational culture, management practices, and skills were that of clan culture based on Cameron and Quinn?s (2006, 2011) competing values framework. Significant differences were found on the key dimensions of organizational culture while no significant differences were found with respect to the management practices and management skills of the respondent administrators when grouped according to their profiles. An Executive Training Program for Administrators was designed to improve administrators? weaknesses as reflected on the Competing Values Management Practices Survey and Management Skills Assessment Instrument.
I29|Social Sciences In Teaching Benefit From The Naturel Science- Examples Of History Of Science|There was proximity between natural and social science in the history. It couldn?t be say that, this proximity continues now. Because sciencis were divided into specialist areas. Scholar who lived even in the middle age or new ages could have profound knowledge in the field of social sciences and natural sciences. While explaining social science scholars that could benefit from the basic information in the field of natürel science.Social science concepts can be intangible. At this point it may be necessary to explain some concepts concretization. It makes it easier to understand and permanence of the affects if we tell you a thing or terminology by concretizing. For this, social science was used from natural science terminology that time to time. We could give some example for this hypothesis. An example of relationship between sociology and biology or political science and sociology-biology-physics which was particularly marked. Especially middle age and eastern scientists have put forward opinions about relationship between social and natural science. For example, Ibn Khaldun, likened the individual to the state. These smilarities has established relevance between science of political and science of biology. On the other side the west scholars have demonstrated many examples of ideas or hypotheses that relationship in new age.
I29|Why does he get award? Comparison of innovative thinking points|Innovation is an important basis for successfully gaining global market shares in the era of technological changes. In order to maintain national competitiveness, the government attaches great importance to innovative thinking ability. To this end, throughout various stages of education in Taiwan, creativity competitions are held. Among them, at universities and colleges, annual innovation and entrepreneurship competitions are held; at vocational high schools, national creativity project work competitions are held. In this study, award-winning students from the two competitions were selected. The creative concept design capability scale was adopted to compare the award winners and non-winners in terms of differences in innovative thinking points. The creative concept design capability scale was used to assess the gap among students who received training, college project instructors, and student innovative thinking points. Findings show that the overall innovative thinking points are mostly concentrated in the appearance. University/college of technology or vocational high school competition award winners alike have a significantly higher total score compared to the total innovative thinking points score of regular university/college of technological teachers and students. However, as to the innovative thinking points for different categories, university and college award winners of innovation entrepreneurship competitions tend to put the chemical change of innovative thinking points to better uses; vocational high school award winners of creativity project work competitions tend to put the external size and external texture layout of innovative thinking points to better uses. The university and college students on the project team are better able to use the physical changes, structural complexity, operability, shape changes, functional enhancement, and usage enhancement of the innovative thinking points. This study recommends that students select more related professional practical courses to ?learn by doing?. Students are encouraged to participate in off-campus learning activities or creativity competitions so that they can broaden their horizons. As for teaching, teachers may lead students in site visits to learn about innovative products in the industry. The course design combines theory and practice, case discussions are examples of which.
I29|A Case Study of Blended Learning in Higher Education in Malaysia: Flipped, Flopped or Forgotten?|Every day, in Universities across the globe, more and more courses are being created to embrace blended learning approaches. Classes are now being ?flipped? in the pursuit of more effective learning and better student outcomes. However, the concept of blended and flipped learning in Malaysia is relatively new. This paper outlines an exploratory study of blended learning in a higher education institution (HEI) in Malaysia. The focus of this paper is an investigation of the pedagogical processes associated with blended and flipped learning in a Higher Education context. The paper provides a discussion of the implementation challenges associated with delivering a new blended learning programme. The paper concludes that there are significant benefits to students from learning in a learning environment that uses blended and flipped approaches.
I29|Enhancing Student Learning by Narrowing the Gap between Feedback Giving and Feedback Receiving|Feedback is one of the most powerful influences on learning and achievement. However the mere provision of feedback to students does not necessarily lead to improved learning. Feedback is ineffective if it does not close the gap between learning goals and students? performance. Often students do not have clear goals and they do not know what learning activities will improve their learning performance. Consequently the opportunity to learn from the feedback is lost. Learning is a social process and while young people have increasingly strong social needs they struggle with academic language. This study investigates the influence of lecturers? feedback on students? learning and whether first year electronic engineering students at the Institute of Technology Tallaght Dublin (ITTD) benefit from a peer evaluation environment where students are enabled to detect and communicate quality criteria for specific coursework. A qualitative approach is used to capture students? views. The results show that the opportunity to learn from lecturer feedback is not fully utilised. Instead learning is best achieved interactively and in a non-threatening environment. Students willingly engage in both giving and receiving feedback and clarifying misunderstandings and they show improved motivation. Engagement in a guided peer feedback environment additionally improves self-regulation, critical thinking skills and communications.
I29|An Comparative study on informatics curriculum : focused on Korea, United states, and United Kingdom|Since the importance of software in society, software education has been globally introduced. Korean government is also trying to promote talents by the revision of curriculum; however, due to the lack of lesson hour, education course is not enough to foster sufficient software focused talents. Thus, by supplementation of present curriculum, the development of new curriculum model has been needed. In this study, as a basic research of this development of curriculum model, curriculum revised in 2015 of Korea was compared with that of U. S. A. and that of England. Through the comparison, it was possible to find out what is needed to make up for informatics curriculum. This result could be used as an advanced research for the development of software curriculum model with Korean education context.
I29|Economic Impact of International Students on a Host City: Case of the University of Economics in Bratislava|Typical university impact studies in Slovak Republic have taken into account only economic impact of domestic students. But increased globalization processes contribute the growth the number of international students and increase their impact on the economy of a host city. Using data obtained on 2015/2016 academic year during questioning of international full-time students of the University of Economics in Bratislava (Slovak Republic) we estimate their direct economic impact on the host city ? Bratislava. We compare this economic impact to those obtained for the University of Economics in Bratislava domestic students in previous researches. We estimate the direct spending by international students studied at the University of Economics in Bratislava in 2015/2016 as 375.29 thousand euros on an annualized basis.
I29|International Experience in a Non-Western Country, Teacher Habitus, and Level of Inclusion in the Classroom|One of the challenges with increasing diverse student populations in today?s classrooms is figuring out ways to address the needs of all students. This paper explores the role of the teacher and his/her dispositions in creating an inclusive learning environment. This paper, through Pierre Bourdieu?s interconnected theoretical concepts of habitus, capital, and field explores how an international experience in a non-Western country can help foster greater inclusion in a classroom setting. Autobiographical experiences of Bourdieu?s time in Algeria as well as the author?s international experiences in Iran and Barbados are presented as case studies. Overall, this paper seeks to advance the discussion on student disengagement beyond discourses of blame and towards exploring new avenues with potential for blossoming and unveiling of new understandings.
I29|Limitations of attendance monitoring as a singular tool for motivating students? academic engagement: The case study of one overseas student|Background, aims & objectives: Attendance monitoring is very important in attaining students? academic engagement which in turn improves students? academic performance at university level. Visa tied students face different criteria in terms of attendance monitoring and the level of recorded study contact points or hours. One area of action research that such requirement raises is to investigate whether quantitative attendance translates into quantitative student outcomes in terms attempts to assignment or exam success at study-unit or module level and the final overall classification of academic-degree attained. Methodology: We use the case study approach, where we present a case study of an overseas student who presented with an excellent quantitative attendance record that had not translated into academic engagement or success. The aim is to determine whether and if so what intervention could bridge the gap between quantitative attendance and academic performance.Findings: For the case study subject we found that qualitative consultative management helped to resolve the observed disconnect between quantitative classroom attendance and quantitative student academic outcome. Conclusions and Implications: We conclude that monitoring quantitative engagement, in the form of quantitative class attendance, is singularly unlikely to be a useful tool that can be used to gauge students? academic engagement. For the case studies qualitative interaction with academic staff held the key to the student achieving the required academic engagement that produced noticeable quantitative academic outcomes.The insight gained from this case study may be of interest to institutions that especially serve overseas students who, by virtue of UKVI statutory requirements and institutional regulatory requirement are mandated to present with a minimum quantitative ?class? attendance record whence this does not necessarily translate to a similarly good quantitative academic outcome in terms of grade of degree and sometimes, time to completion of their studies.
I29|Adaptation of The Academic Coping Strategies Scale in Turkey: A Study With Undergraduates|The Academic Coping Strategies Scale (the ACS Scale) developed by Sullivan in 2010 is a pivotal screening tool for counselors and educators to understand undergraduates? handling mechanisms in a tough academic context. This study presents the psychometric features of Turkish version of the scale. 555 undergraduates from three universities in Istanbul participated in the study. Exploratory and confirmatory factor analyses advocated a three factor solution like the original scale. Criterion validity was examined through the variables - academic self-efficacy, and learning, performance-approach and performance-avoidance goal tendencies-. The results indicated academic coping strategies had significant correlations with them. Test-retest study yielded consistent scores. These findings point that the Turkish ACS Scale is a credible measurement providing great opportunities for scrutinizing undergraduates? coping patterns utilized for a demanding educational context.
I29|Trends In Curricular Issues And Teacher Education In Nigeria: Retrospect And Prospects|Education in Nigeria in the past was centered on recitation, use of conversation, lecture and questioning method to teach students new information and concepts.Traditionally, the emphases on our curricular has been on defined knowledge to be acquired with less attention on the development of skills, conscious articulation of the other remaining areas of learning behaviour, attitudes and values and finally learning to learn. This paper therefore examines the trends in curricular issues of teacher education programme in Nigeria. It investigates the nature of teacher education, its impacts, problems, directions as well as prospects for future development of the curricular issues.
I29|Exploring Feedback Practices in Formative Assessment in Rwandan Higher Education: A multifaceted approach is needed|Inspired by the current scholarship that indicates that, if used well, formative assessment and feedback can advance student?s learning, this paper explores the practices of feedback in formative assessment in Rwandan higher education, specifically at the University of Rwanda. The study used a qualitative approach with the aim of gaining lecturers? and students? perspectives on formative assessment and feedback; and exploring different ways formative assessment and feedback were practiced. Using data collected through interviews, student focus group discussions, and document analysis; the paper shows that formative assessment and feedback were understood in the context of binding prescription within the boundaries of limited description in academic regulations. Feedback was in most cases reduced to marks, and lecturers ? who portrayed themselves as information providers, mastery checkers, and performance appraisers - were in full charge of all formative assessment efforts. The paper also shows that lack of clarity and feed forward instructions in too-much-delayed lecturers? written feedback led students to just receive feedback and not use it to enhance their performance. Building on this study?s findings and on the existing literature, the paper suggests three important moves whereby a collaborative research-based approach that will bring together different stakeholders will help to move away from a single-sided approach to a multifaceted approach in both perception and practice of formative assessment and feedback at the University of Rwanda.
I29|The study of university students' motivation|The goal of the paper is to define and discuss the problem of increasing quantity of university students and graduates and the impact of the university students' motivation on their attitudes to learning and studying at university. The paper is based on the analysis of available scientific literature and the comparison of the results of the authors' survey conducted among students of the Czech Technical university in Prague in the first decade of the twenty-first century and the authors' survey conducted among students of the College of Regional Development in Prague, the Masaryk Institute of Advanced Studies of the Czech Technical University in Prague and the School Management Centre of the Faculty of Education of Charles University in Prague in 2016. The new data were obtained from 415 students. The results show some interesting tendencies in students' attitudes to learning and studying at university in the Czech Republic.
I29|Premises for Adapting Curriculum and Educational Package to Labor Market Requirements| Abstract. Human resource is the most important and valuable asset for a company and investing in training and education should be a priority for organizations and universities. As the investments to bring benefits for economy, the communication and collaboration between organizations (market) and universities (school) must be very close. As a consequence the aim of the paper was to identify the necessary measures to improve the existing university curriculum by linking it with the labor market requirements. In this regard it was implemented a market research within 'Adapt2jobs' POSDRU project, in 2 steps: a survey for organizations and a survey for students. The article presents the results of a quantitative analysis regarding the market demand, the requirements of organizations for employees.
I29|Principal leadership changes in South Africa: Investigating their consequences for school performance|A rising number of school leadership changes have been occurring in South African schools as a large proportion of incumbent principals near retirement age. While this presents opportunities to replace weaker school principals with better performing ones, these changes may also destabilise school environments and impede on learning. This paper explores how these principal change events affect school performance in the context of South Africa using a unique administrative dataset constructed by linking payroll data on the population of public school principals to national data on schools and matriculation examination outcomes. Exploiting the panel structure of the data, a school fixed effects strategy suggests that principal changes are indeed detrimental to school performance especially when leadership changes are due to principals exiting the public education system. These results are robust to using an alternative estimation strategy proposed by Heckman, Ichimura and Todd (1997) which combines propensity score matching with a difference-in-difference estimation strategy. The paper also considers two mechanisms through which school leadership changes may impact on school performance, namely through rising promotion rates and teacher turnover.
I29|Group Decision Making With Uncertain Outcomes: Unpacking Child–Parent Choice Of The High School Track| Predicting group decisions under uncertainty requires disentangling individual members' utilities over the consequences of choice, their expectations for uncertain outcomes, and their choice process as a group. I estimate simple Bayesian models of child–parent choice of high school track with subjective risk and unilateral or bilateral, nonstrategic decisions, by combining families' actual choices with novel survey information about children's and parents' subjective probabilities over choice consequences, their individually preferred choices, and their decision roles. A set of policy counterfactuals confirms the importance of introducing the beliefs and decision roles of individual members in models and policy analysis of group decisions.
I29|Personnel policy adjustments when apprentice positions are unfilled: Evidence from German establishment data|German firms have increasing difficulties in filling apprentice positions. I study how firms adjust their personnel policies when they face unfilled apprentice positions. Using the IAB Establishment Panel (2008-2014) and applying fixed effects panel estimations, I find that small firms react by hiring more unskilled workers. I do not observe an intensified use of personnel policies directed at the existing workforce, such as further training, retention of apprenticeship graduates or conversion of fixed-term into permanent contracts. Moreover, the results do not indicate that firms with unfilled apprentice positions turn away from apprenticeship training. My findings suggest that most training firms may not regard unfilled apprentice positions as a serious problem (so far).
I29|Investigaciones de Economía de la Educación|No abstract is available for this item.
I29|Factores condicionantes de la divergencia publico-privado en desempeño escolar: Colombia en las pruebas SABER11|El presente trabajo identifica las causas que dan origen a las brechas en desempeño escolar entre los colegios públicos y privados en Colombia. Para este propósito, se emplea la información de los resultados en las pruebas SABER 11 del año 2014, y se aplica la descomposición de Oaxaca-Blinder, combinada con estimaciones de la Función de Producción Educativa, a partir de la metodología propuesta por Heckman, para corregir el sesgo de selección. Se encuentran diferencias significativas en todas las áreas evaluadas en estas pruebas, en favor de los centros privados. Particularmente, en el área de inglés, se da la mayor divergencia. Los colegios privados obtienen, en promedio, 6,1 puntos más que los públicos. Estas brechas se originan, principalmente, por el efecto dotación. Específicamente, se deben, en primer lugar, por las diferencias en recursos escolares, seguido de las divergencias en el estatus socioeconómico y cultural del hogar, y en último lugar, por las diferencias en características individuales.
I29|Slave trade and Human Trafficking|The literature has not sufficiently engaged in the emergence and expansion of the phenomenon of slave trade. This article estimates whether or not slave trade affects human trafficking using an Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) with standard errors that are consistent with heteroscedasticity. The paper also checks for the robustness of the OLS model. The findings of the paper reveal that the effect of slave trade on human trafficking is positive and statistically significant.The more one is exposed to the phenomenon of slave trade, the more human trafficking is important. The paper also deduces that developed countries that experienced slave trade record low level of human trafficking nowadays, while developing countries continue to record high level of human trafficking. Additionally, institutions werefound to be statistically very significant, and essential to be politically and socioeconomically consolidated and promoted, mainly in developing countries in order to alleviate the level of human trafficking.
I29|The Sensitive Nature of Social Trust to Intelligence|This study investigates the relationship between social trust and intelligence. The extreme bound analysis of Levine and Renelt is employed to directly assess the strength of the nexus. The findings confirm the positive and robust nexus between social trust and intelligence. We have contributed to the literature by confirming that the previously established positive linkage between intelligence and trust is not statistically fragile. In fact the nexus withstands further empirical scrutiny with more robust empirical strategies.
I29|An Innovative Model Of Funding The Education System|This article shows that the effectiveness of the education system can be measuredwithout taking into account the socio-economic environment of students. The use of AVE(Educational added value), which is a measure of the aforementioned effectiveness of theeducation system, should be accompanied by an analysis of the level of local socio-economicdevelopment. These formulations include a certain inconsistency. It stems from the fact that themodelling of AVE using previous educational achievements of students (at the preceding stage)does not take into account the impact of variables modifying these educational achievements. Itis assumed that a student‘s individual family, economic and social situations do not change sorapidly as to affect their educational attainments in the next stage of education. However,research conducted in Poland show that socio-economic variables in areas of local governmentunits strongly modify the AVE. This phenomenon was the reason for proposing the correction inthe system of education funding. The proposed model of funding education takes into account thequalitative factors of educational processes. The implementation of such a model should, in thelong term, improve the quality of human capital in society.
I29|Operational Highlights In The Educational Project Management|The management of educational projects, as part of the management's new concept, meets the requirements of a performant management, which integrates the structures and recommended methods, the complexity and the organizational flexibility as well as the social and psychological aspects of the educational organization in which the project is implemented.
I29|¿Cómo se relacionan las características de los profesores con el bullying escolar?|El bullying escolar es una problemática que afecta física y psicológicamente a la persona e incluso puede generar malos resultados en la adultez al impactar de manera negativa la acumulación de habilidades cognitivas y no cognitivas. Este artículo emplea un modelo probit para estudiar la relación de ciertas características observadas de los profesores, como su satisfacción, experiencia y escolaridad, con la probabilidad de que sus estudiantes sufran de bullying, a partir de los datos de la prueba estandarizada internacional PIRLS 2011 para más de doscientos mil estudiantes en 47 países. También evalúa si las víctimas de bullying tienen un rendimiento escolar significativamente menor. Los resultados indican que docentes más satisfechos y con mayor capital humano se asocian con una disminución en la probabilidad de que sus estudiantes sufran de bullying. Asimismo, los alumnos que son víctimas de bullying tienen un desempeño menor en la prueba PIRLS 2011 y este efecto depende del género del estudiante, siendo los varones más afectados.
I29|Construcción de metodologías comparativas e indicadores para medir el uso de TIC y sus impactos en el salón de clase|El objetivo del Documento es discutir propuestas metodológicas para medir el uso y el impacto de las TIC como mediadores en la enseñanza y el aprendizaje de habilidades fundamentales, y de las habilidades del siglo 21. En la primera parte del Documento se discuten cuáles son las diferentes competencias y habilidades relevantes para la inserción social y laboral en la sociedad del conocimiento, y cómo las TIC pueden incidir en su desarrollo. En la segunda parte, se evidencia la necesidad de innovaciones para medir y evaluar el uso de TIC en la educación. Para ello, se observa la necesidad de medir la brecha digital en cuanto a equidad, y se muestran las ventajas de utilizar métodos mixtos - cualitativos y cuantitativos- en la medición del efecto de TIC en educación. Finalmente, se muestran las ventajas del uso de Big Data y de Analytics en la educación, para entender mejor el uso y la incidencia de las TIC en el proceso educativo.
I29|Educational inequalities in Latin America, PISA 2012: causes of differences in school performance between public and private schools|The paper notes and explains the causes of the differences in school performance between public and private schools in Latin America. It uses information from the 8 Latin American countries that participated in PISA 2012. The estimations, two steps with instrumental variables, combined with the technique of the Oaxaca-Blinder’s decomposition, reveal that Uruguay and Brazil had the highest education gap, and Colombia and Mexico the lowest. These differences are explained, mainly, by the observed component of the model. Specifically, the differences in individual characteristics explain the greater proportion of the gaps in performance; followed by family characteristics and resources of the schools. In addition, the decomposition in the no-observed component suggests that students from private schools make better use of the educational resources, both in their homes and in their schools.
I29|Main determinants acquisition of skills in Latin America: a multilevel analysis from the results PISA 2012|Using a random predictor model, on two levels, to analyze the PISA 2012 for the Latin American countries results we found that the main determinants of school performance are gender, condition of not repeater and quality of school materials. In addition, it was determined that the variability in skills acquisition is explained, in a smaller proportion, by the heterogeneity in the characteristics of the students. Finally, it was estimated that private schools have a better performance than public ones, where Brazil, Costa Rica and Uruguay were the countries with the highest educational inequality. Keywords: skills acquisition, educational production function, multilevel models, PISA, Latin America.
I29|Causas de las diferencias en desempeño escolar entre los colegios públicos y privados: Colombia en las pruebas SABER11 2014|This paper identifies the causes that give rise to gaps in school performance between public and private schools in Colombia and five major cities. For this purpose, the information on tests SABER 11 of 2014 is used, and the Oaxaca-Blinder decomposition is applied, combined with estimates of educational production function, based on the methodology proposed by Heckman, for correct selection bias. In the national context, significant differences were found in all areas assessed in these tests, in favor of private schools. Particularly in the area of English, the greatest divergence occurs. Private schools get, on average, 6.1 points more than the public. These gaps originate mainly by the endowment effect. Specifically, it must, first, by differences in school resources, followed by differences in socioeconomic and cultural status of the home, and finally, by differences in individual characteristics. Regarding the results for cities, it is determined that Cartagena is the city with greater educational inequality in the five skills assessed, and Medellin is the lowest. For Cali, performance gaps were in favor of public schools. These differences are caused, significantly, the observed part of the model, except in Cali, where gaps in favor of public schools in general are explained the net effect model (unobserved variables). Finally, in these cities, the difference in school resources remains the most significant in the private-public gaps followed by differences in individual and family characteristics factor.
I29|Case Study Methodology As An Educational Tool For Fashion Business Management|During the past decade, the fashion industry has changed dramatically. It is entering the most complex and sophisticated business situation seen so far. Tough strategic and managerial challenges continuously test fashion companies' strength. Thus, in order to continue progressing in the industry, future managers should be very well prepared to deal with this complex situation and trained so they can make the correct decisions in all the trade-off choices they will encounter. Bearing in mind this complex situation for the industry, our fashion business school advocates the use of the case method as the main educational tool in all the programs offered. Used first by Harvard Business School and now used in almost all the best business schools worldwide, this method is a very effective educational tool that presents great challenges faced by real companies and encourages the student to adopt the role of the company's decision-maker. The main objective of this paper is to introduce the benefits of fashion business education using real company cases, as well as to recommend this as a reliable learning method for this industry. To do this, we will: (1) explain what this method is and how it should be used in order to be effective, (2) explain why we consider the use of this method to be relevant, particularly in fashion business education, (3) share both our experience as a fashion business school - through teaching and writing fashion company case studies - and the feedback provided by some of our former students, most of them working in executive positions in major fashion companies. In addition, we will encourage the publication of new cases that present real challenges currently faced by companies in this industry. We believe that sharing business experiences can be a very good way for us all to contribute to ensure the whole industry functions well.
I29|Segregación socioeconómica escolar en Chile: elección de la escuela por los padres y un análisis contrafactual teórico|En este artículo se examina la hipótesis de que la política de elección escolar ha incrementado la segregación socioeconómica en Chile. Se utiliza una base de datos georreferenciada de estudiantes y escuelas del Gran Santiago, para comparar la segregación real con la que se produciría en un escenario hipotético en que los estudiantes asisten a la escuela más cercana a su lugar de residencia. Los resultados indican que la segregación escolar es mayor en el escenario real que en el contrafactual, lo que sugiere que la interacción entre las preferencias de las familias y las barreras de entrada establecidas por las escuelas (cobros obligatorios y procesos de admisión selectivos) tienden a incrementar la segregación escolar más allá del efecto de la segregación residencial subyacente en la ciudad.
I29|Socioeconomic school segregation in Chile: parental choice and a theoretical counterfactual analysis|In this article, we examine the hypothesis that the policy of parental school choice in Chile has increased socioeconomic school segregation. We use a georeferenced database of students and schools in the Greater Metropolitan Area of Santiago to compare actual segregation with the segregation that would occur in the hypothetical case that students attended the school nearest to their place of residence. The results indicate that school segregation is higher in the actual scenario than in the counterfactual scenario, which suggests that the interaction between family preferences and school entry barriers (tuition and selective admission process) tend to increase school segregation beyond the city’s underlying residential segregation.
I29|Gender differences in preferences for taking risk in college applications|College admissions in Turkey are based entirely on nationwide standardized test scores and standardized high school GPAs. Using detailed administrative data from the centralized system, I study the impact of gender differences in preferences on the allocation of students to colleges. Controlling for test score, high school GPA, and high school attended, I find that females are more likely to apply to lower-ranking universities, whereas males set a higher bar, revealing a higher option value for retaking the test and applying again next year. These differences in willingness to be unassigned are also found to have implications for major choices.
I29|The value of a redesigned program and capstone course in economics|This paper describes an undergraduate program in economics which redesigned its curriculum to include a required capstone research course. The outcomes of this program are noteworthy for several reasons. To assess the impact of the high-stakes capstone research course and the redesigned program, the authors provide evidence of labor market outcomes of its graduates. Further, student learning and program outcomes are measured using direct, objective, and indirect measures, among them the ETS MFT Economics scores, awards and recognitions in undergraduate research competitions, and Senior Exit Surveys. The overall evidence suggests the redesigned economics program improved research quality among its best students, and raised median hourly wages of its graduates within two to four years of graduation.
I29|"Looking Back on the Lessons of ""Higher Education and Developing Countries: Peril and Promise"": Perspectives on China and India"|In 2000, Higher Education in Developing Countries: Peril and Promise was published. This report, cosponsored by The World Bank and UNESCO, came at a time of transition in higher education worldwide and helped shape higher education policy and thinking in several developing countries. This article looks at some of the main arguments in Peril and Promise. It focuses particularly on how two key countries, China and India, have developed in light of the key recommendations in Peril and Promise.
I29|Students’ Perceptions of the Academic and Social Benefits of Working with Cooperative Learning|"""Objective – Traditional teaching methods are no longer enough to prepare students to face the challenges and changes of an international society and to gain the skills needed for the contemporary labour market. Therefore, there is a need to implement alternative teaching methods in Saudi schools, such as cooperative learning to help learners gain personal and social skills and improve their learning. This study investigated Saudi high school learners’ perceptions of cooperative learning based on its five principles (Johnson & Johnson, 2014), and the benefits of working cooperatively in class. Methodology/Technique – 97 students were involved in this study in one all-male high school in Saudi Arabia. Mixed methods (quantitative and qualitative) were used to collect the data, using a questionnaire and semi-structured interviews respectively. Findings – The findings suggest that students seem to prefer to use cooperative learning instead of lecture-style mostly due to the perceived academic benefits it generates, among which were increased motivation, enhanced autonomy and responsibility towards learning, gaining thinking and problem solving skills, higher levels of understanding and long-term retention. Students also seem to agree that adopting the cooperative learning principles leads to social benefits such an enjoyment in learning, reduction in anxiety, increased confidence, and positive relationships among students. Novelty – This paper has discovered and recommended that cooperative learning should be considered for implementation in Saudi schools instead of lecture-style in order to benefit students academically and socially."""
I29|The Flip Classroom Learning on Design Student’s Performance: An Analysis|"""Objective – The objective of this research paper is to examine whether flipped learning would improve the performance of the 3rd year undergraduate design students compared to the traditional classroom learning. Methodology/Technique – The performance of the students was assessed based on the parameters: communication skills, understanding of the concepts, teamwork, critical thinking, sharing the data, exploration of concepts, creative outcomes and engaging the problems. Students were provided different tools, case studies, video presentations and foundational concepts. The experimentation was conducted before and after implementation of flipped classroom. Findings – The study revealed that final marks were gradually increased and nearly 80% students were satisfied with this way of learning. It was also observed that 82% students improved the communication skills, improved the critical thinking and helps to solve problems by themselves and started exploring new concepts. The study also focuses on the challenges on the adaptation of flipped learning among students and teachers. Novelty – The use of the flipped classroom is one of the most emerging new media technology in the university."""
I29|Rising to the occasion? Youth political knowledge and the voting age|Voting is a fundamental human right. Yet, individuals that are younger than 18 do typically not have this right since they are considered uninformed. However, recent evidence tentatively suggests that the political knowledge of youths is endogenous to the voting age. I test for the existence of such dynamic adjustments utilizing voting age discontinuities caused by Swedish laws. I employ a regression discontinuity strategy on Swedish register data to estimate the causal effect of early age voting right on political knowledge around age 18. The results do not support the existence of positive causal effects of early age voting right on political knowledge. Thus, we should not expect that 16-year-olds respond by acquiring more political knowledge if they are given the right to vote. This finding weakens the case for a lowering of the voting age from 18 to 16.
I29|Participation in Massive Open Online Courses: The Effect of Learner Motivation and Engagement on Achievement|Massive open online courses (MOOCs) are a relatively new format of distance education which has become popular among students, faculties, employees and others. Regardless of the fact that MOOCs are a widespread phenomenon, they face some challenges including high dropout rates, low levels of student-teacher interaction, low representation of poor and less educated learners, issues with data processing and data analysis for creating predictive models. In our study, we look more closely at the last issue, while creating a model describing the relationship between the motivation, engagement, and achievement of MOOC participants. We use a database which consists of trace data and survey data from students of 20 online courses launched on the Coursera platform in 2014–2015 at the Higher School of Economics. Our research shows that for modelling the relationship between factors and achievement of MOOC students, it is necessary to transform the interval dependent variable into an ordinal one. To evaluate the relationship between motivation, engagement, and achievement, we used mediation analysis with ordinal logistic regression. The research shows that academic motivation of MOOC learners has an indirect effect on their achievement. The level of engagement acts as a mediator of this relationship. At the same time, intrinsic motivation plays an alternative role in the MOOC format compared to a traditional course format. Intrinsic motivation decreases the likelihood of getting a higher score from the second week of the course.
I29|The Influence of Ethnicity on Teacher Expectations and Teacher Perceptions of Student Warmth and Competence|This study examines the influence of ethnicity on stereotypes and expectations of teachers, as well as the relationship of teacher expectations and stereotypes in relation to ethnic minority students by including the stereotype content model in the analysis. 34 primary school teachers participated in the experiment in which they analyzed six personal profiles of students, two of which were experimental. Experimental profiles contained identical information (annual school grade, testimonial, sex), but differed in names of the students and their parents and additionally in migration background. Thus, we manipulated only information related to ethnicity and migration history of two students. This allowed us to create a typical image of one and a half generation migrant child, who moved to St. Petersburg from Central Asia. Teacher expectations about the performance of the minority student were always unfavorable compared with the expectations about the performance of the majority student but expectations about the abilities of minority and majority students, which include teacher beliefs about students’ educational skills, attitudes and motivation, capacity for work in school class, were mixed. We also discovered that the expectations of teachers positively related to the perceptions of competence and were not related to the perceptions of warmth. However, the minority student was evaluated by teachers as warm and competent as the majority. This study shows the relevance of the problem of correct expectations of teachers in relation to students with different ethnic backgrounds
I29|The Attitudes of Boys and Girls towards Science and Mathematics as They Progress through School in Australia|Differences between boys and girls in their attitudes towards mathematics are apparent among students in Year 4 in Australia. While not more engaged in their classes, boys indicate that they like mathematics and are more confident about their ability in it than girls. These differences increase between Year 4 and Year 8, while differences in similar directions in reported attitudes towards science develop. In Year 8, these differences in attitudes exist across all school sectors, social backgrounds and student levels of achievement, aspirations about future levels of completed education, language backgrounds and the genders of their teachers. These differences at Year 8 exist within schools, not between schools of different types or who cater for different types of students. There appears to be one exception to this statement: girls in single sex schools are more likely to like and be as confident about mathematics and science as boys in single sex schools.
I29|Implementing Enterprise Resource Planning Education In A Postgraduate Accounting Information Systems Cours|The importance of Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) systems education, its inclusion and evaluation in a university teaching context are the subjects of this article. As the importance of ERP systems has increased in the corporate world, so too has its importance increased in education. Many universities have recognized this need and the potential for using ERP systems software to teach business concepts. In this paper, the approach adopted is to develop a course that integrates theoretical accounting and business concepts together with a hands-on practical component. The course aims to empower postgraduate accounting students with knowledge regarding the process of adopting and exploiting ERP systems software to develop and maintain competitive advantage for organizations in a global marketplace
I29|Users’ Satisfaction Diagnosis Of School Services Department School At The Escuela Superior De Agricultura Del Valle Del Fuerte, Diagnostico De Satisfaccion De Los Usuarios Del Departamento De Servicios Escolares De La Escuela Superior De Agricultura Del Valle Del Fuerte|This paper presents data related to the design, construction and validation of an instrument that measures student perception of the service they receive from the department of school services of the Universidad Autónoma de Sinaloa in the city of Juan José Ríos. The instrument was designed based on Parasuraman, Zeithaml, V. & Berry, a. l. (1992) and modified by Cronin & Taylor (1994). The instrument has 22 items and five dimensions (tangible elements, reliability, responsiveness, security and empathy). To attain validation, two processes were carried out. First, the instrument was subjected to a construct validation process, where the instrument’s viability was obtained by means of the expert opinions. Subsequently, a pilot study was conducted to measure the instrument’s reliability. The pilot study resulted in a Cronbach's Alpha coefficient of 0.949. We conclude that the instrument has validity and reliability needed to measure the subject population
I29|Opportunities in education: are factors outside individual responsibility really persistent? Evidence from Indonesia, 1997-2007|Education is a strong predictor for economic performance. Therefore, educational inequality particularly in opportunity could make significant contribution to earning disparities. Following Ferreira and Gignoux (2014) parametric method, we construct aggregate indices of inequality of educational opportunities for fourteen Indonesian provinces in the years 1997, 2000 and 2007. Our particular and original contribution is to define individual indices of the power of circumstances which measure the strength of the influence that the accumulation of factors outside individual responsibility has in the short and in the long run on individual educational achievements and on earnings. We found that-along the period considered- there has been a declining trend in inequality of educational opportunities but not in all the provinces. Our findings also suggest that parental educational background is the most significant factor for school survival and that the effect that circumstances exert on future individual educational achievements and on early earnings perspectives tend to persist over time, but only to a very small extent. Moreover, our causal model which relates educational budget policy to equality of opportunity shows a negative impact of educational budget for the youngest cohorts, questioning therefore the effectiveness of the allocation of resources to primary and intermediate schools.
I29|DigComp 2.0: The Digital Competence Framework for Citizens. Update Phase 1: the Conceptual Reference Model|The European Digital Competence Framework for Citizens, also known as DigComp, offers a tool to improve citizensâ€™ digital competence. DigComp was first published in 2013 and has become a reference for many digital competence initiatives at both European and Member State levels. This document introduces DigComp 2.0. It constitutes phase 1 of the update of the framework which focuses on the conceptual reference model, new vocabulary and streamlined descriptors. The current document also gives examples of how DigComp is used at the European, national and regional levels.
I29|The Digital Competence Framework for Consumers|The European Digital Competence Framework for Consumers, also known as DigComp for Consumers, offers a tool to improve consumersâ€™ digital competence. Consumer digital competence is here defined as the competence consumers need to function actively, safely and assertively in the digital marketplace. This definition builds on the previous work done on consumersâ€™ competence and adapts it to digital environment thanks to the use of DigComp 2.0 framework as a starting point. This report introduces the conceptual reference framework of DigComp for Consumers that outlines 14 competences and further gives examples of each competence in the array of knowledge, skills and attitudes.
I29|Background Review for Developing the Digital Competence Framework for Consumers: A snapshot of hot-button issues and recent literature|"This report presents the results of a study of the requirements for developing a Digital Competence Framework in the context of a digital marketplace in the EU. Consumer digital competence is defined as the competence consumers need to function actively, safely and assertively in the digital marketplace. This framework will define the skills, knowledge and attitudes that consumers need to navigate the complex digital environment. The research project to create the Digital Competence Framework for Consumers is a joint action of DG Justice and Consumers (JUST), and the Joint Research Centre (JRC), the Commission's science and knowledge service. The work, carried out between 2015-2016, aimed to achieve the goals set out by the European Commission in its two recent Communications: ""A New Skills Agenda For Europe - Working together to strengthen human capital, employability and competitiveness"" (European Commission, 2016) and ""A Digital Single Market Strategy for Europe"" (European Commission, 2015). Both these Communications focus on the importance of citizens' digital skills and their capacity to participate more deeply in our digital society and economy. The study presented in this report is designed to elicit user requirements in order to support the development of the Digital Competence Framework for Consumers. The study was commissioned by the Joint Research Centre and it is a result of collaborative work between the authors of the report. Further consultation on requirements was carried out with DG JUST in which experts on various topics gave their input and contributed to the text. The literature and the hot-button issues described in this report reflect the state-of-play in 2015, when the study was carried out. The methodology used to clarify the requirements for a consumer digital competence framework had four main steps. First, a 'broad-but-shallow' look into important emerging issues in the field of online shopping and advertisement was taken. In this phase of the study, a number of European Commission working documents on the issue were reviewed. The focus was also on current relevant literature, both academic and grey literature. Second, the existing terms and major work in consumer competence was reviewed and links were made to behavioural insights. It emerged that lack of digital competence can make consumers vulnerable in today's complex digital environment. Third, part of the work consisted of testing the suitability of the existing Digital Competence Framework for Citizens (DigComp) in an expert workshop to further prompt requirements for the new framework. Lastly, to finalise the process of requirement gathering, a gap analysis was conducted on a number of prominent sources of educational material for consumer competence. The study found that the DigComp framework was a suitable starting point and confirms that it could be adapted to the new context of the digital marketplace. However, the analysis also showed that not all competencies are covered by the existing framework, in particular with regards to emerging digital trends and issues outlined. The final product of the project, the Digital Competence Framework for Consumers, is described in a JRC Science for Policy publication by Brecko & Ferrari (2016). All information is available also at the JRC Science Hub."
I29|Research Evidence on the Use of Learning Analytics: Implications for Education Policy|Learning analytics is an emergent field of research that is growing fast. It takes advantage of the last decade of e-learning implementations in education and training as well as of research and development work in areas such as educational data mining, web analytics and statistics. In recent years, increasing numbers of digital tools for the education and training sectors have included learning analytics to some extent, and these tools are now in the early stages of adoption. This report reviews early uptake in the field, presenting five case studies and an inventory of tools, policies and practices. It also provides an Action List for policymakers, practitioners, researchers and industry members to guide work in Europe.
I29|Developing Computational Thinking in Compulsory Education - Implications for policy and practice|In the past decade, Computational Thinking (CT) and related concepts (e.g. coding, programing, algorithmic thinking) have received increasing attention in the educational field. This has given rise to a large amount of academic and grey literature, and also numerous public and private implementation initiatives. Despite this widespread interest, successful CT integration in compulsory education still faces unresolved issues and challenges. This report provides a comprehensive overview of CT skills for schoolchildren, encompassing recent research findings and initiatives at grassroots and policy levels. It also offers a better understanding of the core concepts and attributes of CT and its potential for compulsory education. The study adopts a mostly qualitative approach that comprises extensive desk research, a survey of Ministries of Education and semi-structured interviews, which provide insights from experts, practitioners and policy makers. The report discusses the most significant CT developments for compulsory education in Europe and provides a comprehensive synthesis of evidence, including implications for policy and practice.
I29|Looking Back on the Lessons of “Higher Education and Developing Countries: Peril and Promise”—Perspectives on China and India|In 2000, Higher Education in Developing Countries: Peril and Promise was published. This report, cosponsored by The World Bank and UNESCO, came at a time of transition in higher education worldwide and helped shape higher education policy and thinking in several developing countries. This article looks at some of the main arguments in Peril and Promise. It focuses particularly on how two key countries, China and India, have developed in light of the key recommendations in Peril and Promise.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
