I39|Inequality, information technology and inclusive education in sub-Saharan Africa|This study examines linkages between inequality, information and communication technology (ICT) and inclusive education in order to establish inequality thresholds that should not be exceeded in order for ICT to promote inclusive education in 42 countries in sub-Saharan Africa for the period 2004–2014. The empirical evidence is based on the Generalized Method of Moments. The following findings are established. First, a Gini coefficient and an Atkinson index of respectively, 0.400 and 0.625 are income inequality thresholds that should not be exceeded in order for internet penetration to positively influence inclusive education. Second, a Gini coefficient, an Atkinson index and a Palma ratio of respectively, 0.574, 0.676 and 9.000 are thresholds of income inequality that if exceeded, fixed broadband subscriptions will no longer positively affect inclusive education. As a main policy implication, the established inequality thresholds should not be exceeded in order for ICT to promote inclusive education in sampled countries. Other implications in the light of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are discussed.
I39|Leben in Schleswig-Holstein: subjektive Einschätzungen als Teil der Wohlfahrtsmessung|"In recent years, the debate about alternative measures of welfare (“beyond GDP”) has con-siderably gained momentum in Germany. This was the case not only on the national level: The demand for such measures has risen on the federal states level, too. For that reason, and in the context of a study whose main purpose was to calculate the Regional Welfare Index (RWI) for Schleswig-Holstein (SH), we also analyzed survey data from the Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP) for SH and – in order the compare and classify the results – for the rest of Germany. The observation period ranges from 1984 to 2014 (SOEP v31). The research topics include satisfaction (life in general/specific areas; current/anticipated), concerns, im-portance, interest for politics and feelings. The evaluation shows among other findings that… – overall life satisfaction in SH has increased significantly in recent years, – the people in SH are on average a little more satisfied than in the rest of Germany, – the trust in the future in SH reached in 2014 its highest level, – people in SH are less concerned about economic issues, but more concerned about ""peacekeeping"", ""health"" and ""environmental protection"", – social aspects are particularly important to people in SH, – the importance of social engagement in 2014 is as highly valued in SH as never be-fore, – people in SH were happier in 2014 than in the medium-term average. At the end of this contribution, the trends of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), the Region-al Welfare Index (RWI) and the current general life satisfaction are compared. They differ significantly from each other Die Debatte um (andere) Indikatoren zur Messung gesellschaftlicher Wohlfahrt und eines „guten Lebens“ hat in den vergangenen Jahren deutlich an Fahrt aufgenommen. Und das nicht nur auf Bundesebene. Auch auf der Ebene der Bundesländer wächst die Nachfrage nach solchen Indikatoren. Im Rahmen einer Studie zur Berechnung des Regionalen Wohlfahrtsindex (RWI) wurden deswegen auch subjektive Befragungsdaten des Sozio-Ökonomischen Panels (SOEP) für das Bundesland Schleswig-Holstein (SH) ausgewertet.1 Neben SH-spezifischen Auswertungen wurden zur Einordnung der Ergebnisse auch bundesdeutsche Werte (exkl. SH) berechnet. Betrachtet werden für den Zeitraum 1984-2014 (SOEP v31) die Bereiche Zufriedenheit (allgemein/Bereiche), Sorgen, Wichtigkeit, Interesse für Politik und Gefühle.Die Auswertungen ergeben unter anderem, dass…– die allgemeine Lebenszufriedenheit in SH in den letzten Jahren deutlich gestiegen ist;– die Menschen in SH im Durchschnitt etwas zufriedener sind als im Rest Deutschlands;– die Zukunftszuversicht in SH im Jahr 2014 Höchstwerte erreichte;– die Menschen in SH sich weniger Sorgen um wirtschaftliche Themen, dafür mehr Sorgen um „Friedenserhaltung“, „Gesundheit“ und „Umweltschutz“ machen;– den Menschen in SH soziale Aspekte besonders wichtig sind;– die Wichtigkeit von gesellschaftlichem Engagement im Jahr 2014 in SH so hoch eingeschätzt wurde wie nie;– die Menschen in SH im Jahr 2014 häufiger glücklich waren als im mittelfristigen Durchschnitt.Schließlich werden die Entwicklungen des Bruttoinlandsprodukts (BIP), des Regionalen Wohlfahrtsindex (RWI) und der allgemeinen Lebenszufriedenheit in SH für den Zeitraum 1999-2014 miteinander verglichen. Bei diesem Vergleich zeigen sich deutliche Unterschiede."
I39|An Awareness Model for an Islamic Pre-Need Funeral Plan|Objective - Failure to prearrange one's funeral may lead to financial hardship on one's family members. Despite the importance of a funeral plan, little is known regarding the awareness level among Muslims regarding the Islamic Pre-need Funeral Plan (IPFP). Because of the dearth of academic research on the awareness among Muslims regarding IPFP, this paper aims to assess the awareness level of Muslims regarding IPFP and to develop an awareness model that frames factors affecting IPFP awareness level. Methodology/Technique - To achieve this, a questionnaire was used to collect the data and PLS-SEM was used to analyse the data. Results show that the level of awareness regarding IPFP is low and is similar to the result found in the USA Finding - The results further show that marketing communication efforts and social influence are significant factors affecting awareness of IPFP. These results have practical implications for IPFP providers and should help them better market their products and mitigate the potential for financial hardship funeral costs may have on families. Novelty - The scarcity of land for burial plots, soaring funeral costs and an increasingly aging population rate necessitates funeral prearrangements by subscribing to a pre-need funeral plan. This prearrangement is an advanced financial provision that covers funeral and burial expenses by enabling subscribers to make funeral arrangements while they are still alive. Type of Paper - Empirical.
I39|On the Formulation of the Alternative Scenario in Cost-Benefit Analysis|In this note we discuss how a cost–benefit analysis could be formulated in a second-best world where lump-sum taxation is not available. The question is how the government’s budget is balanced. Different options are available. A value added tax or an income tax or a profit tax could be adjusted so as to balance the budget. Alternatively, expenditures on public or private goods are displaced. A variation occurs if the government has a policy target. For example, a certain number of hectares of valuable forest areas should be preserved. Then, the central part of a cost–benefit analysis is to compare the costeffectiveness of different policy instruments that can be used to achieve the target. However, there are also deadweight losses provided there are distortionary taxes. Such considerations also opens up for a broader formulation of the valuation question in willingness-to-pay experiments than one based on lump-sum taxation.
I39|Japan and the Asian Divergence: Market Integration, Climate Anomalies and Famines during the 18th and 19th Centuries|This paper asks whether better integration of rice markets in Japan during the 19th and 20th centuries compared to China and India explains the ‘Little Divergence’ in Asia and Japan’s role in the ‘Great Divergence’. It analyses rice prices for 13 markets across Japan during 1720-1857 and finds that Japan had relatively well-integrated rice markets, particularly western Japan. In eastern Japan market integration was partially impeded by distance to Osaka, which was the core market, and the greater ecological vulnerability of rice in northeast Japan to lower temperatures during the ‘little ice age’ that lasted until the mid-19th century. Relatively well-integrated markets did not prevent major famines during 1732-1733, 1783-1786, and 1833-1838, because stocks and supplies were insufficient to withstand the consequences of sequences of crop failures. Better integration of rice markets is indicative of higher allocative efficiency of markets in Japan which is a likely reason that ‘shrinking’ episodes caused fewer setbacks in long-term economic growth compared to in China and India.
I39|Social Norms, Status Spending and Household Debt: Evidence from Kyrgyzstan|Development economists have two key paradigms concerning poverty and financial markets. One considers the poor in the developing world as operating in imperfect markets. Another view is that the poor are subject to constraints. The policy prescriptions stemming from these views would be improving market access and redistribution. We consider one important constraint the poor are facing: social norms which require spending on ceremonial activities. This paper adds to the literature by providing empirical evidence that having access to loans makes households spend more on ceremonies and with the higher ceremonial spending they increase the likelihood of debt thus creating a vicious circle which might keep households in poverty. Thus policies which are aimed at either removing market frictions or providing benefits to the poor will not have a desired effect. These measures have to be combined with reforms aimed at changing the existing institutions.
I39|Modern Democracy-Welfare State and Public Goods. A current consequence for Greece|People expect the state to create jobs and provide them with a social security net. Whatever its defects, whatever the virtues of the private sector, no structure other than the state can today provide citizens with the basic public goods. Under the present right-wing government of Nea Dimokratia in Greece, which is not particularly at odds with neoliberalism, a very active role of the state is not expected. Also is nor expected the introduction of a serious program of public investment and demand boosting to stimulate the national economy and enter into a virtuous circle of recovery. Greece, which has undergone the economic crisis with drastic cuts in its traditionally deficient social state, has to respond directly to the marked underinvestment in public goods (in key areas such as education, health, natural disasters, dealing with decent living conditions).The most important tool for inputting resources is the tax system.
I39|BMI Mobility and Obesity Transitions Among Children in Ireland|This paper examines mobility and changes in Body Mass Index (BMI) for a sample of Irish children across three waves of the longitudinal Growing Up in Ireland dataset. Particular attention is paid to transitions across the key BMI thresholds of overweight and obesity. Analysis is carried out by gender and by maternal education. In general, the degree of mobility appears to be relatively limited although it is greater than for the mothers of the children over the same time period. There is relatively little variation by gender and maternal education apart from some indication of less mobility out of obesity for girls.
I39|Agencia y pobreza en la población económicamente activa mexicana|En esta investigación se subraya la importancia de la libertad de agencia para mejorar los niveles de pobreza en la población económicamente activa mexicana. Consideramos que la libertad de agencia es una condición básica para reducir la pobreza y mejorar el bienestar en nuestra sociedad. Hemos elegido un espacio particular en el cual se desenvuelven 54,696,638 personas en México, que conforman el mundo de la población económicamente activa. Tomamos como proxy de libertad de agencia a la responsabilidad, dentro de sus tres categorías: responsabilidad anterior (ex–ante), responsabilidad posterior (ex-post) y responsabilidad autrui (ex–aliud). Los resultados muestran que en México hace falta responsabilidad autrui por parte de las instituciones y empresas y responsabilidad posterior del trabajador. Los bajos niveles en estos dos tipos de responsabilidad no permiten avanzar ni en el mejoramiento de las condiciones de empleo ni en los niveles de pobreza de los trabajadores no cualificados.
I39|Economic Freedom and Religion: An Empirical Investigation|There has been much study of the consequences of economic freedom but, outside of the role of political institutions, there has been little study of the determinants of economic freedom. We investigate whether religion affects economic freedom. Our cross-sectional dataset includes 137 countries averaged over the period 2001-2010. Simple correlations show that Protestantism is associated with economic freedom, Islam is not, with Catholicism in between. The Protestant ethic requires economic freedom. Our empirical estimates, which include religiosity, political institutions, and other explanatory variables, confirm that Protestantism is most conducive to economic freedom.
I39|A novel Optimization Plan for Multiple-Area Economic Dispatch : An Electro Search Optimization Approach|Economic dispatch is an approach that can indirectly improve the power system resonance. A novel algorithm called JAYA is introduces in this manuscript to have an answer for the non-convex multiple-area economic dispatch (MAED). MAED comprises some zone which satisfy the load-generation balance in each area. The aggregated cost is minimized through transferring the energy from the area that has the lower cost to the zone owns the higher-cost. In above of the transmission line rating, our proposed approach provides the scientists with the multiple petroleum cost function for the generators as well as the prohibited zones for generating the power in the large-scale power generations. Moreover, a new procedure according to the electro search optimization algorithm (ESOA) is projected to obtain the global solution for the MAED problem, when all the limitations are simultaneously considered. The proposed approach is tested to validate its performance through a case system consist of seven generators located in two areas. The results show that the proposed ESOA procedure is more efficient in compare with the other approaches.
I39|Microfinance Models: Lessons Learned|Microfinance is crucial to accelerate economic growth in a country, and is also important for financial inclusion. This article is a concise brief on some microfinance delivery models with the aim to identify some lesson learned. Microfinance offers positive prospects for stronger development finance. The support of the government should be sustained and the model of microfinance delivery model should be reviewed from time to time.
I39|How did the Great Recession affect Gender disparity in Europe? An analysis by a Multidimensional Deprivation approach|This paper analyses how the Great Recession affected the gender disparity in material and social deprivation in Europe. We propose multidimensional non-monetary indexes of absolute and relative (i.e. using peer comparisons) deprivations estimated on data from the European Quality of Life Survey for the waves 2007 and 2011. We find that the Great Recession decreased gender disparity over all the dimensions of deprivations. By applying a Blinder-Oaxaca decomposition, we estimate that this decline of gender gap has depended on a reduction of the difference in characteristics between genders that has more than offset an increase of gender discrimination.
I39|Classification of Life Mottos|Schwartz and colleagues (2012) identified 19 universal human values related to various beliefs, attitudes, and viewpoints. Peterson and Seligman (2004) categorized 24 character strengths to identify positive traits associated with attitudes, values, and behaviors. The primary motive for these two seminal studies tend to converge around the attempt to identify universal core human values and characteristics leading to attitudes and behaviors. Expanding the scope of focus, the present study sought to shed light on life mottos that are inherently intertwined with human values and traits and to classify them based upon Schwartz et al?s (2012) 19 human values and Peterson and Seligman (2004)?s 24 character strengths, as well as 27 newly created categories. The data in the present study included a sample of 10,311 adults (54.3% male, 45.3% female) who aged 19 to 86 (M = 33.73, SD = 7.46). The most commonly categorized life motto was perseverance (8.7%), followed by hope (6.0%) and zest (5.6%). Approximately 13% were not classified to a single category. Findings suggest that life mottos could be categorized in meaningful ways and they are heavily influenced and shaped by cultural background and socialization.
I39|Effect of Waterborne Uranium Exposure on Human Capital Endowment Proxies|"This paper examines the causal relationship between waterborne uranium exposure and birth outcomes in order to more fully understand the external costs of the activities that increase the probability of human exposure to uranium, such as the prevalent military use of depleted uranium munitions. I use the Church Rock Uranium Mill industrial accident as a natural experiment, in which children born in specific counties are exposed to uranium via a contaminated water supply. I examine changes in birth outcomes, which approximate human capital endowment at birth, and I find that waterborne uranium contamination does not manifest via observable decreases in birth outcomes, specifically birth weight, or via changes in gender ratios. I also provide evidence suggesting that migratory responses to the contamination are not driving a change in the population's determinants of birth outcomes. Collectively, these results support modern militaries' claims that the risk of unintentional harm by uranium based weapons are ""negligible""."
I39|The Importance of Understanding and Monitoring the Effects of Cash Transfer Programmes on Child Labour and Education: Findings from Malawi. A Policy Brief|The Malawi Social Cash Transfer Programme (SCTP) has been demonstrated to have a wide range of positive effects on beneficiary households, including an expansion of household agricultural business activities. This brief summarizes the results of two studies which examine whether households rely on children to expand their agricultural businesses. The studies confirm that children support the expansion of household agricultural activities and conclude that the SCTP increases overall child engagement in economic activities. However, working hours are generally moderate and other child wellbeing indicators such as school participation and physical health improve. This suggests that the SCTP nevertheless plays a positive role in the lives of children. These findings contribute to our understanding of the impact of cash transfers on children’s wellbeing and highlight the importance of monitoring the possible impact on child labour of programmes – such as graduation strategies – that encourage the expansion of household entrepreneurial activities.
I39|The Great Recession and Mental Health: the Effect of Income Loss on the Psychological Health of Young Mothers|There is little consensus as to the effect of recessions on health, which may be due to the heterogenous nature of recessions, the choice of health outcome or the description of the independent variable involved. In contrast to previous work, which has predominantly studied labour market loss, I examine the relationship of income loss and health, and in particular focus on psychological rather than physical health. I study disposable income loss because disposable income is related to consumption expenditure, and therefore satisfaction. Psychological, rather than physical, health is important because younger populations are unlikely to manifest clinical evidence of recession-related disease in the short term. The Irish recession provides me with an opportunity to study the effect of changes in income, since households who remained in employment also experienced changes in disposable income. Using panel data from three waves of the Growing Up in Ireland study, I find that income loss is associated with an increase in depression, but not in parental stress. This effect of income loss is seen for those who are home owners, and subjective reports of being in mortgage or rent arrears is also associated with an increase in depression score.
I39|Inequalities in adolescent learning: Does the timing and persistence of food insecurity at home matter?|We investigated inequalities in learning achievements at 12 years by household food insecurity trajectories at ages 5, 8 and 12 years in a longitudinal sample of 1,911 Indian children. Estimates included extensive child and household controls and lagged cognitive scores to address unobserved individual heterogeneity in ability and early investments. Overall, household food insecurity at any age predicted lower vocabulary, reading, maths and English scores in early adolescence. Adolescents from households that transitioned from food insecurity at age 5 to food security at a later age, and adolescents from chronically food insecure households had the lowest scores across all outcomes. There was heterogeneity in the relationship between temporal occurrence of food insecurity and cognitive skills, based on developmental and curriculum-specific timing of skill formation. Results were robust to additional explanations of the “household food insecurity gap”, i.e. education and health investments, parental and children's educational aspirations, and children's psychosocial skills.
I39|Does occupational licensing impact incomes? - The German crafts case|The empirical literature on occupational licensing finds standard monopoly effects of entry regulations: Less competition and economic rents for professionals. I exploit the natural experimental design of a change in the German crafts regulation in 2004, which removed the traditional licensing requirement only for certain trades, and find no robust effects. I point out that existing studies on the income effects of occupational licensing suffer from methodological weaknesses. Most studies rely on cross-section estimates that are likely to be biased due to unobserved heterogeneity whereas others do not rigorously define the population of interest. Based on my results, I suggest that demand-effects and market saturation have so far been inadequately discussed in the literature.
I39|Crimes Related To The Profession Of Medic|A comparative study on the penal responsibility of the medical profession in respect of the form of employement, privat practice or employed by the government.
I39|Factores asociados a la pobreza subjetiva en Colombia: un estudio desde el enfoque de las capacidades y la economía de la felicidad|Este artículo busca examinar la asociación entre variables de satisfacción y características propias del individuo y su entorno con la percepción de pobreza de los colombianos. A partir de la Encuesta Nacional de Calidad de Vida (ENCV) del DANE del año 2011, se estima un modelo de elección discreta logit y coeficientes estandarizados para la pobreza subjetiva. Los resultados muestran que aunque el ingreso tiene el mayor peso en la percepción de pobreza, el estar bien nutrido se constituye como la capacidad más elemental para que un colombiano pueda desarrollar otras capacidades. Además, se encuentra que situaciones de violencia como el desplazamiento forzoso, tienen un peso significativo en la percepción de pobreza de aquellos que la padecen. Finalmente, se observa que los colombianos tienden a conformarse con sus vínculos sociales, mostrándose satisfechos con aspectos de su vida asociados a la capacidad de desenvolverse en sociedad, aun cuando se consideran pobres.
I39|Revisiting the evidence for cardinal treatment of ordinal variables|Well-being (life satisfaction or happiness) is a latent variable that is impossible to observe directly. Moreover, it does not have a unit of measurement. Hence, survey questionnaires usually ask people to rate their well-being in different domains. The common practice of comparing well-being by means of averages or linear regressions ignores the fact that well-being is an ordinal variable. Since data is ordinal, monotonic increasing transformations are permissible. We illustrate the sensitivity of empirical studies to monotonic transformations using examples that relate to well-known empirical papers, and provide two theoretical conditions that enable us to rank ordinal variables. In our examples, monotonic increasing transformations can in fact reverse the conclusion reached.
I39|Microfinance for poverty alleviation: Do transnational initiatives overlook fundamental questions of competition and intermediation?|Numerous microfinance initiatives around the world aim to alleviate poverty in developing countries. However, debate persists about their effectiveness and sustainability – a concern for transnational corporations and the international business community, which contribute about $9.4 billion to microfinance funding. In this policy-oriented article we aggregate findings from two studies in Indonesia that help explain why moneylending can still thrive when low-interest microfinance is widely available and why the poorest borrowers benefit less than the less-poor. To avoid methodological debates about validity, we interview market participants and triangulate the perspectives of borrowers with those of formal and informal lenders. Importantly, our research includes current and past borrowing from formal and informal sources, prompting participants to draw comparisons. We find that the importance to borrowers of key characteristics of informal lending is insufficiently recognized and that inappropriate human resource management and informal intermediation are significant problems. The latter can be an unintended consequence of formal microfinance: The availability of formal low-interest microfinance creates informal intermediation opportunities for entrepreneurs, often developing from casual intermediation into systematic deception. We discuss implications for microfinance policy with reference to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and offer suggestions for further research.
I39|The Manager in Specialized Institutions and Community Services|The social manager’s role in social services is becoming increasingly important in recent years. The object of study in this elaboration is social manager and the subject –his role in social services. The aim is to highlight the importance of social manager for the appropriate functioning of social services. Specific tasks in this exhibition are limited to disclosure of the essential characteristics and requirements which must meet social manager; style and method of social managers’ work; factors that cause stress in subordinates, and the social manager’s role in stress management in the workplace.
I39|Wybory młodych Europejczyków w pokryzysowej rzeczywistości - propozycja modelu decyzyjnego opartego na metodzie AHP<BR>[Choices of young Europeans in a post-crisis reality - Proposal of an AHP-based decision-making model]|The paper proposes a decision-making model that would allow young Europeans to make conscious choices in early stage of their professional and private life. The motivation for such a study comes from lack of feeling of stability between young people, that can be perceived as one of repercussions of last global financial crisis. A decision-making model based on the Analytic Hierarchy Process method has been proposed. Decision-makers are young people at the verge of their adult lives. The subject of the decision-making is such a ranking of determinants of quality of life that would provide individuals with a possibly highest level of life satisfaction in the future. The analysis embodies material (quantitative) and non-material (qualitative) determinants of decision-making. After application of presented model young people could make more conscious choices, consonant with their hierarchy of values, needs and individual expectations. In result, the economy will obtain more motivated employees, whereas the society less frustrated and happier citizens.
I39|Gender equality in Muslim-majority countries|Discrimination against women has been documented in Muslim-majority countries. However, constitutions among Muslim-majority countries differ. By using women’s rights indicators and exploiting cross-country variation, we find that discrimination against women is more pronounced in countries where Islam is the source of legislation. Constitutions have changed in only four Muslim-majority countries since 1980. We discuss anecdotal evidence concerning the extent to which women’s rights changed as a consequence of new constitutions. Empirical studies should therefore distinguish between types of Muslim-majority countries.
I39|Violence and birth outcomes: Evidence from homicides in Brazil|This paper uses microdata from Brazilian vital statistics on births and deaths between 2000 and 2010 to estimate the impact of in-utero exposure to local violence – measured by homicide rates – on birth outcomes. The estimates show that exposure to violence during the first trimester of pregnancy leads to a small but precisely estimated increase in the risk of low birthweight and prematurity. Effects are found both in small municipalities, where homicides are rare, and in large municipalities, where violence is endemic, and are particularly pronounced among children of poorly educated mothers, implying that violence compounds the disadvantage that these children already suffer as a result of their households' lower socioeconomic status.
I39|Leben in Nordrhein-Westfalen: subjektive Einschätzungen als Teil der Wohlfahrtsmessung|In recent years, the debate about alternative measures of welfare (“beyond GDP”) has con-siderably gained momentum in Germany. This was the case not only on the national level: The demand for such measures has risen on the federal states level, too. For that reason, and in the context of a study whose main purpose was to calculate the Regional Welfare Index (RWI) for North Rhine-Westphalia (NRW), we also analyzed survey data from the So-cio-Economic Panel (SOEP) for NRW and – in order the compare and classify the results – for the rest of Germany. The observation period ranges from 1984 to 2013 (SOEP v30). The re-search topics include satisfaction (life in general/specific areas; current/anticipated), con-cerns, importance, interest for politics and feelings. The evaluation shows among other find-ings that in 2013 the current general life satisfaction (+0,1) and the anticipated general life satisfaction in five years (+0,2) were slightly but significantly higher in NRW than in the rest of Germany. At the same time, people in NRW voiced higher concerns about the issues “im-migration to Germany”, “global terrorism” and “crime in Germany”. At the end of this con-tribution, the trends of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), the Regional Welfare Index (RWI) and the current general life satisfaction are compared. They differ significantly from each other.
I39|Inequality or poverty: which is bad for growth?|Recent research has highlighted a negative impact of inequality on economic growth. We re-evaluate this hypothesis focusing on both inequality and poverty and their interaction. We replicate previous results showing that inequality has a negative impact on growth. However, we show that when we account for both inequality and poverty, the negative effect of inequality on growth appears to be concentrated amongst countries with high poverty. This would argue for policies targeted towards alleviating poverty rather than policies about redistribution.
I39|What Determines Top Income Shares? The Role of the Interactions between Financial Integration and Tax Policy|This article aims at analyzing the role of the interactions between financial deregulation policies and changes in top tax marginal rates to explain the evolution in top income shares since the 1980s in most OECD countries. I argue that higher financial integration should have an increasing-effect on top income shares by resulting in lower marginal top tax rates. First, international financial integration has gradually contributed to increased tax competition by raising capital mobility. Second, financial integration also reflects higher bargaining power for top earners, pushing for a reduction in marginal top tax rates. Based on instrumental variables and simultaneous equations system regressions, I find strong evidence of my hypothesis: first, financial integration is negatively correlated with higher top marginal tax rates; second, this result seems to explain the negative relationship between marginal top tax rates and top income shares
I39|The impact of micro-credit on employment: evidence from Bangladesh and Pakistan|This paper examines the impact of micro-credit on employment. Household-level data was collected, following a quasi-experimental design, in Bangladesh and Pakistan. Three borrower groups are compared: Current borrowers; Pipeline borrowers and Non-borrowers. Pipeline borrowers are included to control for self-selection effects. It is argued that microcredit causes a substitution of employment away from employment-for-pay to self-employment. Therefore, the effect on total employment is ambiguous. OLS and fixed effects regression are used to examine separately self-employment and employment-for-pay between three groups of borrowers. For Pakistan, there is no evidence that micro-credit effects employment. However, for Bangladesh, there is robust evidence consistent with this hypothesis.
I39|Does Joining the EU Make You Happy? Evidence from Bulgaria and Romania|Abstract We examine the effect of joining the European Union on individual life satisfaction in Bulgaria and Romania in the context of the 2007 EU enlargement. Although EU membership is among the most important events in Bulgaria and Romania’s modern histories, there is no evidence on how it affected the subjective well-being of ordinary people in the two countries. Using a difference-in-differences strategy and Eurobarometer data, we provide some of the first evidence that joining the EU increased average life satisfaction in Bulgaria and had a positive but statistically insignificant effect in Romania. One explanation is that after both countries joined in 2007, trust towards the EU only increased in Bulgaria but not in Romania. Furthermore, Romania’s political war of 2007 may have mired the country’s positive life satisfaction experiences related to EU membership. We also show that the younger, the employed and those with a high-school education were the winners from EU integration. Our results are robust to two placebo tests, in which we use two fake entry dates to the EU, as well as an estimation using bootstrapped standard errors. Our findings have implications for EU integration policy and future enlargements.
I39|Does social business link with the sustainable livelihoods of rural households?: Lessons from Bangladesh|The multidimensional approach in poverty research is dominating over the monetary based poverty approaches worldwide. The failure in millennium development goal in terms of reducing absolute poverty by its half lead United Nation Development Program to adopt Sustainable Development Goal. Social business is a new form of business concept put into practice firstly in Bangladesh to trigger poverty in such a multidimensional approach. Similarly, Sustainable livelihood, is a popular model of intervening poverty to the development agencies due to its design of participating people in the project policies, supports the multidimensionality too. The purpose of this study is to discuss about the conceptual explanation of social business and sustainable livelihood. Besides, this paper also portrays the conceptual linkages of social business with the sustainable livelihood framework. The present study is of qualitative in nature where extensive literature review has been conducted adopting an intensive desk research method using secondary data sources like published articles, working papers, brochures and companies official websites via internet. The study found that social business, in general, possess the feature of reducing vulnerability of people directly providing with an array of products and indirectly, with its innovative policy of making involve deprived people in the entire value chain as active participants. In addition, its integrative business approach helps in searching people’s deficiencies like knowledge, skills, affordability and taking remedial measures in the form of training, financial support, frequent surveillance and accumulation of resources. The study concluded that social business, driven by problems and pro-poor approach, could be a complementary model for superseding poverty via sustainable livelihood approach. As implication of the study, it will help policy makers to adopt or adjust their policy regarding bringing sustainability of people’s life with a new tools other than the existing state-run or philanthropy based programs. Besides, it will also broaden the interest of researchers for further empirical tests relevant to this sort of business and effectiveness of it in alleviating poverty and ensuring sustainability.
I39|Poverty reduction during the rural–urban transformation: Rural development is still more important than urbanisation|Based on cross-country panel datasets, we find that (i) an increase in population share in agriculture is associated with poverty reduction once the longer-term poverty change or the dynamic is taken into account; (ii) rural non-agricultural sector also is poverty reducing in some cases; and (iii) increased population in the mega cities has no role in poverty reduction. In fact, the growth of population in mega cities is “poverty-increasing” in a few cases. Given that a rapid population growth or rural–urban migration is likely to increase poverty, more emphasis should be placed on policies that enhance support for rural agricultural and non-agricultural sectors. If our analysis has any validity, doubts are raised about recent research emphasising the role of secondary towns or urbanisation as the main driver of extreme poverty reduction.
I39|Dynamic and long-term linkages among agricultural and non-agricultural growth, inequality and poverty in developing countries| Drawing upon cross-country panel data for developing countries, the present study examines the role of agricultural growth in reducing inequality and poverty by modelling the dynamic linkage between agricultural and non-agricultural sectors. For this purpose, we have compared the roles of agricultural and non-agricultural growth and have found that agricultural growth is more important in reducing poverty, while the negative effect of agricultural growth on inequality is found in a few cases where specific definitions of inequality are adopted. Our analysis generally reinforces the case for revival of agriculture in the post-2015 discourse, contrary to much-emphasised roles of rural–urban migration and urbanisation as main drivers of growth and elimination of extreme poverty.
I39|What Determines Top Income Shares? The Role of the Interactions between Financial Integration and Tax Policy<BR>[Le rôle des interactions entre l'intégration financière et la politique fiscale dans la montée des hauts revenus]|This article aims at analyzing the role of the interactions between financial deregulation policies and changes in top tax marginal rates to explain the evolution in top income shares since the 1980s in most OECD countries. I argue that higher financial integration should have an increasing-effect on top income shares by resulting in lower marginal top tax rates. First, international financial integration has gradually contributed to increased tax competition by raising capital mobility. Second, financial integration also reflects higher bargaining power for top earners, pushing for a reduction in marginal top tax rates. Based on instrumental variables and simultaneous equations system regressions, I find strong evidence of my hypothesis: first, financial integration is negatively correlated with higher top marginal tax rates; second, this result seems to explain the negative relationship between marginal top tax rates and top income shares.
I39|The Evolution Of State Aid In Romania. Analysis Of The Automotive Sector 2007-2015|This study, according to our knowledge is among the few ones dealing with the analysis of state aid impact and of the way it was used at national level. Firstly, the goal of our study is to analyze the evolution of state aid in Romania, the impact on regional development, on creating jobs and value added. Secondly it is intented to see the contribution of automotive sector which received the highest amount of state aid to the trade balance from the current account between 2008-2015. Automotive sector is a key sector for the development of Romanian economy in the last 10 years for the manufacturing and assembly of cars and for companies producing equipment or auto parts. The paper is structured in seven parts which deal with topics like the state aid in the European Union and Romania, state aid schemes and funded sectors in Romania, sectorial and geographical distribution of the state aid, the analysis of the automotive sector for Romania.
I39|The main obstacles to implement child and youth policy in Latvia|In Latvia, the transition to a market economy, price liberalization and curtailment of subsidies on basic goods and services required changes in the social security system. This system inherited from the socialist past, was in need of reform to secure its financial sustainability and to meet the demographic challenges. The reforms carried out in the first half of the 1990s in Latvia were mainly ad hoc emergency measures. The purpose of the social security reform was to establish a stable and sustainable social insurance system that would be based on the two following principles, first, the scope of the social security service is proportionate to social insurance contributions; second, there is solidarity between social insurance contributions and recipients of social insurance services. According to statistical data, Latvia is one of the EU countries with the highest rates of child poverty. The presentation attempts to explore the general nature of the national child and young people policy in Latvia. It has a twofold aim, namely, to explore the institutional coverage for children and youth policy, and to analyse the main obstacles to implement child and youth policy at national and municipal level. The presentation is based on the findings of the EU FP7 project ?Measuring Youth Well Being? (MYWEB, grant agreement no.613368) which takes a balanced approach to assessing the feasibility of a European Longitudinal Study for Children and Young People through prioritising both scientific and policy imperatives. According to the interviews with experts, the main obstacles to implement child and youth policy at national and municipal level in Latvia are: (1) attitude of politicians towards youth policy that is not one of the priorities and important points in national policy; (2) lack of sufficient financial resources in state budget; (3) lack of sustainability and continuity of child and youth policy; (4) lack of administrative capacity and human resources; (5) lack of focus within political documents aimed to improve quality of child and youth well-being; (6) diverse approach to the youth policy in the regions; (7) symbiosis between lack of finances and lack of public awareness regards youth policy ? one of the biggest challenges in youth policy implication. Society believes that work with young people is something that can be realized without finances.
I39|Some approaches to the issue of subjective aspects of the quality of life|"The concept of the measurement of quality of life is used to evaluate the general state of well-being of individual persons and society. The quality of life should not be exchanged with the concept of standard of living, which is primarily based on income. The objective quality of life issues are based on measurements of so called ""hard data"", i.e. data from institutions and organizations that include financial accounts, civil records, medical statistics, pollution and other information that are routinely collected. Subjective aspect of quality of life is evaluated on the degree of satisfaction with various items and needs. This is a category associated with subjective perceptions of their lives within a system of values and within certain social, economic and political conditions. Subjective indicators (feelings of happiness, satisfaction, etc.) are usually measured and evaluated on the basis of quantitative and qualitative research. Some results of the survey of quality of life are shown in this paper. Several results of a survey conducted point on the subjective perception for example safety and other factors."
I39|Satisfaction with chosen aspects of life in Poland - evaluation by canonical correlation methods|This paper is focused on the analysis of relations between variables representing the satisfaction with various aspects of life and other socio-economic indicators. The main objective of the study is to identify associations between multivariate datasets. The research is based on the datasets containing both metric and non-metric data, which determines the use of adequate analytical techniques. Hence, canonical correlation analysis and nonlinear canonical correlation analysis are applied, respectively. Special attention is paid to the visual presentation of the outcomes of the analyses. The approach used in this paper allows for the detection of interesting relations and patterns between datasets under consideration.
I39|From rags to riches and riches to rags again: tale of women informal retail traders in Zimbabwe|The purpose of the study was to investigate how the women informal retail traders moved from poverty and hardship to success and then back to poverty and hardships in Bulawayo. The study used a mixed research design to interrogate these interesting phenomena on women empowerment dynamics in Bulawayo, Zimbabwe and the African patriarchal society. The study found that the development of the informal retail sector empowered women at some point. The acquisition of assets and ability to finance own health needs is the evidence that supports the notion of empowerment by these women. That empowerment was, however, not sustainable due to, inter alia, unplanned nature of the participation of women into these informal markets, lack of education, poor business management skills and declining economic environment. The study found that the economic bubble of success that many women informal retail traders enjoyed at some point in their businesses was a false one. However, it led some women to move from the proverbial rags to riches and then back to rags in a fashion. It was a cycle anticipated by very women. This intriguing experience of women informal retail traders would provoke the intellectual curiosity of many social science researchers in this field. The study and its findings would make an interesting read to social scientists as much as it would do to policymakers and casual readers interested in the African patriarchal family, women empowerment and the informal sector. In so doing, it will contribute to the growing body of knowledge in this area of study.
I39|Les Déterminants De La Perception Subjective De La Pauvreté Parmi Les Chefs De Ménage Objectivement Non-Pauvres Au Mali|Cet article met en exergue les facteurs qui expliquent la pauvreté, sous ses différentes formes, des ménages au Mali. Près d’un cinquième des chefs de ménage maliens, pourtant définis comme objectivement non pauvres, se considèrent subjectivement comme pauvres et souffrant de leurs conditions de vie. C’est une population en grande partie rurale et peu au-dessus du seuil de pauvreté monétaire. La faiblesse du niveau d’instruction est un des éléments importants de la pauvreté ressentie parmi les chefs de ménage maliens. L’avancée en âge ou le fait d’avoir subi des chocs importants sans avoir les capacités de résilience (pertes de récolte, etc.) sont d’autres éléments qui augmentent la probabilité de se sentir pauvre.
I39|Climate Amenities, Climate Change, and American Quality of Life|We present a hedonic framework to estimate US households' preferences over local climates, using detailed weather and 2000 Census data. We find that Americans favor a daily average temperature of 65 degrees Fahrenheit, that they will pay more on the margin to avoid excess heat than cold, and that damages increase less than linearly over extreme cold. These preferences vary by location due to sorting or adaptation. Changes in climate amenities under business-as-usual predictions imply annual welfare losses of 1%-4% of income by 2100, holding technology and preferences constant.
I39|Poverty reduction strategies in Canada: A new way to tackle an old problem?|Since the end 1990s, jurisdictions across the world have adopted an innovative governance process called a Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS). PRS processes are a perfect example of a new governance dynamics in which collaboration between the public sector and the community sector is leveraged to develop policy solutions to complex problems such as poverty. Jurisdictions argue that this new process helps ensure continued prioritisation, improved information for decision making, and improved coordination between different units of government and other partners. In Canada nearly all provinces and territories now engage in a PRS process. This paper asks whether the PRS processes, as implemented by four Canadian provinces (Manitoba, Newfoundland and Labrador, Ontario and Quebec), have the potential to deliver on the expected governance benefits. This research is the first to connect theory to a widespread yet under-researched practice in government. We review the collaborative governance and performance management literatures for theories and empirical evidence on the costs and benefits of similar practices. We use official documents to identify a theory of change which explains how PRS processes could result in more poverty reduction. We use public information to describe and compare PRS processes in the four provinces. Our research shows that each province makes quite different choices in implementing its process and that such differences likely influence the degree to which aspired governance benefits are realised. When legislation supports the PRS process, provinces have more continuous activities and, where legislation details the role of non-government stakeholders, stakeholder involvement is more substantive and visible. There is now more public information on government’s actions but also still much scope for improvement, especially in linking fiscal expenses, effects of policy actions, and wellbeing outcomes. Whether new coordination mechanisms have been sufficient to yield substantive benefits in coordination is unclear.
I39|Social Institutions and Gender Inequality in Fragile States: Are They Relevant for the Post-MDG Debate?|The paper focuses on an issue that appears particularly relevant for fragile states and which has received little attention: social institutions related to gender inequality, defined as societal practices and legal norms that frame gender roles and the distribution of power between men and women in the family, market, and social and political life. The study empirically shows that fragile states perform worse than other non-fragile developing countries when considering these social institutions. The authors suggest that a special set of indicators reflecting social institutions related to gender inequality in both fragile states and non-fragile states should be considered in the post-MDG agenda.
I39|Food Security and Sovereignty: Comparative Analysis of Seven Laws in Latin America| This is a comparative study of food security and/or sovereignty laws in seven countries of Latin America, which aim is to determine how the right to food is embodied in these legal instruments. An ex-post evaluation was used, based on five related enforcement criteria, which are: focus, institutional, social participation, evaluation, and financing. It was found that five of seven countries tend to focus on food sovereignty, even excluding this concept in its title. Moreover, a group of countries propose an Institutional instances derived based on the executive; and another group of countries opt for deconcentrate functions. Only three countries consider the inclusion of a social organization in the political agenda; and striking low or no private-enterprise participation of all the laws. Three countries make a concrete proposal to evaluate the state regarding the right to food; and all the countries addressed the financing superficially.
I39|Más allá de los promedios: patrones de segmentación del consumo de productos lácteos en España, 1964-2006|This article reconstructs the evolution of disparities in the consumption of dairy products in Spain from the mid-1960s to the early twenty-first century. At the start of the period, there were strong regional disparities, as well as a clear pattern of social hierarchization in the consumption of both milk and milk derivatives. These gaps were (totally or substantially) narrowed during the phase of great expansion in consumption that took place until the 1980s. From then on, a new consumption pattern began to take shape, its segmentation pattern consisting mainly of social re-hierarchization in the consumption of the newest and most dynamic products (refrigerated derivatives), and a significant generational factor in the contraction of milk consumption. KEY Classification-JEL: N34. N54. I39. Q11. R22
I39|In brief: Business cycle blues|People do not psychologically benefit from economic expansions nearly as much as they suffer from recessions, according to research by JanEmmanuel De Neve and colleagues.
I39|Bentham or Aristotle in the Development Process? An Empirical Investigation of Capabilities and Subjective Well-Being|Life evaluations and emotional states are distinct subjective well-being (SWB) components. We explore the relationship between opportunities and SWB dimensions, distinguishing between actual capabilities and means (education, employment, and income) and perceived opportunities (autonomy and health perceptions and belief in hard work). We find a link between capabilities and SWB (particularly, life evaluations), which varies across world regions. Capabilities can be associated with stress and anger; and seem to matter the least for the happiest respondents. We also explore the determinants of the least studied well-being dimension: eudaimonia, or life purpose, which is an underlying objective of the development process.
I39|Poverty Studies in Transitional Economies: Meta-Analysis on Trends in Poverty Determinants|"Studies on poverty in former socialist countries started just after the collapse of the socialist regime. The situation between the former Soviet Union states and that in Central and East European countries, however, seemed to be different and the degree and trends in poverty changed in 2000s in comparison with those in 1990s. The effects of traditional poverty determinants, namely, household size, educational attainment level and rural location seem to differ from time to time and across the regions to be examined. The meta-analysis conducted in the paper generally supported the existence of ""urbanization"" of poverty in the 1990s and ""ruralization"" of poverty in the 2000s, among other results."
I39|Research on Poverty in Transition Economies: A Meta-analysis on Changes in the Determinants of Poverty|Research on the increase in poverty in the transitional economies affected by the collapse of socialism began soon after the economic transition began. However, the nature of poverty in the former Soviet Union and Central and Eastern Europe differs, and two phases have been observed: a phase of increasing and stabilising poverty in the 1990s and a phase of declining poverty in the 2000s. Taking into account the possibility that the impact of household size, education level, and urban domicile, which are factors employed in traditional poverty research, may differ depending on the year or the region, this paper attempted a meta-analysis. The results enerally supported the hypothesis. In the 1990s, there was no difference between urban and rural populations in the probability of falling into poverty. After 2000, however, urban domicile became a significant factor in reducing the probability of falling into poverty. In addition, differences were observed between the former Soviet Union and Central and Eastern Europe in the factors affecting the poverty situation. This phenomenon is considered to indicate one of the directions for research in comparative transitional economics in the future. Furthermore, the trend in poverty dynamics seen here can probably also be regarded as indicating steady progress in “transition”.
I39|Can Early Intervention Improve Maternal Well-being? Evidence from a Randomized Controlled Trial|This study estimates the effect of a targeted policy intervention on global and experienced measures of maternal well-being. Participants from a disadvantaged community are randomly assigned during pregnancy to an intensive home visiting parenting program or a control group. The intervention has no impact on global well-being as measured by life satisfaction and parenting stress or experienced negative affect using episodic reports derived from the Day Reconstruction Method (DRM). Treatment effects are observed on measures of experienced positive affect from the DRM and a measure of mood yesterday. This suggests that early intervention may produce some improvements in experienced well-being.
I39|The Asymmetric Experience of Positive and Negative Economic Growth: Global Evidence Using Subjective Well-Being Data|Are individuals more sensitive to losses than gains in terms of economic growth?We find that measures of subjective well-being are more than twice as sensitive to negative as compared to positive economic growth. We use Gallup World Poll data from over 150 countries, BRFSS data on 2.3 million U.S. respondents, and Eurobarometer data that cover multiple business cycles over four decades. This research provides a new perspective on the welfare cost of business cycles, with implications for growth policy and the nature of the long-run relationship between GDP and subjective well-being.
I39|Development of a Multidimensional Sustainable Livelihoods Model for Rural Bangladesh|This paper offers a multidimensional livelihoods asset model customized to local priorities in rural Bangladesh, and so advances the DFID’s livelihoods model. The model enables measurement of relative livelihoods asset achievements of poor men and women living in ameliorating poverty. The study is based on primary data collected from 30 villages in Bangladesh. It has been observed that women have better record in achieving social capital (such as vote casting, decision making at jobs, etc.) whereas, men are better off in gaining financial capital (such as higher savings). Significantly less achievement in the indicators of human capital (such as more sick days, and high morbidity) in the rural areas is alarming.
I39|Does Agricultural Growth Reduce Inequality and Poverty in Developing Countries?|Drawing upon cross-country panel data for developing countries, the present study examines the role of agricultural growth in reducing inequality and poverty by modelling the dynamic linkage between agricultural and non-agricultural sectors. For this purpose, we have compared the role of agricultural growth and that of non-agricultural growth and have found that agricultural growth is more important in reducing poverty, while the negative effect of agricultural growth on inequality is found in a few models where specific definitions of inequality are adopted. The role of agricultural growth in reducing inequality is, however, undermined by ethnic fractionalisation which tends to make inequality more persistent. Our analysis generally reinforces the case for revival of agriculture in the post-2015 discourse, contrary to the much emphasised roles of rural-urban migration and urbanisation as main drivers of growth and elimination of extreme poverty.
I39|An estimation of the adjusted human development index for the Colombian departments|This research aims to estimate two adjusted human development indices for Colombia. The estimation is carried out for the period 2002-2010 and covers thirteen Colombian departments in order to disclose the effect produced by both labor informality and secondary and tertiary education on human development. The approach and methodology used is presented by the United Nations Program for Development (UNDP), save for a variation in the construction of educational attainment rates and per capita GDP. Results show that labor informality impairs human development, while greater coverage in secondary education and higher education have a positive influence on achievement as measured by the adjusted human development index for Colombia. This is essential for establishing policy recommendations from a regional and territorial perspective.
I39|Drug Prices and Pressure Group Activities in the German Health Care Market: An Application of the Becker Model|This article analyzes the shifts of power relation and influence between pharmaceutical industry (producers), pharmacies, and social health insurers (SHI) in Germany based on drug prices. Since the health care reform of 2004, these interest groups have negotiated fees and discounts among each other without any intervention from the government. These negotiations and resulting amendments to the original law express the shift of power of the involved groups, which can be explained with the Becker (1983) model. As a result, a trend becomes apparent, which shows a slight increase in political pressure on the part of SHI and a big decrease of political pressure on the part of pharmacies and producers. This reflects the cost control trend in combination with the empowerment incentives for SHI. The last years have shown increased competition between the interest groups, resulting in more balanced power relations. Nevertheless, the most powerful group is still the producer group and the influence of SHI is still very low.
I39|Drug Prices, Rents, and Votes in the German Health Care Market: An Application of the Peltzman Model|Using the health care reform of 2004 as an experience, the reaction of consumers (insured persons) and producers (pharmaceutical industry) based on electoral behavior and relating to drug prices and copayments imposed on drugs is analyzed. The changes in prices and medications after this reform make it to a natural choice. For the analysis, the interest group model by Peltzman (1976) is applied to the German health care market. The vote-maximizing government has to find the optimal combination of rent and price of regulation. As a result, the vote-maximizing outcome is determined by a price level which reflects the interests of consumers as well as the pharmaceutical industry. The analysis of the reaction of consumers related to the co-payment rules of 2004 leads to the hypothesis that the regulator, and finally the pharmaceutical industry, sets drug prices in a way that they are ranging from 5 to 50 Euro. Prices between 50 and 100 Euro are possible as well, reflecting a balance of power facing the pharmaceutical industry. Producers who had accepted the 1989 reference price had an incentive to increase their price while lowering their sales volume.
I39|Female Headed Households and Poverty: Analysis using Household level data|The relationship between gender and poverty is a complex and debatable topic more than ever and thus a potential area for policy makers to focus. The aim of this paper is to review existing literature and find evidence on linkages of whether gender affects poverty in two agro-biodiversity hotspots- two study sites -Tamil Nadu and Odisha, having different socio-economic setup. It tries to address the research question of whether female - headed households are poorest of the poor. The results depicts that gender has a significant impact on poverty in Tamil Nadu leaving further scope for research.
I39|A Practical Approach to Well-being Based Policy Development: What Do New Zealanders Want from Their Retirement Income Policies?|This paper investigates the practicality of using a sophisticated multi-criteria analysis technique to estimate the preferences of a representative sample of the public to inform policy advice. Our application concerns retirement income policy and we use a multicriteria decision-making survey to (i) investigate the relative importance of seven aspects of retirement income policies to a sample of 1,066 New Zealanders, (ii) document the diversity of policy preferences in a statistically rigorous manner, and (iii) evaluate the way people rank three different retirement income policies from an individual well-being perspective. The results of the paper suggest that multi-criteria surveys as a tool have considerable potential to help policymakers develop and identify policies that are aligned with the way people want to live. In terms of retirement income policies, we find that (i) there is widespread opposition to means-testing, (ii) a majority of respondents would choose an increase in current taxes if this could prevent even larger tax increases on future generations, and (iii) there are strongly divergent preferences over the appropriate eligibility age for New Zealand Superannuation. Overall, a policy combination that raises the age of eligibility for New Zealand Superannuation and reduces future tax increases is opposed by many and preferred by few. However, a policy that more aggressively prefunds New Zealand Superannuation by immediately raising taxes is supported by a majority of people of all ages and income groups.
I39|Two Decades of Declining Poverty Despite Rising Inequality in Laos|Over the last two decades the distribution of private household expenditures has become more unequal in Laos, with the Gini coefficient rising from 0.311 to 0.364, even though absolute poverty incidence has halved. The increase in inequality was statistically significant and reduced the average rate of poverty reduction per year by about 28 percent, meaning the actual rate compared with the counterfactual rate that would have occurred if the mean real expenditures had increased at their observed levels but inequality had not changed. When the data are decomposed into rural and urban areas of residence or by province, or by the ethnicity of the household head, the increase in inequality within groups dominates any changes between groups; inequality has increased throughout the country. In contrast, access to publicly provided services has become more equal; disparities in participation rates between richer and poorer groups have diminished
I39|Long-term effect on suicidal thoughts of graduating during a recession|Based on survey data from Japan, empirical results show that stock prices in the graduation year of university students are negatively associated with the probability that those individuals will consider suicide many years after graduation.
I39|A Portrait of Diversity In Indonesian Traditional Cuisine|The archipelagic geography and demography of Indonesian people due to the way people serve food and drinks on the table is analyzed. Statistically some properties about the food recipes are observed, while the analysis is followed by the methodology to see the clustering of the food and beverage due to their ingredients. The global mapping of all the food yields four classes of the food that is related to the way people conventionally prepare the cuisines, whether the recipes are on vegetables, fish and seafood, chicken and poultry, and meats. It is obvious that ingredient wise, the diversity of the food is emerged from traditional ways adding spices and herbs. For more insights, the analysis for food dressings and traditional drinks are also delivered. While the mappings exhibit the classes of food and beverages based on the purposes and styles of the service in the cuisines, some signatures of regional localities are also detected.
I39|Two Decades of Rising Inequality and Declining Poverty in the Lao People’s Democratic Republic|Over the last 2 decades the distribution of private household expenditures has become more unequal in the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, with the Gini coefficient rising from 0.311 to 0.364, even though absolute poverty incidence has halved. The increase in inequality was statistically significant and reduced the average rate of poverty reduction per year by about 28%, meaning the actual rate compared with the counterfactual rate that would have occurred if the mean real expenditures had increased at their observed levels but inequality had not changed. When the data are decomposed into rural and urban areas of residence or by province, or by the ethnicity of the household head, the increase in inequality within groups dominates any changes between groups; inequality has increased throughout the country. In contrast, access to publicly provided services has become more equal; disparities in participation rates between richer and poorer groups have diminished.
I39|An assessment of the pension savings<BR>[Об Оценке Эффективности Пенсионных Накоплений]|Article is devoted to assessing the effectiveness of pension funds (SPN). Generally considered a posteriori estimation of efficiency, that is performance evaluation for the previous period. Given the fact that in practice, the effectiveness of investment SPN is identified with various modifications profitability ratios, the analysis is mainly carried out in relation to this private performance indicators. The main objectives of the article: Analysis of regulatory and implement approaches for assessing the effectiveness of SPN; defining the purpose of assessing effectiveness; subjects, from the standpoint that evaluate effectiveness; The evaluation period; use of indicators and assessment methods, as well as their application. Due to the fact that investing SPN is a special case of financial investments, the article as a methodological framework is proposed to use the classic criteria and methods of the theory of investment analysis. The article shows that the assessment of the effectiveness of SPN, reflecting the interests of insured persons should be based on the net asset value, which invested in the SPN, after deduction of these administrative costs SPN.
I39|A Study on Settlement for North Korean Refugee in South Korean Society|Purpose This study attempts to examine the effects of social maladjustment and social loneliness on suicidal behavior among North Korean refugee women in South Korea, and to verify the effects of social welfare programs designed to prevent suicidal behavior among these population. Methods The self-reported survey questionnaires were performed among 156 North Korean refugee women. Frequency analysis and multiple regression analysis were used to identify the effects of social maladjustment and loneliness on suicidal behavior and the effectiveness of social welfare program. Results Results showed that 45.5% of women had suicidal attempts in the past year. After controlling for marital status, level of depression, age, and duration of stay in South Korea, social maladjustment were not associated with suicidal behavior. However, social maladjustment and suicidal behavior had statistically significant relationship via social loneliness as a full mediator variable. Conclusion Failure in social maladjustment is a significant risk factor of suicidal attempt through social loneliness as a mediator. Thus, the study suggests for developing appropriate social network programs and family support program in order to integrate them into Korean society.
I39|Formalizing the Romanian informal waste sector: how interested are informal recyclers?|The problem of informal sector formalization is a real challenge for any national economy, mostly if it is from a South-East European country like Romania. The formalization of waste management informal activities involves a pragmatic assessment of wide social, cultural and behavioral issues, especially since the majority of waste pickers, scavengers or informal recyclers belong to various categories of vulnerable groups. But how satisfied are these people in their activity? Does informal recyclers intent to formalize their work? How are these people concerned to formalize their activities? How receptive are informal recyclers if they would provide the opportunity to work with an official employment contract? How willing are informal waste recyclers to quit social benefits? Do informal recyclers want to be part of officially waste management system? The author tries to find answers to all these questions by assessing the informal recyclers interest about the existing possibilities of formalization, mostly for vulnerable persons involved in informal collection and recycling of waste recoverable materials. Studying the behavior and expectations of informal recyclers is made through formal and informal research tools like questionnaire-based survey, semi-structured interviews, informal discussions with waste pickers and analysis of relevant documents in the field. The final purpose of the study is to identify the real perception of informal waste recyclers related to opportunity of their informal work integration in the officially waste management system and evaluate their believes regarding formalizing process advantages and limits.
I39|Analysis Of Mental Health Policies In The Context With Welfare State Approach: A Cross- National Comparison|Countries have planned and implemented welfare programs according to their income levels, viewpoints about their citizens and priorities. As one of the important part of these programs, health and healthcare services have potential developmental tendency, innovation and dynamism and also, many aims required complex and life- long learning such as efficiency, efficacy within financial, social and legal obligations in order to contribute to social system. Many institutions that create social system reveal social and economic variables and factors of individuals in the society. As considering with a holistic viewpoint, health, which is one of the main institutions in this system as stated by Parsons, expresses not only physical well- being but also social and psychological well- being. In the literature, it is accepted that social and economic factors, as assessing the facts except genetic predisposition, cause mental diseases and can lead to even death. In social system that created by human beings, the importance of health institution has been highlighted to help individuals coping with mental problems, which are also conceived by their own responses and attitudes, and emphasized as a bridge to conduct preventive interventions and make possible for society to reach a ?quality? life. The study was designed in the light of following doctrine as that many cross national indicators can present a framework about the countries? viewpoints for the citizens and willingness to contribute to them. Esping Anderson made the way clear to understand the value of countries to the people, as a citizenship, social or capital means. Thus, the objective of this paper is to evaluate and compare the welfare approaches and mental health policies of the countries by way of many health indicators and social rates.
I39|Sensitivity of the Index of Economic Well-Being to Different Measures of Poverty: LICO vs LIM|This report uses an exercise similar to comparative statics to show that the growth rate of the Index of Economic Well-being (IEWB) for 1981-2011 was much greater when poverty was measured using Statistics Canada’s Low Income Cut-Offs (LICOs) than it was when poverty was measured using Statistics Canada’s Low Income Measures (LIMs). The LICO, an absolute definition of poverty, also exhibited greater cyclical variation than the LIM, a relative definition of poverty. The IEWB appears to reflect these trends. Real income growth was determined to be a key factor in explaining these trends because absolute poverty lines remain fixed while relative poverty lines shift in response to changes in real income. The report concludes that there is a significant difference in the growth rate of the IEWB between measures, although not as large as it would be in the absence of linear scaling methodology. Consequently, the use of the LIM instead of the LICO results in a downward bias on economic well-being growth in Canada. The choice of the ‘appropriate poverty measure’ therefore has significant consequences for the discussion of trends in economic well-being.
I39|Preliminary Estimates of Good Life Time (GLT) in Canada Using the General Social Survey|There has been a recent resurgence of interest in measures of social progress and well-being that go beyond the conventional System of National Accounts measures, especially GDP and GDP per capita. In this context, Wolfson and Rowe (2010) have proposed Good Life Time (GLT) as an alternative / complement to traditional economic measures. GLT is based on a generalization of life expectancy and a person is said to be in GLT if they have adequate amounts of health, money, and the time to enjoy them. In this study, we develop a simple approach using public microdata from the 1992, 1998, 2005, and 2010 General Social Surveys. We conclude that issues related to high item non-response rates and lack of time series consistency in many of the key questionnaire items, especially in the money and health domains, likely overwhelm any time series trends obtained in this manner. Microsimulation or synthetic matching are therefore the recommended methods to obtain time series trends of GLT.
I39|Social Institutions and Gender Inequality in Fragile States: Are they relevant for the Post-MDG Debate?|We focus on an issue that appears particularly relevant for fragile states and which has received little attention: social institutions related to gender inequality, defined as societal practices and legal norms that frame gender roles and the distribution of power between men and women in the family, market, and social and political life. We show empirically that fragile states perform worse than other non-fragile developing countries when considering these social institutions. We suggest that a special set of indicators reflecting social institutions related to gender inequality in both fragile states and non-fragile states should be considered in the post-MDG agenda.
I39|The Cooperative Advantage for Social Inclusion Meets Uncooperative Government Regulation: International Cooperative Principles and Cooperative Housing Regulation in the Province of Ontario, Canada|Canadian housing cooperatives are a tool for building an inclusive society, bringing together people diverse in income, race, age, and ability/disability. This six-year case study of an Ottawa, Ontario, Canada housing co-op found that co-op housing provided benefits for its members: reducing the depth of poverty; increasing physical, material and emotional help; and catalyzing social integration, greater social capital, safer communities, organizational experience, skills-building, networking, and political mobilization. However, the legal framework in which co-ops operate and a lack of resources prevent Ontario housing co-ops from fully adhering to International Co-operative Alliance principles and ensuring that all members benefit equally from co-op housing.
I39|The Ranking Measure of Life Satisfaction: A Constructive Critique|Life satisfaction (LS) is used as a welfare-measure in many different ways to inform about what makes people better off and even to quantify tradeoffs between different things like putting a monetary value on environmental goods. All these welfare analyzes rely on the ability of the measurement method to reliably identify preference (or satisfaction) rankings. We demonstrate a potential and systematic identification failure of the currently used measurement method (level measure), which asks people to state their LS level on a bounded and discrete scale. We then propose a new measurement method (the ranking measure), which directly asks the individual to give a preference ranking of the current situation against a past situation. This ranking measure will allow us to test the ability of the level measure to capture preference rankings of two consecutively experienced situations. First results from a similar measure in the German Socio-Economic Panel from the years 1984-87 suggest that there is a systematic bias between the two measures. Our ranking measure will be included in the GESIS Panel in February this year. It will include not only general LS but also satisfaction with specific areas of life. With this paper we contribute to a better understanding of life satisfaction measures and the nature of their measurement biases by formally connecting the measurement method with a theoretical welfare concept and by then testing the derived hypotheses empirically with survey data.
I39|Household Access to Nongovernmental Microfinance, Formal Credit and Informal Credit in Rural China|There has been a rising concern that microfinance is abandoning its mission to serve the poor. Based on a longitudinal dataset, this paper examines rural households¡¯ credit access to all the sources in less developed areas in China, and analyzes its relationship with household wealth. It is found that nongovernmental microfinance has expanded rapidly by serving a mixture of poor and wealthy clients. Meanwhile, formal financial institutions have gradually reduced their loan services in poor areas and have targeted more on the wealthy. In the presence of a large unmet demand for credit in rural China, informal network became the primary source of credit to smallholders.
I39|Pojednanie O Globálnom Probléme Pandémie Aids|Väčšina zo súčasných globálnych problémov ľudstva má korene v ekonomickej dimenzii, resp. vychádza zo svetovej ekonomiky a spätne ju bezprostredne ovplyvňuje. Súčasne generuje nové alebo prehlbuje či modifikuje už známe problémy. Svet čelil alebo stále čelí viacerým krízam – finančnej, hospodárskej, dlhovej, úverovej alebo kríze spotreby, ktoré majú najmä ekonomický rozmer. Rovnako tak čelí problémom chudoby, nerovnosti, nerovnomernosti alebo vysokej zadlženosti. Okrem ekonomických globálnych problémov však musí riešiť aj ostatné globálne problémy, a to najmä sociálne, ale aj environmentálne a bezpečnostné. Pandémia AIDS patrí medzi najvážnejšie z nich.
I39|Dynamic and Long-term Linkages among Growth, Inequality and Poverty in Developing Countries|Abstract Drawing upon a cross-country panel data for developing countries, the present study sheds new empirical light on dynamic and long-term linkages among growth, inequality and poverty. First, agricultural sector growth is found to be consistently the most important factor in reducing inequality and poverty not only through its direct effects but also through its indirect effects. Second, there is a significant and negative association between inequality and GDP per capita, with macro institutional quality as one of the important factors in determining the inequality-growth relationship. Third, policies designed to prevent conflicts and mitigate their disruptive effects and violence, stabilise commodity prices, and enhance institutional quality would help eliminate worst forms of deprivation. Our analysis points to a drastic shift away from rural- urban migration and urbanisation as main drivers of growth and elimination of extreme poverty, and towards revival of agriculture in the post-2015 policy discourse. Indeed, the case for urbanisation rests on not just shaky empirical foundations but could mislead policy makers and donors.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
I39|Agricultural Employment, Wages and Poverty in Developing Countries|Drawing upon panel data estimations, we have analysed the relationships among agricultural productivity, employment, technology, openness of the economy, inequality in land distribution and poverty. First, we have identified a number of important factors affecting agricultural productivity, such as agricultural R&D expenditure, irrigation, fertilizer use, agricultural tractor/machinery use, reduction in inequality of land distributions, or reduction in gender inequality. Second, while agricultural wage rate is negatively associated with agricultural productivity and food price in levels, the growth in agricultural wage rate is positively correlated with the growth in agricultural land or labour productivity as well as with the growth in food price, particularly after 2000. Contrary to the ILO's (2012) claim that the gap has widened recently, this suggests the narrowing gap between wage and labour productivity once we focus on the conditional relationship between the two. Third, agricultural employment per hectare tends to increase agricultural productivity after taking account of the endogeneity of the former, while the growth in agricultural employment per hectare tends to increase the growth in non-agricultural employment over time with adjustment for endogeneity of the former. In this context, we have reviewed the recent literature and emphasised the importance of enhancing agricultural productivity and employment. Fourth, both agricultural growth and non-agricultural growth tend to lead to reduction in overall inequality. Finally, increase in agricultural productivity which is treated as endogenous will reduce poverty significantly through the overall economic growth. Overall, policies to increase agricultural productivity and agricultural employment are likely to increase non-agricultural growth, overall growth and reduce poverty, where guaranteeing gender inequality is likely to be one of the key factors.
I39|Beyond Non-Satiation: Needs and Requirements|The hypothesis of non-satiation of rational choice theory is very seldom posed under scrutiny, maybe because it is taken as an anthropologic reality. Looking closer to that, we discover that it is taken for granted only in economic theory, and that it has become a reality as a result of a cultural process. This paper makes a brief story of this axiom, and looks at how it recently shifted into a modification of the original concept of adaptation. Using theoretical research in psychology, we find out that non-satiation is indeed not a natural feature of human beings, but a challenge to their happiness and a potentially pathological sign. The distinction between needs and requirements provides a new and solid ground on which we can discuss the quality of human needs, which is, according to Keynes, a key concept to define what the ‘economic problem’ is.
I39|Condiciones económicas y capital social como determinantes de la salud y el bienestar subjetivo. El caso de Argentina durante 1995 y 2006|Se estima la probabilidad conjunta de ser feliz y tener buena salud controlando el efecto de características económicas, sociales y demográficas. Se estimó un modelo probit bivariado empleando datos de la encuesta World Values Survey para Argentina en 1995 y 2006. Los resultados indican que la probabilidad de tener buena salud y de ser feliz incrementa a medida que lo hace el nivel socioeconómico y el nivel de confianza en las instituciones por parte de los individuos. Se concluye que es posible incrementar la salud y el bienestar subjetivo de las personas en desventaja socioeconómica fortaleciendo el capital social. ***** The probability of being happy and maintaining good health is influenced by economic, social, and demographic characteristics. A bivariate probit model is estimated using data from the World Values Survey for Argentina in 1995 and 2006. The results show that the probability of being healthy and happy increases with the socioeconomic status of individuals, as well as the confidence level in institutions. It is concluded that it is possible to positively affect the health and well-being of people disadvantaged socially and economically by encouraging and promoting policies which foster the strengthening of social capital.
I39|Estimación del Índice de Desarrollo Humano ajustado para los departamentos colombianos|RESUMEN: La presente investigación tiene como objetivo estimar dos índices de desarrollo humano ajustados para Colombia. La estimación se realiza para el periodo 2002-2010 y cubre trece departamentos colombianos, a fin de revelar el efecto que produce tanto la informalidad laboral como la educación media y terciaria en el desarrollo humano. El enfoque y la metodología utilizados son los presentados por el Programa de las Naciones Unidas para el Desarrollo (PNUD), pero incluye una variante en la construcción de los índices de logro educativo y el PIB per cápita. Los resultados evidencian que la informalidad laboral deteriora el desarrollo humano, mientras que una mayor cobertura en educación media y en educación superior ejerce una influencia positiva en los logros medidos a través del índice de desarrollo humano ajustado para Colombia. Lo anterior es fundamental a la hora de establecer recomendaciones de política bajo una perspectiva regional y territorial.
I39|Gestión y participación ciudadana: caso juntas de acción comunal|Gestionar efectivamente las organizaciones, no importa su naturaleza, es una exigencia. Solo a través de una buena gestión se logra su supervivencia y seguir satisfaciendo las demandas de sus grupos de interés. Este artículo da cuenta del estado de la gestión en las juntas de acción comunal y su relación con el entorno, en especial con la comunidad que representan. La metodología se aborda desde un estudio descriptivo con diseño de campo no experimental; la muestra objeto de estudio es de 15 juntas de acción comunal, ubicadas en la localidad suroriente de la ciudad de Barranquilla; se diseñó cuestionario y entrevista dirigida a directivos y miembros de las organizaciones. Las evidencias muestran que las juntas de acción comunal tienen deficiencias en la gestión de lo interno y de lo externo, lo cual limita la participación ciudadana y el desarrollo de las comunidades. Se resalta la necesidad de reflexionar sobre la gestión y las competencias de los directivos y miembros de estas organizaciones para impactar de manera real en el desarrollo local.
I39|Making access to credit more democratic: tools and practices between social innovation and old inequalities|The economic crisis highlights the problem of access to credit also from the point of view of families. The Italian banking industry has launched projects aimed at offering financial support to disadvantaged people, implementing new products for certain categories of customers normally excluded from credit due to the high risks involved. The information collected about each customer is an input in the decision-making process. Hence, it is crucial to investigate how it is selected, how it is (re)assembled, and how it is evaluated. Understanding how information about a customer is selected and processed helps us to identify what resources owned by households are translated into a positive score to access credit and into opportunities to enjoy additional goods and services, thus reconfiguring the trends of inclusion and exclusion within the financial system.
I39|Una propuesta para la modificación del Índice de Desarrollo Humano|El Índice de Desarrollo Humano (idh) es un indicador diseñado para hacer seguimiento al desarrollo de los países a través de tres dimensiones: salud, educación e ingresos. Desde su publicación en 1990, se han hecho importantes esfuerzos por mejorar su calidad y en repetidas ocasiones se ha insistido en que no es una medida definitiva. Atendiendo a este hecho, a continuación se expone una reflexión en torno de lo que es el desarrollo humano, sus pilares y las dimensiones que se deberían incorporar al indicador (empleo y libertades políticas) para reforzar su capacidad de evidenciar los avances en la materia. Además, se presentan el idh modificado, las especificaciones para su cálculo y un anexo en que se muestra su comportamiento en 117 países.
I39|A proposal for a modified Human Development Index|The Human Development Index (HDI) is an indicator designed to track the development of countries in respect of three dimensions of development: health, education and income. Since it was first published in 1990, great efforts have been made to improve hdi, which, as has been stressed on numerous occasions, cannot be seen as a definitive measure of development. This paper includes a reflection on what constitutes human development, the pillars underpinning it and two new dimensions that should be incorporated into hdi (employment and political freedoms) for it to better express progress in development. This document will also present, in addition to the modified HDI, detailed instructions for its calculation and an annex including modified hdi scores for 117 countries.
I39|Can Early Intervention Policies Improve Well-being? Evidence from a randomized controlled trial|Many authors have proposed incorporating measures of well-being into evaluations of public policy. Yet few evaluations use experimental design or examine multiple aspects of wellbeing, thus the causal impact of public policies on well-being is largely unknown. In this paper we examine the effect of an intensive early intervention program on maternal wellbeing in a targeted disadvantaged community. Using a randomized controlled trial design we estimate and compare treatment effects on global well-being using measures of life satisfaction, experienced well-being using both the Day Reconstruction Method (DRM) and a measure of mood yesterday, and also a standardized measure of parenting stress. The intervention has no significant impact on negative measures of well-being, such as experienced negative affect as measured by the DRM and global measures of well-being such as life satisfaction or a global measure of parenting stress. Significant treatment effects are observed on experienced measures of positive affect using the DRM, and a measure of mood yesterday. The DRM treatment effects are primarily concentrated during times spent without the target child which may reflect the increased effort and burden associated with additional parental investment. Our findings suggest that a maternal-focused intervention may produce meaningful improvements in experienced well-being. Incorporating measures of experienced affect may thus alter cost-benefit calculations for public policies.
I39|Impact of Improved Maize Adoption on Welfare of Farm Households in Malawi: A Panel Data Analysis|This paper assesses rural households’ decision to use improved maize varieties in Malawi and examines its impact on household welfare using a three-year household panel data. The distributional effect of maize technology adoption is investigated by looking at impacts across wealth and gender groups. We applied control function approach and IV regression to control for possible endogeneity of input subsidy and area under improved maize. We found that area under improved maize varieties is positively correlated with own maize consumption, income and asset holdings. We found evidence that improved maize adoption has a stronger impact on welfare of poorer households.
I39|Civil society as an environment for production and Diffusion of social Innovation|Social innovations could potentially serve as a means for society to play a role in solving social problems. Such innovations stem from an active population and non-state non-profit organizations (NPO). As a new model for civil society’s collaboration with the state, social innovations enable the population to better self-organize and act. This article examines the potential and contribution of Russian NPOs to the development of social innovations.
I39|Civil Society as an Environment for Production and Diffusion of Social Innovation|Social innovation is acknowledged as one of the most promising tools of civic engagement and cross-sector partnerships to address social problems. It benefits society by improving its ability to organize and act and represents a new model of interaction between the state and civil society in addressing social problems. The article assesses the capacities and actual input of the Russian third sector (non-government not-for-profit organizations, or NGOs) in developing social innovation. It considers the essence of social innovation, discusses the critical role of the third sector as a favorable environment for the production of such innovation, and describes structural characteristics of third sector organizations which allow them to play a subjective role in developing and promoting innovative solutions in the social sphere. Based on empirical data on the state of Russia’s third sector and civic participation in NGOs, certain conclusions are made about the potential of the sector as a driver of innovation. We argue that the domestic third sector cannot be regarded as institutionally mature and ready for the production and dissemination of social innovation. In this respect, it is much inferior to European and American counterparts. Innovative initiatives developed by individual citizens as well as by NGOs are rather fragmented. Additional efforts are required to enhance their viability and replicability. Nevertheless, in spite of some inconsistencies, the dynamics of the third sector development and supportive public policies are in general going in the right direction. Policies in this field aim to create favorable conditions for NGOs and thereby strengthen their capacities in facilitating innovative changes in the social sphere.
I39|The Diversity Digital Media Project: Engaging Migrant Youth in Japan through Creative Practice|As a result of an increase of migrants in Fukui, a rural city of Japan since the 1990s, migrant youth have increased through the settlement of permanent residents and through international marriage. However, when migrant youth attempt to use digital media to potentially foster their relationships with the local community, the â€˜Japanese only' environment can discourage them to make use of it for creating and extending their social networks in Japan. In 2011, a two day farm-stay camp in Fukui with four migrant youth was organized as a research project. Various locals, such as media artists and migrant support professionals supported migrant youths and helped them create a digital media production. I conducted both participant observation and interviews with participants to understand the ways in which these migrants and local Japanese interact with each other through the use of digital media. This paper explores two key questions. First, I examine how digital media can be employed for community engagement between migrant youth and the local community and how it can help them achieve cultural citizenship. Second, this paper examines how local Japanese participants perceive their attitude-change process in real encounters with migrants in Fukui through the use of digital media.
I39|Social Innovation and Social Economy,key tools for a functioning Social Risks Management System|Under the realm of the overarching objective of sustainable development, the configuration, structure, relationships and dynamics of the traditional systems of social protection have undergone a process of transformation towards a more tenable architecture, referred to, hereafter, as the system of social risks management. Drawing on theoretical argumentation, as well as on success stories, this paper aims to evince that social economy and social innovation stand out as instrumental tools for sustainably addressing social vulnerabilities and risks, as they synergetically interconnect social actors with different interests and capitalize upon various sources of human,financial and material resources.
I39|Incidence of Poverty and Level of Socio-Economic Deprivation in India|The present paper aims to analyze the spatial variations in the incidence of poverty and level of deprivation in India. The causal relationship between poverty rate (dependent variable) and twenty five selected socio-economic variables (independent variables) of deprivation has been also taken into account. The state/union territory has been taken as the smallest unit of study. The entire research work is based on secondary sources of data. The study reveals that the level of poverty is low in northern and southern states of India, and it is high in central-eastern states extending from the state of Maharashtra in the west to the state of Bihar in the east. The level of deprivation is high in the states extending from Rajasthan in the west to Orissa in the east, medium level in the southern, north-western and north-eastern states and it is low in the northern and southern most states of India.
I39|Agricultural Employment, Wages and Poverty in Developing Countries|Abstract Drawing upon panel data estimations, we have analysed the relationships among agricultural productivity, employment, technology, openness of the economy, inequality in land distribution and poverty. First, we have identified a number of important factors affecting agricultural productivity, such as agricultural R&D expenditure, irrigation, fertilizer use, agricultural tractor/machinery use, reduction in inequality of land distributions, or reduction in gender inequality. Second, while agricultural wage rate is negatively associated with agricultural productivity and food price in levels, the growth in agricultural wage rate is positively correlated with the growth in agricultural land or labour productivity as well as with the growth in food price, particularly after 2000. Contrary to the ILO’s (2012) claim that the gap has widened recently, this suggests the narrowing gap between wage and labour productivity once we focus on the conditional relationship between the two. Third, agricultural employment per hectare tends to increase agricultural productivity after taking account of the endogeneity of the former, while the growth in agricultural employment per hectare tends to increase the growth in non-agricultural employment over time with adjustment for endogeneity of the former. In this context, we have reviewed the recent literature and emphasised the importance of enhancing agricultural productivity and employment. Fourth, both agricultural growth and non-agricultural growth tend to lead to reduction in overall inequality. Finally, increase in agricultural productivity which is treated as endogenous will reduce poverty significantly through the overall economic growth. Overall, policies to increase agricultural productivity and agricultural employment are likely to increase non-agricultural growth, overall growth and reduce poverty, where guaranteeing gender inequality is likely to be one of the key factors.
I39|An Analysis of Inequality of Economic Opportunity in Thailand|This study aims to understand the socioeconomic and family backgrounds that affect individual economic opportunity in term of labor income on and above average income in different regions of Thailand. The results present that both age and marital status have positive impact to individualâ€™s economic opportunity. Because it related to the necessity in personal family life. People works in Bangkok not necessary to get economic opportunity greater than others. Most inequality indicators show the inequality situation in Thailand still not as high as expectation. However, ordinary person usually get only less than 50% (0.4855) opportunity to get earning equal or more the average. Also, the society should concern the inequality of economic opportunity in optimal level which make equality parameter not greater than 0.5. This will create the mechanism to minimize the level of inequality, as a whole.
I39|Dynamic and Long-term Linkages among Growth, Inequality and Poverty in Developing Countries|Drawing upon cross-country panel data for developing countries, the present study sheds new empirical light on dynamic and long-term linkages among growth in agricultural and non-agricultural sectors, inequality and poverty. Agricultural growth is found to be the most important factor in reducing inequality and poverty. The role of agricultural growth in reducing inequality is undermined by ethnic fractionalisation which tends to make inequality more persistent. Our analysis points to a drastic shift away from rural-urban migration and urbanisation as main drivers of growth and elimination of extreme poverty, and towards revival of agriculture in the post-2015 policy discourse.
I39|The Current Status, Prospects And Characteristics Of Population Ageing In Slovak Republic|Population ageing is a social problem whose consequences will soon have a significant impact on various areas of human life. The ageing population is one of many factors that significantly affect the changes in social conditions of people’s lives. It is a process that affectss the emergence of new social risks and crises. This causes the need to identify the consequences of these changes and appropriate measures to respond to them. This identification is not possible without a thorough understanding of genesis and propable developments of the aging process. The following paper briefly describes the demographic aging of the population in Slovakia and important context associated with this phenomenon.
I39|The evolution of social policy in Britain and Germany|"Social policy has become a vital part of the development of nations, as it stands as a cornerstone for the promotion and implementation of comprehensive poverty reduction programs, thus limiting and even erasing social and financial uncertainty so that a minimum level of „welfare” could be achieved. Under these circumstances, it is clear that „social policy” and „welfare” are positively correlated, with ""welfare"" being one of the fundamentals of social policy. When the economic dimension of „welfare” is taken into consideration, namely the need for non-discriminatory access of the population to financial resources, the state’s role in the field of social protection becomes that of the „social welfare state”."
I39|The welfare state in Eastern and South-Eastern Europe – the case of Romania|After the collapse of communism, Eastern and Southeastern European counties have experienced significant changes, especially in terms of transition to market economy was achieved through efforts of liberalization and elimination of all forms of national control. As a consequence, some of the social welfare states in the region, still anchored to the old forms of organization, faced serious difficulty to accommodate the challenges that have resulted from the economic liberalization.
I39|Political dynasties and poverty: Resolving the “chicken or the egg” question|"""Political dynasty"" refers to the situation wherein members of the same family are occupying elected positions either in sequence for the same position, or simultaneously across different positions. In the Philippines, political dynasties are prevalent in areas with more severe poverty. Two explanations for this situation have been proposed: poverty brings about political dynasties, or political dynasties engender poverty. These arguments suggest that the relationship between political dynasties and poverty can be treated as an empirical question. (So which one is the chicken, and which one is the egg?) In order to examine the direction of causality between political dynasties and poverty, this paper turns to provincial-level data from the Philippines and develops novel metrics on political dynasties: the shares of total positions occupied by dynastic politicians, of the largest dynastic clan as regards total positions, and of dynastic concentration inspired by the industrial concentration literature. To address endogeneity, instrumental variables for poverty are used, consisting of indicators for rainfall and the geographical distance to Manila (the Capital). The results we find are striking: poverty entrenches political dynasties; education appears to have no bearing on political dynasties; and the media affect only the largest political dynasties. There is less evidence that political dynasties bring about poverty."
I39|Pro poor growth : a partial ordering approach|The paper examines the partial pro poor orderings for different growth curves and sets of Equally Distributed Equivalent growth rate dominance. A new pro poor growth curve as the of change of Gini social welfare function, based on the quantiles of logarithmic income, has been proposed. It has been established that the newly proposed growth curve including its relative version i.e its deviation from the growth rate of mean, is robust to other growth curves that has been proposed in the literature, in terms of conclusiveness. Empirical illustrations are provided using Monthly per capita expenditure data, for different states of India, officially collected by National Sample Survey Office. It has been observed that the absolute and relative versions provides conclusive result in many cases where other pro poor growth curves fails to do so. Growth in rural and urban India is pro poor in an absolute sense, since from the early 1990s. Although, relative pro poor growth has been achieved for some spells in rural India, but, in Urban India, it is in general biased to the non-poor in most of the spells.
I39|Women’s representation in local politics: Evidence from The Philippines|Although at the beginning of the 21st century, over 95 percent of all countries in the world have granted women the right to vote and the right to stand for election (Ballington & Karam, 2005), gender equality in terms of representation in political structures remains to be a challenge around the world. This study seeks to determine the level of political representation of women at the level of the smallest unit of Philippine government—the village or barangay. Data comparison—within a span of 11 years—using the results of the July 15, 2002 and October 28, 2013 barangay elections, shows an increase of women’s representation in the 98 barangays of Zamboanga City, Philippines. After the 2013 barangay elections, the total number of female Barangay Captains increased to 14 compared to 8 in the 2002 election results. A total of 159 female Barangay Councilors were also elected in 2013, an increase of 14 percent compared to the 139 female councilors who won in the 2002 elections. The increasing number of elected female barangay officials in 2013 reached 173 women (22 percent) compared to 147 (19 percent) in 2002. In year 2013, a total of 147 women (18.75 percent) were elected as barangay officials out of 784 barangay positions throughout the city. The study concludes that women’s participation in politics at the barangay level is directly and inversely proportional to the representation of men in the same political structures. While existing laws and pertinent public policies promoting women’s equal representation with men in local politics and the efforts to improve the political landscape for women around the world, still the political structures, even at the smallest unit of the government, is a male-dominated arena.
I39|Faktory míry materiální deprivace v České republice a jejich vztahy k typu domácnosti<BR>[The Factors of Material Deprivation Rate in the Czech Republic by Household Type]|The article focuses on the economic situation of households in the Czech Republic. It discusses the factors the material deprivation rate and related indicators. These factors include household equipment, other indicators of financial possibilities and inability to pay regular payments on time. The article is based on the Living Conditions Survey in 2011, data are compared with 2008 - 2010 data. Furthermore, the data are compared in the different groups of households. Model of logistic regression was used to analyze the relationship among material deprivation and selected categorical indicators. The best situation in the Czech Republic is in households with the high levels of education. Households with unemployed members suffer most from material deprivation. In comparison to the previous years the proportion of households that could not afford an annual one-week holiday away from home or unexpected expenses slightly increased.
I39|The Dynamics of Conflict in Southern Thailand|The prolonged insurgency in Southern Thailand has claimed thousands of victims since the outbreak of major violence in 2004. Drawing on a unique data set covering all violent incidents since 2004, a hotspot analysis shows that the bulk of the violence is concentrated in clusters of sub-districts forming hotbeds of conflict. Drivers of conflict are identified through a comparative analysis of the hotspots of violence with less violent areas. The analysis shows that identity manifested in language use and religious practices (rather than international borders, infrastructure, and physical geography) influence the prevalence and patterns of violence. © 2014 The Earth Institute at Columbia University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
I39|El impacto de la educación temprana en el mediano plazo<BR>[Medium term effect of early Child-care]|To the best of our knowledge this is the first study to evaluate the medium term impact of early childcare (0-2 years old child). This is carried out by the estimation of efective (actual) marginal returns of early childcare in a non observable heterogeneity context. We estimate the impact on cognitive tests (SIMCE) (Math and Lenguage) taken in the 4th grade of elementary school. Results suggest that early childcare attendance has a nearly zero effect on average population but a negative e¤ect on those who were treated (those who attended all levels of childcare (early, midium, Pre Kinder and Kinder) relative to those non treated (those who attended the latter three levels but not the former). The distribution of the Marginal Treatmente Effect and the estimated parameters of interest suggest that the zero-negative effect would be related to the quality of early childcare.
I39|Can Early Intervention Policies Improve Well-being? Evidence from a randomized controlled trial| Many authors have proposed incorporating measures of well-being into evaluations of public policy. Yet few evaluations use experimental design or examine multiple aspects of well-being, thus the causal impact of public policies on well-being is largely unknown. In this paper we examine the effect of an intensive early intervention program on maternal well-being in a targeted disadvantaged community. Using a randomized controlled trial design we estimate and compare treatment effects on global well-being using measures of life satisfaction, experienced well-being using both the Day Reconstruction Method (DRM) and a measure of mood yesterday, and also a standardized measure of parenting stress. The intervention has no significant impact on negative measures of well-being, such as experienced negative affect as measured by the DRM and global measures of well-being such as life satisfaction or a global measure of parenting stress. Significant treatment effects are observed on experienced measures of positive affect using the DRM, and a measure of mood yesterday. The DRM treatment effects are primarily concentrated during times spent without the target child which may reflect the increased effort and burden associated with additional parental investment. Our findings suggest that a maternal-focused intervention may produce meaningful improvements in experienced well-being. Incorporating measures of experienced affect may thus alter cost-benefit calculations for public policies.
I39|An agency-oriented model to explain vine-growing specialization in the province of Barcelona (Catalonia, Spain) in the mid-nineteenth century|We present a model of vine-growing specialization in the municipalities of the province of Barcelona in the mid-19th century that explains how a comparative advantage arose through a process deemed to be one of the starting points for Catalan industrialization. The results confirm the roles played by the Boserupian population-push on land-use intensification and the Smithian market-pull in a growing demand from the Atlantic economy. They also stress the conditioning function of agro-ecological endowments and socio-institutional settings related to income inequality. Vineyard planting gave rise to less unequal rural communities until 1820, but inequality grew again afterwards.
I39|Pojednanie o globálnom probléme sociálno-ekonomickej zaostalosti rozvojových krajín|Aktuálny vývoj ľudskej civilizácie je na jednej strane veľmi dynamický a progresívny, ale na druhej strane aj veľmi nerovnomerný, nestabilný, stále ťažšie predvídateľný a zároveň ovplyvnený množstvom problémov, ktoré s prehlbujúcou sa globalizáciou v čoraz väčšom rozsahu ohrozujú jej rozvoj. V prípade ich neriešenia či neprijímania potrebných opatrení môžu dokonca ohroziť celú jej existenciu. Vplyvom prudko sa rozvíjajúcich globalizačných procesov, intenzívnej liberalizácie, rastúcej vzájomnej previazanosti (ale aj závislosti), a pokračujúceho „zmenšovania“ vzdialeností postupne stále viac problémov presahuje národnú, regionálnu, či kontinentálnu úroveň a negatívne vplýva na celú ľudskú populáciu. Stávajú sa tak globálnymi problémami ľudstva. Jeden z najvážnejších z nich predstavuje sociálno-ekonomická zaostalosť.
I39|Public policy and inequalities of choice and autonomy|This article explores the conceptualisation of choice as autonomy using three components - self-reflection, active decision-making, and quality and range of options - and investigates empirical inequalities in autonomy, using newly-collected data for the UK. 'Choice' has been promoted in social policy across many developed welfare states, often on the grounds that it is instrumentally valuable: choice by service users is said to incentivise providers to enhance quality and efficiency. But egalitarian and capability-based theories of social justice support the idea that choice - understood in the deeper sense of autonomy - has an intrinsic value. The empirical findings indicate that disabled people are most likely to experience constrained autonomy in all respects, while being from a low socio-economic group and/or lacking educational qualifications is a risk factor across several components. The fact that limited autonomy maps onto existing socio-economic disadvantage is not surprising, but points to the importance of taking into account underlying inequalities when developing choice-based policies. We conclude that improving the 'choice' agenda for policy requires opportunities for people to reflect on their objectives throughout the life course and that the removal of barriers to active decision-making would require effective support and advocacy, especially for disabled people. We suggest that major structural inequalities associated with restricted autonomy should be addressed - poverty, ill health and geographical inequality - because they place significant restrictions on the autonomy of those who are already disadvantaged as well as their immediate effects on living standards and quality of life.
I39|Análisis de las condiciones de vida de los beneficiarios del Programa Centro AMAR de la localidad de San Cristóbal en Bogotá|En esta investigación se recolectó y sistematizó la información de las fichas Sirbe, historia sociofamiliar, terapia ocupacional, nutrición, y de la entrevista semiestructurada aplicada, para describir e interpretar, desde el enfoque de capacidades de Nussbaum, la realidad socioeconómica particular de la población beneficiaria entre 2007 y 2009 del programa Centro AMAR en la localidad de San Cristóbal. En este contexto se identificó la falta de continuidad y acompañamiento en los procesos de los niños, niñas y adolescentes, el desinterés de los cuidadores para cambiar sus hábitos de crianza y una leve mejoría en la calidad de vida de las familias. Esto representa un reto para la construcción e implementación de las políticas públicas encaminada a fomentar el capital humano, consolidar el entorno familiar y propiciar elementos que contribuyan al bienestar.**********In this research we collected and systematized the information contained in the Sirbe filling cards (Sirbe is the acronym in Spanish for Sistema de Información para el Registro de Beneficiarios which means Beneficiary Registration Information System), regarding socio-familial history, occupational therapy, nutrition and in the information obtained through the semi¿structured interview that was applied. This was carried out in order to describe and interpret, from Nussbaum¿s capabilities approach, the particular socioeconomic reality of the AMAR Center recipient population in San Cristóbal, Bogotá, between 2007 and 2009. We identified the lack of continuity and accompaniment in the processes for children and teenagers, the lack of interest of caretakers in order to change their raising habits and a slight improvement in the quality of life of the families. This represents a challenge in designing and implementing public policies that lead to promote human capital, strengthen family environment and generate elements that contribute to wellbeing.
I39|The effects of current income and expected change in future income on stated preferences for environmental improvements|We formulate and test the hypothesis that expectations regarding changes in future income influences the WTP for environmental goods. For valuation of environmental goods in forests and other habitats in Denmark, we find that both current income and expected changes in future income are significant determinants for preferences. The effect of income on WTP seems to be caused by changes in preferences for environmental attributes rather than by marginal utility of income. The results suggest that to evaluate the distributional impacts of environmental improvements, researchers need a better measure of expected future consumption options than current income.
I39|Public policy and inequalities of choice and autonomy|This article explores the conceptualisation of choice as autonomy using three components – self-reflection, active decision-making, and quality and range of options - and investigates empirical inequalities in autonomy, using newly-collected data for the UK. ‘Choice’ has been promoted in social policy across many developed welfare states, often on the grounds that it is instrumentally valuable: choice by service users is said to incentivise providers to enhance quality and efficiency. But egalitarian and capability-based theories of social justice support the idea that choice – understood in the deeper sense of autonomy – has an intrinsic value. The empirical findings indicate that disabled people are most likely to experience constrained autonomy in all respects, while being from a low socio-economic group and/or lacking educational qualifications is a risk factor across several components. The fact that limited autonomy maps onto existing socio-economic disadvantage is not surprising, but points to the importance of taking into account underlying inequalities when developing choice-based policies. We conclude that improving the ‘choice’ agenda for policy requires opportunities for people to reflect on their objectives throughout the life course and that the removal of barriers to active decision-making would require effective support and advocacy, especially for disabled people. We suggest that major structural inequalities associated with restricted autonomy should be addressed – poverty, ill health and geographical inequality – because they place significant restrictions on the autonomy of those who are already disadvantaged as well as their immediate effects on living standards and quality of life.
I39|Going beyond the zero-sum game: Flexisecurity as a tool for worker advancement in the Asia-Pacific region|No abstract is available for this item.
I39|Du Mont-de-Piété à la Grameen Bank : la finance sociale à travers le temps et l’espace \r\nEssai sur une cohérence institutionnelle et une diversité des pratiques|Le Mont-de-Piété est né dans l\'Italie du XVe siècle pour répondre aux conséquences néfastes de l\'usure, très vite il devient un acteur social offrant une aide financière en réponse aux conséquences d\'un développement économique rapide qui agit sur les structures sociales des sociétés européennes du XVIII-XIXe siècle. Le microcrédit au Sud, popularisé depuis une trentaine d\'année par la Grameen Bank, possède de nombreuses filiations avec l\'émergence du microcrédit européen. Sans nier certaines spécificités, le Mont-de-Piété et la Grameen Bank trouvent leurs origines dans les structures mêmes des économies en transition, en marche vers le capitalisme.
I39|A Multidimensional Analysis of Social Vulnerability|Social vulnerability is often defined as a life-situation characterized by a multi-dimensional combination of disadvantage and advantage, of inclusion and exclusion factors. Its distinctive characteristic is that the weak and unstable integration in the main mechanisms of resources distribution in contemporary society places the people in a situation of uncertainty and high exposure to the risk of poverty and, eventually, of social exclusion. Because of its often temporary nature, vulnerability is difficult to capture. The present paper presents various aspects of social vulnerability and the structuring of the main elements of which it is constituted.The analysis focuses across the family structure, exposure to poverty (temporary or permanent), housing conditions, the family/work system (the presence of unemployed and temporary workers in the household), the ways in which work and childcare are reconciled, and the presence of dependent persons in households in economically compressed situations.
I39|Aspects Regarding The Evolution Of Social Protection In Romania|In order to form a prosperous national social protection system we must know its evolution. Obviously, to elaborate an efficient policy on the development of the social protection system an important role lies in the practice study accumulated in the past. In the article the author reflects on the development of social insurance system, policies on social protection, the formation and distribution of financial and material resources.
I39|Policies for Inclusive Urbanisation in China|Urbanisation in China has long been held back by various restrictions on land and internal migration but has taken off since the 1990s, as these impediments started to be gradually relaxed. People have moved in large numbers to richer cities, where productivity is higher and has increased further thanks to agglomeration effects. In the process, the rural-urban income differential has narrowed. Urbanisation also entails costs, however, notably in the form of congestion, all the more so as public transport provision has not kept up. Demand for living space is set to continue to increase as living standards improve, putting pressure on land prices. This can be offset by relaxing the very stringent restrictions on the use of agricultural land for building. For migrants to better integrate in the cities where they work, their access and that of their families to education, health and other social services must continue to improve, in particular via further changes to the registration system, coupled with more market-based rules on land ownership and use. Comment favoriser une urbanisation plus inclusive en Chine Alors que l’urbanisation était depuis longtemps freinée en Chine par diverses restrictions appliquées au marché foncier et aux migrations internes, elle s’intensifie depuis que ces obstacles ont commencé à être progressivement levés dans les années 90. Les villes plus riches, caractérisées par une productivité élevée et en constante progression du fait des économies d’échelle générées par l’urbanisation, enregistrent un afflux massif de migrants. Parallèlement, l’écart de revenus entre zones rurales et urbaines s’est resserré. Néanmoins, l’urbanisation a aussi un coût, notamment illustré par les problèmes de congestion, aggravés par le développement insuffisant de l’offre de transports publics. La demande de surface habitable devrait rester orientée à la hausse sous l’effet de l’amélioration du niveau de vie, ce qui exercera une pression sur les prix des terrains. Cette pression peut être atténuée en assouplissant les restrictions très sévères appliquées à l’usage des terres agricoles à des fins de construction. Pour veiller à une meilleure intégration des migrants dans les villes où ils travaillent, il faut continuer à améliorer leur accès et celui de leurs familles à l’éducation, aux soins de santé et aux autres types de services sociaux, notamment en poursuivant la réforme du système d’enregistrement et en adoptant une réglementation plus axée sur le marché en ce qui concerne la propriété et l’utilisation des terres.
I39|El Perú hacia 2062 : pensando juntos el futuro|Presenta, en la primera parte, proyecciones para la economía nacional a mediano y largo plazo en base a una lectura cuidadosa de nuestra historia económica, de los pronósticos sobre el contexto económico internacional y de las transformaciones demográficas y tecnológicas que nos afectan. Resalta la especial importancia del sector minero y también las brechas que persisten entre este sector y el resto de nuestra economía. En la segunda parte, analiza la pobreza multidimensional que caracteriza a las diversas regiones del país, la cual no ha podido erradicar por sí solo el crecimiento macroeconómico; y se reflexiona sobre los desafíos que esto implica para todos. ¿Qué hacer entonces para seguir creciendo con mayor inclusión social? ¿Cómo aprovechar mejor para ello los recursos que tenemos hoy? En la tercera y cuarta partes de este trabajo, se analiza dos temas fundamentales tanto para el crecimiento económico sostenido como para la inclusión social: la educación y la infraestructura pública. La quinta sección presenta conclusiones y recomendaciones. Aunque provienen de diversas disciplinas y perspectivas académicas, los investigadores que contribuyeron a este trabajo coinciden en la observación de que el Perú siempre ha tenido ventajas para crecer económicamente.
I39|Las políticas y programas sociales del gobierno de Ollanta Humala desde la perspectiva de la pobreza multidimensional|Salaverry es un pequeño puerto localizado a pocos kilómetros de la ciudad de Trujillo, al norte del Perú. Moviliza alrededor de 2.5 millones de toneladas de carga al año, en su mayoría, granel seco. Desde 1982, ENAPU, la empresa estatal que opera el puerto, ha venido reduciendo sus costos de dragado mediante el alargamiento de un molón retenedor de arena, solución que ha alterado el equilibrio dinámico de la costa y causado la virtual desaparición de las playas de Trujillo. Desde el punto de vista de las políticas públicas, el problema se vuelve aún más complejo si se toma en cuenta el alto costo de las obras necesarias para detener la erosión de las playas (US$ 150 millones), el incremento de la demanda por más y mejores servicios ambientales, y lo poco probable que resulta concesionar al sector privado una operación que genera una externalidad negativa tan seria. El objetivo de este estudio es el de examinar el conflicto entre el puerto de Salaverry y la ciudad de Trujillo desde el punto de vista económico, y determinar cuál es su solución más eficiente mediante análisis determinísticos y probabilísticos desde los puntos de vista público y privado. Los resultados indican que: (i) el terminal portuario de Salaverry no genera recursos suficientes para operar sin un subsidio, menos aún para pagar el costo de la reparación ambiental; (ii) para concesionar el terminal al sector privado, el gobierno deberá otorgar un subsidio cercano a los US$ 25 millones; y, (iii) cerrar el puerto no es recomendable, pues si bien mantenerlo operativo le costaría a la sociedad US$ 175 millones, cerrarlo le generaría costos por US$ 322 millones.
I39|Feminización de la pobreza en España: un análisis del estado de la cuestión<BR>[Feminization of poverty in Spain: a state-of-the-art review]|The purpose of this paper is dual: on the one hand, to look into a synthesis of the complex meaning of poverty; on the other hand, to look into the concept of the feminization of poverty, through both its theoretical analysis and empirical evidence in Spain in recent literature. There are several different methodologies for approaching the study of poverty, thus divergent results will be expected. Moreover, the feminization of poverty is not an unequivocal concept, having diverse approaches and therefore, many different ways to empirically measure it. The analysis of recent and limited literature about the feminization of poverty in Spain shows the lack of consensus among researchers about its conceptualization and measure.
I39|Modeling selected indicators of the financial situation of households in the Czech Republic|The aim of the paper is to estimate models for household classifi cation from the point of view of their financial situation. The models are constructed on the basis of data from the Living Conditions 2010 survey. The target indicators are the possibility of a household to afford a week-long vacancy outside home, the possibility of a household to afford paying an unplanned expenditure in a certain amount, and an evaluation of how a household is economical with its income. The explanatory indicators are the gender of the head of the household (HOH), the education level of the HOH, the marital status of the HOH, the age of the HOH, and the household type according to the OECD classifi cation. For this purpose, classifi cation trees and logistic regression were applied. The models obtained were evaluated according to the total success rate and the F-measure. The education level of the head of the household was found to be the most important indicator for the prediction.
I39|Patrones de segmentación del consumo de productos lácteos en España, 1958-2006|This article reconstructs the evolution of disparities in the consumption of dairy products in Spain from the late 1950s to the early twentyfirst century. At the start of the period, there were strong regional disparities, as well as a clear pattern of social hierarchization in the consumption of milk and milk derivatives. These gaps were (totally or substantially) narrowed during the phase of great expansion in consumption that took place until the 1980s. From then on, a new regime of consumption began to take shape and its segmentation pattern consisted mainly of a social re-hierarchization in the consumption of the newest and most dynamic products (refrigerated derivatives) and a significant generational factor in the contraction of milk consumption.
I39|How much international variation in child height can sanitation explain?|"Physical height is an important economic variable reflecting health and human capital. Puzzlingly, however, differences in average height across developing countries are not well explained by differences in wealth. In particular, children in India are shorter, on average, than children in Africa who are poorer, on average, a paradox called ""the Asian enigma"" which has received much attention from economists. This paper provides the first documentation of a quantitatively important gradient between child height and sanitation that can statistically explain a large fraction of international height differences. This association between sanitation and human capital is robustly stable, even after accounting for other heterogeneity, such as in GDP. I apply three complementary empirical strategies to identify the association between sanitation and child height: country-level regressions across 140 country-years in 65 developing countries; within-country analysis of differences over time within Indian districts; and econometric decomposition of the India-Africa height difference in child-level data. Open defecation, which is exceptionally widespread in India, can account for much or all of the excess stunting in India."
I39|La evolución de la pobreza en Bolivia: un enfoque multidimensional|Este documento construye una medida de pobreza multidimensional para Bolivia, basado en todos los derechos fundamentales establecidos en la Constitución de 2008 que pueden ser medidos en las encuestas de hogares; y documenta los cambios de pobreza observados en Bolivia durante la última década utilizando un enfoque multidimensional. En particular, extendemos el análisis de HernaniLimarino (2010) de la evolución de la pobreza monetaria con nuevas mediciones de líneas de pobreza desarrollados por Hernani y Eid (2013) y un análisis que incorpora cinco dimensiones no monetarias: acceso a educación, seguridad social de corto plazo (salud), seguridad social de largo plazo (pensiones), vivienda adecuada, y servicios básicos de la vivenda (electricidad, agua, saneamiento básico y telecomunicaciones). El análisis muestra que, durante el periodo 1999-2011, la pobreza monetaria ha mostrado una tendencia decreciente acelerada a partir del año 2005, con una tasa de reducción promedio de 4.5% anual, que representa 253,364 personas por año. Por otra parte, se han observado ligeros avances en el acceso a dimensiones sociales durante el periodo 1999-2005 en el área urbana, mientras que en el área rural se han mantenido niveles altos de privación. Estos resultados han generado que la pobreza multidimensional se haya reducido en 24 puntos porcentuales durante el periodo 1999-2011 pero también un aumento de las personas con vulnerabilidad social por el comportamiento elusivo de la pobreza no monetaria en el país.
I39|La Satisfacción en el Empleo: Algunas consideraciones y algunas estadísticas para Colombia (2008 a 2011)|Asumiendo que la satisfacción en el trabajo hace parte del bienestar general en la vida de las personas, se piensa que entre más contentos se sientan con sus empleos, son más productivas y con menores deseos de cambiar de trabajo. Existen tantas definiciones para la satisfacción laboral como formas de medirla, las cuales se agrupan en ¿objetivas¿ o ¿subjetivas¿, pero al final, todas pueden ser de carácter subjetivo. Con información para Colombia, se encuentra que los trabajadores, sin importar sexo y las condiciones en las que laboran, están satisfechos con sus actuales empleos
I39|La persistencia de la exclusión social en Bogotá, Colombia|El objetivo del artículo es analizar la existencia de estados de exclusión social persistentes en Bogotá (Colombia), comparando la situación de los años 2003 y 2007. Se inicia evaluando la exclusión social de los bogotanos para cada año de estudio, construyendo un indicador multidimensional; posteriormente se compara la problemática entre los años 2003 y 2007; y finalmente se hace un análisis por cohortes de edad para verificar los cambios en la exclusión social de los bogotanos. Los resultados muestran que pese al riesgo de caer en círculos viciosos en el tiempo, los individuos en Bogotá están encontrando formas de librarse de los estados de exclusión social.
I39|Los fundamentos económicos en la comprensión del mundo social en la infancia|El siguiente es un artículo de reflexión producto de la revisión del estado del arte sobre el desarrollo de la comprensión del mundo socioeconómico en la infancia. La vida cotidiana es una valiosa fuente de aprendizajes que le facilitan al niño el desarrollo de habilidades para desempeñarse social y económicamente desde temprana edad, y esto a la vez aporta al desarrollo de un pensamiento más complejo y apto para diversas operaciones. Sin embargo, la dinámica global actual representa un desafío para todos los agentes del mercado, y los niños que crecen en entornos vulnerables requieren de propuestas educativas que enriquezcan sus experiencias cotidianas y favorezcan el desarrollo de competencias para una mayor comprensión y desempeño en la dinámica socioeconómica que mueve al mundo.
I39|Estimación de la línea de pobreza para Antioquia mediante el sistema cuadrático de gastos|En éste documento se intenta estimar el consumo de subsistencia o línea de pobreza para la regiónde Antioquia utilizando el sistema cuadrático de gastos y usando como base de datos la encuestade calidad de vida del DANE año 2008. Se encuentra evidencia de que los alimentos son un biennecesario e inelástico cuando se estima el sistema para la región completa, no obstante, cuando seestima el sistema discriminando por región urbana o rural, se encuentra mediante la ley de Engelque hay menor calidad de vida en la zona rural ya que los alimentos tienen una alta participaciónen el gasto corriente en ésta zona, y además presentan elasticidad gasto de la demanda mayor auno (bien de lujo). Los resultados muestran también que el gasto mínimo de subsistencia en docediferentes grupos de bienes para la región de Antioquia es (a pesos del 2008) de $337789.15303
I39|Vorschläge zur Verbesserung der kapitalgedeckten Altersvorsorge aus verbraucherpolitischer Sicht|The success of the government-sponsored pension depends on three main factors: (i) Empowering willing consumers to save additional money for the future. For it simplified, standardized, and comparable information about Riester products and expected benefits are needed. (ii) False incentives for distribution of financial products must be eliminated. (iii) Regulation has to be effectively supervised and the consumer protection has to be a focus of the regulatory authority. Der Erfolg der staatlich geförderten Altersvorsorge hängt von drei wesentlichen Faktoren ab: (i) Die Verbraucher müssen tatsächlich willens sein, zusätzliche Sparleistungen aufzubringen. Dafür müssen sie aber auch einfache und transparente Informationen zu den Produkten und bestehenden Anwartschaften erhalten. (ii) Fehlanreize im Vertrieb von Finanzprodukten müssen beseitigt werden; und (iii) Regulierung muss eine wirksame Aufsicht umfassen. Dies setzt bei der Aufsichtsbehörde aber auch einen Paradigmenwechsel voraus: Der Schutz der kollektiven Interessen der Verbraucher muss in den Fokus der Aufsichtspraxis rücken.
I39|An Alternative Approach to Ending Economic Insecurity in Nigeria: The Role of Revolving Credit Association|Sustainable development is not possible when significant numbers of labour force are economically paralysed. Several policies were implemented to augment the disadvantaged populace to pave way for enable them to take the advantage of market opportunities. The major obstacles impeded government policies to recorded very little success arises from the failure to incorporate the targeted beneficiary in the design and implementation of such programme. Broader provision of financial support through credit and savings for acquisition of capital goods is crucial for effective economic management, the aim of which is to increase prosperity, equity and sustainability. The study proposed that rural dwellers should organise themselves into Credit Cooperative Societies, which could be used as Informal Financial Unit for Linkage Banking arrangement. The government (at all level) can also use these associations to channel their agricultural credit. The Credit Cooperative Societies will be used as a conduit for extending banking services to their members. This arrangement has worked in other places like Ghana and it is hoped to also work in Nigeria.
I39|Assessment of multidimensional poverty and effectiveness of microfinance-driven government and NGO projects in the rural Bangladesh|This paper has developed a multidimensional model usable in assessing economic, social, political and cultural dimensions of poverty by utilizing primary data collected from 78 villages in Bangladesh using a participatory approach. Employing the developed model, a comparative analysis has been performed between microfinance-driven government (GO) and NGO (non-government organization) projects to explore their relative effectiveness in enhancing wellbeing of the poor in rural Bangladesh. It is observed that GO agencies are more effective in enhancing ‘economic wellbeing’ of the poor, whereas NGOs are contributing more in the ‘social’ aspects of wellbeing. Findings also revealed that, as whole, GO agencies perform 42% better than NGOs in improving living standards of the rural poor which contradicts with the existing literature of poverty reduction projects in developing countries.
I39|Internal vs. International Migration: Impacts of Remittances on Child Well-Being in Vietnam|This paper intends to contribute to the literature on the effects of domestic and international remittances on schooling and child labour. Using the information gathered in the 1992/93 and 1997/98 Vietnam Living Standards Surveys (VLSS), we examine separately the school attendance rates and the incidence of child labour in remittance recipient households, as compared to households where this income source is absent. We apply ordinary least squares regression for the two cross-sections and a fixed-effects linear regression for the panel, using as dependent variables the child labour and school attendance ratios of children in each household. Our results indicate that the average child belonging to a remittance recipient household has a lower probability of working and a greater probability of going to school. Although international remittances are found to have a stronger beneficial impact than domestic ones in the cross-sectional analysis, the panel analysis reverses this result, showing that the only significant impact stems from domestic remittances.
I39|Crime and Erosion of Trust: Evidence for Latin America|Crime has tangible economic costs. It also has less understood and likely sizable intangible costs. In particular, widespread crime has the potential to weaken trust between citizens and institutions, undermine government reform efforts, and become an obstacle to development. Yet, the impact of crime on trust remains relatively unexplored in the literature. This paper analyzes the potential interrelationship between individual victimization and several measures of trust, including trust in formal public institutions and trust in informal private networks. It is based on a representative sample of individuals in 19 countries in Latin America. The empirical strategy is intended to mitigate overt biases and assess sensitivity to hidden biases. The results show that victimization has a substantial negative effect on trust in the local police but no robust effect on informal institutions. Governments may henceforth need to redouble efforts to reduce victimization and the resulting erosion of trust in public institutions.
I39|Internal vs. International Migration: Impacts of Remittances on Child Well-Being in Vietnam|This paper focuses on the effects of domestic and international remittances on children's well-being. Using data from the 1992/93 and 1997/98 Vietnam Living Standards Surveys, we investigate average school attendance and child labour in remittance recipient and non-recipient households. The results of our cross-section and panel analyses indicate that remittances increase schooling and reduce child labour. Although international remittances are found to have a stronger beneficial impact than domestic remittances in the cross-section analysis, the panel analysis reverses this result, showing that the only significant impact stems from domestic remittances.
I39|Migration as a rural development strategy and the migrants involved : an account of a migrants' hometown in Sichuan, China|"This paper attempts to describe part of the history of Chinese rural migration to urban industrial areas. Using a case study of a township in Sichuan, the author examines a type of rural development which she defines as a ""bottom-up"" style strategy of regional development. Different types of social mobility are observed in the case study, and over its long history, migration in the township has offered diverse means of social mobility to the local peasants. The paper concludes by considering the diversity and limits of Chinese social mobility at this stage."
I39|Technologies for Freedom: Una visión de la tecnología para el desarrollo humano /Technologies for Freedom: A Technological Approach to Human Development|La tecnología, pese a ser una valiosa herramienta para el desarrollo, no es el único factor que asegura el éxito de una intervención. En este trabajo se presenta una visión de los proyectos tecnológicos que tiene en cuenta los principios del Desarrollo Humano y se centra en ampliar las opciones de los individuos: el enfoque Technologies for Freedom. Tras testar el enfoque en 4 proyectos de cooperación en Perú y analizar los resultados, se concluye que los proyectos tecnológicos son un medio para ampliar las opciones de las personas, pero también para reforzar su habilidad para provocar cambios que valoran. Technology, despite being very important, is not the only factor that ensures the success of an intervention. This paper presents a technological approach that takes into account the principles of human development and focus on expanding the real choices that people enjoy: the Technologies for Freedom approach. After testing the approach in 4 cooperation projects in Peru and analyzing the results, we conclude that technology projects are a means to expand people's choices, but also to enhance their ability to make changes happens.
I39|The Socio-Communicational Style and the Need for Supervision of Professionals from the Social Services (English version)|The present paper aims to make an analysis of the way supervision is perceived in the Romanian professional community working with people in difficulty. Defining supervision includes four dimensions: a professional view, in which supervision is seen as a part of the integration process and professional development; a social support dimension; a third emphasizes learning, supervision as education, teaching; and the last dimension is that of control. In this study we performed a research on professionals involved in supervision: psychologists and social workers. Our findings show that education is the best accepted way of seeing supervision, while that of control is the most rejected one. A huge majority 94.5% of the investigated professionals appreciate the role of supervision. Approximately 50% of the subjects see the supervisor as educator. Professional development and professional learning are seen as the advantages of supervision.
I39|Framing and Consolidating the Assessment of Outcome-Based Learning (OBL) in higher institutes in Hong Kong: An example case demonstration (English version)|Aiming at providing quality teaching and learning in higher education, the pendulum of education has recently swung back to Outcome-Based Learning (OBL), in which higher education institutes need to assess the extent to which they have attained those learning outcomes planned for their students. However, OBL assessment is still at its developmental stage with amorphous nature. For this, the present paper proposes a mixed-method approach and consolidates the assessment by providing different methods, namely expert-panel assessment, qualitative longitudinal study, institute-level survey, and course-level evaluation, as means of obtaining more precise results. Integrating findings from different methods is also briefly discussed.
I39|Lifelong Learning in the Knowledge Economy: Considerations on the Lifelong Learning System in Romania from a European Perspective (English version)|Lifelong learning is currently one of the mostly used concepts in European Union’s attempt to achieve the objective to become the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world. Since learning is embedded in human nature, various forms of the concept emerged simultaneously in different countries where they developed individually, thus creating a multi-faceted concept that was recently brought in the spotlight of the scientific arena. The purpose of this paper is to bring to the attention the ‘facets’ of the lifelong learning concept,its evolution over the years and the ways it is recognized to help the achievement of the knowledge economy. The exploration of the features of the knowledge economy with far-ranging implications for education and training, the challenges raised by the knowledge economy for education and training systems, and the emergence of the lifelong learning concept aiming to equip learners with the skills and competencies they need to succeed in a knowledge economy is done thorough a theoretical research based on an extensive literature review to allow for a clear understanding of the concepts of knowledge economy and lifelong learning, and of their interlinks. In Romania, the concept of lifelong learning as such is quite new. Some aspects, like adult continuous education and professional training as well as the apprenticeship at workplace were offered extensive attention, but an integrative vision on lifelong learning was not transposed into legislation and practice, until recently. The paper offers a review of the measures taken for the development of the lifelong learning system in Romania. The most recent, the Law of Education 1/2011 set the premises for the desired lifelong learning system and aligned the Romanian educational system with the European vision on lifelong learning to facilitate the emergence of the knowledge economy.
I39|Theory-Driven Evaluation: Finding the ‘Invisible’ Children in Romania (English version)|This paper presents a case of theory-driven evaluation of a development programme for vulnerable children in Romania. The project targets those children who are in fact ‘invisible’ for governments and society. Finding them has been based on a community-census conducted by the social workers employed especially for the project’s activities. The paper evaluates the project effectiveness and sustainability, making explicit all the theoretical assumptions. The sustainability of human resources and that of preventive practices are shown to be highly problematic.
I39|On the Measurement of Indignation|Recently, a lot of attention is given to income variations occurring at the top of the income distribution. “What happens to the top 1%?” is a question of crucial importance on the political level (Occupy Wall Street Movement) as well as on income inequality measurement level. Despite this increased interest, there is no rigorous measurement framework available in the literature for the measurement of “indignation”. To fill this gap, this paper proposes a simple framework for the measurement of indignation. It exposes the ethical principles underlying an indignation index and develops restricted positional dominance conditions that produce robust orderings of indignation between income distributions. It also proposes a parametric class of indignation indices that may be used to produce complete orderings when the restricted positional dominance tests do not lead to satisfactory orderings. Finally, the paper offers a brief empirical illustration using the World Top Incomes Database.
I39|Reduction of disaster vulnerability through Indigenous knowledge|Linking indegenious knowledge of the community with modern techniques to mesure, analyse and reduce disaster vulnerability is one way of engaging and moblising community capacity. This paper discuses he use of the local/ indegenious knowledge into disater management. It suggest a way to moblise available human and technical resources in order to strengthen a good partnership between local communities and local and national institutions. The study conducted through field work in two districts “Thatta and Badin” of coastal area of Sindh Province of Pakistan. Multistage cluster sampling technique has used to select the sample size of 360 households from the area. Data was collected through well structured questioner. With the increasing socio-economic changes in this global village, local knowledge is wear away unremittingly and having no severe to sightsee. New peers are accepting new ways of life and grownup groups reminisce very less. Proper utilization of local wisdom, knowledge along with modern tools and techniques can give rid from disaster worst situation and can reduce risk. To measure local knowledge and wisdom of the community statistically new model has developed through primary data, Model for local knowledge. In the model Local Knowledge is dependent variable whereas, age, experience, living status and prediction about disasters are independent variable. The impact of these independent variables on dependent variable has measured through multiple regressions and in the end suggestions and recommendations put forward in the light of local vulnerability to have minimum loss in upcoming disasters.
I39|How much international variation in child height can sanitation explain?|Physical height is an important economic variable reflecting health and human capital. Puzzingly, however, differences in average height across developing countries are not well explained by differences in wealth. In particular, children in India are shorter, on average, than children in Africa who are poorer, on average, a paradox which is often called the Asian enigma. The primary contribution of this paper is to document that cross-country variation in sanitation statistically explains a large and important fraction of international height differences. Over a billion people worldwide and more than half of Indian households defecate openly without using a toilet or latrine, introducing germs into the environment that cause disease and stunt children's growth. I apply three complementary empirical strategies to Demographic and Health Survey data to identify the fraction due to sanitation: country-level regressions using collapsed DHS surveys; within-country analysis of differences between India's first and second DHS surveys; and econometric decomposition of the India-Africa height difference in child-level data. Open defecation, which is exceptionally widespread in India, accounts for much of the excess stunting in India.
I39|Determinants of Food Insecurity among Households in Addis Ababa City, Ethiopia|Even though there is long-held belief that urban populations are better off, or even favoured than rural populations, the recent food and financial crises have highlighted the problem of urban food insecurity in developing countries. Hence, the overall objective of this study was to examine the determinants of food insecurity among urban households in Addis Ababa city. To do so, both descriptive statistics and econometric analysis were employed. Descriptive statistics used Foster, Greer and Thorbeck distributional measure of food insecurity while econometric analysis used binary logistic regression model to analyze the data of a set of socio-economic variables as explanatory variables and food insecurity as independent variable. The head count index shows that 58,16 % of the total households are below the food insecurity line. The food insecurity gap and severity were 20 % and 9,4 %, respectively. The result of the logistic regression model estimate indicates that out of the 10 factors included, 6 were found to have a significant influence on the probability of being food insecure at less than 10 % significance level. The variables considered were household size, age of household head, household head education, and access to credit, household asset possession, and access to employment. Efforts should be made to improve income earning capacity of households, their education level with particular focus on vocational training, reduce household size with a view to reducing their dependency ratio and access of credit to the needy and trained people needs to be provided with proper targeting criterion.
I39|Quinoa: An Option for Improving Rural Income in Bolivia|"This research examines the production of quinoa as an option for improving rural incomes in the Altiplano of Bolivia; due to, on one hand, the grain is aligned perfectly to the customs and traditions of work and family of the habitants of this region, on the other hand, international demand for the product has increased substantially generating good economic opportunities and better prices. Through microsimulation is observed that in the the Southern Highlands households would benefit from the production and marketing of quinoa, and may even significantly increase these revenues (decreasing poverty levels) increasing the productivity of the land or substituting other crops by it. However, in other highland areas the grain production has a modest impact in terms of income and poverty. These differences explain why just the Southern Highlands produces a variety high demand, ""la quinua real"" while in other areas the other agricultural activities are relatively more profitable alternatives."
I39|Economic Decision-Making in Poverty Depletes Behavioral Control|Economic theory and conventional wisdom suggest that time preference can cause or perpetuate poverty. Might poverty also or instead cause impatient or impulsive behavior? This paper reports a randomized lab experiment and a partially randomized field experiment, both in India, and analysis of the American Time Use Survey. In all three studies, poverty is associated with diminished behavioral control. The primary contribution of this empirical paper is to isolate the direction of causality from poverty to behavior. Three similar possible theoretical mechanisms, found in the psychology and behavioral economics literatures, cannot be definitively separated. One supported theoretical explanation is that poverty, by making economic decision-making more difficult, depletes cognitive control.
I39|Extending the Empirical Basis for Wealth Inequality Research Using Statistical Matching of Administrative and Survey Data|Social security entitlements are a substantial source of wealth that grows in importance over the individual's lifecycle. Despite its quantitative relevance, social security wealth has been thus far omitted from wealth inequality analyses. In Germany, it is the lack of adequate micro data that accounts for this shortcoming. The two main contributions of this paper are: First, to elaborate a statistical matching approach that complements information on net worth as surveyed in the German Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP), a population representative panel study, with information on social security wealth from the Sample of Active Pension Accounts (SAPA), a large-scale administrative dataset maintained by the German Statutory Pension Insurance. Second, we show to what extent the inclusion of social security wealth affects the level and the distribution of individual net worth as well as overall inequality. The present value of pension entitlements (including entitlements from the statutory pension system as well as from the separate system for civil servants) amounts to 5.6 trillion Euros, which corresponds to an average of 78,500 Euros per person - thus almost doubling the level of net worth. Compared to results based on net worth only, inequality of our amended wealth measure is about 25 percent less. Moreover, we present significant differences in pension entitlements across occupational groups with civil servants gaining most from the inclusion of public pension wealth in the extended wealth meas-ure and self-employed benefiting the least. Overall, our results provide clear indication for the relevance of including the notional wealth held in pension entitlements providing a less biased picture of the level and the socio-economic structure of wealth in Germany. Above and beyond such within-country variation, our findings may also be most relevant for comparative analyses across welfare-regimes.
I39|What about the Women? Female Headship, Poverty and Vulnerability in Thailand and Vietnam|This paper investigates whether different types of female?headed households in Thailand and Vietnam are disadvantaged in terms of current consumption, exposure to shocks, consumption smoothing capacities, as well as vulnerability to poverty and downside risk. Using a unique panel data set of over 4000 rural households in both countries, we find that female headed households with an absent husband appear to be better off in terms of current consumption in both countries (suggesting a positive impact of remittances). However, de jure female headed households in Thailand and Vietnam are more exposed to shocks and are less able to insure their consumption against income shocks than other households. In line with this finding de jure female headed households are also more vulnerable to perceived downside risk. Instead, de facto female headed households are less vulnerable to poverty and not worse off in terms of vulnerability to perceived downside risk.
I39|Is welfare dependency inherited? Estimating the causal welfare transmission effects using Swedish sibling data|This study tests whether individuals who grow up with parents on welfare benefits are themselves more (or less) likely to be welfare recipients as young adults, compared to individuals who grow up in non-welfare households. We use the sibling difference method to identify causal effects separately from the effects of correlated factors. While a descriptive analysis reveals a fairly high positive intergenerational correlation, especially in the late teens and conditional on a large set of household level factors, the sibling analysis provides no support for a causal effect of parents’ welfare benefit receipt on children’s future welfare use.
I39|Poverty estimates in India: Old and new methods, 2004-05|This paper provides estimates of poverty and inequality across states as also for different sub-groups of population for 2004-05 by using the old and new methods of the Planning Commission. The new method is critically evaluated with the help of some existing literature and its limitations discussed with regard to doing away with calorie norm, use of median expenditure as a norm for education when the distribution is positively skewed, difficulty in reproducing results for earlier rounds acting as a constraint on comparisons, and using urban poverty ration of the old method as a starting point to decide a consumption basket. More importantly, it discusses the implications on financial transfers across states if the share of poor is only taken into account without accounting for an increase in the total number of poor. Despite these limitations, on grounds of parsimony and prudence the state-specific poverty lines suggested in the new method, as also in the old method, are used to calculate incidence, depth (intensity) and severity (inequality among poor) estimates of poverty for different sub-groups of population, viz., NSS regions, social groups and occupation groups.
I39|More on Non-White Poverty and Economic Growth in the United States|We use Seemingly Unrelated Regressions (SUR), to explore the impact of three different measures of economic activity – growth in Gross Domestic Product (GDP), unemployment, and manufacturing employment – on poverty among whites, blacks and Hispanics in the United States. This analysis is unique in that we further disag- gregate the data, by looking at the impact of growth across racial/ethnic groups in four census regions. We find that the impacts of the various measures of economic activity vary greatly by the group and the region. In particular, Hispanic poverty tends to be strongly related to changes in the unemployment rate, while white poverty tends to be strongly related to changes in manufacturing.
I39|Needs Analysis for a Parental Guidance Program for Biological Family: Spain’s Current Situation (English version)|One of the current characteristics of child protection in Spain is the priority that we try to give to the socio-educative action with the biological family when the measure of kinship foster care is applied to achieve family reunification. In this paper the results related to the biological family, the risk and protection factors and its needs of socio-educative support are presented. They are the result of two5 consecutive studies carried out by the GRISIJ6 in which the educative needs with regard to Kinship foster care are analysed. The research compiles the information of 145 professionals of child protection in the Spanish territory distributed in 20 discussion groups. The qualitative results have been analysed by means of the content analysis technique. The results show the factors that can be favourable in a process of reunification of the child and of support. To highlight: a) the quality and frequency of visits and meetings; b) the quality of the relationship between the foster family and the biological family; c) the relationship between the biological family and the fostered child – affective bonds -: d) the reunification factors – involvement in the parental role and in motivation; e) the socio-educative support and the official and non-official resources, and f) the biological families’ guidance needs.
I39|Income, Democracy, and the Cunning of Reason|A long-standing debate pits those who think economic development leads to democratization against those who argue that both result from distant historical causes. Using the most comprehensive estimates of national income available, I show that development is associated with more democratic government--but in the medium run (10 to 20 years). The reason is that, for the most part, higher income only prompts a breakthrough to more democratic politics after the incumbent leader falls from power. And in the short run, faster economic growth increases the leader's odds of survival. This logic--for which I provide evidence at the levels of individual countries and the world--helps explain why democracy advances in waves followed by periods of stasis and why dictators, concerned only to entrench themselves in power, end up preparing their countries to leap to a higher level of democracy when they are eventually overthrown.
I39|Where are the poor in International Economics?|Despite the fact that a very significant proportion of the human population is living with financial difficulties and other constraints typical of poverty, scientific studies in the areas of Economics and especially in International Economics that address the issue of poverty and of poor countries are very few. Using bibliometric techniques, we measured the attention paid by authors from the field of International Economics to poverty and poor countries. To this end, we sorted and analyzed all articles published in the most important journal in the field, the Journal of International Economics (JIE) over the last forty years. Evidence shows that the authors who have published articles in the JIE have mostly developed studies focused on ‘Meso (industry, region) and microeconomic policies and issues of ‘International Trade’ and ‘International Finances’, and are usually of the ‘Formal’ and ‘Formal and Empirical’ types, where the topic ‘Poverty’ is very marginal (only 13 articles published in the JIE, less than 1% of the total, address this matter in any of its dimensions). Furthermore, in the more empirical articles, no country among those included in the group ‘Less Developed Countries’ deserved particular attention. The neglect of poverty and of the poor contrasts (and is related to) with the significant weight of articles that make use of formalization (more than 80%). Despite the trend for a decrease in exclusively ‘Formal’ articles, without any applied/empirical component, the (still) excessive focus on ‘mathematical’ accuracy (i.e., formalization), and the concomitant limited capacity to deal with the (social) problems of the real world, is an effective challenge to authors in the field of international economics and, in particular, to those who publish in the JIE, which must be overcome if we do not want international economics to become a “cyborg” science.
I39|Unmarried adolescents and filial assistance in eighteenth-century Flanders|Service was one of the main characteristics of the European Marriage Pattern in pre-industrial western Europe. During this stage of the life cycle adolescents could acquire the material assets and skills that were required to marry and start an independent household. Whilst in service, servants could save between 40 and 60 per cent of their cash wage. This paper illustrates that servants also used their earnings to assist their families. Parents of servants in particular could rely on both remittances in cash and in kind. As such, placing children in service was also a source of income for peasant household in Flanders. I argue that both patterns of land ownership and the restricted access to welfare ressources explain why servants displayed this altruistic behaviour.
I39|Inequality, Decomposition of Inequality and Stationarity of State Domestic Product: An Empirical Evidence from Twenty Indian States|In this paper an attempt has been made to detect stationarity and inequality of the State Domestic Product among twenty states of Indian Federal System. For the purpose, time series and panel data has been utilized. Inequality in SDP and per capita SDP among states has been estimated with the help of Gini coefficient, generalized entropy indices and Atkinson indices. An attempt has been made to decompose inequality by using panel data. Indices of inequality are higher for SDP in comparison with per capita SDP. All the indices of within group inequality are higher than between group for SDP while it is vice ~ versa for per capita SDP. Percentile Ratios', Generalized Entropy Indices and Atkinson Indices reveal the presence of unit root at level and zero lag which shows the inequality among states are not stationary during the period under study.
I39|Dreaming in Spain: Parental Determinants of Immigrant Children's Ambition|We examine determinants of educational and occupational aspirations and expectations among children of immigrants in Spain on the basis of a unique data set that includes statistically representative data for foreign-origin secondary students in Madrid and Barcelona plus a sample of one-fourth of their parents. Independently collected data for both generations allow us to establish effects of parental characteristics on childrens orientations without the confounding potential inherent on childrens reports about parents. We analyze first determinants of parental ambition and, through a series of step-wise regressions, the effects of these goals and other parental and family characteristics on childrens aspirations and expectations. A structural equations model synthesizes results of the analysis. The model confirms some predictions from the existing research literature, but rejects others. Parental goals, knowledge of Spanish, sex and childrens age relative to class year as shown to be the major determinants of childrens level of ambition. Implications for theory and policy are discussed.
I39|Who Are We? Parental Influences on Self-identities and Self-esteem of Second Generation Youths in Spain|We review the literature on determinants of ethnic/national self-identities and self-esteem as a prelude to examining these outcomes among a large, statistically representative sample of second generation adolescents in Madrid and Barcelona. While these psycho-social outcomes are malleable, they still represent important dimensions of immigrant adaptation and can have significant consequences both for individual mobility and collective mobilizations. Current theories are largely based on data from the United States and other Anglophone countries. The availability of a new large Spanish survey allows us to test those theories in an entirely different socio-cultural context. In addition to having data on close to seven thousand second generation youths, the study includes a survey of the parents, allowing us to examine directly how parental factors affect adolescent psycho-social outcomes. Theoretical and practical implications of results are discussed.
I39|A Better Deal for Cohabiting Fathers' Union Status Differences in Father Involvement|We use the package deal framework to study the trajectory of father involvement over time as a function of union status, while also examining reporting differences in father involvement by parent gender. Data on 4,224 mother-father pairs are from the Fragile Families and Child Well-Being Study. Average father involvement at the child's first birthday is 3.25 days per week and declines at a rate of .17 days per year. Mothers, on average, report father involvement to be .57 days less than fathers report. Parents who remain in a continuous coresidential union, who transition from cohabitation to marriage, or who transition from a noncoresidential state to a coresidential union experience the highest levels of father involvement and the lowest levels of discrepancy between mothers' and fathers' reports. Cohabiting fathers exhibit higher average levels of father involvement than married fathers. We discuss the place of cohabiting families in light of our findings.
I39|Unintended Consequences of Mass Imprisonment: Effects of Paternal Incarceration on Child School Readiness|Though sociologists have examined the consequences of mass imprisonment of African-American men on the incarcerated men, their families, and their communities, no study has considered its impact on racial disparities in educational achievement. Analyzing the Fragile Families and Child Wellbeing Study and its rich paternal incarceration data, this study asks whether children with fathers who have been in prison are less prepared for school both academically and behaviorally as a result, and whether racial disparities in imprisonment explain some of the gap in white and black children's educational outcomes. Using a variety of estimation strategies, I show that experiencing paternal incarceration by age 5 is associated with lower child school readiness in behavioral but not cognitive skills. While the main effect of incarceration does not vary by race, boys with incarcerated fathers in their early childhood years have substantially worse behavioral skills at school entry. Because of the negative effects of incarceration on boys? behavioral skills and the much higher exposure of black children to incarceration, mass incarceration facilitates the intergenerational transmission of male behavioral disadvantage, and plays a role in explaining the persistently low achievement of black boys.
I39|Poverty – Fatality Or Circumstance? The Principle Of “Take-Off” From Poverty|Poverty is one of the most challenging issues to be addressed by contemporary society. Although it could be considered as a legacy of previous era and it was addressed by a wide range of experts, a meaningful solution is still to come. The paper looks to the content of the poverty concept, reviews the causes of it and how it is approached by various ideologies and formulates a principle – “take-off” – that could serve as guidance for reducing or removing it. This principle refers to perspective, motivation that transforms perspective into a tangible goal, and external support that could be engaged directly through investments, jobs or indirectly through education, health assistance, and social work.
I39|Emergence and development perspectives of the third sector in Bulgaria|Since the civil society has been defined as an important participant in the policy-making process in the White paper on European governance, a question that raised discussions relates to the possible strategies to stimulate civic consciousness and common action. The problem is twofold, considering the differences in the established social relationships in the countries of Eastern and Western Europe. This paper aims to shed light on Bulgarian model of social economy. The analysis draws on a number of representative initiatives that have emerged in the recent years in Bulgaria and could be traced back to social economy’s leading principles and ideology. The study corroborates the necessity to escape from the general assumption that the institutional framework is sufficiently enough to create and maintain stable third sector. This imposed generalization proves to be misleading. Beyond the formally established rules to follow, remains the notion for self-initiative, responsibility and social commitment.
I39|Measuring the quality of life in Merida by means of fuzzy logic|In this paper we build a model for measuring the quality of life of households in the metropolitan area of Mérida (Venezuela) by means of fuzzy logic and by considering a broad set of indicators used in the theoretical studies of quality of life. The methodology used is fuzzy subsets, a technique that allows us to measure and evaluate all aspects that explain life quality from an integrative dimension.
I39|Ciclos largos de nivel de vida biológico en España (1750-1950): propuesta metodológica y evidencias locales|This work proposes an applied methodology based on the logistic regression to establish the sign of long-term trends in height from male anthropometric data collected since the Ancient Regime when mandatory conscription system was implemented in Spain. Data refer to male cohorts born from mid 18th century to mid 20th century. Broad cohort aggregations and control on the minimum required height as well as on age and municipality serve to implement the logistic regression model. Results display a downward trend in stature for cohorts born throughout the 19th century taking those born prior to 1800 as the reference. These results are statistically significant for the cohort group 1850-1899 as well as for those born after 1900 who display a clear recovery. Given that the 19th-century local series constructed in Spain up to now show similar trends, we think that these outcomes may serve as a first valid approach to the trends followed by the nutritional status prior to the socioeconomic modernization process experienced by Spain. KEY Classification-JEL: I39, I19, N50, P25
I39|L’inégalité au temps de l’égalité : démocratie, industrialisation et paupérisme chez Alexis de Tocqueville|Tocqueville has been described as nostalgic of former times and aristocracy. According to this view, his criticisms of democracy show his preference for aristocratic societies. Here I try to show that it is not nostalgia, but his acute perception of the advantages and shortcomings of democracy that underlies Tocqueville’s reasoning. His analysis of pauperism illustrates the realism that characterizes his writings and that prevents him not only from being a nostalgic but also from being blinded by the advances of history. This text explores the sources of conflict between the rich and the poor which Tocqueville presents in order to show the risk in the increase in the number of poor workers and the possible emergence of a new aristocracy separated from the political community.
I39|Household Health Expenditure in Mexico and its Relation with Resource Availability, Remittances and Intra-household Allocation|This study analyzes the effect that the availability of resources and remittances have on household healthcare expenditure, as well as its intra-household allocation, a topic that has barely been explored in the case of Mexico. Using a Tobit model and GLS, we find that health is a luxury good, with an expenditure elasticity useful for social valuation close to 2.0, and another useful for private investment of 1.24. In contrast to institutional transfers, which proved not significant, remittances show an additional effect for the population lacking labor or social security. Significant gender differences are also found for certain age groups.
I39|Características de la marginalidad urbana: el caso del Estado de Oaxaca|Any conventional poverty line, determined from the purchase power standard ought to establish distinctions inside the essential expenditures, defining that poverty line, in the urban space as well as in the countryside. Migration flows toward cities are the result of employment composition. Farming activities are developed in rural fields, meanwhile industrial and service ones are achieved in urban spaces. Urban expansion has a diversifying capability for income and occupational structure. Marginalization is related to the anarchical urban growing, one of which consequences is that population groups can be found at the periphery, searching for job or carrying out low productivity activities.
I39|Immigration as a Threat: The Effect of Gender Differences Among Luxembourg Residents with and without a Migration History|Anti-immigration sentiments have been extensively studied in recent years. Empirical studies showed that the out-group size together with the general economic condition of the host country determines the extent and the intensity of the anti-immigrant perception. While nearly all studies concluded that men and women differ in their perceptions, there is no explanation for this behaviour. Gender differences were the main focus of this paper, and we looked at two related issues. First, in our analysis, we sought a more detailed explanation of the particular reasons that foster this negative perception. Secondly, while the majority of studies focused exclusively on perceptions of the native population, we included the perceptions of the non-native populations separately and looked at the differences among three groups, with gender being the primary focus both between and within groups. We found that both gender and immigration history mediates the threat perception in Luxembourg.
I39|Freedom as a hermeneutical pretext|Reformulation of the problem of freedom comes from a kaleidoscopic specifics of the contemporary world that is denying the great structural approaches. This can be developed through the convergence of sequences fractals completely disparate. The method of this research is to overcome the phenomenological structuralism with deconstruction of the real meaning, understood as a negotiation of the interpretations. Problem of freedom is „a pretext” of the hermeneutical process of opening building the semnificatory act.
I39|For an ethics the medical and social-education assistance and intervention for persons with disabilities (English version)|In the present study we aimed at presenting the image that the present-day Romanian society has formed on the way in which disabled persons correspond to the ethical norms, in view of their integration and normalisation within society. The group of subjects considered in the research was composed of higher education graduates: 250 specialists (doctors, psycho-pedagogues, social workers) that work in institutions for the recovery and rehabilitation of persons with various disabilities (intellectual, sensorial, motion disabilities) and 250 non-specialists (engineers, economists). The questionnaire used during the research comprises five insulating negative items and five integrating positive items. The results of the study showed differences between the specialists’ and non-specialists’ perception on the application of ethical norms in the medical and social-educational activity (hospitals, recovery institutions) as well as in the educational activity (schools) in the treatment of persons with disabilities, while the factors and means for improving the interaction with these people showed direct correlations in the subjects’ view. The conclusions of the study emphasised a better perception of the specialists compared to the perception of the non-specialists concerning the application of ethical norms in the medical-educational activities involving persons with disabilities. The perception of the subjects regarding the methods and the factors for improving the interaction with the persons with disabilities indicates on top position the development and the realisation of some joint programs, considering that every member in the community has to be actively involved in the successful integration of these persons.
I39|Assessment of knowledge on prevention of dental caries in a group of children from disadvantaged families in Romania (English version)|The purpose of the paper is the identification of knowledge regarding the prophylaxis of dental caries in a group of children coming from disadvantaged backgrounds. A number of 86 children coming from disadvantaged environments were assessed, registered in SOS Children’s Villages Association of Romania - Counseling and Support Centre for Children and Parents of Cisn\die, who received questionnaires applied for this study purpose. Daily brushing requirement is known by a rate of 89.5% children included in the study, 96% of children knowing that they should have their own toothbrush. The toothbrush change frequency is known by 68.6% of study participants. When asked about the technique of brushing, the response rate was only 52.3%, there is a large number of questionnaires that had not marked any answer to this question. The role of auxiliary dental hygiene means is known in the proportion of 79.1% for mouthwash, and 50% for the dental floss. There is a significant difference between flossing and mouthwash (
I39|Family strengthening program. Evaluation report (English version)|The evaluation aimed at measuring the impact that the Family Strengthening Program run by SOS Children’s Villages in district 1 of Bucharest had on children, families and communities. In order to do this, 125 beneficiaries’ files (86 closed cases and 39 working cases) were analysed. In order to collect quality data, interviews took place with 9 mothers and 6 children and with the program’ staff, as well as focus groups with the beneficiaries whose files were closed, focus groups with beneficiaries from the existent beneficiaries category and focus groups with partners.
I39|Mobilidade intrageracional de renda no Brasil [Intragenerational income mobility in Brazil]|The purpose of this study is to measure intragenerational income mobility in Brazil and its several population subgroups within the period 1995-2005. To this end, the mobility axiomatic approach and dynamic instruments proposed by Aebi et al. (1999) are considered. Calculations of mobility indexes and the Markov transaction matrix indicate that Brazil presents low intragenerational income mobility, suggesting that its social structure is relatively rigid. Also, important heterogeneities within each subgroup were observed, thus corroborating the intergenerational results indicated by Ferreira and Veloso (2006).
I39|Chronic and Transitory Poverty over the Life Cycle|This study estimates chronic and transitory rates of poverty in Australia using the concept of permanent income and longitudinal data covering the period July 2001 through June 2007. We sketch a picture of chronic and transitory poverty over the life cycle by decomposing the poverty rate for the entire population into poverty rates for age categories that range from childhood, through adulthood, to old age. The measure of household income that underlies our poverty rates includes imputed rent on owner-occupied, public and rent-free housing, which has a large influence on measured poverty, particularly among older members of the population. We also document changes in chronic and transitory poverty from the period July 2001-June 2004 to the period July 2004-June 2007 and use a jack-knife procedure to test their statistical significance.
I39|Nicaragua: el desafío pendiente de superación de la pobreza<BR>[Nicaragua: a pending challenge to overcome poverty]|This paper discusses why Nicaragua is today one of the poorest countries in the region of Latin America and the Caribbean. Lack of sustained economic growth is viewed as the main cause of poverty in the country. The effects of political conflicts on the breaks of the long term growth path are analized and it is warned about the risk of a new disruption in the economic development of the country due to the absence of a political consensus as a nation.
I39|Institutions, Famine and Inequality|In this paper we analyze whether and which political institutions are important for famine prevention and for keeping the levels of inequality low. While famines are sudden crises hitting a country, inequality is a structural problem. As a consequence, the institutions needed might be very different. The econometric exercises realized on a group of emerging and developing countries confirm the validity of Amartya Sen’s “democracy prevents famine” argument, while democracy is not a significant determinant of income inequality. These results are in line with previous ones, suggesting an unclear role of democratic institutions in facing other structural problems, such as hunger and poverty. Moreover, two main institutional indicators, computed by the World Bank, “control of corruption” and “government effectiveness” are negatively correlated with famine mortality, suggesting that the policy environment, the level of bureaucracy, governmental capacity to take decisions and implement them in a short period are relevant factors for reducing famine mortality. In contrast, political stability explains better income inequality in our sample of countries. Social peace and cohesion are deterrent for inequality, but the direction of the relationship should be investigated further.
I39|Strong State Society Synergy: A Novel Approach to Governance for Ameliorating Poverty in India|No abstract is available for this item.
I39|Vulnerability to Poverty: A Microeconometric Approach and Application to the Republic of Haiti|This paper investigates vulnerability to poverty in Haiti. Research in vulnerability in developing countries has been scarce due to the high data requirements of vulnerability studies (e.g. panel or long series of cross-sections). The methodology adopted here allows the assessment of vulnerability to poverty by exploiting the short panel structure of nested data at different levels. The decomposition method reveals that vulnerability in Haiti is largely a rural phenomenon and that schooling correlates negatively with vulnerability. Most importantly, among the different shocks affecting household’s income, it is found that meso-level shocks are in general far more important than covariate shocks. This finding points to some interesting policy implications in decentralizing policies to alleviate vulnerability to poverty.
I39|The Institutional Basis of Gender Inequality|In this paper we construct the Social Institutions and Gender Index (SIGI) and its five subindices Family code, Civil liberties, Physical integrity, Son Preference and Ownership rights using variables of the OECD Gender, Institutions and Development database. Instead of measuring gender inequality in education, health, economic or political participation, these indices allow a new perspective on gender issues in developing countries. The SIGI and the subindices measure long-lasting social institutions which are mirrored by societal practices and legal norms that frame gender-relevant meanings and form the basis of gender roles. The subindices measure each one dimension of the concept and the SIGI combines the subindices into a multidimensional index of deprivation of women caused by social institutions. Methodologically, the SIGI is inspired by the Foster-Greer-Thorbecke poverty measures. It offers a new way of aggregating gender inequality in several dimensions, penalizing high inequality in each dimension and allowing only for partial compensation between dimensions. The SIGI and the subindices are useful tools to identify countries and dimensions of social institutions that deserve attention. Empirical results confirm that the SIGI provides additional information to that of other well-known gender-related indices.
I39|The Impact of Agricultural Technology Adoption on Poverty: The case of NERICA rice varieties in Benin| This study examines the relationship between agricultural technology adoption and poverty with a focus on New Rice varieties for Africa (NERICA). The NERICAs are a group of rice varieties developed by the Africa Rice Centre during the 1990s, resulting from the inter-specific crosses between the Oryza sativa high yielding rice species from Asia and the locally adapted and multiple-stress resistant Oryza glaberrima African rice species. They are believed to provide great hope for African agriculture. Introduced in Benin in 1998, there has been no published analysis on the impact of their adoption by farmers. The paper uses the counterfactual outcomes framework of modern evaluation theory to estimate the Local Average Treatment Effect (LATE) of NERICA adoption on household expenditure among 268 households from rural Benin. Results indicate that the adoption of NERICA varieties has a positive and significant impact on household expenditure. Furthermore, the impact is higher among female-headed households (161.75 FCFA/day) than male-headed households (128.34 FCFA/day). The findings suggest that there is a scope for reducing poverty through the accelerated adoption of NERICA varieties by farmers.
I39|EL SISTEMA eMÉXICO Y LOS CENTROS COMUNITARIOS DIGITALES COMO ALTERNATIVA PARA AFRONTAR LA BRECHA DIGITAL. Análisis empírico|Este estudio busca analizar cuál es el impacto real que tiene el programa eMéxico como alternativa para reducir la brecha digital en nuestro país. Para tal efecto el reporte se ha dividido en dos partes. En esta segunda parte se presentan los resultados de una encuesta a usuarios potenciales de los centros comunitarios y a los promotores de los mismos. La principal conclusión gira en torno a que los resultados alcanzados a la fecha, contrarios a la difusión oficial, están muy lejos de ofrecer una solución al problema de la brecha digital. Desconocimiento sobre la operación del programa y de la existencia de los centros comunitarios, falta de apoyo para el mantenimiento y operación, promotores no preparados, etc., son algunas de las principales causas para establecer una conclusión en este sentido.
I39|Vulnerabilidad de los hogares en Colombia ante cambios en el ciclo econo?mico|Utilizando informacio?n de encuestas de hogares y me?todos econome?tricos, se analizan los choques que enfrentan diferentes tipos de hogares en Colombia en distintas fases del ciclo econo?mico, la vulnerabilidad de los mismos y sus reacciones frente a choques de ingreso, y se evalu?a si los hogares cuentan con mecanismos de suavizacio?n del consumo. Se encuentra que aunque las fases de contraccio?n del ciclo afectan negativamente a todos los hogares, los ma?s vulnerables son aquellos que tienen un menor nivel de riqueza, mayor nu?mero de miembros, y jefes de hogar con niveles educativos medios. Tambie?n, en e?pocas de auge, los hogares ma?s pobres son ma?s vulnerables. En cuanto a las reacciones ante una cai?da de ingresos, es ma?s probable que los hogares utilicen mecanismos que reduzcan su nivel de consumo o aumenten su oferta laboral que mecanismos de suavizamiento del consumo, como el desahorro y el endeudamiento. Se encuentra que, con pocas excepciones, las respuestas de los hogares se ven afectadas por las caracteri?sticas de los hogares pero no por la fase del ciclo en la que se presenta el choque.
I39|Life Satisfaction Over Time Among Rural Low-income Mothers|The satisfaction with life (SWL) among rural low-income mothers was assessed using a sample of 163 mothers who participated in a multi-state, three-year longitudinal study. Dependent variables included those that represented various forms of capital (health, human, personal and social) as well as the mothers’ levels of life satisfaction from prior years. Nearly two-thirds of the rural mothers were satisfied with their life in all three years. Their level of satisfaction appeared to be constant, however, such persistence had a time frame of only one year. In all three years, their depression score and the adequacy of their income had a significant effect on SWL. Their confidence as a parent and home ownership affected their life satisfaction during two years. Finally, their satisfaction with social relationships, age of the youngest child, and total number of children had an impact on their life satisfaction for one year.
I39|New Measures of Gender Inequality: The Social Institutions and Gender Index (SIGI)and its Subindices|In this paper we construct the Social Institutions and Gender Index (SIGI) and its five subindices Family code, Civil liberties, Physical integrity, Son Preference and Ownership rights using variables of the OECD Gender, Institutions and Development database. Instead of measuring gender inequalities in education, health, economic or political participation, these new indices allow a new perspective on gender issues in developing countries. The SIGI and the subindices measure long-lasting social institutions which are mirrored by societal practices and legal norms that might produce gender inequalities. The subindices measure each one dimension of the concept and the SIGI combines the subindices into a multidimensional index of deprivation of women. Methodologically, the SIGI is inspired by the Foster-Greer-Thorbecke poverty measures. It offers a new way of aggregating gender inequality in several dimensions, penalizing high inequality in each dimension and allowing only for partial compensation between dimensions. The SIGI and the subindices are useful tools to identify countries and dimensions of social institutions that deserve attention. Empirical results confirm that the SIGI provides additional information to that of other well-known gender-related indices.
I39|Happiness and Beliefs in Criminal Environments|This paper uses newly available data to describe the distribution of crime victimization and other criminal activities (including drug trafficking and corruption) around the world. The paper then documents a negative (positive) correlation between measures of criminal activity and happiness and measures of positive (negative) emotions. The paper also studies the correlation between ideological beliefs and criminal activity, finding that crime victims are more likely to believe that hard work does not pay and that the government should increase the amount of redistribution to the poor.
I39|Un análisis dinámico de la privación en España /A Dynamic Analysis of Deprivation for Spain|Este trabajo analiza la evolución temporal de la privación o pobreza multidimensional. En la mayor parte de los trabajos de la literatura relativa a dinámica y pobreza se ha analizado con detalle la evolución, tipología y factores que afectan a la pobreza monetaria. En general, se ha constatado la presencia de altas tasas de salida y reentrada en la situación de pobreza dependiendo de shocks de renta transitorios. Al ser la privación un fenómeno más estable, se espera que su evolución sea menos acusada. Para comprobar esta hipótesis, se propone utilizar modelos de Markov latentes y mixtos aplicados a los datos del Panel de Hogares de la Unión Europea relativos a los años 1994 a 2001 para España. This paper analyses the evolution of poverty and deprivation. Besides, the study is focused on “consistent poverty”, defined as the combination of income and living conditions. In the poverty literature, other papers show high exit and re-entry rates depending on temporary income shocks. Since deprivation is a less mobile phenomenon, one would expect that there were few transitions. These conclusions are tested by using latent and mixed Markov models. This study is based on the ECHP data for Spain (1994-2001)
I39|Parental Job Loss, Income Shocks and the Education Enrolment of Youth|Parental job loss from layoffs and business failures that occur when youth complete high school completion are found to be negatively correlated with enrolment at university and community college. Estimates from a year-to-year education transition model using longitudinal data on youth and their parents are employed to identify both immediate and lagged effects of parental job loss on education transitions. It is argued that these results can be interpreted as evidence of a potential causal effect of parental income on youth education attainment, as job losses are likely to have persistent and exogenous negative effects on parental income.
I39|Which European model for elderly care? Equity and cost-effectiveness in home based care in three European countries|Long term care for the elderly is growing apace in developed economies. As growth is forcing change in existing production and delivery systems of elderly care services, the question arises as to how different systems compare in terms of cost-effectiveness, equity or quality. Based on an in depth survey carried out in Denmark, Ireland and Italy – the GALCA survey – this articles compares prevailing arrangements of home based long-term care in these three countries, focussing on the overall cost-effectiveness of the provisions as well as on employment equity for the care workers. Comparison between alternative types of provisions within each country suggests that home based care is generally, although not consistently, more cost-effective than care within institutions. Comparison of home care provisions across the three countries suggests that the Italian and the Danish systems are the most cost effective, but the Danish system is more equitable, overall. These latter findings are partly explained by progressive replacement in Italy of unpaid family carers with low cost immigrant workers directly employed by the families and often cohabiting with the elderly, the migrant-in-the-family model of long term care. This new model has spread across Southern Europe and raises complex issues of equity and sustainability from an employment perspective.
I39|Which European model for elderly care? Equity and cost-effectiveness in home based care in three European countries|Long term care for the elderly is growing apace in developed economies. As growth is forcing change in existing production and delivery systems of elderly care services, the question arises as to how different systems compare in terms of cost-effectiveness, equity or quality. Based on an in depth survey carried out in Denmark, Ireland and Italy – the GALCA survey – this articles compares prevailing arrangements of home based long-term care in these three countries, focussing on the overall cost-effectiveness of the provisions as well as on employment equity for the care workers. Comparison between alternative types of provisions within each country suggests that home based care is generally, although not consistently, more cost-effective than care within institutions. Comparison of home care provisions across the three countries suggests that the Italian and the Danish systems are the most cost effective, but the Danish system is more equitable, overall. These latter findings are partly explained by progressive replacement in Italy of unpaid family carers with low cost immigrant workers directly employed by the families and often cohabiting with the elderly, the migrant-in-the-family model of long term care. This new model has spread across Southern Europe and raises complex issues of equity and sustainability from an employment perspective.
I39|The Lisbon Strategy for social inclusion and the Common Agricultural Policy (Strategia di Lisbona per l'inclusione sociale e politica agricola comune: un esempio della difficile coerenza tra azioni di policy europee)|This paper represents a first attempt to evaluate the impact of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP), the most relevant EU policy in financial terms, on social inclusion, one of the most important issues included in the Lisbon Strategy, launched by the EU in 2000. To do so, the paper focuses on how the various CAP measures have affected rural poverty in the EU and tries to identify the elements of congruence and conflict between the CAP and social inclusion goals. Market-oriented actions seem to exacerbate differences between rich and poor farmers, because they tend to favour those areas where agriculture is already more competitive. By contrast, rural development measures may be more helpful, even if they are still not adequately financed and pose some problems in terms of governance. The new 2007-2013 programming cycle brings some positive innovations, but synergies between the CAP and social inclusion could be more fully exploited.
I39|El problema del empleo en una sociedad sigma|In the Latin American countries, there exists a paradox that is scarcely noticed: in the last decades, the education expansion has been significant, but the degree of inequality has not changed much. Is education a non equalizing system? This paper intends to resolve the paradox. Sigma theory is utilized for that purpose. Sigma is an abstract society, which is capitalist, overpopulated, and socially heterogeneous. In order to establish a set of theoretical relations between education, human capital, and income, a sigma model is constructed. One of the predictions of this model is that, in that set of relations, the individualâ€™s ethnicity matters. This hypothesis is then submitted to the statistical test. The test is carried out using Peruvian data, the 2003 National Survey of Households (ENAHO). The finding is that the prediction is consistent with facts. In a sigma society, therefore, the education systemâ€”as it operates nowâ€”does not seem to be an equalizing mechanism. In the light of this result, the particular nature of the employment problem in a sigma society is discussed.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
I39|Poor household participation in payments for environmental services in Nicaragua and Colombia|We evaluate the extent to which poor households are able to participate in Payments for Environmental Services (PES) scheme using data from a PES scheme implemented at two sites in Latin America. This allows us to compare environmental and livelihood impacts of PES across regions with different agronomic and socio-economic characteristics. In particular, one of our sites is composed almost entirely of poor or extremely poor households, while the other has households ranging from extremely poor to very well off. The results show that poorer households are in fact able to participate—indeed, by some measures they participated to a greater extent than better-off households. Moreover, their participation was not limited to the simpler, least expensive options. Extremely poor households had a somewhat greater difficulty in participating, but even in their case the difference is solely a relative one. Transaction costs may be greater obstacles to the participation of poorer households than household-specific constraints.
I39|Mapping Islamic Evolutionary in the Context of Social Justice and Poverty: A Complexity Approach|Why Islamic tradition in Morocco and Indonesia is different? Why Islamic patterns in urban communities such as Jakarta different with Islamic patterns of rural communities? Variation in Islam is an interesting challenge to be answered. Islam, even in aspects substance, namely spirituality, is still a historical thing. The substance of Islam manifested and expressed in public life. When embodied in aspects of life, the manifestation and expression became a tradition. The model Islam as such is the accumulation of tradition, which in this paper called Islamic religiousity (keberislaman). With modeled Islam like this, this paper discusses the dynamics of Islam in the context of social justice and poverty. Will be shown how the Muslim experience of cultural evolution, from simple becomes complex. The conclusion of this paper is that variation is a result of Islam of cultural evolution.
I39|Educating India’s poorest: A radical plan to attract private sector investment|Despite its recent economic successes, India still has a vast underclass where children either do not go to school or, if they did, they are forced to drop out early. In this brief paper, I outline a new model to attract private sector investment into the education of India’s poorest and most vulnerable children who, on present evidence, are unlikely to make their way out of the poverty trap anytime soon. The idea is radical but at its core the plan is simple and may be summed up thus: “The private sector will be invited to set up schools and educational institutions for our poorest and most disadvantaged children in return for an incentive never tried out before. As and when these children grow up and start earning their livelihood, the income tax paid by them to the central government over their life-time would be passed on to the entity that nurtured and educated them.” The financial viability of the model for Indian conditions was considered by Sankar Krishnan, a management consultant who was formerly a global partner with McKinsey and Company. His conclusions form an integral part of this paper.
I39|The impact of parental death on schooling and subjective wellbeing: Evidence from Ethiopia using longitudinal data|This paper investigates whether the death of a parent during middle childhood affects child schooling and subjective well-being (SWB) in Ethiopia. The data comes from two rounds of the Young Lives survey, conducted in 2002 and 2006, of an initial sample of 1000 children across 20 sentinel sites in Ethiopia. The children were 7 to 8 years of age in 2002 and 11 to 12 years of age in 2006, with around 80 losing a parent between rounds. The research finds that the mother dying reduces school enrolment significantly by around 22 per cent. It also increases the chance that a child cannot write at all (even with difficulty) by around 15 per cent, and cannot read at all or can read only letters (rather than words or sentences) by around 27 per cent, compared to if the mother had not died. In contrast, the father dying does not seem to have a consistent impact on the measured outcomes. A child’s gender does not affect the results. These findings have significant policy implications for Ethiopia where parental death has become a very potent shock that children are likely to face in middle childhood.
I39|Young Lives Round 2 Survey Report Initial Findings: Andhra Pradesh, India|This report contains initial findings of the Young Lives survey (round 2)using quantitative methods, for Andhra Pradesh India. The survey was carried out in 2006/7 and has a sample of 3000 children spread across 2 cohorts. Young Lives is an international longitudinal study funded mainly by the DFID (UK), aiming to understand the causes and consequences of childhood poverty.
I39|Poverty Alleviation through Zakah and Waqf Institutions: A Case for the Muslim Ummah in Ghana|The institutions of Zakah and Waqf are among several instruments instituted by Islam to combat poverty and enhance welfare in the society. While Zakah helps generate a flow of funds and recruit the necessary manpower, Waqf provides the material infrastructure and creates a source of revenue for use in, among others, social welfare enhancing activities both at family, community and state levels. This paper discusses the role of Zakah and Waqf institutions in poverty alleviation. The paper is analytical with presentation based on survey of relevant literature with a view to adding to existing literature and synthesizing opposing views on the socio-economic role of Zakah and Waqf and the process of their revitalisation in the modern time. The paper posits that Zakah serves as a unique mechanism of compulsory transfers of income and wealth from the haves to the have-nots in the community. Through Zakah, every individual in the society is assured of minimum means of livelihood, which provides social security system in an Islamic society. Waqf on the other hand, has been used to provide the material infrastructure and create a source of revenue for use in, among others, social welfare enhancing activities both at family, community and state levels. The paper concludes that to activate and revitalise the Zakah and Awqaf systems in Muslim societies and communities, there is dire need for reform in their management formulars and to address the unsettled issues inherent in the institutions.
I39|Analysis of subjective wellbeing in low-income transitional countries: evidence from comparative national surveys in Armenia,Azerbaijan and Georgia|Drawing on the comparative household surveys, this article examines subjective wellbeing in Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia, three low-income transitional countries located on the Caucasus. We found that economic factors explain a considerable part of the variation in subjective wellbeing. The results are significant and robust across all countries. Having a higher level of household income, university education and a larger number of people in household along with salary as a major income source positively affect subjective wellbeing. On the contrary, being unemployed or a migrant along with having social transfers as a major source of income negatively affect subjective wellbeing. Besides, subjective wellbeing is strongly associated with disagreement with the current direction of countries’development and withdrawal from discussing policy. We argue that analysis of subjective wellbeing can be used to enrich and validate the process of poverty analysis in the countries of the region.
I39|Social Ingredients and Conditional Convergence in the Study of Sectoral Growth|In this research article, we investigate the improved modelling ability and the outstanding policy advocacy of infusing health and education in sectoral growth equations of the South African economy. Our findings not only include improved and dependable modelling results but also provide distinct estimates of the returns on investment in health and education per sector using Iterative Seemingly Unrelated Regressions techniques. Additionally, this paper provides a theoretical description of the productivity effects of HIV/AIDS using sectoral equations. Also, this research investigates the diffusion process in the technological progress at the South African sectoral level and its impact on the study of social ingredients. Using a fixed effects model, some features of the diffusion process are explained.
I39|The Impact of the Flat Tax Reform on Inequality - the case of Romania|In this paper we focused on the flat tax impact on inequality in Romania. We compared 2005 against 2004, when we were able to isolate the flat tax impact from other factors. We found that the higher the gross wage is, the higher the flat tax gains are. The inequality indicators we calculated (the Gini index, the relative mean deviation, the coeficient of variation, the standard deviation of logarithms, the Mehran index and the Piesch index) show an increase in inequality determined by the flat tax. The Lorenz curve is illustrative, as only the last quantile of the population (richest 20%) appears as the clear winner of the flat tax. The results also indicate that the higher the income level, the higher the income elasticity of consumption. We conclude that the flat tax led to increased income inequality and it stimulated households consumption particularly among the wealthiest households.
I39|Social Ingredients and Conditional Convergence in the Study of Sectoral Growth|In this research article, we investigate the improved modelling ability and the outstanding policy advocacy of infusing health and education in sectoral growth equations of the South African economy. Our findings not only include improved and dependable modelling results but also provide distinct estimates of the returns on investment in health and education per sector using Iterative Seemingly Unrelated Regressions techniques. Additionally, this paper provides a theoretical description of the productivity effects of HIV/AIDS using sectoral equations. Also, this research investigates the diffusion process in the technological progress at the South African sectoral level and its impact on the study of social ingredients. Using a fixed effects model, some features of the diffusion process are explained.
