J00|Employment of People Ages 55 to 79|In 1995, 33 percent of people ages 55 to 79 worked. By 2018, that share rose to 44 percent. That growth was the result of continued increases in employment for women and a reversal of previously declining employment for men. The changes in employment of people ages 55 to 79â€”the period during which many people stop workingâ€”were related to changes in their demographic characteristics and the jobs they held, as well as to changes in Social Security.
J00|The drivers of income inequality in rich countries|Rising income inequality has recently come centre-stage as a core societal concern for rich countries. The diagnosis of the forces driving inequality upwards and their relative importance remains hotly contested, notably with respect to the roles of globalization versus technology and of market forces versus institutions and policy choices. This survey provides a critical review and synthesis of recent research. The focus is on income inequality across the entire distribution, rather than only on what has been happening at the very top. We pay particular attention to including what has been learned from the analysis of micro-data, to ensuring that the coverage is not unduly US-centric, and to analyses of the interrelations between the different drivers of inequality. The marked differences in inequality trends across countries and time-periods reflect how global economic forces such as globalisation and technological change have interacted with differing national contexts and institutions. Major analytical challenges stand in the way of a consensus emerging on the relative importance of different drivers in how income inequality has evolved in recent decades.
J00|Poor Little Rich Kids? The Role of Nature versus Nurture in Wealth and Other Economic Outcomes and Behaviors|Wealth is highly correlated between parents and their children; however, little is known about the extent to which these relationships are genetic or determined by environmental factors. We use administrative data on the net wealth of a large sample of Swedish adoptees merged with similar information for their biological and adoptive parents. Comparing the relationship between the wealth of adopted and biological parents and that of the adopted child, we find that, even prior to any inheritance, there is a substantial role for environment and a much smaller role for pre-birth factors and we find little evidence that nature/nurture interactions are important. When bequests are taken into account, the role of adoptive parental wealth becomes much stronger. Our findings suggest that wealth transmission is not primarily because children from wealthier families are inherently more talented or more able but that, even in relatively egalitarian Sweden, wealth begets wealth. We further build on the existing literature by providing a more comprehensive view of the role of nature and nurture on intergenerational mobility, looking at a wide range of different outcomes using a common sample and method. We find that environmental influences are relatively more important for wealth-related variables such as savings and investment decisions than for human capital. We conclude by studying consumption as an overall measure of welfare and find that, like wealth, it is more determined by environment than by biology.
J00|Marriage and Housework: Analyzing the Effects of Education Using the 2011 and 2016 Japanese Survey on Time Use and Leisure Activities|We analyze cross-sectional time-use diaries from the 2011 and 2016 Survey on Time Use and Leisure Activities (Shakai Seikatsu Kihon Chosa) to investigate the association between educational level and housework participation in contexts where educational attainment among women does not readily translate into workforce stability. We test whether higher levels of educational attainment are associated with the decrease in housework participation as the previous research in countries of the global north suggests. Our findings reveal that education is not likely to reduce housework participation among Japanese women. Married Japanese women with children are unlikely to reduce their time spent on housework with the increase of their educational level and married Japanese women without children are more likely to increase their housework participation proportionately to the level of their education. The results suggest that in Japan, the supply-side solutions to gender inequality (such as increasing educational opportunities for women) do not remedy the situation. The country needs to address structural and institutional barriers to gender equality.
J00|Labour Supply and Childcare: Allowing Both Parents to Choose|We develop and estimate a structural model of labour supply for two parent families in Australia, taking explicit account of the importance of childcare related variables. Our main contribution is to consider the labour supply decisions of both parents and their choice of childcare simultaneously. Labour supply decisions of mothers are found to be substantially more responsive to changes in their own wage (at intensive and extensive margins) than is the case for fathers, with minimal cross-wage labour supply responses from fathers. Our results imply that policies increasing the wage of mothers will be associated with marked increases in labour market participation and in the working hours of mothers in the Australian labour market, with little offsetting decline in the labour supply of fathers.
J00|Missing Data in Imputed Highest Grade Completed in the 2015 -2018 NBER CPS Extracts|"In 2015, the Current Population Survey (CPS) eliminated three questions related to educational attainment. These questions are used by the NBER to calculate the variable, ""Imputed Highest Grade Completed"" (ihigrdc) in their Monthly Outgoing Rotation Group (MORG) extracts. Imputed Highest Grade Completed provides a convenient measure of years of education and is based on the credential oriented CPS variable that is coded from 31 to 46. Because the NBER continues to use coding that relies on these eliminated questions to calculate ihigrdc, this variable has a missing value for 27.5% of the observations in the 2015Ã¢â‚¬â€œ2018 extracts. These missing values, in turn, lead to an average Imputed Highest Grade Completed of about 1.2 fewer years after 2014 than would result from using the whole CPS. We informed the NBER of this issue in January 2019; however, because this variable with missing values remains on their website for download as of this writing (July 15, 2019), we are posting this working paper to inform users of these data so that they may address the issue appropriately in their own work."
J00|Addressing Cross-National Generalizability in Educational Impact Evaluation|The evaluation of educational programs has accelerated dramatically in the past quarter century. While such evaluations were once almost exclusively conducted in the U.S., they have broadened dramatically across many countries of the world. At the same time, the methodology has improved, strengthening considerably the internal validity of various studies. We must now consider what conclusions can be drawn from the growing wealth of international results. In particular, available cross-national studies on a variety of topics suggest using caution when generalizing results, because the results vary systematically with a number of institutional characteristics of the different countries that are not explicitly considered in within-country analyses.
J00|Non-linear Incentives and Worker Productivity and Earnings: Evidence from a Quasi-experiment|Firms often use non-linear incentive systems to motivate workers to achieve specified goals, such as paying bonuses to reach targets in sales, production, or cost reduction. Using administrative data from a major Chinese insurance firm that raised its sales targets and rewards for insurance agents greatly in 2015, we find that increased incentives induced agents to increase sales of the increasingly incentivized life insurance products, bunched around the new targets, albeit in part with some low quality sales that led to canceled contracts, while reducing sales of products out-side the new incentive system. The greater non-linear incentives raised agent incomes and low-ered turnover and substantially increased firm revenues net of the increase in payments to agents. The stock market reacted to the new system with a jump in the firms’ share price relative to its main competitor by 15-20% in the days surrounding introduction of the new system.
J00|Marriage and Housework : Analyzing the Effects of Education Using the 2011 and 2016 Japanese Survey on Time Use and Leisure Activities|We analyze cross-sectional time-use diaries from the 2011 and 2016 Survey on Time Use and Leisure Activities (Shakai Seikatsu Kihon Chosa) to investigate the association between educational level and housework participation in contexts where educational attainment among women does not readily translate into workforce stability. We test whether higher levels of educational attainment are associated with the decrease in housework participation as the previous research in countries of the global north suggests. Our findings reveal that education is not likely to reduce housework participation among Japanese women. Married Japanese women with children are unlikely to reduce their time spent on housework with the increase of their educational level and married Japanese women without children are more likely to increase their housework participation proportionately to the level of their education. The results suggest that in Japan, the supply-side solutions to gender inequality (such as increasing educational opportunities for women) do not remedy the situation. The country needs to address structural and institutional barriers to gender equality.
J00|An Empirical Analysis of the Effects of Syrian Refugees on the Turkish Labor Market|We examine the effects of the recent influx of Syrian refugees on the Turkish labor market. Exploiting this natural experiment, we estimated the causal impacts of involuntary migration on labor market outcomes. We selected the five refugee-hosting regions with the highest number of refugees as treatment regions and four comparable regions with a low refugee-to-population ratio as control regions. Using a difference-in-differences estimation, we found that informal Turkish workers in the refugee-hosting regions were about 4% more likely to leave their job than workers in regions that did not widely host refugees. Such negative impacts on labor market outcomes became larger in 2014–2015 compared with 2012–2013. Furthermore, while females and older workers withdrew themselves from the labor market, males and younger workers become unemployed after the refugee influx.
J00|The Gender Earnings Gap in British Workplaces: A Knowledge Exchange Report|The gender earnings gap in Britain currently sits at some 18%, it has declined over time (Dickens 2007) but has also displayed considerable persistence over the last two decades. There is significant and continuing debate as to the determinants of the gap and how these have also developed over time. In addition to new material, this report includes and updates results presented in Butcher et al. (2016) and Mumford and Smith (2007 and 2009). We use the latest release of the Workplace Employee Relations Survey (WERS11) to explore the determinants of the gender earning gaps between males and females in Britain allowing us to take account of a wide range of the key causes of the scale of the gap.
J00|Understanding Intergenerational Mobility: The Role of Nature versus Nurture in Wealth and Other Economic Outcomes and Behaviors|Wealth is highly correlated between parents and their children; however, little is known about the extent to which these relationships are genetic or determined by environmental factors. We use administrative data on the net wealth of a large sample of Swedish adoptees merged with similar information for their biological and adoptive parents. Comparing the relationship between the wealth of adopted and biological parents and that of the adopted child, we find that, even prior to any inheritance, there is a substantial role for environment and a much smaller role for pre-birth factors and we find little evidence that nature/nurture interactions are important. When bequests are taken into account, the role of adoptive parental wealth becomes much stronger. Our findings suggest that wealth transmission is not primarily because children from wealthier families are inherently more talented or more able but that, even in relatively egalitarian Sweden, wealth begets wealth. We further build on the existing literature by providing a more comprehensive view of the role of nature and nurture on intergenerational mobility, looking at a wide range of different outcomes using a common sample and method. We find that environmental influences are relatively more important for wealth-related variables such as savings and investment decisions than for human capital. We conclude by studying consumption as an overall measure of welfare and find that, like wealth, it is more determined by environment than by biology.
J00|A Distributional Analysis of Upper Secondary School Performance|We examine the relationship between the distribution of upper secondary school performance and a range of individual and school level characteristics using unconditional quantile regression methods and data from Ireland. We find that determinants such as social class, maternal unemployment, extra private tuition, and working part-time have differential effects for low and high ability students and that important insights are lost by focusing on the conditional mean. The implication is that while certain factors can impact on whether or not a student is likely to proceed to higher education, other factors may affect where students go and what they study.
J00|A Distributional Analysis of Upper Secondary School Performance|We examine the relationship between the distribution of upper secondary school performance and a range of individual and school level characteristics using unconditional quantile regression methods and data from Ireland. We find that determinants such as social class, maternal unemployment, extra private tuition, and working part-time have differential effects for low and high ability students and that important insights are lost by focusing on the conditional mean. The implication is that while certain factors can impact on whether or not a student is likely to proceed to higher education, other factors may affect where students go and what they study.
J00|The Role of Human Capital Resources in East African Economies|This study deals with the role of human capital resources in economic growth. In economic growth, human capital is an important stock component that can affect the gross national income GNI more than gross domestic product GDP since GNI comprises the GDP itself and other income resources obtained from abroad. The empirical results of transmission mechanism channels in vector autoregressive model indicate that the observed human capital has long-run effects on the national income in a panel of nine East African countries from the year 1980 to 2015.The short-term transmission mechanism channels show that there is an important contribution of human capital resources HCR to the development of physical capital stock through GNI. The GNI has also a positive impact on the accumulation of physical capital stock via HCR. In addition, we also apply the time scaling decomposition of a panel wavelet analysis in Granger causality tests. The tests show that HCR and the GNI have a bi-directional causal relationship in the short-run, medium-and long-run. The recent trend shows that East Africa has the lowest level of human capital development which raises the issues of employment challenges faced by women more than men although it has achieved a rapid growth in expanding education. We, therefore, suggest that more due attention should be given to human capital resources than any other in attempt to achieve sustainable development in the process of successful economic progress.
J00|Factors Affecting the Labor Force Participation of People Ages 25 to 54|Since 1990, the rate of labor force participation for people ages 25 to 54 has dropped from 84 percent to 81 percent. Most of that change has been related to demographic factors, economic conditions, and the governmentâ€™s fiscal policies. In this analysis, CBO examines how seven demographic factors relate to participation in the labor force and how economic conditions and fiscal policies are expected to affect labor force participation over the next decade. CBO also examines what keeps people from participating in the labor force.
J00|Is the Impact of Employment Uncertainty on Fertility Intentions Channeled by Subjective Well-Being?|This article combines two apparently distinct strands of contemporary research on fertility: the literature on employment uncertainty and fertility and the literature on subjective well-being and fertility. We advance the hypothesis that the impact of term-limited work contracts and precarious jobs on fertility intentions is channeled by an individualâ€™s level of subjective well-being. To test this hypothesis, we adopt a formal framework for causal inference and apply techniques of mediation analysis to data from two rounds of the European Social Survey (ESS 2004 and 2010). Our analysis clearly suggested that the impact of employment uncertainty on fertility intentions depended on the level of subjective well-being: the negative effect was found only when subjective well-being was relatively low (i.e. life satisfaction levels equal or below 6). Detailed results show that parents and younger individuals reduced their fertility intentions more than the childless and older individuals when experiencing employment uncertainty and facing low subjective well-being. We also found that in 2010 â€“ while the economic crisis was underway â€“ it was especially the deterioration in menâ€™s position in the labor market that inhibited fertility planning.
J00|Reconsidering the Consequences of Worker Displacements: Firm versus Worker Perspective|Prior literature has established that displaced workers suffer persistent earnings losses by following workers in administrative data after mass layoffs. This literature assumes that these are involuntary separations owing to economic distress. This paper examines this assumption by matching survey data on worker-supplied reasons for separations with administrative data. Workers exhibit substantially different earnings dynamics in mass layoffs depending on the reason for separation. Using a new methodology to account for the increased separation rates across all survey responses during a mass layoff, the paper finds earnings loss estimates that are surprisingly close to those using only administrative data.
J00|Getting ahead by spending more? Local community response to state merit aid programs|In more than half of U.S. states over the past two decades, the implementation of merit aid programs has dramatically reduced net tuition expenses for college-bound students who attend in-state colleges. Although the intention of these programs was to improve access to enrollment for high-achieving students, it is possible that they had unanticipated effects. We analyze whether state funding for higher education and K-12 education changed as a result of program implementation, and whether local school districts attempt to counter any such changes. We employ two methodologies to study whether this has been the case: a difference-in-differences model and a synthetic control estimation strategy. We find robust evidence that implementation of state merit aid programs led to an economically (and statistically) significant decline in state funding for K-12 education, which was mostly offset through increases in local revenues by school districts. These results have important implications for understanding how merit aid policies could have unintended consequences for the students they aim to support.
J00|Is the Impact of Employment Uncertainty on Fertility Intentions Channeled by Subjective Well-Being?|This article combines two apparently distinct strands of contemporary research on fertility: the literature on economic uncertainty and fertility and the literature on subjective well-being and fertility. We advance the hypothesis that the impact of term-limited work contracts and precarious jobs on fertility intentions is channeled by an individual’s level of subjective well-being. To test this hypothesis, we adopt a formal framework for causal inference and apply techniques of mediation analysis to data from two rounds of the European Social Survey (ESS 2004 and 2010). Our analysis clearly suggested that the impact of employment uncertainty on fertility intentions depended on the level of subjective well-being: the negative effect was found only when subjective well-being was relatively low (i.e. life satisfaction levels equal or below 6). Detailed results show that parents and younger individuals reduced their fertility intentions more than the childless and older individuals when experiencing economic uncertainty and facing low subjective well-being. We also found that in 2010 – while the economic crisis was underway – it was especially the deterioration in men’s position in the labor market that inhibited fertility planning.
J00|The Effect of Sibling's Gender on Earnings, Education and Family Formation|We examine how the gender of a sibling affects earnings, education and family formation. Identification is complicated by parental preferences: if parents prefer certain sex compositions over others, children’s gender affects not only the outcomes of other children but also the very existence of potential additional children. We address this problem by looking at dizygotic twins. In these cases, the two children are born at the same time, so parents cannot make decisions about one twin based on the gender of the other twin. We find that the gender of the sibling influences both men and women, but in a different way. Men with brothers earn more and are more likely to get married and have children than men with sisters. Women with sisters obtain lower education and give birth earlier than women with brothers. Our analysis shows that the family size channel cannot explain the findings. Instead, the most likely explanation is that siblings affect each other via various social mechanisms.
J00|What is a Good School, and Can Parents Tell? Evidence on the Multidimensionality of School Output|Is a school’s impact on high-stakes test scores a good measure of its overall impact on students? Do parents value school impacts on high-stakes tests, longer-run outcomes, or both? To answer the first question, we apply quasi-experimental methods to data from Trinidad and Tobago and estimate the causal impacts of individual schools on several outcomes. Schools' impacts on high-stakes tests are weakly related to impacts on low-stakes tests, dropout, crime, teen motherhood, and formal labor market participation. To answer the second question, we link estimated school impacts to parents’ ranked lists of schools and employ discrete choice models to estimate parental preferences. Parents value schools that causally improve high-stakes test scores conditional on average outcomes, proximity, and peer quality. Consistent with parents valuing the multidimensional output of schools, parents of high-achieving girls prefer schools that increase formal labor market participation, and parents of high-achieving boys prefer schools that reduce crime.
J00|The Great Recession, financial strain and self-assessed health in Ireland|Abstract In this paper, we study the effects of the 2008 economic crisis on general health in one of the most severely affected EU economies—Ireland. We examine the relationship between compositional changes in demographic and socio-economic factors, such as education, income, and financial strain, and changes in the prevalence of poor self-assessed health over a 5-year period (2008–2013). We apply a generalised Oaxaca–Blinder decomposition approach for non-linear regression models proposed by Fairlie (1999, 2005). Results show that the increased financial strain explained the largest part of the increase in poor health in the Irish population and different sub-groups. Changes in the economic activity status and population structure also had a significant positive effect. The expansion of education had a significant negative effect, preventing further increases in poor health. Wealthier and better educated individuals experienced larger relative increases in poor health, which led to reduced socio-economic health inequalities.
J00|Decomposing Real Wage Changes in the United States|We employ CPS data to analyze the sources of hourly real wage changes in the United States for 1976 to 2016 at various quantiles of the wage distribution. We account for the selection bias from the annual hours of work decision by developing and implementing an estimator for nonseparable selection models with censored selection rules. We then decompose wage changes into composition, structural and selection effects. Composition effects have increased wages at all quantiles but the patterns of wage changes are generally determined by the structural effects. Evidence of changes in the selection effects only appear at lower quantiles of the female wage distribution. The combination of these various components produce a substantial increase in wage inequality. This increase has been exacerbated by the changes in females' working hours.
J00|Public spending in education and student’s performance in Colombia|This paper investigates if higher public spending in education and better teacher qualifications are related to student’s performance, using data from Saber 11, a national standardized test conducted by Instituto Colombiano para la Evaluación de la Educación. The estimation exploits differences in both policy variables across regions and employs interactions to study if more investment in public education and higher teacher qualifications can help increase average performance and reduce the impact that socioeconomic factors, such as family income, have on student performance. The analysis proposes a model where student performance in Mathematics and Language are dependent not only on the variables of interest of this paper, but also on economic, social and cultural status, sex and age of students, and school characteristics. The results show that students’ characteristics and their environment, school features and departmental differences in the policy variables explain roughly 20% of the variation in education performance in Colombia, a relatively high percentage when compared to those found by other studies focusing on OECD countries and based on PISA. After controlling for students’ and school characteristics, the results show that in Colombia, public spending per student and teacher qualifications are positively related to better learning outcomes. For the first one, the results suggest that if all regions reach the level of spending per student of Bogota – the region with the highest spending – average math scores can increase by 3.8 to 4.3 points (around 8%), depending on the regions, with the highest improvement for low income students.
J00|The Decommissioning of the Middle Class|": The euro crisis has threatened the balance of social structures, through the impoverishment of the middle class, in almost all countries of the Old Continent. This trend has not only posed a threat to social cohesion, but it also threats the very nature of the so-called Western-style Democracy. The reason for this is that there is a class that has always been a ""cushion"" that absorbs both the vibrations of competition and the confrontation of the social elite with the socially weak, offering the latter the ability to overcome their misery. In most capitalist economies, the middle class label is based on an economic definition that is largely based on a lifestyle that is based on a certain economic robustness and endurance. With the deepening of the crisis, however, the diversity of the middle class not only has it been jeopardized, but rather, it has gradually been replaced by a new demographic category called the prekariat. This new category consists of a group of people once in the middle class and currently marginalized. All of this leads to generalized uncertainty and totally unstable political attitudes, with intense mobility at the extremes. The rapid rise of right and left-wing populism is an aspect of the threatened subjugation of the middle class strata. The consequences for societies when their layered center is lost are obvious and significant."
J00|Why Has India-UK Migration Decreased So Rapidly?|Net migration in the UK increased from less than 100,000 per year in the early 1990s to over 300,000 in 2006. However, by 2016, the net migration in the UK had dropped to 248,000. This trend is visible in India-UK migration specifically - immigration from India increased until 2012 but has since declined dramatically. Between 2012 and 2015, the number of Indians emigrating to the UK decreased from 1,500,000 to 325,000 – an average decline of 39.9% per year There are 3 primary causes that led to this decline in India-UK migration: 1. Increased British government immigration stringency 2. Improved quality of life and standard of living in India 3. Decrease of Indian students in the UK Firstly, the British government have tried to restrict immigration. They have increased the immigrant wage threshold and initiated the points based system. In this way, they have reduced the number of low skilled workers, making it virtually impossible for low skilled workers to permanently or semi-permanently immigrate. Improvements in India, both in the workplace and in general well-being, have led to a decrease in Indian emigrants migrating to the UK. Unemployment rates in India are low and phenomena such as the ‘reverse brain drain’ suggest India may be on the verge of rapid productivity and employment opportunities. Finally, the number of International students in the UK has dropped below the number of immigrant workers. This is because the government has made it more difficult for international students to study in the UK. Furthermore, the rapidly increasing range of countries that are welcoming international students has resulted in the movement of Indian students across the world rather than just the UK and US.
J00|The Drivers of Inequality in Rich Countries|Rising income inequality has recently come centre-stage as a core societal concern for rich countries. The diagnosis of the forces driving inequality upwards and their relative importance remains hotly contested, notably with respect to the roles of globalization versus technology and of market forces versus institutions and policy choices. This survey provides a critical review and synthesis of recent research. The focus is on income inequality across the entire distribution, rather than only on what has been happening at the very top. We pay particular attention to including what has been learned from the analysis of micro-data, to ensuring that the coverage is not unduly US-centric, and to analyses of the interrelations between the different drivers of inequality. We conclude by highlighting key gaps in knowledge and clarifying what stands in the way of a consensus emerging about the contribution of the various forces affecting how income inequality has evolved in recent decades.
J00|Marriage, Divorce and Sorting: A Reassessment of Unilateral Divorce Laws|I evaluate the impact of unilateral divorce laws (UDLs) on the risk of divorce via two channels: the effect on divorce of married couples (divorce effect), and the effect on marriage formation (sorting effect). The divorce effect affects the divorce probability of all married couples, while the sorting effect is only experienced by couples that married after the implementation of UDLs. I use differences in the timing of states' enactment of UDLs as a source of exogenous treatment variation in a difference-in-differences approach. Using the Divorce and Marriage file of Vital Statistics from the NBER data collection, I find that UDLs have a profound impact on marital sorting. The sorting effect significantly increases the cumulative risk of divorce within any length of marriage, while the divorce effect is only significantly associated with increasing the risk of divorce within the first 9 years and has no effect on subsequent years. Moreover, unstable marriages dissolve faster due to changes in marital sorting. The sorting effect increases the risk of divorce in each of the first 5 years of marriage by 4.5%, while there is zero divorce effect for these same years. 31% of the initial increase in the overall divorce rate identified in previous studies is due to the sorting effect.
J00|Tres teorías demográficas, las evidencias disponibles y el paso de la descripción del cómo al entendimiento del porqué: Una aplicación y una crítica de tres hipótesis poblacionales en base a los casos de España y de la India (1950-2020)<BR>[Three demographic theories, the disposable evidence and the step between description and comprehension: An application and a critique of three population hypotheses based on the cases of Spain and India (1950-2020)]|This work aims to expose three of the main demographic theories, Demographic, Epidemiologic and Sanitary Transition theories, and explore its explanatory capacity. The content is structured in four sections. In the first we briefly review these theories. Secondly, we elaborate a diagnosis of the demographic structure of India and Spain, through its contextualization in the Asian and European context, respectively, and the use of several indicators. Next, we value the relationship between the evidence on these case studies and the hypotheses exposed. Finally, we outline possible theoretical critics based on these two cases
J00|Reanalyzing the gender-specific effects of the Great Recession|The subprime mortgage crisis that began in the United States eventually unraveled as the worst global economic crisis – the Great Recession – since the Great Depression of the 1930s. The literature has described several factors to explain the causes of the Great Recession, most prominent being the pace of financial deregulations and excessive financial innovations that catalyzed an unnatural boom that ended in a crisis (Crotty and Epstein, 2009). Countries hit the hardest in terms of an upsurge in unemployment rates over 2008–10 include Denmark, Estonia, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, and Latvia. A comparison of harmonized unemployment rates for these countries shows that Estonia posted the highest increase in the unemployment rate, which rose from 5.5 percent in 2008 to 16.7 percent in 2010, an increase of 203 percentage points. Other countries worst hit by the crisis were Iceland (153 percent), Latvia (151 percent) and Ireland (117 percent) (OECD, 2018a). To this end, an important but understated issue worthy of discussion concerns the gender impacts of the Great Recession. Crisis theories that have described its distributional dynamics do not converge to a united whole and predict differential impacts of crises for men and women. One theory posits that since women are used as employment buffers – called in when demand increases but pushed back when demand shrinks – women’s unemployment rates may rise more than that of men’s during recessionary phases. Thus, women might experience a greater loss in employment, earned income, and overall wealth during recessions (Humphries, 1988 [2010]). However, an argument running counter to this theory is that women’s concentration in female-dominated occupations – which tend to be cyclically robust – may shield women’s employment relative to that of men’s. Since there is no definitive theoretical model of these relations, the issue of the gender impacts of recessions becomes an empirical question. In this respect, men’s and women’s labor market experiences from the Great Recession can be treated as a litmus test. Similar to previous two recessions in the US, men’s unemployment rates rose faster than women’s during the Great Recession. Due to this phenomenon, these recessions have come to be known as “man-cessions” (Wall, 2009). However, I argue in this chapter that this observation can be misleading on many accounts. I argue that although men and women showed substantial differences in their vulnerabilities to the recession, within-gender differences were much more pronounced. Additionally, gender impacts of crises derive from differences in men’s and women’s unique, socially and culturally drawn positions, job structures, family models and welfare systems.
J00|Tastes for Discrimination in Monopsonistic Labour Markets|We study a model where wage differences between men and women arise from taste-based discrimination and monopsonistic mechanisms. We show how preferences against women affect heterogeneity in firms' pay policies in the context of an imperfect labour market, deriving a rigorous test for the presence of taste-based discrimination and of other firm-level mechanisms driving the gender wage gap, in particular compensating wage differentials. These results inform an analysis of sex pay differences in the Italian manufacturing sector showing that taste-based discrimination and preferences for workplaces providing more flexible schedules are two significant determinants of the gender wage gap.
J00|Considering the Use of Stock and Flow Outcomes in Empirical Analyses: An Examination of Marriage Data|This paper fills an important void assessing how the use of stock outcomes as compared to flow outcomes may yield disparate results in empirical analyses, despite often being used interchangeably. We compare analyses using a stock outcome, marital status, to those using a flow outcome, entry into marriage, from the same dataset, the American Community Survey. This paper considers two different questions and econometric approaches using these alternative measures: the effect of the Affordable Care Act young adult provision on marriage using a difference-indifferences approach and the relationship between aggregate unemployment rates and marriage rates using a simpler ordinary least squares regression approach. Results from both analyses show stock and flow data yield divergent results in terms of sign and significance. Additional analyses suggest prior-period temporary shocks and migration may contribute to this discrepancy. These results suggest using caution when conducting analyses using stock data as they may produce false negative results or spurious false positive results, which could in turn give rise to misleading policy implications.
J00|Teacher Quality, Test Scores and Non-Cognitive Skills: Evidence from Primary School Teachers in the UK|Schooling can produce both cognitive and non-cognitive skills, both of which are important determinants of adult outcomes. Using very rich data from a UK birth cohort study, I estimate teacher value added (VA) models for both pupils' test scores and non-cognitive skills. I show that teachers are equally important in the determination of pupils' test scores and non-cognitive skills. This finding extends the economics literature on teacher effects, which has primarily focused on pupils' test scores and may fail to capture teachers' overall effects. In addition, the large estimates reveal an interesting trade-off: teacher VA on pupils' test scores are weak predictors of teacher VA on non-cognitive skills, which suggests that teachers recourse to different techniques to improve pupils' cognitive and non-cognitive skills. Finally, I find that teachers' effects on pupils' non-cognitive skills have long-run impacts on adult outcomes such as higher education attendance, employment and earnings, conditional on their effects on test scores. This result indicates that long-run outcomes are improved by a combination of teachers increasing pupils' test scores and non-cognitive skills and has large policy implications.
J00|Can Online Delivery Increase Access to Education?|Most research on online education compares student performance across online and in-person formats. We provide the first evidence that online education affects the number of people pursuing education by studying Georgia Tech’s Online MS in Computer Science, the earliest model offering a highly ranked degree at low cost. A regression discontinuity in admission shows that program access substantially increases overall educational enrollment. By satisfying large, previously unmet demand for midcareer training, this program will boost annual production of American computer science master’s degrees by at least 7%. Online options may open opportunities for populations who would not otherwise pursue education.
J00|The Healthy Immigrant Paradox and Health Convergence|The health status of people is a precious commodity and central to economic, socio-political, and environmental dimensions of any country. Yet it is often the missing statistic in all general statistics, demographics, and presentations about the portrait of immigrants and natives. In this paper we are concerned with international migration and health outcomes in the host countries. Through a general literature review and examination of specific immigration countries, we provide insights into the Healthy Immigrant Paradox and the health assimilation of immigrants as we also elucidate selection and measurement challenges. While health is part of human capital, health assimilation is the mirror image of earnings assimilation. Namely, immigrants arrive with better health compared to natives and their health deteriorates with longer residence in the host country, converging to the health of natives or becoming even worse. A deeper understanding of immigrant health trajectories, and disparities with natives and other immigrants is of great value to societies and policymakers, who can design appropriate policy frameworks that address public health challenges, and prevent the health deterioration of immigrants.
J00|Los salarios y la fatiga acumulada: una revisión de la teoría de la oferta de trabajo|Resumen: La introducción de la sicología y la economía del comportamiento por parte del economista Richard Thaler, fueron reconocidos con el premio Nobel en las ciencias económicas. Los individuos no se comportan de forma racional, de forma sistemática. Y en decisiones de consumo, pero también de trabajo, se espera que no logren decidir niveles óptimos. Este documento de trabajo busca retomar parte de estas contribuciones en este sentido, para explorar y replantear lo que hace muchos años se considera como la teoría de la oferta del trabajo desde una perspectiva microeconómica, y plantear una posible línea de investigación a futuro en este sentido. Los individuos podrían no considerar de forma dinámica su esfuerzo en el trabajo y estarían tomando mal su decisión de cantidad de oferta de trabajo, generando pérdidas sistemáticas en su nivel de bienestar, así como afectaciones en su productividad del trabajando reduciendo también los beneficios de las compañías. / Abstract : The introduction of psychology and behavioral economics by the economist Richard Thaler, were recognized with the Nobel prize in economic science. Individuals do not behave rationally, in a systematic way. Our main hypothesis is that not only in consumption, but also in job supply decisions. It is expected that they fail to decide optimum levels. This working paper seeks to resume part of these contributions, to explore and rethink what for many years is considered as the job supply theory from a microeconomic perspective, and contemplate a possible investigation line. Individuals could not be dynamically considering its work effort and they would be wrong taking its decision of job supply’s quantity and quality, generating systematic losses in their level of well-being, as well as effects on working productivity and companies’ profits.
J00|The contributions of warfare with revolutionary and Napoleonic France to the consolidation and progress of the British industrial revolution: revised version of working paper 150|This revised and reconfigured essay surveys a range of printed secondary sources going back to publications of the day (as well as includes research in primary sources) in order to revive a traditional and unresolved debate on economic connexions between the French and Industrial Revolutions. It argues that the costs flowing from the reallocation of labour, capital and technical knowledge to wage warfare from 1793-1815 have been overstated in relation to a range of benefits that accrued from: crowding out a potential invasion by Napoleon’s armies; improvements to the skills and discipline of the workforce; the integration of Ireland into a national market; the accelerated diffusion of technologies associated with coal and iron; the circumvention of diminishing returns to agriculture and above all from a victory that provided the economy with a more efficient State, Navy and Merchant Marine that, for a century, retained most of the gains from trade and servicing the international economy obtained at the expense of rivals during these long wars with France. My conclusion is that the costs and benefits (derived from participation in a global war from 1793 to 1815, that was integral to the era’s geopolitical and mercantilist international economic order) cannot be measured. But in the context and history of that order it is difficult to represent their outcome as anything other than positive and significant for the consolidation and progress of Britain’s famous transition to become Europe’s First Industrial Nation.
J00|Racial Gaps in Labor Market Outcomes in the Last Four Decades and over the Business Cycle|We examine racial disparities in key labor market outcomes for men and women over the past four decades, with a special emphasis on their evolution over the business cycle. Blacks have substantially higher and more cyclical unemployment rates than whites, and observable characteristics can explain very little of this differential, which is importantly driven by a comparatively higher risk of job loss. In contrast, the Hispanic-white unemployment rate gap is comparatively small and is largely explained by lower educational attainment of (mostly foreign-born) Hispanics. Regarding labor force participation, the remarkably low participation rate of black men is largely unexplained by observables, is mostly driven by high labor force exit rates from employment, and has shown little improvement over the last 40 years. Furthermore, even among those who work, blacks and Hispanics are more likely than whites to work part-time schedules despite wanting to work additional hour s, and the racial gaps in this involuntary part-time employment are large even after controlling for observable characteristics. Our findings also suggest that the robust recovery of the labor market in the last few years has contributed significantly to reducing the gaps that had widened dramatically as a result of the Great Recession; however, the disparities remain substantial.
J00|The Effect of Fertility on Mothers’ Labor Supply over the Last Two Centuries|This paper documents the evolving impact of childbearing on the work activity of mothers between 1787 and 2014. It is based on a compiled data set of 429 censuses and surveys, representing 101 countries and 46.9 million mothers, using the International and U.S. IPUMS, the North Atlantic Population Project, and the Demographic and Health Surveys. Using twin births (Rosenzweig and Wolpin 1980) and same gendered children (Angrist and Evans 1998) as instrumental variables, we show three main findings: (1) the effect of fertility on labor supply is small and often indistinguishable from zero at low levels of income and large and negative at higher levels of income; (2) these effects are remarkably consistent both across time looking at the historical time series of currently developed countries and at a contemporary cross section of developing countries; and (3) the results are robust to other instrument variation, different demographic and educational groups, rescaling to account for changes in the base level of labor force participation, and a variety of specification and data decisions. We show that the negative gradient in female labor supply is consistent with a standard labor-leisure model augmented to include a taste for children. In particular, our results appear to be driven by a declining substitution effect to increasing wages that arises from changes in the sectoral and occupational structure of female jobs into formal nonagricultural wage employment as countries develop.
J00|Interactions Between Financial Incentives and Health in the Early Retirement Decision|We present a theory of the relation between health and retirement that generates testable predictions regarding the interaction of health, wealth and financial incentives in retirement decisions. The theory predicts (i) that wealthier individuals (compared to poorer individuals) are more likely to retire for health reasons(affordability proposition), and (ii) that health problems make older workers more responsive to financial incentives encouraging retirement (reinforcement proposition). We test these predictions using administrative data on older employees in the Dutch healthcare sector for whom we link adverse health events, proxied by unanticipated hospitalizations, to information on retirement decisions and actual incentives from administrative records of the pension funds. Exploiting unexpected health shocks and quasi-exogenous variation in nancial incentives for retirement due to reforms, we account for the endogeneity of health and financial incentives. Making use of the actual individual pension rights diminishes downward bias in estimates of the effect of pension incentives. We find support for our affordability and reinforcement propositions. Both propositions require the benefits function to be convex, as in our data. Our theory and empirical findings highlight the importance of assessing financial incentives for their potential reinforcement of health shocks and point to the possibility that differences in responses to financial incentives and health shocks across countries may relate to whether the benefit function is concave or convex.
J00|Social Interactions, Mechanisms, and Equilibrium: Evidence from a Model of Study Time and Academic Achievement|We develop and estimate a model of student study time on a social network. The model is designed to exploit unique data collected in the Berea Panel Study. Study time data allow us to quantify an intuitive mechanism for academic social interactions: own study time may depend on friend study time in a heterogeneous manner. Social network data allow us to embed study time and resulting academic achievement in an estimable equilibrium framework. We develop a specification test that exploits the equilibrium nature of social interactions and use it to show that novel study propensity measures mitigate econometric endogeneity concerns.
J00|Decomposing health inequality in the EU|Despite high living standards and a nearly universal healthcare provision, large cross-country differences in population health exist in the European Union. More than half of this variation remains unexplained after accounting for macro-level factors. In our paper, we aim to understand how individual-level differences in demographic characteristics, education, labour market factors and income shape the prevalence of poor self-assessed health in the EU. For this purpose, we use a semi-parametric decomposition approach, which relies on constructing synthetic distributions of health that would prevail in each country if they had the distribution of the analysed factors as in the country with the best self-assessed population health ? Ireland. We find regional variation in the decomposition results. The analysed factors explain up to a third of the health inequality in the EU for Southern and Central and Eastern European (CEE) countries, but they fail to explain the health differences for the Western European countries. We suggest that cross-country variation in the reporting of self-assessed health may be partially responsible for this result. Finally, we find that the detailed decomposition results for some of the explanatory factors are sensitive to the decomposition sequence, which shows that interaction effects merit further investigation.
J00|Adults Behaving Badly: The Effects of Own and Peer Parents’ Incarceration on Adolescent Criminal Activities|A maturing literature across the social sciences suggests important impacts of the intergenerational transmission of crime as well as peer effects that determine youth criminal activities. This paper explores these channels by examining gender-specific effects of maternal and paternal incarceration from both own-parents and classmate-parents. This paper also adds to the literature by exploiting across-cohort, within school exposure to peer parent incarceration to enhance causal inference. While the intergenerational correlations of criminal activities are similar by gender (father-son/mother-son), the results suggest that peer parent incarceration transmits effects largely along gender lines, which is suggestive of specific learning mechanisms. Peer maternal incarceration increases adolescent female criminal activities and reduces male crime and the reverse is true for peer paternal incarceration. These effects are strongest for youth reports of selling drugs and engaging in physical violence. In contrast, the effects of peer parental incarceration on other outcomes, such as GPA, do not vary by gender.
J00|Identifying and measuring economic discrimination|Differences in wages between men and women, white and black workers, or any two distinct groups are a controversial feature of the labor market, raising concern about discrimination by employers. Decomposition methods shed light on those differences by separating them into: (i) composition effects, which are explained by differences in the distribution of observable variables, e.g. education level; and (ii) structural effects, which are explained by differences in the returns to observable and unobservable variables. Often, a significant structural effect, such as different returns to education, can be indicative of discrimination.
J00|Do teacher aides help or hurt student achievement? the role of teacher experience|Employment of teacher aides in U. S. public schools increased roughly six-fold since 1969. Yet randomized studies of aides find predominantly negative effects on student achievement. This study of public elementary schools in Oregon explores the role of teacher experience in the effectiveness of aides and finds a strong complementarity between aides and teacher experience. The complementarity explains two results of prior studies: negative effects for aides and positive effects primarily for early years of teacher experience. Without complementarity, the effect of aides is negative; with it, the effect is positive for schools with experienced teachers and negative only for schools with inexperienced teachers. Similarly, without complementarity, the effect of experience is negative; with it, the effect is positive for schools that use aides intensively and negative only for schools that do not. The study exploits the longitudinal, hierarchical structure of the Oregon data to estimate a hierarchical linear model with controls for both observed and unobserved influences on individual student achievement. A series of alternative specifications, including a nullification test of causality based on prior test scores suggest robustness for the estimates. Results of the study suggest that prior evidence for the effectiveness of aides is too pessimistic in the context of experienced teachers and that prior evidence for the effectiveness of teacher experience is too pessimistic in the context of schools that use aides intensively. The results also suggest that experienced teachers have expertise important to effective supervision of aides, particularly in schools where teachers are relatively inexperienced and aides are prevalent. Hence, attempts to address problems of large class sizes by adding aides are more likely to be effective in schools with experienced teachers.
J00|Returns to Education through Access to Higher-Paying Firms: Evidence from US Matched Employer-Employee Data|We use administrative US matched employer-employee data merged with detailed information on individuals' academic records to assess the extent to which returns to education are mediated by the sorting of workers across firms. We present three results. First, we confirm findings in the earlier literature of large pay differences across higher education degrees. Second, we show that up to one quarter of pay premiums for higher degrees are explained by between-firm pay differences. Third, higher degrees are associated with greater representation at the best-paying firms. We conclude that employer heterogeneity is an important factor in mediating the returns to education.
J00|Can Trade Help Achieve the Employment Targets of the Sustainable Development Goals?|We ask whether trade can help to achieve the employment targets of the Sustainable Development Goals. The focus is on Goal 8, which is to “promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable growth, full and productive employment, and decent work for all.” The theoretical and empirical links between trade and employment are examined to suggest whether trade has a positive or negative impact on the quantity and quality of employment. At the aggregate level, trade has a positive impact on welfare, which can lead to job creation. However, freer trade causes some sectors and firms to expand and others to shrink. This adjustment process creates both a demand for labor in some sectors and job losses in others. Government policies to cushion the impact of adjustment and facilitate the movement of labor from declining to rising sectors are discussed.
J00|The effect of Affirmative Action on the reduction of employment discrimination, 1997-2015|This study examines the effect of Affirmative Action on the reduction of employment discrimination by race and gender, more than 20 years since the economic transition. The empirical part of the paper employs a sample that represents the labour force (excluding informal sector workers, agricultural workers, domestic workers, self-employed and employers) aged between 15 and 65 years. The study estimates probit models to examine labour force participation, employment and occupational attainment likelihoods, followed by the Oaxaca-Blinder decomposition, using labour survey data in 1997-2015. The decomposition results show that the unexplained component of the White-African employment probability gap reveals a slight downward trend in absolute terms in 2002-2011 but in relative terms it still accounts for more than 50% of the gap. On the other hand, the unexplained component is most dominant in the male-female employment gap decomposition. These results suggest that employment discrimination against Africans and females remains serious.
J00|A cross-generational perspective of workers? expectations in the canadian public service sector|The public service sector is faced with sharp demographic shifts which have an effect on employees? perspectives on job satisfaction. Relationships between workers belonging to different age groups are perceived as uneasy, especially since the ?mentoring? approach, aimed at bridging the gap between younger and older staff, yielded mixed results. This problem is compounded by gender related differential expectations regarding work. The aim of this research was to study the individual and combined effects of gender and age on work-related expectations and overall job satisfaction. The sample included 182 165 public service employees from various government agencies representing approximately 70% of the entire canadian federal work force. Data was collected using the PSES (Public Service Employee Survey), a questionnaire measuring a variety of constructs such as job satisfaction, social support, stress, harassment, fairness, social climate, demands, control and so forth. The sample took part in the study in 2009 and 2014. Participants were included in a 3 X 2 factorial design (age groups X gender) with various indicators of work perception used as dependent variables. MANOVAs and ANOVAs were computed and significant effects were decomposed using Scheffé post hoc tests. A significant multivariate effect of the factors was found [F(multi) = 16.56 ; p.
J00|Interactions between Financial Incentives and Health in the Early Retirement Decision|We present a theory of the relation between health and retirement that generates testable predictions regarding the interaction of health, wealth and financial incentives in retirement decisions. The theory predicts (i) that wealthier individuals (compared to poorer individuals) are more likely to retire for health reasons (affordability proposition), and (ii) that health problems make older workers more responsive to financial incentives encouraging retirement (reinforcement proposition). We test these predictions using administrative data on older employees in the Dutch healthcare sector for whom we link adverse health events, proxied by unanticipated hospitalizations, to information on retirement decisions and actual incentives from administrative records of the pension funds. Exploiting unexpected health shocks and quasi-exogenous variation in nancial incentives for retirement due to reforms, we account for the endogeneity of health and financial incentives. Making use of the actual individual pension rights diminishes downward bias in estimates of the effect of pension incentives. We find support for our affordability and reinforcement propositions. Both propositions require the benefits function to be convex, as in our data. Our theory and empirical findings highlight the importance of assessing financial incentives for their potential reinforcement of health shocks and point to the possibility that differences in responses to financial incentives and health shocks across countries may relate to whether the benefit function is concave or convex.
J00|Estimating the effects of the minimum wage in a developing country: A density discontinuity design approach|This paper proposes a framework to identify the effects of the minimum wage on the joint distribution of sector and wage in a developing country. I show how the discontinuity of the wage distribution around the minimum wage identifies the extent of noncompliance with the minimum wage policy, and how the conditional probability of sector given wage recovers the relationship between latent sector and wages. I apply the method in the “PNAD,” a nationwide representative Brazilian cross‐sectional dataset for the years 2001–2009. The results indicate that the size of the informal sector is increased by around 39% compared to what would prevail in the absence of the minimum wage, an effect attributable to (i) unemployment effects of the minimum wage on the formal sector and (ii) movements of workers from the formal to the informal sector as a response to the policy.
J00|The healthy immigrant paradox and health convergence|The health status of people is a precious commodity and central to economic, socio-political, and environmental dimensions of any country. Yet it is often the missing statistic in all general statistics, demographics, and presentations about the portrait of immigrants and natives. In this paper we are concerned with international migration and health outcomes in the host countries. Through a general literature review and examination of specific immigration countries, we provide insights into the Healthy Immigrant Paradox and the health assimilation of immigrants as we also elucidate selection and measurement challenges. While health is part of human capital, health assimilation is the mirror image of earnings assimilation. Namely, immigrants arrive with better health compared to natives and their health deteriorates with longer residence in the host country, converging to the health of natives or becoming even worse. A deeper understanding of immigrant health trajectories, and disparities with natives and other immigrants is of great value to societies and policymakers, who can design appropriate policy frameworks that address public health challenges, and prevent the health deterioration of immigrants.
J00|Unhappy Cities|There are persistent differences in self-reported subjective well-being across US metropolitan areas, and residents of declining cities appear less happy than others. Yet some people continue to move to these areas, and newer residents appear to be as unhappy as longer-term residents. While historical data on happiness are limited, the available facts suggest that cities that are now declining were also unhappy in their more prosperous past. These facts support the view that individuals do not maximize happiness alone but include it in the utility function along with other arguments. People may trade off happiness against other competing objectives.
J00|Speeding up for a son? Fertility transitions among Migrants to Canada|We use the 2001 and 2006 Canadian Census to study how the sex-ratios at second birth, conditional on both the spacing between the first two children and the gender of the first, vary across place of birth or religious affiliation. We find that South Asian women give birth to a higher proportion of boys after a first-born girl compared to both natives and other immigrant groups with girls and also to South Asians with a first-born boy. Across religious groups, Sikhs present a similar behavior. These abnormal sex-ratios are particularly skewed when the time span between the first two births is short. This seems to indicate sex-selective abortion that happens more frequently after conceptions that occur fairly close to the birth of a first girl. Sex ratios return (close) to normal for these groups if live-births are spaced three years or longer.
J00|Gender Roles and Medical Progress|Maternal mortality was the second-largest cause of death for women in childbearing years until the mid-1930s in the United States. For each death, 20 times as many mothers suffered pregnancy-related conditions, which made it hard for them to engage in market work. Between 1930 and 1960 there was a remarkable improvement in maternal health. We argue that this development, by enabling women to reconcile work and motherhood, was essential for the joint rise in women’s labor force participation and fertility over this period. We also show that the diffusion of infant formula played an important auxiliary role.
J00|Measuring Social Interaction Effects when Instruments are Weak|Studies that can distinguish between exogenous and endogenous peer effects of social interactions are relatively rare. One recent identification strategy exploits partial overlapping groups of peers. If a student has two groups of separated peers, the peer choices are correlated through that specific student's choice, but one group's attributes are assumed to directly influence neither the other peer group's attributes nor the choices. In the context of academic performance in higher education, however, the evidence of peer effects on academic outcomes has been mixed, creating a potential for weak instruments. We utilize a period of transition when students were being reassigned to dormitories from a new campus to an old campus. Many groups of roommates were broken up at the end of freshman year, and then combined with other groups of students from the same school in the sophomore year. We find reduced-form evidence that information about a student's previous year roommates can explain the current test scores of their new roommates. However, due to weak instruments, the estimated endogenous effects appear unreasonably large. We draw on weak-IV robust tests, namely the Anderson-Rubin-type S-test (Stock and Wright, 2000) and Kleibergen's Lagrangian multiplier test (Kleibergen, 2005), to provide properly-sized tests for the endogenous effects between the test scores of current roommates and to calculate lower bounds of such effects. These tests strongly reject the null hypothesis of no endogenous effects.
J00|Serial Entrepreneurship: Learning by Doing?|Among typical entrepreneurs, is serial entrepreneurship common? Is the serial entrepreneur more likely to succeed? If so, why? These questions are addressed using data on all establishments started between 1990 and 2011 to sell retail goods and services in Texas. An entrepreneur is the owner of a new business. A serial entrepreneur is one who opens repeat businesses. We find that 25.6% of businesses are operated by serial entrepreneurs. These are the more successful businesses: prior business experience increases the longevity of the next business opened. Results with owner fixed effects suggest that past experience imparts valuable business skills.
J00|Economic Growth, Health Care Reform, and Child Nutrition in Ghana|Policymakers have long argued that economic growth in developing countries will positively impact child health. We examine child nutrition in Ghana during the economic growth of the 1980s and 1990s. We find that stunting in children aged 2-35 months declined from 30% in 1988 to 21% in 1998, but increased to 27% in 2003. Wasting followed an opposite path, while underweight gradually fell from 30% to 24% during this period. We show that these different responses to economic growth reflect differences in the factors generating these outcomes. Improvement in underweight was consistent with the positive household effects of macroeconomic growth, but increase in stunting after 1998 responded to the decline in health care utilization following the reform of the health care system. Indeed, the increased negative impact of a lack of access to healthcare explains most of the decline in child linear growth. The fraction of children presenting any of the three forms of malnutrition remained stable at around 40% during this period. These findings indicate that appropriate policies are needed to ensure that economic growth leads to an improvement in child well-being.
J00|Incentive Provision when Contracting is Costly|We analyze optimal incentive contracts in a model where the probability of court enforcement is determined by the costs spent on contracting. The analysis shows that contract costs matter for incentive provision, both in static spot contracts and repeated game relational contracts. We show that there is not a monotonic relationship between contracting costs and incentive intensity, and that an increase in contracting costs may lead to higher-powered incentives. Moreover, we formulate hypotheses about the relationship between legal systems and incentive provision. Specifically, the model predicts higher-powered incentives in common law than in civil law systems.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J00|The Role of Startups in Structural Transformation|The U.S. economy has been going through a striking structural transformation--the secular reallocation of employment across sectors--over the past several decades. We propose a decomposition framework to assess the contributions of various margins of firm dynamics to this shift. Using firm-level data, we find that at least 50 percent of the adjustment has been taking place along the entry margin, due to sectors receiving different shares of startup employment than their employment shares. The rest is mostly due to life cycle differences across sectors. Declining overall entry has a small but growing effect of dampening structural transformation.
J00|Arbeitszeitrealitäten und Arbeitszeitwünsche in Deutschland: methodische Unterschiede ihrer Erfassung im SOEP und Mikrozensus|Die Debatte um Arbeitszeiten und deren Regulierung wird in der deutschen Öffentlichkeiterneut geführt. Empirische Grundlage sind dabei häufig Studien auf Basis des Mikrozensusoder des Sozio-oekonomischen Panels (SOEP), die teilweise erhebliche Unterschiede in ihrenErgebnissen aufweisen (Rengers 2015, Holst/Wieber 2014). In dem vorliegenden Beitragwird den Ursachen für diese Unterschiede nachgegangen. Eine Anpassung der SOEP-Datenan die Struktur der Beschäftigtengruppen des Mikrozensus und den Definitionen und Abgrenzungenvon Rengers (2015) führt nur teilweise zu einer Annäherung der Ergebnisse. ErstBerechnungen zu „potenziellen“ Auswirkungen von Unterschieden in den Erhebungsinstrumentengeben entscheidende Hinweise. So kommen wir zu der Einschätzung, dass mit demMikrozensus der Anteil der Überbeschäftigten und damit einhergehend der Anteil der Erwerbstätigenmit Arbeitszeitdiskrepanzen insgesamt eher unterschätzt wird. Im SOEP werdendie Arbeitszeitwünsche bezogen auf Nebenerwerbstätigkeit nicht spezifisch erfasst. Inwelchem Maße dies die Arbeitszeitdiskrepanzen beeinflusst, bleibt noch offen. Die Ergebnisseauf Basis des SOEP dürften eher eine Obergrenze darstellen. In beiden Surveys ist beiden Fragen zur gewünschten Arbeitszeit zudem noch zu klären, (1) inwieweit die Aufforderungzur Verdienstanpassung überlesen oder sogar missverstanden wird, (2) inwieweit auchzukünftige Zeiträume bei der Beantwortung mitgedacht und (3) inwiefern vereinbarte odertatsächliche Arbeitszeit als Ankerpunkte gewählt werden.
J00|Arbeitszeitrealitäten und Arbeitszeitwünsche in Deutschland: methodische Unterschiede ihrer Erfassung im SOEP und Mikrozensus|There is renewed public debate in Germany on working hours and their regulation. Often studies using data from the Mikrozensus or Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP) provide the empirical basis for discussion, but the two studies differ—in some cases substantially—in their results (Rengers 2015, Holst/Wieber 2014). This article looks at the reasons for these differences. Adapting SOEP data to the structure of employee groups in the Mikrozensus and the definitions proposed by Rengers (2015) would overcome only some of the differences. Our initial estimates of the potential impacts of differences in the survey instruments provide important insights. We conclude that the Mikrozensus tends to underestimate the percentage of overemployed workers and thus also underestimates the overall percentage of employed people with discrepancies in working hours. The SOEP does not ask respondents specifically about desired working hours in relation to their employment in second jobs. To what extent this affects the discrepancies in working hours remains unclear. Results based on the SOEP probably represent an upper limit. In both surveys, the questions on desired working hours should also be adapted to address: (1) the extent to which earnings adjustments are being overlooked or misunderstood, (2) the extent to which future plans are being taken into consideration in survey responses, and (3) the extent to which agreed or actual working hours are being selected as anchor points for more or fewer desired working hours. Die Debatte um Arbeitszeiten und deren Regulierung wird in der deutschen Öffentlichkeit erneut geführt. Empirische Grundlage sind dabei häufig Studien auf Basis des Mikrozensus oder des Sozio-oekonomischen Panels (SOEP), die teilweise erhebliche Unterschiede in ihren Ergebnissen aufweisen (Rengers 2015, Holst/Wieber 2014). In dem vorliegenden Beitrag wird den Ursachen für diese Unterschiede nachgegangen. Eine Anpassung der SOEP-Daten an die Strukturder Beschäftigtengruppen des Mikrozensus und den Definitionen und Abgrenzungen von Rengers (2015) führt nur teilweise zu einer Annäherung der Ergebnisse. Erst Berechnungen zu „potenziellen“ Auswirkungen von Unterschieden in den Erhebungsinstrumenten geben entscheidende Hinweise. So kommen wir zu der Einschätzung, dass mit dem Mikrozensus der Anteil der Überbeschäftigten und damit einhergehend der Anteil der Erwerbstätigen mit Arbeitszeitdiskrepanzen insgesamt eher unterschätzt wird. Im SOEP werden die Arbeitszeitwünsche bezogen auf Nebenerwerbstätigkeit nicht spezifisch erfasst. In welchem Maße dies die Arbeitszeitdiskrepanzen beeinflusst, bleibt noch offen. Die Ergebnisse auf Basis des SOEP dürften eher eine Obergrenze darstellen. In beiden Surveys ist bei den Fragen zur gewünschten Arbeitszeit zudem noch zu klären, (1) inwieweit die Aufforderung zur Verdienstanpassung überlesen oder sogar missverstanden wird, (2) inwieweit auch zukünftige Zeiträume bei der Beantwortung mitgedacht und (3) inwiefern vereinbarte oder tatsächliche Arbeitszeit als Ankerpunkte gewählt werden.
J00|Why are we more likely to tip some service occupations than others? Theory, evidence, and implications|Ideas about why consumers tip some service occupations more often than others are tested using occupation scores derived from online ratings of 122 service occupations. Results indicate that U.S. consumers are more likely to tip occupations for which (i) workers’ performances can be more easily evaluated by consumers than by managers, (ii) workers provide customized service, (iii) workers’ income, skill and needed judgment are low, and (iv) workers are less happy than customers during the service encounter. Occupations with greater frequency of customer patronage and/or greater likelihood of encountering the same service provider on multiple service occasions are not more likely than other occupations to be tipped. These findings support some and disconfirm other expectations derived from a theory that occupational differences in tipping are attributable to occupation characteristics that more strongly/consistently evoke motives for tipping. They also identify types of services for which counter-normative tipping policies are more or less likely to be successful and suggest sources of resistance that must be overcome if those policies are to succeed.
J00|Volume of trade and dynamic network formation in two-sided economies|We study the long-run stability of trade networks in a two-sided economy. Each agent desires relationships with the other side, but having multiple partners is costly. This cost–benefit tradeoff results in each agent having a single-peaked utility over the number of partners–the volume of trade–the peak being greater for agents on one side than those on the other. We propose a stochastic matching process in which self-interested agents form and sever links over time. Links can be added or deleted, sometimes simultaneously by a single agent. While the unperturbed process yields each pairwise stable network as an absorbing state, stochastic stability in two perturbed processes provides a significant refinement, leading respectively to egalitarian and anti-egalitarian pairwise stable networks. These distinct network configurations have implications for the concentration on each side of the market of a random information shock, which may also affect structurally identical economies differently. The analysis captures stylized facts, related to herd behavior, market fragmentation, concentration and contagion asymmetry, in several two-sided economies. It also rationalizes long-run population imbalance between the two sides of most buyer–seller markets.
J00|Introducing the Tunisia Labor Market Panel Survey 2014|Abstract This paper introduces the Tunisia Labor Market Panel Survey (TLMPS) of 2014, the first round of a publicly available nationally representative longitudinal household survey. We provide a description of the sample and questionnaires. We discuss a number of data collection issues, such as non-response, as well as what was done to address these issues. The construction of sample weights is detailed. A comparison of the TLMPS to other Tunisian datasets is conducted to illustrate the representativeness of the data in terms of key demographic and labor market measures. Key features of the Tunisian labor market and potential avenues for research using the TLMPS are discussed. JEL Classification: J00, C81, C83
J00|Exploring Online and Offline Informal Work : Findings from the Enterprising and Informal Work Activities (EIWA) Survey|The growing prevalence of alternative work arrangements has accelerated with the rapidly evolving digital platform transformations in local and global markets (Kenny and Zysman, 2015 and 2016). Although traditional (offline) informal paid work has always been a part of the labor sector (BLS-Contingent Worker Survey, 2005; GAO, 2015 and Katz and Krueger, 2016), the rise of online enabled paid work activities requires new approaches to measure this growing trend (Farrell and Greig, 2016; Gray et al, 2016; Sundararajan, 2016 and Schor, 2015). In the fourth quarter of 2015, the Federal Reserve Board conducted a nationally representative survey of adults 18 and older to track online and offline income-generating activities as well as their employment status during the six months prior to the surveys. Survey results indicate that 36 percent of respondents undertook informal paid work activities either as a complement to or as a substitute for more traditional and formal work arrangements. We explore the rationale behind respondents' participation in alternative work arrangements by setting questions that capture participant motives and attitudes towards informal offline and online paid work activities. Sixty five percent of qualified survey respondents indicate that a main reason for participating in informal work is to earn extra income.
J00|On-the-Job Search and City Structure|We investigate an equilibrium search model in which the search frictions are increasing with the distance to the central business district allowing for on-the-job search and endogenous (monopsony) wage formation and land allocation. We find that there are many different possible outcomes with respect to the location of unemployed workers within a metropolitan area. The city structure of the decentralized market is only efficient when commuting costs of the employed workers are large. Policies reducing the rental costs of unemployed workers for locations close to the central business district can potentially increase welfare.
J00|The Social Background of Elite Executives: The Swedish Case|Sweden is often described as a country where intergenerational social mobility is high, but research also shows that social mobility decreases the closer one gets to the extreme top of the income distribution. We study the occupational mobility for an extreme elite group in society: the CEOs of Sweden’s 30 largest public firms since 1945. To our knowledge, there exists no similar study for any other country. The study is based on a hand-collected data set consisting of 229 former and current CEOs who grew up in Sweden and born between the late1800s and 1970. We have information about paternal occupations for 185 (81 percent) of them, and 60 percent grew up in Social Group I, which implies an overrepresentation for Social Group I by a factor of 9.7. Consequently, Social Groups II and III are underrepresented. However, almost four out of ten CEOs born in the 1940s came from Social Group III and toward the end of the period, the share coming from Social Group II roughly doubled to about 35 percent. Wallenberg-controlled firms were slightly more likely to have CEOs with a Social Group III background. More than half of the CEOs have a father holding a managerial position. Seven of the CEOs have noble surnames, which implies an overrepresentation equal to that of Social Group I; however, among CEOs born after 1939 only two come from a noble family, which suggests a drop in the advantage conferred by a noble background. Finally, less than five percent of the CEOs were members of a family that was a controlling owner or had a father who was also a large-firm CEO.
J00|What are production, work and consumption? Trans-historical re-conceptualisations|This paper argues for trans-historical reformulations of the basic economic concepts of production, work and consumption. The definition of the production boundary by System of National Accounts (SNA) is inconsistent from a scientific point of view. For example, while some non-market and illegal services are viewed as productive, others are not, and services and goods are treated differently. The definition proposed by feminist economics, the so-called third person criterion, is consistent, but in need for further development; furthermore, it is a definition of work and not of production. The purpose of this study is to investigate whether it is possible to formulate a non-eclectic set of logically consistent definitions that could be considered variations of a common underlying understanding across various theoretical traditions – mainly Classical, Neoclassical, Institutional, Marxist, Feminist and Keynesian Economics – of how humans consciously change external nature in order satisfy human needs. Important issues concern how to deal with violence, double counting of transaction costs, human capital formation, non-market activities and causation of final consumption. Production, work and consumption are defined as relations between events, the subject matter and the agent, and in the main definitions reduced to non-economic sentences. Even the utility concept is avoided. First-order logic is used, complemented with modal operators for some of the sentences. In this study, it is shown that production, work and consumption all share the common feature of intentional physical transformation of the intrinsic properties of the subject matter. The object transformed during the productive activity and work must at some point in time be external to the agent. For work, the purpose of transforming an external object must not lie in the transformation of the agent. A productive activity must potentially be able to cause the satisfaction of human needs, or final consumption, which is not a condition for work or required by the third-person criterion. Final consumption involves the transformation of the subject matter that is a final purpose for the consumer or serves as a purpose for transforming the consumer. Using a criterion applied by the institutional economist Cheung to identify transaction costs, this study defines social reproduction as an activity that would not occur in a Robinson Crusoe economy. Social reproduction occurs under an institutional setting. We can further differentiate between coercive and non-coercive social reproduction. In this study, eight different definitions of production are presented. The definition of agent external production is close to the third person criterion, but the possible causation of future final consumption is included as a condition for a productive activity. It is also related to the basic neoclassical model with its assumptions of no transaction costs. The definition of agent external non-coercive production entails that transformations of persons against their own will, whether legally or illegally performed, are unproductive activities. The definition of agent external non-social production entails that all socially reproductive activities are unproductive, and comes close to the distinction made by Classical and Marxist economists of productive and unproductive work. Humanity external production only includes the transformation of non-persons. The three definitions of time scale invariant production entails that human capital formation could be considered productive activities. Market production comes close to Keynesian theory and the present definition of SNA, with the difference that it excludes non-market goods production. The present study also opens for the possibility of unproductive work, for example failed production or professional murder, and productive final consumption that does not involve any work, for example hobby-hunting, play with children or research activity for own pleasure. Which definition of production is applied greatly affects the modelling and empirical application of growth theory and the analysis of the driving forces in economic history. For example, assume trade causes labour productivity outside of trade to increase four-fold due to specialisation, while the share of GDP in total working time increases from nil to half. With the same value added per productive hour and with total hours worked kept constant, the value added of agent external production then records a four-fold increase, while that of non-social production only a doubling. Similarly, during wars the SNA GDP often increases substantially, while the concept of agent external non-coercive production entails that all war expenses are treated as unproductive. Time frame invariant production grows faster than agent external production during expansions of the education system. Market production could serve important analytical purposes, for example to investigate the relation between money supply and inflation, but should be rid of inconsistencies such as the inclusion of non-market goods production.
J00|Measuring Social Interaction Effects when Instruments are Weak|Studies that can distinguish between exogenous and endogenous peer effects of social interactions are relatively rare. One recent identification strategy exploits partial overlapping groups of peers. If a student has two groups of separated peers, the peer choices are correlated through that specific student's choice, but one group's attributes are assumed to directly influence neither the other peer group's attributes nor the choices. In the context of academic performance in higher education, however, the evidence of peer effects on academic outcomes has been mixed, creating a potential for weak instruments. We utilize a period of transition when students were being reassigned to dormitories from a new campus to an old campus. Many groups of roommates were broken up at the end of freshman year, and then combined with other groups of students from the same school in the sophomore year. We find reduced-form evidence that information about a student's previous year roommates can explain the current test scores of their new roommates. However, due to weak instruments, the estimated endogenous effects appear unreasonably large. We draw on weak-IV robust tests, namely the Anderson-Rubin-type S-test (Stock and Wright, 2000) and Kleibergen's Lagrangian multiplier test (Kleibergen, 2005), to provide properly-sized tests for the endogenous effects between the test scores of current roommates and to calculate lower bounds of such effects. These tests strongly reject the null hypothesis of no endogenous effects. JEL Classification: C26, C51, I23, J00 Key words: academic performance, hypothesis testing, endogenous peer effects, random assignment, weak instruments
J00|Tougher Than the Rest? Relationship between Unemployment and Crime in Croatia|In this paper, the relationship between unemployment and crime is analysed. A panel of 20 Croatian counties over the years 1998-2013 is used to estimate the effect of unemployment on the rates of various groups of property and violent crimes. According to the theory of economics of crime, increase in unemployment leads to higher crime rates. A fixed-effects model, including time- and county-specific effects and several covariates, is estimated. The results show there is no impact of unemployment on aggregate property crimes. For all violent crimes bar rapes, the results oppose the theory and intuition. The unexpected results are discussed in the context of the Croatian-specific macro-environment.
J00|Collective Bargaining and the Evolution of Wage Inequality in Italy|Italian male wage inequality has increased at a relatively fast pace from the mid‐1980s until the early 2000s, while it has been persistently flat since then. We analyse this trend, focusing on the period of most rapid growth in pay dispersion. By accounting for worker and firm fixed effects, it is shown that workers' heterogeneity has been a major determinant of increased wage inequalities, while variability in firm wage policies has declined over time. We also show that the growth in pay dispersion has entirely occurred between livelli di inquadramento, that is, job titles defined by national industry‐wide collective bargaining institutions, for which specific minimum wages apply. We conclude that the underlying market forces determining wage inequality have been largely channelled into the tight tracks set by the centralized system of industrial relations.
J00|The impact of negative work home interface on intention to leave and the role of flexible working arrangements in Malaysia|Recent research into employee turnover has lacked empirical evidence and dissemination of practical information requires further investigation into the relationship between work-life balance and intention to leave. Although flexible working is not currently prevalent in Asian cultures, recent concerns about work-life balance have caused major employers, including the Malaysian government and multinational companies (MNCs), to introduce family-friendly policies. The objective of this study is twofold: first, to examine the moderating effect of flexible working arrangements (FWA) on the relationship between negative work-home interface (NWHI) and intention to leave (ITL) and second, to determine the mediating effect of FWA on the relationship of NWHI and ITL. An online survey gathered 661 responses from participating organizations and a total of 382 valid responses were used in the hierarchical regression analysis for testing mediation and moderation effects. The data revealed that FWA did not significantly affect ITL when NWHI and FWA are constant although there was indeed a very small effect (change in R2value of 0.02%) with the inclusion of the interaction between NWHI and FWA on relationship between NWHI and ITL, F (1, 378) = 12.95, p
J00|The Effect of Single-Sex Education on Test Scores, School Completion, Arrests, and Teen Motherhood: Evidence from School Transitions|In 2010, the Ministry of Education in Trinidad and Tobago converted 20 low-performing secondary schools from coeducational to single-sex. I exploit these conversions to identify the causal effect of single-sex schooling holding other school inputs constant. After also accounting for student selection, single-sex cohorts at conversion schools score higher on national exams and are four percentage points more likely to complete secondary school. There are also important non-academic effects; all-boys cohorts have fewer arrests as teens, and all-girls cohorts have lower teen pregnancy rates. These benefits are achieved at zero financial cost. Survey evidence suggests that these single-sex effects reflect both direct gender peer effects due to interactions between classmates, and indirect effects generated through changes in teacher behavior.
J00|What Do Test Scores Miss? The Importance of Teacher Effects on Non-Test Score Outcomes|This paper extends the traditional test-score value-added model of teacher quality to allow for the possibility that teachers affect a variety of student outcomes through their effects on both students’ cognitive and noncognitive skill. Results show that teachers have effects on skills not measured by test-scores, but reflected in absences, suspensions, course grades, and on-time grade progression. Teacher effects on these non-test-score outcomes in 9th grade predict effects on high-school completion and predictors of college-going—above and beyond their effects on test scores. Relative to using only test-score measures of teacher quality, including both test-score and non-test-score measures more than doubles the predictable variability of teacher effects on these longer-run outcomes.
J00|Weathering the Great Recession: Variation in Employment Responses by Establishments and Countries|This paper finds that US employment changed differently relative to output in theGreat Recession and recovery than in most other advanced countries or in the US in earlierrecessions. Instead of hoarding labor, US firms reduced employment proportionately morethan output in the Great Recession, with establishments that survived the downturncontracting jobs massively. Diverging from the aggregate pattern, US manufacturers reducedemployment less than output while the elasticity of employment to gross output varied widelyamong establishments. In the recovery, growth of employment was dominated by job creationin new establishments. The variegated responses of employment to output challenges extantmodels of how enterprises adjust employment over the business cycle.
J00|The Effects of School Spending on Educational and Economic Outcomes: Evidence from School Finance Reforms|Since the Coleman Report, many have questioned whether public school spending affects student outcomes. The school finance reforms that began in the early 1970s and accelerated in the 1980s caused dramatic changes to the structure of K–12 education spending in the United States. To study the effect of these school finance reform–induced changes in public school spending on long-run adult outcomes, we link school spending and school finance reform data to detailed, nationally representative data on children born between 1955 and 1985 and followed through 2011. We use the timing of the passage of court-mandated reforms and their associated type of funding formula change as exogenous shifters of school spending, and we compare the adult outcomes of cohorts that were differentially exposed to school finance reforms, depending on place and year of birth. Event study and instrumental variable models reveal that a 10% increase in per pupil spending each year for all 12 years of public school leads to 0.31 more completed years of education, about 7% higher wages, and a 3.2 percentage point reduction in the annual incidence of adult poverty; effects are much more pronounced for children from low-income families. Exogenous spending increases were associated with notable improvements in measured school inputs, including reductions in student-to-teacher ratios, increases in teacher salaries, and longer school years. JEL Codes: J10, I20, H7.
J00|Experts, firms, consumers or even hard data? Forecasting employment in Germany| In this article, we forecast employment growth for Germany with data for the period from November 2008 to November 2015. Hutter and Weber (2015) introduced an innovative unemployment indicator and evaluated the performance of several leading indicators, including the Ifo Employment Barometer (IEB), to predict unemployment changes. Since the IEB focuses on employment growth instead of unemployment developments, we mirror the study by Hutter and Weber (2015). It turns out that in our case, and in contrast to their article, the IEB outperforms their newly developed indicator. Additionally, consumers’ unemployment expectations and hard data such as new orders exhibit a high forecasting accuracy.
J00|Labor Economics in a Planned Economy: F. A. Hayek and John Jewkes on the Impossibility of Democratic Socialism|Milton Friedman (1962) is associated with the claim that political and economic freedom cannot be distinguished (cf. Lawson and Clark 2010), using the famous example that there can be no freedom of speech where the government owns the printing presses. Less well-known is F. A. Hayek's example, drawn from labor economics, used to illustrate the same principle. Hayek was joined in this by his less well-known colleague, John Jewkes. Hayek and Jewkes argued that without a freely operating price system, central economic planning cannot function without compulsory regimentation of labor. Similarly, no state may simultaneously fix “fair” wages and demand a given pattern of productive output and employment. It is impossible to both achieve income equality and accomplish an economic plan. Hayek's and Jewkes's examples help explain why democratic socialism is impossible, in the sense that it cannot accomplish what its advocates desire.
J00|Thatchers Erbe und die Sozialdemokratie<BR>[Thatchers Legacy and the social democracy]|Abstract Deutsch Die Signifikanz des Thatcherismus als Ideologie liegt in einer Form autoritären Neoliberalismus, im Sinne einer Untergliederung des Nationalstaates an die Anforderungen der Wirtschaftsfreiheit. Demnach wird jede Regulierung und jeder Rechtsrahmen für das Funktionieren der Märkte, vor allem was den Arbeitsmarkt betrifft abgeschafft. In Begleitung dazu folgt eine drastische Reduzierung der Staatsdefizite, umgesetzt durch eine harte Anti-Inflations-Politik. Thatcher förderte die universelle Privatisierung im öffentlichen Sektor bei gleichzeitiger Reduzierung der Sozialleistungen und öffentlicher Ausgaben. Abstract Englisch The significance of Thatcherism as an ideology is a form of authoritarian Neoliberalism, in terms of a breakdown of the nation state to the requirements of economic freedom. Accordingly, any regulation and any legal framework for the functioning of markets, particularly as regards the labor market will be abolished. In accompaniment followed by a drastic reduction of government deficits, implemented through a tough anti-inflation policy. Thatcher promoted the universal privatization in the public sector while reducing the social and public spending
J00|On the Dispensability of New Transportation Technologies : Evidence from Colonial Railroads in Nigeria|We examine Fogel’s influential hypothesis that new transportation technologies may be dispensable if pre-existing technologies are viable or can simply be improved. Exploiting the construction of colonial railroads in Nigeria, we find that the railway has large long-lasting impacts on individual and local development in the North, but virtually no impact in the South neither in the short run nor in the long run. This heterogeneous impact of the railway can be accounted for by the level of pre-railway access to ports of export. Consistent with Fogel’s argument, the railway did not transform areas that had viable transportation alternatives for exporting purposes. Using information on changes in shipping costs and quantities, we highlight the importance of opportunity costs to the adoption and impact of new transportation investments.
J00|“Making and Breaking” Social Trust in the Workplace: How Job Characteristics Impact the Process of Social Trust Formation among the Employed|This paper argues that job characteristics can influence the patterns of social trust formation. By reviewing key approaches to building trust, we outline four dimensions through which employment properties may impact trust levels among the employed: (1) networks, (2) learning, (3) contexts, and (4) emotions. We use the Programme for the International Assessment of Adult Competencies (PIAAC) public-use data to operationalise the four dimensions and to link them to social trust scores. Our analysis provides strong empirical evidence that the four dimensions not only relate to trust but also exhibit joint effects on trust levels among employed individuals.
J00|Impact of health and recreation on work-life balance: A case study of expatriates|Factors influencing work-life balance are evolving at a very fast pace, thus creating a fecund ground for innovative work-life balance tools and techniques. The increasing significance of expatriates in the global workforce necessitates a targeted set of work-life balance initiatives to help expatriate workers contribute more effectively in the competitive work environment. Health and recreation are the two important life spheres which play a very important role in success or failure of an expatriate assignment. While work-life balance researches are being conducted globally in plenty, yet research on expatriate adjustment and expatriate work-life balance is still in its nascent stage especially in an expatriate dominated work environment in the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries. This research paper investigates the health and recreation spheres of expatriate academicians working in private higher education institutes in Bahrain, Oman and the UAE. The research paper illustrates and evaluates the health and recreation spheres in relation to the demographic factors of the respondents and suggests ways to improve work-life balance of expatriate employees.
J00|An Analysis of the Causes and Consequences of Unemployment in District Peshawar|Abstract This paper concentrates on exploring the causes and consequences of unemployment in district Peshawar. Primary data was collected for this purpose. The results show that out of 120 respondents, 32.5% were unemployed due to low education, 15.8% due to having no skills &55were unemployed due to no approach to the concerned authorities. Out of the total respondents65% were unskilled. 73.3% of the respondents had never joined a job and 18.3% left the job due to low salary. 7.5% were unemployed due to completion of business / projects.100% of the respondents agreed that overpopulation is cause of unemployment. All of 120 respondents agreed with this the fact that unemployment causes suicides and crimes in the society. The causes of high rate of unemployment are lack of education, lack of capital, lack of proper skill, Poverty, and High rate of population growth in Pakistan. It is therefore, recommended on the basis of the study to prepare a proper plan for the provision of proper skills, provision of job opportunities, easy access to credit to motivate people for investment in employment generating activities and eradication of unemployment in the study area.
J00|Weathering the Great Recession: Variation in Employment Responses by Establishments and Countries|This paper finds that US employment changed differently relative to output in the Great Recession and recovery than in most other advanced countries or in the US in earlier recessions. Instead of hoarding labor, US firms reduced employment proportionately more than output in the Great Recession, with establishments that survived the downturn contracting jobs massively. Diverging from the aggregate pattern, US manufacturers reduced employment less than output while the elasticity of employment to gross output varied widely among establishments. In the recovery, growth of employment was dominated by job creation in new establishments. The variegated responses of employment to output challenges extant models of how enterprises adjust employment over the business cycle.
J00|Fertility Restrictions and Life Cycle Outcomes: Evidence from the One Child Policy in China|I use the experience of China's One Child Policy to examine how fertility restrictions affect economic and social outcomes over the lifetime. The One Child Policy imposed a birth quota and heavy penalties for ?out-of-plan? births. Using variation in the fertility penalties across provinces over time, I examine how fertility restrictions imposed early in the lives of individuals affected their educational attainment, marriage and fertility decisions, and later life economic outcomes. Exposure to stricter fertility restrictions when young leads to higher education, more white-collar jobs, delayed marriage, and lower fertility. Further consequences include lower rates of residing with the elderly, higher household income, consumption, and saving. Finally, exposure to stricter fertility restrictions in early life increases later life female empowerment as measured by an increase in the fraction of households headed by women, female-oriented consumption, and gender-equal opinions. Overall, fertility restrictions imposed when people are young have powerful effects throughout the life cycle. (JEL classification: H70, I20, J00, O12)
J00|Presentación|Tras iniciar la nueva etapa de la Revista de Economía Laboral (REL) con un número monográfico dedicado a “Las reformas laborales y la crisis económica”, el segundo número monográfico tiene como tema central “La negociación colectiva, los salarios y el empleo. Reformas y futuro”, con el objetivo de analizar los problemas que tiene planteados el sistema de la negociación colectiva en España, sobre todo a partir de la más reciente crisis económica y de las últimas reformas laborales, especialmente la de 2012. Esta última introdujo importantísimas modificaciones que han podido tener consecuencias relevantes en el desarrollo de los convenios colectivos y en la capacidad negociadora de los distintos agentes sociales. Máxime teniendo en cuenta que la negociación colectiva es en España el procedimiento más común y generalizado para orientar y acordar las condiciones de trabajo y los salarios y que, además, en los últimos años se ha producido un importante proceso de devaluación salarial. Este es, por tanto, el objetivo del número monográfico: analizar la posible influencia de la crisis económica y las reformas laborales en la capacidad negociadora de los trabajadores y, en consecuencia, en la devaluación salarial.
J00|Presentación|Tras iniciar la nueva etapa de la Revista de Economía Laboral (REL) con un número monográfico dedicado a “Las reformas laborales y la crisis económica”, el segundo número monográfico tiene como tema central “La negociación colectiva, los salarios y el empleo. Reformas y futuro”, con el objetivo de analizar los problemas que tiene planteados el sistema de la negociación colectiva en España, sobre todo a partir de la más reciente crisis económica y de las últimas reformas laborales, especialmente la de 2012. Esta última introdujo importantísimas modificaciones que han podido tener consecuencias relevantes en el desarrollo de los convenios colectivos y en la capacidad negociadora de los distintos agentes sociales. Máxime teniendo en cuenta que la negociación colectiva es en España el procedimiento más común y generalizado para orientar y acordar las condiciones de trabajo y los salarios y que, además, en los últimos años se ha producido un importante proceso de devaluación salarial. Este es, por tanto, el objetivo del número monográfico: analizar la posible influencia de la crisis económica y las reformas laborales en la capacidad negociadora de los trabajadores y, en consecuencia, en la devaluación salarial.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J00|Recensión del artículo “What happened to collective bargaining during the Great Recession?”, publicado en IZA Journal of Labor Policy|En junio de 2016 apareció en el IZA Journal of Labor Policy el artículo “What happened to collective bargaining during the Great Recession?”, realizado por Jelle Visser. Este autor es un experto en temas relacionados con la negociación colectiva y los sistemas de relaciones industriales. De hecho, ha desarrollado una base de datos que permite el análisis de la evolución de dichos aspectos denominada “Institutional Characteristics of Trade Unions, Wage Setting, State Intervention and Social Pacts” (ICTWSS). Esta base de datos, en su versión 5.0 disponible desde agosto de 2015, cubre 38 países (los 34 miembros actuales de la OCDE más Bulgaria, Lituania, Letonia y Rumanía) y recoge información desde la década de 1960 hasta 2013/2014. El artículo utiliza información procedente de la misma, en particular variables sobre cobertura ajustada, extensión de regímenes, cláusulas de descuelgue, centralización y coordinación. La construcción de las variables y los datos se encuentran disponibles en el Amsterdam Insitute for Advanced Labour Studies (AIAS) (http://www.aias-uvanet.nl).
J00|Recensión del libro “Employment relations in an era of change. Multi-level challenges and responses in Europe”|Este libro, editado por Valeria Pulignano (KU Leuven), Holm-Detlev Köhler (Universidad de Oviedo) y Paul Stewart (Universidad de Strathclyde), y publicado en 2016 por ETUI (European Trade Union Institute), plantea un estudio de las relaciones entre trabajadores y empresarios y los mecanismos regulatorios y las instituciones, que están sufriendo un profundo cambio en las sociedades capitalistas contemporáneas (y, en particular, las europeas). Por un lado, la globalización ha creado inestabilidad a través de la competencia salarial, la descentralización de la negociación colectiva y la desregulación de las condiciones laborales, socavando las relaciones entre empresarios, sindicatos y el estado tanto en el ámbito nacional como en el sectorial. Por otro lado, al abrir el espacio a la transnacionalización, el proceso de integración europea ha aumentado la complejidad del mapa de las relaciones industriales. La reciente crisis económica ha revelado profundas fisuras dentro del proyecto europeo, con enormes implicaciones de desintegración para las relaciones laborales en Europa.
J00|Employment Labor Protection and Innovation|Employment labor protection (ELP) has recently been a focus of policy formation, in particular in respect to its impact on the incentives for firms to invest in productivity enhancing innovation and growth. Yet, the true relationship is still unclear, and the debate is ongoing. Thus, the main objective of this study is to examine the relationship between strict employment rights and new radical innovations in the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) countries for the period from 2006 to 2014. The study employed the between estimator (BE) of panel data analysis and found that strict employment rights and interest rates are negatively correlated with new radical innovation in the country.
J00|Underemployment in South Africa| With the introduction of the Quarterly Labour Force Survey since 2008, a newly derived variable, namely underemployed, has become available. It is derived according to the ‘time-related’ approach (i.e. those who are employed, but would like to work longer hours and are available to work longer hours in the near future). However, underemployment could also be derived according to the ‘inadequate employment situations’ approach (e.g. under-utilisation of skills, over-qualification). Because underemployment is a seriously under-researched topic in South Africa, this article investigates the extent of underemployment according to these two definitions, before examining whether the characteristics of the two groups of underemployed are significantly different.
J00|Practice Enterprise as a Way of Acquiring Foreign Languages ? an International Survey|The article summarizes the main findings of the international survey in which we focussed on the usage of the practice enterprise as a way to improve one's knowledge of a foreign language and communication skills. The aim of the survey was to compare the experience in different countries concerning the language training, study materials etc. Interviewing several coordinators of the network of practice enterprises was our method of best practice sharing. Our survey has shown that in the Czech Republic, like in other countries, there are, however, some areas where more effort should be made. In order to reach the full potential of the practice enterprise as a means to improve pupils' level of foreign languages, we especially recommend creation of uniform materials and investments in the language instruction in general.
J00|Composite indicators of labour market regulations in a comparative perspective|Technological progress and the internet brought about new possibilities of creating, storing, exchanging, replicating, and using various kinds of data for research. This paper discusses some of the dangers embedded into the reuse of data produced by some institutions by other institutions through the combination and aggregation of initial data into various data products. To this end, we use an example of labour market regulations’ indicators developed by the World Economic Forum, the International Institute for Management Development (IMD), and the Fraser Institute, which are all partly based on the World Bank Employing Workers Indicator. We document how these three indicators compare and identify both their common and specific limitations. For each of these indicators, the choice of subcomponents and of aggregate techniques results in different pictures of labour market regulations, despite the use of the overlapping initial sources of data. Our comparative exercise calls for continuous efforts to improve the indicators of labour market regulations, as well as for cautious use of such indicators for research and policy advice. JEL codes: J00, J8, Y1 Copyright Aleksynska and Cazes. 2016
J00|Composite indicators of labour market regulations in a comparative perspective|Abstract Technological progress and the internet brought about new possibilities of creating, storing, exchanging, replicating, and using various kinds of data for research. This paper discusses some of the dangers embedded into the reuse of data produced by some institutions by other institutions through the combination and aggregation of initial data into various data products. To this end, we use an example of labour market regulations’ indicators developed by the World Economic Forum, the International Institute for Management Development (IMD), and the Fraser Institute, which are all partly based on the World Bank Employing Workers Indicator. We document how these three indicators compare and identify both their common and specific limitations. For each of these indicators, the choice of subcomponents and of aggregate techniques results in different pictures of labour market regulations, despite the use of the overlapping initial sources of data. Our comparative exercise calls for continuous efforts to improve the indicators of labour market regulations, as well as for cautious use of such indicators for research and policy advice. JEL codes: J00, J8, Y1
J00|Documenting and Improving the Hourly Wage Measure in the Danish IDA Database|This paper overhauls the hourly wage measure that is most often used in Danish research, the TIMELON variable in the IDA database. Based on a replication that we have constructed, we provide a documentation of the wage variable, the first of its kind, then continue with a performance analysis. We find four puzzles. 1) The wages of part-timers fall steeply from 1992 to 1993, 2) the wages of full-timers fall from 2003 to 2004, 3) the level of the part-timer wages is around 12.5% higher than it should be, and 4) the wages of new hires fall steeply from the first year of employment to the second year. We analyse these puzzles in depth and solve almost all of them. Finally, we propose a new hourly wage measure that incorporates all the solutions and we show that it performs much better.
J00|The Firm, Part Of The Economic System: Reasons For Exiting A Market - An Agent-Based Modeling Approach|What are the reasons for which firms exit markets? In today s world the processes by which firms enter and exit markets are becoming more and more complex due to the fine networking system globalization and communication create at every level. To find and point out the reasons for which firms or their branches disappear off the market, we stylized and simplified market concepts and developed them in an agent-based model. Using NetLogo, we created an artificial market model where firms and their branches enter or exit the market, produce and sell goods and hire the people inhabiting this world.
J00|Multi-Office Incumbency Advantage: Political Careers in Brazil|Incumbency may have effects on a political career that go beyond increasing the probability of reelection. In particular, incumbency may affect the probability of winning different political offices. So far, the literature has not looked at these multi-office incumbency effects. In contexts where politicians move frequently to other offices, ignoring multi-office advantages may generate biased estimates of the true effect of holding a political office on the success of one's career. We define Multi-Office Incumbency Advantage and study it using a novel data set that tracks all Brazilian politicians, from local councillor to federal legislator, from 1994 to 2010. Furthermore, we use our results to evaluate two standing hypothesis regarding Brazilian politics. The first is that there is an incumbency disadvantage in Brazil. The second is the hypothesis that holding a federal legislative office is a spring board to becoming a Mayor. We find no support for either.
J00|Grown-up business cycles|We document two striking facts about U.S. firm dynamics and interpret their significance for employment dynamics. The first is the dramatic decline in firm entry and the second is the gradual shift of employment toward older firms since 1980. We show that despite these trends, the lifecycle dynamics of firms and their business cycle properties have remained virtually unchanged. Consequently, aging is the delayed effect of accumulating startup deficits. Together, the decline in the employment contribution of startups and the shift of employment toward more mature firms contributed to the emergence of jobless recoveries in the U.S. economy.
J00|Foreign language learnings: An econometric analysis|The paper is devoted to an econometric analysis of learning foreign languages in all parts of the world. Our sample covers 193 countries and 13 important languages. Four factors significantly explain learning. All four affect the broad decision to learn but the last two also point to the choice of the particular language to learn. Literacy promotes learning in general while the world population of speakers of the native language discourages it. Trade with speakers of a specific language prompts learning of that specific language while the linguistic distance between the home and the foreign language discourages learning of that specific language. Trade may well deserve more emphasis than the other three factors (literacy rate, linguistic distance, and world population of native speakers), not only for its high significance, but also because its direction can change faster and by a larger order of magnitude. Controlling for individual acquired languages, including English, is of no particular importance.
J00|La segregación residencial en tiempos de la “gran transformación neoliberal”. Una aproximación al caso de la ciudad de Neuquén, 1991-2001|El presente artículo tiene como propósito analizar la segregación residencial socioeconómica en una ciudad intermedia argentina. Nos detendremos en el caso de Neuquén, una aglomeración situada en la Norpatagonia, durante el periodo entre 1991 y 2001. Se propone un recorrido con tres momentos claramente diferenciados. En una primera sección, se describe el contexto que funcionó como escenario del fenómeno que pretendemos explicar. Luego, se realiza una breve aproximación a la idea de segregación, utilizando la información de los censos nacionales de población 1991 y 2001. Por último, se presentan los principales resultados que obtuvimos en el análisis de algunas dimensiones para explorar las desigualdades socioespaciales que atravesaron la ciudad en el periodo. En todo este itinerario, a fin de reflejar en el espacio muchos de los fenómenos que las fuentes censales ponen en evidencia, se han elaborado cartografías temáticas a partir de la utilización de sistemas de información geográfica (SIG). ***** This article aims to analyze the socio-economic residential segregation in Argentina’s middle-income city. We stop in the case of Neuquén, an agglomeration located in Northern Patagonia, taking into account the period between 1991 and 2001. We propose a journey that has three distinct moments. In the first section, we describe the context that provided a stage for the phenomenon we want to explain. Then will make a brief summary of the idea of segregation, using the information provided by the national population censuses of 1991 and 2001. Finally, we present the main results obtained in the analysis of some of the socio-spatial inequalities that existed in the city during this period. Throughout this journey, in order to spatially represent many of the phenomena that the census data highlighted, we have developed thematic maps using GIS.
J00|Grades, Aspirations and Post-Secondary Education Outcomes|We explore the forces that shape the development of aspirations and the achievement of grades during high school and the role that these aspirations, grades, and other variables play in educational outcomes such as going to university and graduating. We find that parental expectations and peer effects have a significant impact on educational outcomes through grades, aspirations, and their interconnectedness, an issue explained in the context of a rich, longitudinal data set. Apart from this indirect path, parents and peers also influence educational outcomes directly. Policy measures that operate on parental influences may modify educational outcomes in desired directions.
J00|Financial Frictions, Financial Shocks and Unemployment Volatility|Financial market shocks and imperfections, alongside productivity shocks, represent both an impulse and a propagation mechanism of aggregate fluctuations. When labor and financial markets are imperfect, firms' funding and leverage respond to productivity changes. Models of business cycle with equilibrium unemployment largely ignore financial imperfections. The paper proposes and solves a tractable equilibrium unemployment model with imperfections in two markets. Labor market frictions are modeled via a traditional Diamond Mortensen Pissarides (DMP) model with wage positing. Financial market imperfections are modeled in terms of limited pledgeability, in line with the work of Holmstrom and Tirole. We show analytically that borrowing constraints increase unemployment volatility in the aftermath of productivity shocks. We calibrate the model to match key labor and financial moments of the US labor markets, and we perform two quantitative exercises. In the first exercise we ask whether the interaction between productivity shocks and borrowing constraints increase the volatility of unemployment with respect to models that focus only on the labor market imperfections. In the general specification of the model, both leverage and non pledgeable income move with the cycle. Our calibration exercise shows that the volatility of unemployment in response to productivity shock increases by as much as 50 percent with respect to a pure DMP model with wage posting. The second quantitative exercise explores the role of pure financial shocks on aggregate equilibrium. We calibrate pledgeability shocks to match the frequency of financial crisis and define financial distress as a situation in which internal liquidity completely dries up. The second exercise shows that full dry up of internal liquidity implies an increase in unemployment as large as 60 percent. These results throw new light on the aggregate impact of financial recessions.
J00|Economic and Social Impacts of the Media|In this survey, we review the literature on the impact of exposure to the media. We cast a wide net and cover media impacts on education, family choices, labor and migration decisions, environmental choices, health, crime, public economics, attitudes, consumption and savings, and development economics. We stress five themes. First, the demand for entertainment plays a key role, with the economic impacts emerging largely as by-products. Second, to understand the media effects one cannot just focus on the direct effect of exposure but one needs to take into account the crowding-out of alternative activities (substitution effect). Third, the sources of identification play a critical role in determining what is known: credible estimates of short- and long run effects are available for some topics and some media but not for others. Fourth, most of the evidence on social and economic impacts is for exposure to the entertainment media such as television, as opposed to the printed press. Fifth, for the policy impacts both the substitution effect of media exposure and the demand for entertainment play an important role.
J00|Do place-based policies help people ? Evidence from French enterprise zones|This paper evaluates the effect of enterprise zones on their residents. Using the French case, it provides results on a dimension that has not been much studied but is quite crucial for understanding the mechanisms at play : the social composition of the zones. It also provides new results for the French case, complementing and reconciling results of previous studies. The paper will show : first, a significant effect of the program on the unemployment rate of residents of French enterprise zones due, in large part, to the fact that some exemptions were made conditional on local hiring ; second, that this result is mainly due to composition effects. The unemployment rate of the residents decreases mainly because of a change in the resident composition of the zones. Enterprise zone programs with a local hiring condition seem to change the social mix of the zone.
J00|Incumbency Effects in a Comparative Perspective: Evidence from Brazilian Mayoral Elections|High rerunning rates among incumbents and among the two major parties, allow studies of US incumbency advantage to bypass the selection problem of who chooses to rerun. In countries where rerunning is not widespread among individuals or parties, estimation using methods developed for the US may result in a sample selection bias. In countries with party switching, there may be a disconnect between party and individual estimates. This paper proposes a definition of incumbency advantage that is valid for countries that present any of these characteristics and that is valid for cross-country comparison: the effect of incumbency for an individual politician on the unconditional probability of winning. I illustrate the issues raised in this paper with evidence from Brazilian Mayoral elections.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J00|A Theory of Education and Health|This paper presents a unified theory of human capital with both health capital and, what we term, skill capital endogenously determined within the model. By considering joint investment in health capital and in skill capital, the model highlights similarities and differences in these two important components of human capital. Health is distinct from skill: health is important to longevity, provides direct utility, provides time that can be devoted to work or other uses, is valued later in life, and eventually declines, no matter how much one invests in it (a dismal fact of life). Lifetime earnings are strongly multiplicative in skill and health, so that investment in skill capital raises the return to investment in health capital, and vice versa. The theory provides a conceptual framework for empirical and theoretical studies aimed at understanding the complex relati onship between education and health, and generates several new testable predictions.
J00|Does revamping Japan's dual labor market matter?|This paper argues that Japan's excessive labor market duality can reduce Total Factor Productivity (TFP) due to a negative impact on non-regular workers’ effort and on firms’ incentives to train them. The paper then empirically studies the determinants of labor market duality. The main result of the paper is that the level of employment protection affects duality. In particular, a higher level of employment protection of regular workers increases duality, while a higher level of protection of temporary workers reduces it. On the basis of this result, the paper also discusses some reform options to address Japan's labor market duality.
J00|Sex and happiness|We examine the relationship between sexual activities and happiness using a sample of 3800 adults from China. We provide some results about the relationship between sexual activities and happiness for an important country other than the United States. We find that those who have more sex and better quality sex, proxied by emotional and physical satisfaction with one's primary sex partner, are happier. We find that the happiness maximizing number of sexual partners is one and that engaging in extramarital sex is negatively related to happiness. A third important finding is that having unwanted sex is associated with lower happiness for both men and women.
J00|Service gratuities and tipping: A motivational framework|In many countries around the world, consumers leave voluntary payments of money (called “tips”) to service workers who have served them. Since tips are an expense that consumers are free to avoid, tipping is an anomalous behavior that many economists regard as “irrational” or “mysterious”. In this paper, I present a motivational framework that offers plausible explanations for: (1) why people tip, (2) how tipping norms came into existence and evolve over time, (3) why tipping varies across individuals and situations, (4) why tipping is more common for some occupations than others, and (5) why tipping varies across nations. Many hypotheses generated from this framework are supported by existing research, but many other implications of the framework have yet to be adequately tested. Thus, the framework provides a promising and much needed theoretical guide for future research on a fascinating consumer behavior.
J00|The more the merrier? Evidence on quality of life and population size using historical mines|I investigate the relationship between population size and quality of life. The quantity and quality of consumer amenities will increase with urban scale if they are not offset by congestion effects. To deal with endogenous urban scale, I utilize a quasi-experimental design where I exploit the spatial distribution of mineral resources using Norwegian mines from the 12th to the 19th centuries. The findings suggest that cities become more attractive as a consequence of higher population size.
J00|A unifying model of strategic network formation|Abstract We provide a model that merges two basic models of strategic network formation and incorporates them as extreme cases: Jackson and Wolinsky’s connections model based on bilateral formation of links, and Bala and Goyal’s two-way flow model, where links can be unilaterally formed. In our model a link can be created unilaterally, but when it is only supported by one of the two players the flow through it suffers some friction or decay, but more than when it is supported by both players. When the friction in singly-supported links is maximal (i.e. there is no flow) we have Jackson and Wolinsky’s connections model, while when flow in singly-supported links is as good as in doubly-supported links we have Bala and Goyal’s two-way flow model. In this setting, a joint generalization of the results relative to efficiency and stability in both seminal papers is achieved, and the robustness in both models is tested with positive results.
J00|Efficiency vs. Stability in a Mixed Network Formation Model| The purpose of this paper is twofold. First, the incomplete results relative to effciency in a transitional model introduced in a previous paper, distinguishing two types of links, strong or doubly-supported and weak or singly-supported, are completed with a full-characterization. Second, as it turns out, effcient structures are stable only for a small range of values of the parameters within the much wider range where they are effcient. This motivates the study of the impact on stability of allowing players to negotiate bilaterally the shares of the cost of doubly-supported links.
J00|The impact of liberalizing cost-saharing on basic models of network formation|" This paper studies the impact of ""liberalizing "" the cost-sharing of links on some basic models of network formation. This is done in a setting where both doubly supported and singly supported links are possible, and which includes the two seminal models of network formation by Jackson and Wolinsky and Bala and Goyal as extreme cases. In this setting, the notion of pairwise stability is extended and it is proved that liberalizing cost-sharing for doubly supported links widens the range of values of the parameters where the efficient networks formed by such type of links are pairwise stable, while the range of values of the parameters where the efficient networks formed by singly supported links are pairwise stable shrinks, but the region where the latter are e¢ cient and pairwise stable remains the same."
J00|El mercado de trabajo en España: el contexto europeo, los dos viejos desafíos y un nuevo problema|In this article, we focus on the outcomes of the Spanish labour market from a comparative perspective respect to other countries of the European Union. A descriptive analysis presents the main consequences of the latest crisis. We use these elements to understand the two biggest problems of the Spanish labour market (the huge waves of employment and unemployment, and the high unemployment rate in the long-term), jointly with the concerns on wage and income inequality for the next future. A final section concludes discussing about the design of structural reforms and changes in the Welfare State.
J00|Long-term effects of population growth on aggregate investment dynamics: Selected country evidence for Africa|Purpose - – The generation is witnessing the greatest demographic transition and Africa is at the heart of it. There is mounting concern over corresponding rising unemployment and depleting per capita income. The purpose of this paper is to examine the issues from a long-run perspective by assessing the relationships between population growth and a plethora of investment dynamics: public, private, foreign and domestic investments. Design/methodology/approach - – Vector autoregressive models in the perspectives of vector error correction and short-run Granger causality are used. Findings - – In the long-run population growth will: first, decrease foreign and public investments in Ivory Coast; second, increase public and private investments in Swaziland; three, deplete public investment but augment domestic investment in Zambia; fourth diminish private investment and improve domestic investment in the Congo Republic and Sudan, respectively. Practical implications - – Mainstream positive linkage of population growth to investment growth in the long-term should be treated with extreme caution. Policy orientation should not be blanket, but contingent on country-specific trends and tailored differently across countries. The findings stress the need for the creation of a conducive investment climate (and ease of doing business) for private and foreign investments. Family planning and birth control policies could also be considered in countries with little future investment avenues. Originality/value - – The objective of this study is to provide policy makers with some insights on how future investment opportunities could help manage rising population growth and corresponding unemployment.
J00|The internet as a data source for advancement in social sciences|Purpose - – The purpose of this paper is to recommend the use of internet data for social sciences with a special focus on human resources issues. It discusses the potentials and challenges of internet data for social sciences. The authors present a selection of the relevant literature to establish the wide spectrum of topics, which can be reached with this type of data, and link them to the papers in this Design/methodology/approach - – Internet data are increasingly representing a large part of everyday life, which cannot be measured otherwise. The information is timely, perhaps even daily following the factual process. It typically involves large numbers of observations and allows for flexible conceptual forms and experimental settings. Findings - – Internet data can successfully be applied to a very wide range of human resource issues including forecasting (e.g. of unemployment, consumption goods, tourism, festival winners and the like), nowcasting (obtaining relevant information much earlier than through traditional data collection techniques), detecting health issues and well-being (e.g. flu, malaise and ill-being during economic crises), documenting the matching process in various parts of individual life (e.g. jobs, partnership, shopping), and measuring complex processes where traditional data have known deficits (e.g. international migration, collective bargaining agreements in developing countries). Major problems in data analysis are still unsolved and more research on data reliability is needed. Research limitations/implications - – The data in the reviewed literature are unexplored and underused and the methods available are confronted with known and new challenges. Current research is highly original but also exploratory and premature. Originality/value - – The paper reviews the current attempts in the literature to incorporate internet data into the mainstream of scholarly empirical research and guides the reader through this Special Issue. The authors provide some insights and a brief overview of the current state of research.
J00|Geographic Information Systems (GIS) in Urban Planning|Geographic information systems can be defined as a intelligent tool, to which it relates techniques for the implementation of processes such as the introduction, recording, storage, handling, processing and generation of spatial data. Use of GIS in urban planning helps and guides planners for an orderly development of settlements and infrastructure facilities within and outside urban areas. Continued growth of the population in urban centers generates the need for expansion of urban space, for its planning in terms of physical and social infrastructures in the service of the community, based on the principles of sustainable development. In addition urbanization is accompanied with numerous structural transformations and functional cities, which should be evaluated in spatial context, to be managed and planned according to the principles of sustainable development. Urban planning connects directly with land use and design of the urban environment, including physical and social infrastructure in service of the urban community, constituting a challenge to global levels. Use of GIS in this field is a different approach regarding the space, its development and design, analysis and modeling of various processes occurring in it, as well as interconnections between these processes or developments in space.
J00|Job Loss and Regional Mobility|We study the migration behavior of displaced workers and find that job displacement increases regional mobility. We find, however, that noneconomic factors, such as family ties, are very important for the migration decision and that there is strong heterogeneity in outcomes. We find large income losses for workers who move to regions where they have family or to rural areas, while, for example, rural to urban movers realize a significant long-term earnings increase. We also find that life events related to fertility, divorce, and new relationships correlate with mobility after job loss and may partly explain the large income losses.
J00|A Theory of Education and Health|This paper presents a unified theory of human capital with both health capital and, what we term, skill capital endogenously determined within the model. By considering joint investment in health capital and in skill capital, the model highlights similarities and differences in these two important components of human capital. Health is distinct from skill: health is important to longevity, provides direct utility, provides time that can be devoted to work or other uses, is valued later in life, and eventually declines, no matter how much one invests in it (a dismal fact of life). Lifetime earnings are strongly multiplicative in skill and health, so that investment in skill capital raises the return to investment in health capital, and vice versa. The theory provides a conceptual framework for empirical and theoretical studies aimed at understanding the complex relationship between education and health, and generates several new testable predictions.
J00|Foreign Language Learning : An Econometric Analysis|The paper is devoted to an econometric analysis of learning foreign languages in all parts of the world. Our sample covers 193 countries and 13 important languages. Four factors significantly explain learning, two of which affect the broad decision to learn, while two concern as well the choice of the particular language to learn. Literacy generally promotes learning while the world population of speakers of the native language generally discourages it. Trade with speakers of a specific language prompts learning of that specific language while the linguistic distance between the home and the foreign language discourages learning of the specific language. Trade is highly significant and may well deserve more emphasis than the other three key variables (literacy rate, linguistic distance, and world population of native speakers) because its direction can change faster and by a larger order of magnitude. Controlling for individual acquired languages, including English, is of no particular importance.
J00|Forecasting Employment in Europe: Are Survey Results Helpful?|Abstract In this paper we evaluate the forecasting performance of employment expectations for employment growth in 15 European states. Our data cover the period from the first quarter 1998 to the fourth quarter 2014. With in-sample analyses and pseudo out-of-sample exercises, we find that for most of the European states considered, the survey-based indicator model outperforms common benchmark models. It is therefore a powerful tool for generating more accurate employment forecasts. We observe the best results for one quarter ahead predictions that are primarily the aim of the survey question. However, employment expectations also work well for longer forecast horizons in some countries.
J00|Occupational Skills and the Evolution of Wages|The US and many European countries are witnessing substantial changes in the wage structure (Autor et al. 2006; Dustmann et al., 2009). Previous research has focused on changing returns to education and experience (Katz and Murphy, 1992), changes in the workforce composition (Lemieux, 2006), or the decline in unionization (DiNardo et al., 1996) as possible explanations for the observed changes. Until recently, little attention has been paid to the potential role of the returns to skills. However, the demand for different skills has shown vivid dynamics both within and between industries (Autor et al., 2003). A prominent idea in the more recent literature is that structural changes have depressed the relative demand for certain types of tasks performed on the job. A common finding is that returns to routine tasks have been decreasing over time, while returns to abstract tasks have been increasing. Yet, measuring and defining different types of task categories has been proven to be empirically difficult (Autor, 2013). In our study, we avoid potential measurement issues by using a skill approach as opposed to a task approach to characterize occupations. Instead of focusing on the tasks performed on the job, we examine the skills that individuals acquire during their education. For our empirical analysis we use the Sample of Integrated Labour Market Biographies (SIAB), a sample of social security records in Germany from 1975 through 2008. The information on skills taught in an occupation come from the BIBB/IAB Employment Survey, a representative worker survey. We construct occupation-specific skill portfolios and identify changes in the skill portfolios over the observed time period. We then match the skill portfolios to the corresponding occupations in the SIAB, thereby following the procedure utilized in Gathmann and Sch nberg (2010). In the descriptive analysis, we provide evidence that both the wage level across occupations and the skill portfolios within the same occupation have changed substantially over the observed time period. Then, we investigate whether the observed are related. Following Firpo et al. (2011), we run regressions of wage changes on the base period wage for each percentile of the within-occupation wage distribution and link the estimated intercepts and slopes to the skill portfolios of each occupation. Our results suggest that overall skills that used to be valuable in low-wage occupations have decreased in value, while the opposite has happened in high-wage occupations. Finally, we use a decomposition method based on the re-centered influence function regression approach by Firpo et al. (2007; 2009) to explicitly quantify the contribution of the skill portfolios to changes in the wage structure. Quantifying the contribution of single skills to the evolution of wages allows us to better understand why some occupations have experienced sharp decreases in wages, while others have experienced sharp increases. We thereby contribute to the recent literature on wage inequality. Finally, calculating skill prices can provide guidance for policy makers on how to design training curricula.
J00|Fairness and Frictions: The Impact of Unequal Raises on Quit Behavior|We analyze how separations responded to arbitrary differences in own and peer wages at a large US retailer. Regression-discontinuity estimates imply large causal effects of own-wages on separations, and on quits in particular. However, this own-wage response could reflect comparisons either to market wages or to peer wages. Estimates using peer-wage discontinuities show large peer-wage effects and imply the own-wage separation response mostly reflects peer comparisons. The peer effect is driven by comparisons with higher-paid peers—suggesting concerns about fairness. Separations appear fairly insensitive when raises are similar across peers—suggesting search frictions and monopsony are relevant in this low-wage sector.
J00|What Works? A Meta Analysis of Recent Active Labor Market Program Evaluations|We summarize the estimates from over 200 recent studies of active labor market programs. We classify the estimates by type of program and participant group, and distinguish between three different post-program time horizons. Using regression models for the estimated program effect (for studies that model the probability of employment) and for the sign and significance of the estimated effect (for all the studies in our sample) we conclude that: (1) average impacts are close to zero in the short run, but become more positive 2–3 years after completion of the program; (2) the time profile of impacts varies by type of program, with larger average gains for programs that emphasize human capital accumulation; (3) there is systematic heterogeneity across participant groups, with larger impacts for females and participants who enter from long term unemployment; (4) active labor market programs are more likely to show positive impacts in a recession.
J00|Matching as a regression estimator|“Matching” is a statistical technique used to evaluate the effect of a treatment by comparing the treated and non-treated units in an observational study. Matching provides an alternative to older estimation methods, such as ordinary least squares (OLS), which involves strong assumptions that are usually without much justification from economic theory. While the use of simple OLS models may have been appropriate in the early days of computing during the 1970s and 1980s, the remarkable increase in computing power since then has made other methods, in particular matching, very easy to implement.
J00|Health effects of job insecurity|Research has shown that job insecurity affects both mental and physical health, though the effects are lower when employees are easily re-employable. The detrimental effects of job insecurity can also be partly mitigated by employers allowing greater employee participation in workplace decision-making in order to ensure fair procedures. But as job insecurity is felt by many more people than just the unemployed, the negative health effects during recessions are multiplied and extend through the majority of the population. This reinforces the need for more effective, stabilising macroeconomic policies.
J00|A double-hurdle analysis of the gender earnings gap for working children in Bangladesh|Child labor continues to be pervasive throughout the developing world. Although the number of child workers has declined, the ILO’s 2010 estimate remained at 215 million children. An estimated 100 million girls are involved in child labor, often for low pay. Girls are often engaged in some of the worst forms of child labor, sometimes in illegal activities such as prostitution. Studies regarding the gender earnings gap among adults are abundant, but there is very little economic research on girls’ unequal treatment in the labor market in terms of pay. In this paper, we measure and analyze the gender earning gap between working boys and girls in Bangladesh, those who are paid as well as those who receive no pay. In order to investigate the gender gap in the earnings of children, we use the 2002-03 National Child Labour Survey of Bangladesh and limit our analysis to children ages 5 through 14, yielding 50,263 cases. Of these children, 6,668 performed market work; 2,283 were paid for their work and 4,385 were unpaid workers. We present descriptive statistics and then apply the Double-Hurdle model to adjust for selectivity bias and to include the working children who do not earn a wage. We then estimate Mincerian earnings equations for a pooled sample of children who perform market work, using four alternative models. We find evidence of a significant gender earnings gap in the overall child labor market in Bangladesh with a raw earnings gap of 36 percent. We specify four alternative Double-Hurdle regression models in which we include alternative sets of independent variables. All four models show a statistically significant wage gap ranging in magnitude from 31 percent to 29 percent. The magnitude of the gap is large, due mainly to a greater proportion of girls in unpaid work. A child’s own characteristics, family characteristics, as well as industrial segregation play important roles in explaining the gap. Girls’ earnings remain well below boys’ earnings even when all measured characteristics are included in the analysis. Our results show that the concentration of girls’ in unpaid work contributes to the earnings gap, yet we understand the importance of part-time (often unpaid) work in allowing girls to pursue their education. Policies are needed that encourage both educational and employment opportunities for girls in safe environments.
J00|Job quality in Europe in the first decade of the 21st Century|This article presents an analysis of the evolution of job quality from 2000 to 2010 in the European Union 15, using a newly developed composite measure of job quality that is applied to the European Working Conditions Survey. After a careful study of the evolution of job quality across the different dimensions and components of our index, and a differentiation between changes in the composition and changes in the means, we do not detect any major decline during the period, even during the economic crisis. The most significant change is a small increase in job quality in peripheral European countries, suggesting some convergence. We discuss several hypotheses for explaining the remarkable stability of job quality during such turbulent times.
J00|The Future of the Euro Still Lies in its Past|The true problem for the future of the Euro is to get a wider statute for the European Central Bank (ECB) similar to those of other central banks, notably the Fed, to permit better monetary policy. This means the power to act as a lender of last resort or “whatever it takes” (Draghi 2012 ). People consider this possibility tied to the political will of the main member states (Germany and the Netherlands, partly France). However, two other problems would remain unresolved if the Euro is to have full legitimacy as a paper money: a state behind it and a common Eurozone fiscal policy. This means a move to a political union, which is less possible than the approval of a new ECB statute. The existence of these problems does not mean that the Euro cannot survive, but that it depends on the will of both the market and the owner of official reserve denominated in Euro. It also depends on acceptance by member countries affected by the negative effects of not having a true and free lender of last resort and a targeted policy to resolve the weakness of the non-optimal currency area of the Eurosystem which preexisted the birth of the Euro. This is why the future of the Euro still lies in its past, not having found a consensus on what to do or leaders capable of filling the gap. Collapse is always possible. Copyright International Atlantic Economic Society 2015
J00|Örn B. Bodvarsson & Hendrik Van den Berg, The Economics of Immigration: Theory and Policy|The Economics of Immigration: Theory and Policy (Second edition)is designed as a survey book that addresses all facets of immigration. Though there is a great amount of information regarding immigration, the complexity of the topic has resulted in an absence of any comprehensive book the covers a wide range of issues. The book covers immigration theory, empirical evidence regarding those theories, special issues in immigration, and immigration policy throughout the world. Designed as a resource for both graduate students and researchers in the field, this book is successful at compiling all of the various literature and policy on immigration in a cohesive manner.
J00|Cooperative organizations as an engine of equitable rural economic development| Cooperatives represent an alternative to large-scale corporate farms and plantations as well as to independent unaffiliated small private farms. This paper presents a comparative modeling narrative on cooperative organizational formsâ€™ potential impact on equitable rural development. This speaks to issues of both increasing the size of the economic pie and how this income is distributed. The case is made the cooperatives can potentially generate higher rates of growth and more equitable growth, even in competitive economic environments. An important type of cooperative that is focused upon is one based on the linking of smaller farms into a cooperative. Economies economics of scale and scope as well in transaction costs can be captured by the cooperatives. Given cooperative governance, one would also expect higher levels of x-efficiency. Overall, cooperatives can generate relative high incomes to cooperative members, whilst remaining competitive with the traditional privately owned large farms. Critical to the success of the cooperative, is a set rules and regulation that place them on a level playing field with the privately owned farm. In addition, the implementation and practice of cooperative principles is key to the success of the cooperative farm and rural cooperatives, more generally speaking.
J00|Economic Growth and Fertilityin the EU Members During the Period 2002-2012|This article puts focus on one of the funda­mental interdependencies – “economic growth and fertility”. Based on the Eurostat data base a research, including Serbia, Macedonia and all European Members, has been conducted. The correlation strength between the growth rates of the gross domestic product and total fertility rate are the objects of observation in this research. This interdependency is measured by three types of correlation coefficients: 1. Ordinary. 2. With one year lag on the growth of the total fertility rate 3. With two years lag on the growth of the total fertility rate. The purpose of this research is to study how the correlation between the economic growth and fertility is realized in the observed countries during the period of 2002-2012.
J00|Pharmaceutical Drug Misuse, Industry of Employment and Occupation|We contribute to the existing literature on drug consumption by analysing the misuse of pharmaceutical drugs, which has attracted scant attention in the economics literature. Specifically, using individual level data, we explore the determinants of pharmaceutical drug misuse and focus on potential industry and occupation effects, which have been associated with the consumption of other (licit and illicit) drugs. In order to place the misuse of pharmaceutical drugs into context, we also consider other illicit drugs: namely cannabis, speed, and ecstasy. We find a positive association between the consumption of pharmaceutical drugs and employment in the hospitality industry, which contrasts with an inverse relationship in the case of the retail, and finance and insurance industries. In addition, our findings suggest that individuals employed in managerial, professional, sales and clerical/administration occupations are less likely to consume pharmaceuticals relative to labourers, indicating a clear disparity across white collar and blue collar occupations.
J00|Contemporary Issues in Economy. Proceedings of the International Conference on Applied Economics: Proceedings in Polish|The book contains papers in Polish language submitted to 8th International Conference on Applied Economics Contemporary Issues in Economy under the title Market or Government? 18-19 June 2015. Polish Security Printing Works was a strategic partner of the conference and European Regional Science Association was an international scientific institutional partner. The conference was hosted by The Department of Economics at The Faculty of Economics and Management at Nicolaus Copernicus University in Torun in Poland and was organized in collaboration with Polish Economic Society Branch in Torun, Institute of Economic Research and Faculty of Business at Brno University of Technology (Czech Republic), Kaunas University of Technology (Lithuania), Kyiv National Economic University named after Vadym Hetman (Ukraine), Pablo de Olavide University (Spain), Riga Technical University (Latvia), Steinbeis University Berlin (Germany). The conference was especially addressed to economist from all European Union countries and Eastern Europe. Main conference tracks included: a) Macroeconomics; Microeconomics; Econometrics; International Economics; b) Financial markets; Labour markets; Institutions; c) Business environment; Management and Marketing.
J00|Contemporary Issues in Economy. Proceedings of the International Conference on Applied Economics: Economics and Finance|The book contains papers in economics and finance submitted to 8th International Conference on Applied Economics Contemporary Issues in Economy under the title Market or Government? 18-19 June 2015. Polish Security Printing Works was a strategic partner of the conference and European Regional Science Association was an international scientific institutional partner. The conference was hosted by The Department of Economics at The Faculty of Economics and Management at Nicolaus Copernicus University in Torun in Poland and was organized in collaboration with Polish Economic Society Branch in Torun, Institute of Economic Research and Faculty of Business at Brno University of Technology (Czech Republic), Kaunas University of Technology (Lithuania), Kyiv National Economic University named after Vadym Hetman (Ukraine), Pablo de Olavide University (Spain), Riga Technical University (Latvia), Steinbeis University Berlin (Germany). The conference was especially addressed to economist from all European Union countries and Eastern Europe. Main conference tracks included: a) Macroeconomics; Microeconomics; Econometrics; International Economics; b) Financial markets; Labour markets; Institutions; c) Business environment; Management and Marketing.
J00|George Orwell and the Incoherence of Democratic Socialism|George Orwell's famous fictions, Animal Farm and Nineteen-Eighty Four were intended to advocate democratic socialism by portraying undemocratic forms of socialism as totalitarian. For Orwell, democracy was a political institution which would limit the abuse of power. But there are several problems with democratic socialism which ensure its failure. In Orwell's novel A Clergyman's Daughter, Orwell's views of economics and politics are inconsistent and conflicting in a way that ensures democratic socialism will not succeed on Orwell's terms. Democratic socialism in general is criticized according to F. A. Hayek's Road to Serfdom and John Jewkes's The New Ordeal by Planning, whose arguments differ crucially from those against market socialism by Andrei Shleifer and Robert W. Vishny. An economic analysis of the political institutions of democratic socialism shows that democratic socialism must necessarily fail for political (not economic) reasons even if nobody in authority has ill-intentions or abuses their power.
J00|Wage and price setting behaviour of Lithuanian firms: survey-based evidence for 2008–2009 and 2010–2013|This paper gives a broad descriptive overview on wage and price setting behaviour of Lithuanian firms during the last episode of the economic crisis in 2008–2009 and in the post¬-crisis period of 2010–2013. The evidence provided in this paper is based on the firm¬¬-level data from the third wave of the Wage Dynamic Network (WDN3) survey ¬— the joint research project of the European Union (EU) countries launched within the European System of Central Banks (ESCB). Wage and price setting strategies of Lithuanian firms were evaluated by relating firms’ decision-making to the macroeconomic, financial and institutional environment under which the firms are operating. The preliminary conclusion drawn in this paper is that both wages and prices show rather high degree of flexibility in Lithuania. Low wage rigidity should primarily be attributable to labour market institutions — low collective wage bargaining coverage and completely decentralised wage setting process. Easing of employment protection laws during the last episode of economic downturn might also have contributed to the increased wage flexibility in the after-crisis period.
J00|The Impact of GDP Structure on the Stability of Okun's Law in Lithuania|This paper provides evidence that the extent to which unemployment rate in Lithuania reacts to the fluctuations in GDP depends on the compositional characteristics of GDP growth. Decomposing GDP growth rate by expenditure approach and estimating simple version of Okun’s law, the evidence provided in this paper points towards the conclusion that the GDP growth driven by labour-intense private consumption contributes the most to a change in the unemployment rate. The elasticity of the unemployment rate to capital-intense exports is generally much lower as compared to the elasticity to the domestic demand components. These conclusions are to a large extent confirmed by the estimates obtained by regressing unemployment on GDP growth disaggregated by production approach. Services, agriculture and especially construction – labour-intense production sectors – contribute much more to change in unemployment as compared to manufacturing, the sector characterised by capital-intensity. Referring to the previous studies, these results provide one possible explanation of the unstable and time-varying relationship between the unemployment rate and fluctuations in GDP in Lithuania.
J00|College-Major Choice to College-Then-Major Choice|Many countries use college-major-specific admissions policies that require a student to choose a college-major pair jointly. Given the potential of student-major mismatches, we explore the equilibrium effects of postponing student choice of major.We develop a sorting equilibrium model under the collegemajor- specific admissions regime, allowing for match uncertainty and peer effects.We estimate the model using Chilean data.We introduce the counterfactual regime as a Stackelberg game in which a social planner chooses college-specific admissions policies and students make enrolment decisions, learn about their fits to various majors before choosing one. Our estimates indicate that switching from the baseline to the counterfactual regime leads to a 1% increase in average student welfare and that it is more likely to benefit female, low-income and/or low-ability students.
J00|Firms as Drivers of Growth and (In-)Equality|This short note discusses the role of employer heterogeneity as a driver of growth and earnings inequality across the world. Policy implications are discussed.
J00|Zum Zusammenhang von prekaeren Beschaeftigungsbedingungen und Interessenvertretung im Dienstleistungssektor (The interrelation of precarious employment conditions and institutions of collective interest representation in the service sector)|Eine Ausweitung der Dienstleistungsbeschaeftigung in Kombination mit zunehmender Frauenerwerbstaetigkeit gehen in der Bundesrepublik seit den 1990er Jahren mit einer Erosion der Institutionen kollektiver Interessenvertretung, der Zunahme atypischer Beschaeftigung und einer Expansion des Niedriglohnsektors einher. Der vorliegende Artikel analysiert daher den Strukturzusammenhang zwischen Interessenvertretung und entsprechend prekaeren Beschaeftigungsbedingungen sowie die korrespondierenden Akteurstrategien in frauendominierten, beschaeftigungsexpansiven Berufsfeldern des Dienstleistungsbereichs. Fuer alle drei hier untersuchten Berufsfelder (Gebaeudereinigung, Medizinische Fachangestellten und Sozialarbeit/Erzieher) ist als Ergebnis festzuhalten, dass das Vorhandensein von Interessenvertretung mit geringeren Anteilen von Niedriglohnbeschaeftigung einhergeht. Im Falle atypischer Beschaeftigung hingegen zeigen sich aufgrund differenzierter Schliessungs- und oeffnungsstrategien in den einzelnen Berufsfeldern jeweils unterschiedliche Zusammenhaenge. (Since the 1990s the growing service sector and increasing female labor market integration in Germany are linked to the expansion of atypical and the low-wage employment as well as the erosion of institutions of collective interest representation. This article analyses the structural interrelations of these forms of precarious employment and the institutions of interest representation as well as actors’ strategies in female-dominated professional fields in the German service sector. A general result of the in-depth studies of three professional fields (cleaners, doctors’ assistants and social workers/child minders) indicates that the existence of institutions of interest representation minimises the extent of low-wage employment. Due to different actors’ strategies concerning ‘opening’ and ‘closing’ in the professional fields, the interrelation with respect to the extent of atypical employment varies.)
J00|Who can you trust? The Swedish Confederation for Professional Employees (TCO) and trust-based working time 1950-1970|"This article aims to provide a historical perspective to the emergence of trust-based control systems in the workplace. These systems are often seen as a response to increased flexibility requirements following the progress of digital technology, globalisation and an increased knowledge content in production. In contrary to this opinion, it is argued in the article that the phenomenon has much longer historical roots. Based on a theoretical discussion of the concept of ""trust"", the article discusses the Swedish Confederation for Professional Employees, TCO’s, approach to working time regulation in the 1950s and 1960s. Through a discourse analytical approach, the article demonstrates that professional employees felt that trust-based elements were important in their professional identity. They were people that you could trust!"
J00|Do Large Modern Retailers Pay Premium Wages?|With malls, franchise strips, and big-box retailers increasingly dotting the landscape, many are concerned that U.S. middle-class jobs in manufacturing are being replaced by minimum-wage jobs in retail. Retail jobs have spread, whereas manufacturing jobs have shrunk in number. The authors show that wage rates in the retail sector rise markedly with firm size and with establishment size. These increases are halved when they control for worker fixed effects, suggesting that better workers are sorted into larger firms. Also, higher-ability workers are promoted to the position of manager, which is associated with higher pay. The authors conclude that the growth in modern retail, characterized by larger chains of larger establishments with more levels of hierarchy, is raising wage rates relative to traditional mom-and-pop retail stores.
J00|Welfare receipt and the intergenerational transmission of work-welfare norm|This article investigates the role of welfare receipt in shaping norms regarding work and welfare using unique Australian data from the Youth in Focus Project. We begin by incorporating welfare into a theoretical model of the transmission of work-welfare norms across generations. Consistent with the predictions of this model, we find evidence that youths' attitudes toward work and welfare may be influenced by socialization within their families. Young people are more likely to oppose generous social benefits and to believe that social inequality stems from individual characteristics if (i) their mothers support these views; (ii) their mothers were employed while they were growing up; and (iii) their families never received welfare. Finally, youths' work-welfare norms appear to be unrelated to their neighbors' welfare receipt suggesting that socialization occurs primarily within families rather than within neighborhoods.
J00|A Detailed Analysis of Productivity Trends in the Forest Products Sector in Quebec, 2000-2013: Adversity Drives Productivity|The Quebec forest products sector has had an above-average productivity performance in the 2000-2013 period, driven in particular by the forestry and logging subsector. While the wood product manufacturing subsector has also benefited from strong productivity gains, the productivity performance of the paper manufacturing subsector has been far from impressive. This report provides a detailed analysis of output, input and productivity trends in the Canadian forest products sector. It also looks at the key drivers of productivity in the sector, investigating potential barriers to productivity growth and discussing policies that could enable faster growth. Given the increasing role of countries with low-labour costs in several forest product markets, maintaining robust productivity growth is an imperative for the Quebec forest products sector if it wants to remain competitive internationally. In this vein, the report recommends a renewed focus on human and physical capital investment, as well as on R&D spending and the introduction of new innovative products.
J00|A Detailed Analysis of Productivity Trends in the Forest Products Sector in Ontario, 2000-2013: Sunset Industry or Industry in Transition?|Ontario’s forest products sector was hit by a near perfect storm in the first decade of the twenty-first century, when a multitude of structural and cyclical factors came together to devastate the sector. Despite this, the Ontario forest products sector has had an above-average productivity performance, driven in particular by the wood product manufacturing subsector. This report provides a detailed analysis of output, input and productivity trends in the Ontario forest products sector. It also looks at the key drivers of productivity in the sector, investigating potential barriers to productivity growth and discussing policies that could enable faster growth. Given the increasing role of countries with low-labour costs in several forest product markets, maintaining robust productivity growth is an imperative for Ontario’s forest products sector if it wants to remain competitive internationally. In this vein, the report recommends a renewed focus on human and physical capital investment, as well as on R&D spending and the introduction of new innovative products.
J00|Orta Gelir Tuzağı ve Türkiye'nin Konumu Açısından Bir Değerlendirme|The issue investigated in this paper is quite important on the grounds that Turkey is mentioned among the countries in middle income trap and it is challenging to overcome this trap. The quality of the workforce, and accordingly workforce’s relatively low wage profile, economic policy and structural factors are selected as explanatory variables. In this paper, the issue is discussed in details in the context of explanatory variables by examining the strategic moves of the selected countries and appropriate road map is tried to be drawn.
J00|Which Teachers Choose a Defined Contribution Pension Plan? Evidence from the Florida Retirement System|Since 2002, public school teachers in Florida have been permitted to choose between a defined benefit (DB) and a defined contribution (DC) retirement plan. We exploit this unique policy environment to study new teachersâ€™ revealed preferences over pension plan structures. Roughly 30 percent of teachers hired between 2003 and 2008 selected the DC plan, despite the fact that teachers not actively deciding within six months were defaulted into the DB plan. The share choosing the DC plan was higher among teachers with advanced degrees, math and science teachers, and teachers in charter schools. It was lower among special education teachers and especially among black and Hispanic teachers. There was only a slight relationship between plan choice and teacher value added to student achievement, with teachers in the bottom value-added quartile roughly 2 percentage points less likely to choose the DC option. Â© 2015 Association for Education Finance and Policy
J00|Do Study Abroad Programs Enhance the Employability of Graduates?|Using data on a large sample of recent Italian graduates, this paper investigates the extent to which participation in study abroad programs during university studies impacts subsequent employment likelihood. To address the problem of endogeneity related to participation in study abroad programs, I use a combination of fixed effects and instrumental variable estimation where the instrumental variable is exposure to international student exchange schemes. My estimates show that studying abroad has a relatively large and statistically meaningful effect on the probability of being in employment three years after graduation. This effect is mainly driven by the impact that study abroad programs have on the employment prospects of graduates from disadvantaged (but not very disadvantaged) backgrounds, though positive but imprecise effects are also found for graduates from advantaged backgrounds. Â© 2015 Association for Education Finance and Policy
J00|Locus of Control and Job Search Strategies|Standard job search theory assumes that unemployed individuals have perfect information about the effect of their search effort on the job offer arrival rate. We present an alternative model that assumes that each individual has a subjective belief about the impact of her search effort on the job arrival. These beliefs depend in part on an individual's locus of control. We estimate the impact of locus of control on job search behavior using a data set of newly unemployed individuals in Germany. Consistent with our theoretical predictions, we find evidence that individuals with an internal locus of control search more and that individuals who believe that their future outcomes are determined by external factors have lower reservation wages. © 2015 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
J00|Incentive Strength and Teacher Productivity: Evidence from a Group-Based Teacher Incentive Pay System|We estimate the impact of incentive strength on achievement under a group-based teacher incentive pay program. The system provides variation in the share of students in a subject-grade that a teacher instructs, which proxies for incentive strength. We find that achievement on incentivized exams, but not nonincentivized exams, improves when incentives strengthen. For the incentivized exams, we find that effects fade out monotonically as a teacher's portion of the group increases to between 20 and 30 percentage and are larger for teachers with low-achieving students. Calculations based off these estimates show modest positive effects of the program overall. © 2015 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
J00|Testing Instrument Validity for LATE Identification Based on Inequality Moment Constraints|We derive testable implications of instrument validity in just identified treatment effect models with endogeneity and consider several tests. The identifying assumptions of the local average treatment effect allow us to both point identify and bound the mean potential outcomes of the always takers under treatment and the never takers under nontreatment. The point-identified means must lie within their respective bounds, which provides us with four testable inequality moment constraints. Finally, we adapt our testing framework to the identification of distributional features. A brief simulation study and an application to labor market data are also provided. © 2015 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
J00|Global Inequality of Opportunity: How Much of Our Income Is Determined by Where We Live?|Suppose that all people in the world are allocated only two characteristics over which they have (almost) no control: country of residence and income distribution within that country. Assume further that there is no migration. We show that more than one-half of variability in income of world population classified according to their household per capita in 1% income groups (by country) is accounted for by these two characteristics. The role of effort or luck cannot play a large role in explaining the global distribution of individual income. © 2015 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
J00|Auf dem Weg zur weltanschaulichen Bekenntnisschule: Das wirtschaftspolitische Leitbild der Hochschule Pforzheim|Dieses Diskussionspapier beleuchtet die PRME-Verpflichtung der Hochschule Pforzheim und die daraus resultierenden Probleme (Abschnitt 2) aus vier Perspektiven: der erkenntnistheoretischen (Abschnitt 3), der erfahrungswissenschaftlichen (Abschnitt 4), der juristischen (Abschnitt 5) und einer sozial-psychologischen (Abschnitt 6). Es kommt zu dem Ergebnis, dass dieses Projekt nicht nur verfassungsrechtlichen Grundsätzen, wie dem Prinzip der Gewaltenteilung (Art. 1 (3) GG) wi-derspricht, sondern auch den Erfordernissen einer modernen Forschung und Lehre nicht gerecht wird.
J00|Tasks, Employment and Wages: An Analysis of the German Labor Market from 1979 to 2012|The literature has found evidence for a wage polarization depending on routine and non-routine working tasks. Using unique German survey data we ask whether wage polarization coincides with polarization in job satisfaction. First, we find that contrary to what polarization predicts, routine cognitive tasks are associated with higher wage. Second, satisfaction across tasks has converged rather than diverged. The main driver for these two findings are routine cognitive tasks which do not lower satisfaction but instead more often than not increase it. Evidence for polarization arises from the facts that non-routine analytic tasks tend to increase and routine manual to decrease satisfaction. But due to a persistent positive effect of routine cognitive tasks, we do not find clearcut satisfaction polarization.
J00|When Labor Disputes Bring Cities to a Standstill: The Impact of Public Transit Strikes on Traffic, Accidents, Air Pollution, and Health|Many governments have banned strikes in public transportation. Whether this can be justified depends on whether strikes endanger public safety or health. We use time-series and cross-sectional variation in powerful registry data to quantify the effects of public transit strikes on urban populations in Germany. Due to higher traffic volumes and longer travel times, total car hours operated increase by 11 to 13 percent during strikes. This effect is accompanied by a 14 percent increase in vehicle crashes, a 20 percent increase in accident-related injuries, a 14 percent increase in particle pollution, and an 11 percent increase in hospital admissions for respiratory diseases among young children.
J00|French enterprise zone program : did it help the residents of deprived neighborhoods ?|This paper evaluates the effect of the French enterprise zone program on residents of these deprived neighborhoods. A second contribution is the evaluation of the composition effects in the zones and of externalities on the neighbors of the enterprise zones. The third contribution is the evaluation of a specific feature : the local hiring condition. It shows that there are a significant decreasing effect of the program on unemployment of residents and some small negative externalities on neighboring areas. There is also evidence of composition effects. There is thus two channels for the effect of the program on residents~: residents already there before designation (or that would have been there in absence of the program) got more jobs but the program also helps to attract or retain residents with better labor market outcomes. Moreover, the results suggest that the local hiring condition is working.
J00|Employment risk and job-seeker performance:| This paper examines the relationship between employment risk and job-seeker performance. To induce exogenous variation in employment risk, the outside options for job seekers undergoing a real recruitment process were randomized by assigning them a 0, 1, 5, 50, 75, or 100 percent chance of real alternative employment of the same duration and wage as the jobs for which they were applying. The findings show that job-seeker performance is highest and effort is lowest among those assigned the lowest employment risk (a guaranteed alternative job), and performance is lowest and effort highest among those facing the highest employment risk (those without any job guarantee). Moreover, a nonlinear relationship exists between employment risk and performance.
J00|Teacher Quality at the High School Level: The Importance of Accounting for Tracks|Unlike in elementary school, high school teacher effects may be confounded with both selection to tracks and track-level treatments. I document confounding track effects and show that traditional tests for the existence of teacher effects are biased. After accounting for biases, high school algebra and English teachers have smaller test score effects than found in previous studies and value-added estimates are weak predictors of teachers' future performance. Results indicate that either (a) teachers are less influential in high school than in elementary school or (b) test score effects are a weak measure of teacher quality at the high school level.
J00|Experimental and Quasi-Experimental Analysis of Peer Effects: Two Steps Forward?|In the past 10 years, there has been an explosion of well-identified studies that measure peer effects across many settings and for many outcomes. The emphasis on natural experiments and randomization is a highly useful one; in more standard observational studies, the self-selection of people into peer groups can make the measurement of peer effects extremely difficult. In the absence of exogenous variation, knowing that people have similar outcomes as their friends, classmates, and coworkers may tell us little about peer effects. I examine the successes, failures, and findings of experimental analyses of peer effects. I draw three broad conclusions. First, even more than in other areas of social science, the size and nature of peer effects estimated are highly context specific; peer effects in student test scores and grades are prominent in some cases and absent in others. That said, there is a pattern across studies suggesting that social outcomes (e.g., crime, drinking behavior) and career choices show larger peer influences than do test scores. Second, researchers have shown that the linear-in-means model of peer effects is often not a good description of the world, although we do not yet have an agreed-upon model to replace it. Third, despite potential temptation, we have not reached the point at which we can reliably use knowledge of peer effects to implement policies that improve outcomes for students and other human subjects.
J00|Productivity Gains and Spillovers from Offshoring| Offshoring is generally believed to be productivity enhancing and this belief is underpinned by economic theory. This paper estimates the impact of materials and business services offshoring on productivity in Belgium over the period 1995–2004. It contributes to the literature: (i) by examining this issue separately for manufacturing and market services industries and (ii) by investigating the possibility of forward and backward spillovers from offshoring, i.e. that productivity gains from offshoring feed through to upstream and downstream industries. Results show that materials offshoring has no effect on productivity, while business services offshoring leads to productivity gains in manufacturing. Furthermore, there is no evidence of either forward or backward spillovers from offshoring.
J00|The Firm, Part Of The Economic System: Reasons For Exiting A Market - An Agent-Based Modeling Approach|What are the reasons for which firms exit markets? In today's world the processes by which firms enter and exit markets are becoming more and more complex due to the fine networking system globalization and communication create at every level. To find and point out the reasons for which firms or their branches disappear off the market, we stylized and simplified market concepts and developed them in an agent-based model. Using NetLogo, we created an artificial market model where firms and their branches enter or exit the market, produce and sell goods and hire the people inhabiting this world.
J00|Culture: Persistence and Evolution|"This paper presents evidence on the speed of evolution (or lack thereof) of a wide range of values and beliefs of different generations of European immigrants to the US. The main result is that persistence differs greatly across cultural attitudes. Some, for instance deep personal religious values, some family and moral values, and political orientation converge very slowly to the prevailing US norm. Other, such as attitudes toward cooperation, redistribution, effort, children's independence, premarital sex, and even the frequency of religious practice or the intensity of association with one's religion, converge rather quickly. The results obtained studying higher generation immigrants differ greatly from those found when the analysis is limited to the second generation, as typically done in the literature, and they imply a lesser degree of persistence than previously thought. Finally, we show that persistence is “culture specific"" in the sense that the country from which one's ancestors came matters for the pattern of generational convergence."
J00|Culture: Persistence and Evolution|This paper presents evidence on the speed of evolution (or lack thereof) of a wide range of values and beliefs of different generations of European immigrants to the US. The main result is that persistence differs greatly across cultural attitudes. Some, for instance deep personal religious values, some fam-ily and moral values, and political orientation are very persistent. Other, such as attitudes toward cooperation, redistribution, effort, children independence, premarital sex, and even the frequency of religious practice or the intensity of association with one’s religion, converge rather quickly. Moreover, the results obtained studying higher generation immigrants differ greatly from those obtained limiting the analysis to the second generation, and imply lesser degree of persistence. Finally, we show that persistence is ”culture specific” in the sense that the country from which one’s ancestors came matters for the pattern of generational convergence.
J00|Stock investments at work|Stock market investment decisions of individuals are positively correlated with that of co-workers. Sorting of unobservably similar individuals to the same workplaces is unlikely to explain our results, as evidenced by the investment behavior of individuals that move between plants. Purchases made under stronger co-worker purchase activity are not associated with higher returns. Moreover, social interaction appears to drive the purchase of within-industry stocks; an investment mistake. Overall, our results suggest a strong influence of co-workers on investment choices, but not an influence that improves the quality of investment decisions.
J00|Recent macroeconomic stability in China|The volatility of Chinese GDP growth has been markedly lower since the mid-1990s. We utilize frequency domain and vector autoregression (VAR) methods to investigate the origin of the observed volatility reduction in the Chinese economy. Our estimation indicates that lower volatility of random shocks to the economy, or the good luck hypothesis, accounts for most of the decline in macroeconomic volatility. Although good policy and better business practices are also contributing factors, they play a marginal role in dampening China's economic fluctuations.
J00|On the complementarity of prosocial norms: The case of restaurant tipping during the holidays|The literature in economics overwhelmingly supports the hypothesis that people have (pure and impure) preferences for altruism. It has also been shown that prosocial acts or norms that dictate prosocial behavior can sometimes crowd out other prosocial behaviors. This paper tests whether a well-understood prosocial norm—generosity during the holiday season (i.e., around Christmas)—crowds out or complements tipping behavior, another prosocial norm. By examining seasonal differences in within-customer tipping behavior using two years of sales data from a busy restaurant, I find that during the holiday season tipping rates are higher, not lower. This effect appears to be driven by those who are already generous. The finding suggests that individuals do not necessarily view two prosocial norms as competing; rather, such norms can be complementary. Motives for prosocial norms like tipping are discussed.
J00|Behavioral labor economics: Advances and future directions|In the past decades, behavioral economics has become an influential and important field of economics. Interest in behavioral economics derives from unease with standard economic models that are based on restrictive assumptions, which confine the nature of human motivation. Although Adam Smith, the founding father of modern economics, had highlighted the multitude of psychological motives that drive human behavior, and despite the fact that many influential economists thereafter believed in tenets of modern behavioral economics, the homo economicus assumption became prevalent, until this construct was challenged by compelling evidence on social, cognitive and emotional factors that drive decision-making and social interaction. Since human interaction is germane to labor markets, one would expect behavioral economics to be highly relevant for labor economics. This paper gauges whether and how behavioral economics has left its mark on labor economics, considers the timing and structure of this development, and contemplates its future impact on labor economics.
J00|Unilateral vs. Bilateral link-formation: Bridging the gap| We provide a model that bridges the gap between two benchmark models of strategic network formation: Jackson and Wolinsky' s model based on bilateral formation of links, and Bala and Goyal's two-way fl ow model, where links can be unilaterally formed. In the model introduced and studied here a link can be created unilaterally. When it is only supported by one of the two players the fl ow through the link suffers a certain decay, but when it is supported by both the fl ow runs without friction. When the decay in links supported by only one player is maximal (i.e. there is no flow) we have Jackson and Wolinsky 's connections model without decay, while when flow in such links is perfect we have Bala and Goyal' s two-way flow model. We study Nash, strict Nash and pairwise stability for the intermediate models. Efficiency and dynamics are also examined.
J00|From bilateral two-way to unilateral one-way flow link-formation|Abstract We provide a model that allows for a transition between the simplest variation of two basic models of strategic network formation: Bala and Goyal’s one-way flow model without decay, where links can be unilaterally formed, and a version without decay of Jackson and Wolinsky’s connections model based on bilateral formation of links. In the transitional model introduced here, these two benchmark models appear as extreme cases. We study efficiency and Nash, strict Nash and pairwise Nash stability for the intermediate model. Dynamics are also discussed.
J00|Women’s employment makes unions more stable, if the male partners contribute to the unpaid household work|A new generation of studies has called into question standard microeconomic predictions of a positive association between women’s economic independence and union dissolution, and suggests that it is necessary to include information about both partners’ contributions to paid and unpaid work when conducting empirical tests of the impact of women’s employment on union stability. In this study, we follow this strand of research and use data on couples from the 2003 and 2007 waves of the Italian “Family and Social Subject” survey, with the aim of investigating whether and how the gender division of labor channels the causal impact of women’s employment on union disruption. Utilizing techniques of mediation analysis, we suggest that women’s employment does not have a negative effect per se on union stability, and that women’s paid work becomes detrimental to the stability of the union only if the male partner’s contribution to unpaid work is scarce. We found that the impact of women’s employment on union dissolution is positive only when 70% or more of the housework is performed by women.
J00|Employment Risk and Job-Seeker Performance|High levels of job uncertainty in developing countries may have significant implications for job performance. This paper examines the relationship between employment risk and job-seeker performance. To induce exogenous variation in employment risk, the outside options for job seekers undergoing a real recruitment process were randomized by assigning them a 0, 1, 5, 50, 75, or 100 percent chance of real alternative employment of the same duration and wage as the jobs for which they were applying. The findings show that job-seeker performance is highest and effort is lowest among those assigned the lowest employment risk (a guaranteed alternative job), and performance is lowest and effort highest among those facing the highest employment risk (those without any job guarantee). Moreover, a nonlinear relationship exists between employment risk and performance. The findings are consistent with a framework that ties together insights from economics and psychology--that is, performance is an increasing function of effort and an inverse U-shaped function of stress. The results are not driven by gift exchange, stereotype threat, or the nutritional efficiency wage hypothesis. These performance improvements have significant welfare implications. In this study, job seekers assigned a high probability of receiving an outside option were twice as likely to be hired in the standard job recruitment process compared with those assigned a low probability of receiving an outside option. More broadly, these results suggest that stress-induced performance reductions are a potential mechanism through which exposure to high employment risk can perpetuate poverty and unemployment.
J00|Exploring regional differences in the regional capacity to absorb displacements|Today we can observe an increasing spatial divide as some large urban regions and many more medium-sized and small regions face growing problems such as decreasing labour demand, increasing unemployment and an ageing population. In view of these trends, this book offers a better understanding of the general characteristics and specific drivers of the geographies of growth. It shows how these may vary in different spatial contexts, how hurdles and barriers to growth in different types of regions can be dealt with, how and to what extent resources in different areas can develop, and how the potential of these resources to stimulate growth can be realized.
J00|The impact of eliminating a child benefit on birth timing and infant health|"We study the effects of the cancellation of a sizeable child benefit in Spain on birth timing and neonatal health. In May 2010, the government announced that a 2,500-euro universal ""baby bonus"" would stop being paid to babies born starting January 1, 2011. We use detailed micro data from birth certificates from 2000 to 2011, and find that more than 2,000 families were able to anticipate the date of birth of their babies from (early) January 2011 to (late) December 2010 (for a total of about 10,000 births a week nationally). This shifting took place in part via an increase as well as an anticipation of pre-programmed c-sections, seemingly mostly in private clinics. We find that this shifting of birthdates resulted in a significant increase in the number of borderline low birth weight babies, as well as a peak in neonatal mortality. The results suggest that announcement effects are important, and that families and health professionals may face effective trade-offs when deciding on the timing (and method) of birth."
J00|Religious institutions and entrepreneurship|This article focuses on the impact of religious institutions on entrepreneurship. We find clear evidence that different religious institutions have a significantly different impact on the tendency to become an entrepreneur. Our article makes important contributions to the research of both religion and entrepreneurship. First, it proposes empirical evidence in which the country’s main religion significantly affects its level of entrepreneurship at the macro level. Second, it adds to our theoretical understanding of the mechanisms that characterize the effects of religion on entrepreneurship. We suggest that macro effects of religion as part of the country’s culture and institutions affect the country’s level of entrepreneurship beyond the direct effects of religion on the behavior of the religion’s members in the society. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014
J00|Labor Economics, second edition|This landmark graduate-level text combines depth and breadth of coverage with recent, cutting-edge work in all the major areas of modern labor economics. Its command of the literature and its coverage of the latest theoretical, methodological, and empirical developments make it also a valuable resource for practicing labor economists. This second edition has been substantially updated and augmented. It incorporates examples drawn from many countries, and it presents empirical methods using contributions that have proved to be milestones in labor economics. The data and codes of these research publications, as well as numerous tables and figures describing the functioning of labor markets, are all available on a dedicated website (www.labor-economics.org), along with slides that can be used as course aids and a discussion forum. This edition devotes more space to the analysis of public policy and the levers available to policy makers, with new chapters on such topics as discrimination, globalization, income redistribution, employment protection, and the minimum wage or labor market programs for the unemployed. Theories are explained on the basis of the simplest possible models, which are in turn related to empirical results. Mathematical appendixes provide a toolkit for understanding the models.
J00|Fear itself: The effects of distressing economic news on birth outcomes|I use new administrative data on mass layoffs and plant closings to study the effects of distressing economic news. Exposure to stressful events during pregnancy can impair fetal development. I find that announcement of impending job losses leads to a transient decrease in the mean birth weight within the firm's county one to four months before the job losses. A loss of 500 jobs corresponds roughly to a decrease of 15–20g and 16 percent greater risk of low birth weight. Layoffs announced late in pregnancy are most strongly linked to decreased birth outcomes.
J00|Rationality of Self-Employment: Do Female and Male Entrepreneurs Differ?|It is not clear, whether changes in self-employment are primarily driven by the necessity to take part in the labour market, or if those activities reflect new modes of labour market integration revealing new opportunities and markets, which are especially due in wide parts to the service and health care sector. A fundamental question is how gender matters when investigating the above-mentioned developments. Do we find specific “gender patterns” within the increasing expansion of self-employment, or will the new chances and risks lead to greater equality of opportunities? Is the increase of solo-self-employment of females driven by the need to earn a living, or is it the result of females taking risks, e.g. to become more economically independent? The structural changes of the labour market raise the question whether self-employment can be seen as a strategy for women to achieve work-life balance and whether these changes in the organisation of work are leading to an improvement of the quality of (working) life. To gather more reliable information, the relationship between self-employment, partner’s employment, the household and children is explored, using Germany as an example. The influence of personal as well as household and labour market characteristics for women and men in a family context and their probability of being self-employed as compared to those who have chosen formal, gainful employment are analysed. The empirical analysis shows that people’s intentions to engage in a specific volume and with specific degrees of motivation reflect diverse areas in the organization of private life. The rationality of private duties, needs, challenges and aspirations belongs to the factors, which influence the decision to engage in the labour market. A crucial impact on those decisions is given by the individual’s domestic background and what the household looks like. Issues of firm partnership, marital status, and the existence of children and age of children or elderly relatives are factors, which provide different life-worlds, which set relevant parameters. In the end, the household as the entity and composition of different interests, motivations, needs, and obstacles proves to be the real acting subject of our analysis.
J00|A case of ritual compliance? The role of European Structural Funds in the shaping of the Greek employment policy (1995‐2008)|The relation of the Greek employment policy to the European one, as it was formulated within EES and the Lisbon strategy, was a particular one. The Greek employment policy fully adopted the form, the structure and the discourse of the EES but it was only marginally influenced by the “way of doing things.” The compliance of the Greek employment policy with the European guidelines for employment was primarily aimed at ensuring the precious flow of the European resources, and only secondarily at improving the effectiveness of the implemented policies. In that sense, the case of Greece, can be described as a case of “ritual compliance”; that is an adherence to the form rather than to the substance of the matter, a practice whose main objective is the unobstructed flow of European funding
J00|Trabajo infantil y adolescente en el Perú en el 2012<BR>[Child and youth labor in Peru in 2012]|Peru has shown a high incidence of child and adolescent labor. One of the concerns that this generates is whether child and adolescent labor implies less school attendance. This work tests the association between work and school of children and adolescents, on the one hand, and the association between some characteristics of children, their families and the context in which they reside. El Perú viene mostrando una alta incidencia de trabajo infantil y adolescente. Una de las preocupaciones que este hecho genera es si el trabajo infantil y adolescente implica menor asistencia a la escuela. Este trabajo somete a prueba la asociación entre el trabajo y la escuela de los niños y adolescentes, por un lado, y la asociación entre algunas características de los menores, sus familias y el contexto en el que residen.
J00|Rising Heterogeneity in the Ph.D. Labor Force: the Korean Case|Studies examining demographic composition and labor market condition have mainly focused on the relatively vulnerable workforce in the labor market. However, as the knowledge-based economy makes strides and skilled professionals become more important, it has become necessary to systematically analyze the composition of the skilled labor force as well as their occupational activity. Accordingly, OECD and Eurostat launched a pioneering global data project named ?Careers and Mobility of Doctorate Holders.? In 2013, comprehensive surveys of Korean doctorate holders were carried out as a part of the project. Based on the data produced by the project, this paper analyzes the structural changes occurring in the career patterns of Korean doctorate holders in the fields of science and engineering(S&E). This study addresses the questions posed by Lee, Miozzo & Laredo (2010) who observed that doctorate holders? career patterns are becoming more diversified. However, while they focused on the analysis of the relationships between the doctorate holders? working sectors and their job-related competencies based on surveys of a small number of generations, this study presents the changes in career patterns of different generations based on surveys of multiple generations. Since the Korean data includes retrospective questions about the first and previous careers of the whole population of doctorate holders, the data can be used to compare the differences in career paths among different generations. The results indicate that the career patterns of S&E doctorate holders are undergoing noticeable changes in terms of various aspects including employment sector, job security and major activities, and that the career differences between fields of science and engineering are becoming more significant.
J00|An Analysis of Productivity Trends in the Canadian Forest Products Sector, 2000-2012|The 2000-2012 period was a difficult time for the Canadian forest products sector. Yet despite an unfavourable environment the sector experienced an above-average productivity performance, driven in particular by the wood product manufacturing subsector. While the forestry and logging subsector has also benefited from strong productivity gains, the productivity performance of the paper manufacturing subsector has been far from impressive, especially in the post-2008 period. This article provides a detailed analysis of output, input and productivity trends in the Canadian forest products sector. It also looks at the key drivers of productivity in the sector, investigating potential barriers to productivity growth and discussing policies that could enable faster growth. Given the increasing role of countries with low-labour costs in several forest product markets, maintaining robust productivity growth is an imperative for the Canadian forest products sector if it wants to remain competitive internationally. In this sense, the article recommends renewed focus on human and physical capital investment, as well as on R&D spending.
J00|A Detailed Analysis of Productivity Trends in the Canadian Forest Products Sector|The Canadian forest products sector has had an above-average productivity performance in the 2000-2012 period, driven in particular by the wood product manufacturing subsector. While the forestry and logging subsector has also benefited from strong productivity gains, the productivity performance of the paper manufacturing subsector has been far from impressive, especially in the post-2008 period. This report provides a detailed analysis of output, input and productivity trends in the Canadian forest products sector. It also looks at the key drivers of productivity in the sector, investigating potential barriers to productivity growth and discussing policies that could enable faster growth. Given the increasing role of countries with low-labour costs in several forest product markets, maintaining robust productivity growth is an imperative for the Canadian forest products sector if it wants to remain competitive internationally. In this sense, the report recommends renewed focus on human and physical capital investment, as well as on R&D spending.
J00|Labor market policies and European crises|D78; J38 Copyright Bertola; licensee Springer. 2014
J00|Does the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) Increase Fertility Behavior?|The Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA), implemented in August 1993, grants job-protected leave to any employee satisfying the eligibility criteria. One of the provisions of the FMLA is to allow women to stay at home for a maximum period of 12 weeks to give care to the newborn. The effect of this legislation on the fertility response of eligible women has received little attention by researchers. This study analyzes whether the FMLA has influenced birth outcomes in the U.S. Specifically, I evaluate the effect of the FMLA by comparing the changes in the birth hazard profiles of women who became eligible for FMLA benefits such as maternity leave, to the changes in the control group who were not eligible for such leave. Using a discrete-time hazard model, results from the difference-in-differences estimation indicate that eligible women increase the probability of having a first and second birth by about 1.5 and 0.6 % per annum, respectively. Compared to other women, eligible women are giving birth to the first child a year earlier and about 8.5 months earlier for the second child. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014
J00|One-way flow network formation under constraints|We study the effects of institutional constraints on stability and efficiency in the “one-way flow” model of network formation. In this model the information that flows through a link between two players runs only towards the player that initiates and supports the link, so in order for it to flow in both directions, both players must pay whatever the unit cost of a directional link is. We assume that an exogenous “societal cover” consisting of a collection of possibly overlapping subsets covering the set of players specifies the social organization in different groups or “societies,” so that a player may initiate links only with players that belong to at least one society that he/she also belongs to, thus restricting the feasible strategies and networks. In this setting, we examine the impact of such societal constraints on stable/efficient architectures and on dynamics. Copyright Sociedad de Estadística e Investigación Operativa 2014
J00|R&D Subsidies and Company Performance: Evidence from Geographic Variation in Government Funding Based on the ERDF Population-Density Rule|Despite the prevalence of R&D support programs, evaluation studies based on explicit differences in support allocation are rare. In this paper, the identification of the causal effect of R&D support on company performance is based on geographic variation in government funding arising from a population-density rule. I find positive impacts on R&D investment, employment, and sales among the participants who were granted an R&D subsidy as a result of additional aggregate R&D support funding in their region. Although there are no instantaneous impacts on productivity, the study provides evidence of long-term productivity gains. © 2014 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
J00|How Would Population Growth Affect Investment in the Future? Asymmetric Panel Causality Evidence for Africa|Our generation is experiencing the greatest demographic transition and Africa is at the center of it. There is mounting concern over rising unemployment and depleting per capita income accruing there-from. We look at the issue in this paper from a long run perspective by examining the nature of the relationship between population growth and a plethora of investment indicators: public, private, foreign and domestic investments. Using asymmetric panels on data spanning from 1977 to 2007, we investigate effects of population growth on investment from Granger causality models. Our findings reveal a long-run positive causal linkage from population growth to only public investment. But for domestic investment, permanent fluctuations in human capital affect changes in other forms of investments. Not unexpected, no significant short-run causal relationship is found. For economic implications, sampled countries should take family planning and birth control policies seriously. Though growth in population may appear not to have an impact on investment in the short spell, in the distant future, it strangles public finances. Therefore measures should be adopted such that, rising unemployment rate resulting from population growth be accommodated by private sector investments. Seemingly, structural adjustments policies implemented by sampled countries have not had the desired investment effects.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J00|How Would Population Growth Affect Investment in the Future? Asymmetric Panel Causality Evidence for Africa|Our generation is experiencing the greatest demographic transition and Africa is at the center of it. There is mounting concern over rising unemployment and depleting per capita income accruing there-from. We look at the issue in this paper from a long run perspective by examining the nature of the relationship between population growth and a plethora of investment indicators: public, private, foreign and domestic investments. Using asymmetric panels on data spanning from 1977 to 2007, we investigate effects of population growth on investment from Granger causality models. Our findings reveal a long-run positive causal linkage from population growth to only public investment. But for domestic investment, permanent fluctuations in human capital affect changes in other forms of investments. Not unexpected, no significant short-run causal relationship is found. For economic implications, sampled countries should take family planning and birth control policies seriously. Though growth in population may appear not to have an impact on investment in the short spell, in the distant future, it strangles public finances. Therefore measures should be adopted such that, rising unemployment rate resulting from population growth be accommodated by private sector investments. Seemingly, structural adjustments policies implemented by sampled countries have not had the desired investment effects.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J00|Equilibrium Search and the Impact of Equal Opportunities for Women|This paper develops a new equilibrium model of two-sided search where agents have multiple attributes and general payoff functions. The model can be applied to several substantive issues. Here we use it to provide a novel understanding of the separate effects of equal opportunities for women in the labor market and improved contraception on female education, employment, and timing of first births after World War II. We find that the diffusion of the pill might have played an important role in explaining the observed rise in female education and employment since the 1960s. But without equal opportunities, these changes would have not occurred.
J00|Effizienzunterschiede und deren Ursachen im ambulanten Pflegesektor in Deutschland|Bis zum Jahr 2020 wird im ambulanten Pflegesektor ein Nachfrageüberhang im Umfang von 25.000 Vollzeitbeschäftigten erwartet. Ziel dieses Beitrags ist es, Effizienzpotenziale beim Personaleinsatz im ambulanten Pflegesektor mithilfe einer Data Envelopment Analyse zu identifizieren. Die Ergebnisse zeigen, dass es zwischen den Pflegediensten substanzielle Unterschiede gibt. Ein deutschlandweit ermittelter durchschnittlicher Effizienzwert der Pflegedienste von 62,2 % bedeutet, dass es ambulante Dienste gibt, die die gleiche Anzahl an Pflegebedürftigen versorgen können wie der Durchschnitt, dafür aber nur 62,2 % des Personals eines Durchschnittsdienstes benötigen. Rechnerisch ergibt sich dadurch ein Effizienzpotenzial von ca. 100.000 Beschäftigten. Substantielle Effizienzunterschiede können auf die Wettbewerbssituation, die Trägerform sowie Größe und Lage bzw. Standort eines ambulanten Pflegedienstes zurückgeführt werden.
J00|What happens when a woman wins an election? Evidence from close races in Brazil|We analyze close elections between male and female mayoral candidates in Brazilian municipalities to provide novel evidence on the role of women as policymakers. Using an objective measure of corruption based on random government audits, we find that female mayors are less likely to engage in corruption compared to male mayors. We also find that female mayors hire fewer temporary public employees than male mayors during the electoral year and tend to attract less campaign contributions when running for reelection. Moreover, our results show that female mayors have a lower reelection probability than male mayors. We interpret our findings as suggesting that male incumbents are more likely to engage in strategic behavior and this improves their electoral performance. Other explanations receive less support from the data.
J00|Les femmes au sein des conseils d’administration:bilan des connaissances et voies de recherche futures - Women on Corporate Boards:Taking Stock and Future Research|(VF)Depuis quelques années, la place des femmes au sein des conseils d’administration des organisations suscite de plus en plus de réflexions et de recherches. Cet article vise à présenter une synthèse de ces écrits et à baliser les recherches futures. Après avoir brossé le tableau de la situation en Amérique du Nord et en Europe, nous traitons des obstacles à la féminisation des conseils d’administration. Ensuite, nous présentons une synthèse des recherches qui ont porté sur la féminisation des conseils d’administration. Finalement, nous offrons des réflexions et des voies de recherche aux chercheurs que ce sujet intéresse. (VA)The role of women on boards of directors is attracting widespread attention, especially following the adoption of quotas in several countries. This article provides a synthesis of the academic literature on the topic, covering comments and empirical findings as to the determinants and implications of women’s involvement as corporate directors. In addition, we discuss ways by which gender diversity at the board level can be enhanced (or undermined). We conclude the article by offering some critical comments on the current research on this issue and by suggesting various research avenues for the future so that we can gain a better understanding of this fundamental change in corporate governance.
J00|Mustn't Grumble: Immigration, Health and Health Service Use in the UK and Germany|A rise in population caused by increased immigration, is sometimes accompanied by concerns that the increase in population puts additional or differential pressure on welfare services which might affect the net fiscal contribution of immigrants. The UK and Germany have experienced significant increases in immigration in recent years. This study uses longitudinal data from both countries to examine whether immigrants differ in their use of health services compared to native born individuals, both on arrival and over time. While immigrants to Germany, but not the UK, are more likely to self-report poor health than the native-born population, the samples of immigrants in both countries use hospital and GP services at broadly the same rate as the native born populations. Controls for observed and unobserved differences between immigrants and native-born sample populations make little difference to these broad findings.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J00|Personnel Economics: Strengths, Weaknesses and Its Place in Human Resource Management|Personnel economics is a rather young academic (sub-)discipline that applies (micro)economic methodology and insights to the personnel function of companies. It is scientifically fertile and complementary to other disciplinary approaches to personnel issues. Instead of that, an approach without a grounding discipline seems dubious and a self-contained personnel science does not exist.
J00|Clusters of entrepreneurship|Employment growth is strongly predicted by smaller average establishment size, both across cities and across industries within cities, but there is little consensus on why this relationship exists. Traditional economic explanations emphasize factors that reduce entry costs or raise entrepreneurial returns, thereby increasing net returns and attracting entrepreneurs. A second class of theories hypothesizes that some places are endowed with a greater supply of entrepreneurship. Evidence on sales per worker does not support the higher returns for entrepreneurship rationale. Our evidence suggests that entrepreneurship is higher when fixed costs are lower and when there are more entrepreneurial people.
J00|Clusters of Entrepreneurship|Employment growth is strongly predicted by smaller average establishment size, both across cities and across industries within cities, but there is little consensus on why this relationship exists. Traditional economic explanations emphasize factors that reduce entry costs or raise entrepreneurial returns, thereby increasing net returns and attracting entrepreneurs. A second class of theories hypothesizes that some places are endowed with a greater supply of entrepreneurship. Evidence on sales per worker does not support the higher returns for entrepreneurship rationale. Our evidence suggests that entrepreneurship is higher when fixed costs are lower and when there are more entrepreneurial people.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
