J10|Análisis demográfico de la Violencia en Colombia|En este artículo se argumenta que en la historiografía colombiana existe falta de consenso en cuanto a la duración y al número de víctimas de la Violencia de mediados del siglo XX. Ambas controversias son resueltas analizando las características demográficas de la población colombiana. A partir de censos y registros vitales de la época, se estimaron algunos componentes básicos: tablas de vida, tasas de natalidad y tasas específicas de muertes violentas. Considerando el tamaño y la distribución de la población colombiana, se estimó un máximo de 57.737 víctimas mortales en el periodo 1949-58. Teniendo en cuentas que no todas las muertes violentas tendrían una causa política, esta cifra se reduce a 39.142 bajo supuestos más conservadores. Por lo tanto, las cifras estimadas en este artículo controvierten las más de 200 mil víctimas que usualmente se citan en la literatura, pero que carecen de soporte cuantitativo. Aunque fueron menos muertes que las usualmente aceptadas, los avances que permitieron reducir la mortalidad durante el siglo XX se vieron parcialmente atenuados por el exceso de mortalidad durante los años de la Violencia. **** ABSTRACT: This paper argues that there is a lack of consensus in the Colombian historiography regarding the duration and the number of victims of the political violence of the mid-twentieth century. Demographic characteristics of the Colombian population were analyzed in order to examine both controversies. Based on population censuses and vital records of the time, some basic components were estimated: life tables, birth rates, and specific rates of violent deaths. Considering the size and distribution of the Colombian population, a maximum of 57,737 deaths were estimated for the period 1949-58. Inasmuch as not all violent deaths would have a political cause, the death toll is estimated to be 39,142 people under more conservative assumptions. Therefore, the figures estimated in this paper rebut the more than 200 thousand victims that are usually cited in the literature without quantitative support. Although there were fewer deaths than those usually accepted, the advances that allowed reducing mortality during the 20th century were partially attenuated by the excess mortality during the years of la Violencia.
J10|Rising inequalities in access to home ownership among young households in France, 1973-2013|[eng] Amongst young households (ages 25 to 44), inequalities in first-time home-ownership and in the amount of acquired real estate assets have increased between the most modest and the most affluent groups over the past forty years. According to Insee’s Housing surveys, 32% of young low-income households were homeowners in 1973, as compared to only 16% in 2013. Beyond the role of macroeconomic and institutional factors (real estate prices, interest rates, term of loans granted, etc.), a decomposition of changes in ownership rates over the period using the “Oaxaca-Blinder” method highlights the role of changes in family structures (increasing proportion of single-parent families, decline in the share of couples with children in the most modest households) and the sharp decline in small rural home ownership. Family support – gift assistance, inheritance and other forms of aid – also played an important part in the 2000s: four out of ten recent homeowners benefited from it, two out of ten even receiving direct financial assistance for their purchase. This support increased significantly among wealthier households during the 2000s, contributing to a widening gap with the share of homeowners in the least well-off populations.
J10|Education and gender differences in mortality rates|We examine the gender asymmetries in the health benefits of acquiring further education at a time of increasing gender equality and women’s greater access to economic opportunities. A labor market reform in Spain in 1980 raised the minimum legal working age from 14 to 16, while the school-leaving age remained at 14. We apply a difference-in-difference strategy to identify the reform’s within-cohort effects, where treated and control individuals differ only in their month of birth. Although the reform improved the educational attainment of both women and men, the long-term effects over mortality differ by gender. We find that the reform decreased mortality at young ages (14-29) by 6.3% among men and by 8.9% among women. This was driven by a decrease (12.2% for men, 14.7% for women) in the probability of dying from external causes of death (accidents). However, we also find that the child labor reform increased mortality for prime-age women (30-45) by 6.3%. This effect is driven by increases in HIV mortality (11.6%), as well as by diseases of the nervous and circulatory system (8.7%). This pattern helps explain the narrowing age gap in life expectancy between women and men in Spain.
J10|Employment of People Ages 55 to 79|In 1995, 33 percent of people ages 55 to 79 worked. By 2018, that share rose to 44 percent. That growth was the result of continued increases in employment for women and a reversal of previously declining employment for men. The changes in employment of people ages 55 to 79â€”the period during which many people stop workingâ€”were related to changes in their demographic characteristics and the jobs they held, as well as to changes in Social Security.
J10|A Tale of Comprehensive Labor Market Reforms: Evidence from the Italian Jobs Act|The Italian Jobs Act introduced a subsidy for new hirings as well as a new open ended labor contract based on graded security, with severance payments increasing with tenure, while phasing out the compulsory reinstatement of workers in the case of unfair dismissals applied until March 2015. Simple models of job creation and destruction predict that hiring subsidies and lower _ring costs unambiguously increase hirings. Moreover, lower _ring costs associated with graded security should also increase layoffs. These effects need not to be uniform across the size distribution of firms, especially when firms of different size are treated differently by the policy changes as in the case of the Jobs Act. On the one hand, the hiring subsidy was proportional to wages, but had a cap, hence was more generous for small firms - typically paying lower wages than large firms - making them particularly responsive along the job creation margin. On the other hand, the reduction in _ring costs applied mainly to large firms concentrating on them the adjustment along the job destruction margin. To investigate empirically the effects of the Italian Jobs Act, we draw on a unique dataset covering the universe of private firms in Italy having at least once 10 to 20 employees in the two years prior to the reform of January 2015. We find evidence of a substantial increase in open ended hirings, and in the transformation of fixed-term into open ended contracts, in the aftermath of the Jobs Act. The effects of the Jobs Act on firings- conversely- are much smaller, and are concentrated on large _firms, while small _firms react more intensively- creating new open ended contracts - to the hiring subsidy.
J10|Individual Attitudes towards Immigration in Aging Populations|This research empirically establishes the hypothesis that the process of population aging in a society as a whole affects the attitudes of its members towards immigration. Hence, an aging social environment exerts an effect on the attitudes of individuals towards immigration after accounting for their age and other individual characteristics. We test this hypothesis in a multilevel analysis of individuals living in 25 European OECD countries over the period 2002-2017. Our measure of “societal population aging” is the old-age dependency ratio. “Attitudes” are taken from immigration related questions in eight consecutive rounds of the European Social Survey. For these attitudes we find non-linear, U-shaped relationships. Hence, the effect of societal population aging on individual attitudes towards immigration is negative in young societies and positive in old ones.
J10|Voting Up? The Effects of Democracy and Franchise Extension on Human Stature|We study the health effects of the spread of democratic institutions and the extension of voting rights in 15 European countries since the middle of the nineteenth century. We employ both cross country and cohort variation in heights and employ a new instrument for democracy and the extension of the franchise, the effect of decolonisation on democracy in the colonising country's democratisation to identify the causal effect of democracy on heights. We find robust evidence of a link between democratic quality and human stature. The results indicate that the transition to democracy increased average male heights by 0.7 to 1 cm, equivalent to a one-decade average increase in stature across cohorts. Including the extension of the franchise to women increases the effect on average stature to about 1.7cm. The effect is driven by both political participation and contestation in reducing inequality and expanding health insurance coverage.
J10|Fertility and Modernity|We investigate the historical dynamics of the decline in fertility in Europe and its relation to measures of cultural and ancestral distance. We test the hypothesis that the decline of fertility was associated with the diffusion of social and behavioral changes from France, in contrast with the spread of the Industrial Revolution, where England played a leading role. We argue that the diffusion of the fertility decline and the spread of industrialization followed different patterns because societies at different relative distances from the respective innovators (the French and the English) faced different barriers to imitation and adoption, and such barriers were lower for societies that were historically and culturally closer to the innovators. We provide a model of fertility choices in which the transition from higher to lower levels of fertility is the outcome of a process of social innovation and social influence, whereby late adopters observe and learn about the novel behaviors, norms and practices introduced by early adopters at the frontier. In the empirical analysis we study the determinants of marital fertility in a sample of European populations and regions from 1830 t0 1970, and successfully test our theoretical predictions using measures of genetic distance between European populations and a novel data set of ancestral linguistic distances between European regions.
J10|Análisis demográfico de la Violencia en Colombia|En este artículo se argumenta que en la historiografía colombiana existe falta de consenso en cuanto a la duración y al número de víctimas de la Violencia de mediados del siglo XX. Ambas controversias son resueltas analizando las características demográficas de la población colombiana. A partir de censos y registros vitales de la época, se estimaron algunos componentes básicos: tablas de vida, tasas de natalidad y tasas específicas de muertes violentas. Considerando el tamaño y la distribución de la población colombiana, se estimó un máximo de 57.737 víctimas mortales en el periodo 1949-58. Teniendo en cuentas que no todas las muertes violentas tendrían una causa política, esta cifra se reduce a 39.142 bajo supuestos más conservadores. Por lo tanto, las cifras estimadas en este artículo controvierten las más de 200 mil víctimas que usualmente se citan en la literatura, pero que carecen de soporte cuantitativo. Aunque fueron menos muertes que las usualmente aceptadas, los avances que permitieron reducir la mortalidad durante el siglo XX se vieron parcialmente atenuados por el exceso de mortalidad durante los años de la Violencia. **** ABSTRACT: This paper argues that there is a lack of consensus in the Colombian historiography regarding the duration and the number of victims of the political violence of the mid-twentieth century. Demographic characteristics of the Colombian population were analyzed in order to examine both controversies. Based on population censuses and vital records of the time, some basic components were estimated: life tables, birth rates, and specific rates of violent deaths. Considering the size and distribution of the Colombian population, a maximum of 57,737 deaths were estimated for the period 1949-58. Inasmuch as not all violent deaths would have a political cause, the death toll is estimated to be 39,142 people under more conservative assumptions. Therefore, the figures estimated in this paper rebut the more than 200 thousand victims that are usually cited in the literature without quantitative support. Although there were fewer deaths than those usually accepted, the advances that allowed reducing mortality during the 20th century were partially attenuated by the excess mortality during the years of la Violencia.
J10|Does Universalization of Healthwork? Evidence from Health Systems Restructuring and Expansion in Brazil|We investigate universalization of access to health in Brazil. We find large reductions in maternal, foetal, neonatal and post-neonatal mortality, a reduction in fertility and, possibly on account of selection, no change in the quality of births. Using rich administrative data, we investigate changes in organization, access and outcomes, thereby illuminating the driving mechanisms. We find sharp increases in coverage of primary health facilities with GPs and outreach workers and, in line with this, increases in outpatient procedures, prenatal care visits, health-education activities and home visits by medical professionals. Consistent with an attempt to rationalize use of hospital resources, we find a decline in specialists and hospital beds per capita. Despite this, we see increases in hospital births, C-sections, and maternal hospitalization for complications, with no change in rates of infant hospitalization.
J10|Trade, Technology and the Great Divergence|"This paper develops a model that captures the key features of the Industrial Revolution and the Great Divergence between the industrializing \North"" and the lagging \South."" In particular, a convincing story is needed for why North-South divergence occurred so dramatically during the late 19th Century, a good hundred years after the beginnings of the Industrial Revolution. To this end we construct a trade/growth model that includes both endogenous biased technologies and intercontinental trade. The Industrial Revolution began as a sequence of unskilled-labor intensive innovations which initially incited fertil- ity increases and limited human capital formation in both the North and the South. The subsequent co-evolution of trade and technological growth however fostered an inevitable di- vergence in living standards - the South increasingly specialized in production that worsened their terms of trade and spurred even greater fertility increases and educational declines. Biased technological changes in both regions only reinforced this pattern. The model high- lights how pronounced divergence ultimately arose from interactions between specialization from trade and technological forces."
J10|The Primary Cause of European Inflation in 1500-1700: Precious Metals or Population? The English Evidence|"We perform the first econometric test to date of the influences of inflows of precious metals and population growth on the ""Great Inflation"" in Europe following the discov-ery of the New World. The English evidence strongly supports the near-equivalent im-portance of both influences. For 1500-1700, silver is the only relevant precious metal in the estimates. The study controls for urbanization, government spending, mortality crises and climatic changes. The series for inflows of the precious metals into Europe from America and European mining are newly constructed based on the secondary sources."
J10|The Primary Cause of European Inflation in 1500-1700: Precious Metals or Population? The English Evidence|We perform the first econometric test to date of the influences of inflows of precious metals and population growth on the “Great Inflation” in Europe following the discovery of the New World. The English evidence strongly supports the near-equivalent importance of both influences. For 1500-1700, silver is the only relevant precious metal in the estimates. The study controls for urbanization, government spending, mortality crises and climatic changes. The series for inflows of the precious metals into Europe from America and European mining are newly constructed based on the secondary sources.
J10|Cultural Transmission with Incomplete Information: Parental Perceived Efficacy and Group Misrepresentation|This paper introduces incomplete information in the standard model of cultural transmission (Bisin and Verdier, 2001). We allow parents to ignore own group size and the efficiency of their cultural transmission technology, while receiving a feedback from their children. Using the selfcon_rming equilibrium concept, parents may end up to sustain, and be confirmed about, wrong conjectures. We show that in equilibrium optimal socialization efforts display cultural complementarity with respect to own population share, while the standard substitution result holds with respect their own conjectured population shares. Considering the population dynamics, if conjectures about population shares are shaped by cultural leaders who want to maximize the presence of own traits in the next period, then conjectures are characterized by negative biases. Our main finding is that, depending on the magnitude of the bias, the dynamics can display stable or unstable polymorphic equilibria, or just a stable homomorphic equilibrium, potentially reverting standard predictions
J10|Vaccination take-up and health: evidence from a flu vaccination program for the elderly|We analyze the effects of a vaccination program providing free flu vaccine to individuals aged 65 or more on take-up and hospitalization. By using linked patient-general practitioner (GP) data, we implement a regression discontinuity design around the threshold at age 65. We find that the program increases vaccination take-up by 6 percentage points, which corresponds to 75% of the take-up for non-eligible individuals, and reduces the probability of hospitalization by about 44%. We show that the effect on take-up is not entirely due to an income channel, and that the effect on health is mainly driven by patients with higher-quality GPs and emergency hospitalizations.
J10|Speaking for Herself: Changing Gender Roles in Survey Response|Among married and cohabiting couples, the percentage of female respondents has increased substantially in the PSID (Panel Study of Income Dynamics) from 9% in 1968 to 60% in 2015. This shift in gender composition has taken place despite a formal policy that historically designated male heads of household as respondents. We use this shift as a case study to explore which characteristics are associated with women responding to the PSID and how different respondent gender compositions may affect data quality. First, we find that women are increasingly less likely to respond as their husband’s income increases or if their husband is highly educated. Women are more likely to respond if they are more educated than their husband. {{p}} Second, we find that male respondents tend to report incomes about $5,000 higher than female respondents. Had the gender composition of respondents been closer to 50/50, average household income would have been reduced by as much as $2,500. Our research provides important insights into the quality of survey data and the changing role of women in households.
J10|Spread-ing uncertainty, shrinking birth rates|Most studies document the pro-cyclicality of fertility to business cycles or labor market indicators. However, part of the recent fertility drop witnessed in Europe after the Great Recession is not explained by traditional measures. The present study advances that birth postponement might have accelerated in response to rising uncertainty, which fuelled negative expectations and declining confidence about the future. To provide empirical support for the causal effect of perceived uncertainty on births rate, we focus on the case of the sovereign debt crisis of 2011-2012 in Italy. Perceived uncertainty is measured using Google trends for the term â€œspreadâ€ â€“ the thermometer of the crisis both in media and everyday conversations â€“ to capture the degree of concern to the general public about the stability of Italian public finances. A regression discontinuity in time identifies the effect of perceived uncertainty on birth rates in Italy as a drop between 2.5% and 5%.
J10|The Great Divergence in South Africa: Population and Wealth Dynamics Over Two Centuries|Does wealth persist over time, despite the disruptions of historical shocks like colonisation? This paper shows that South Africa experienced a reversal of fortunes after the arrival of European settlers in the eastern half of the country. Yet this was not, as some have argued was the case elsewhere in colonial Africa, because of an institutional reversal. We argue, instead, that black South Africans found themselves at the mercy of two extractive regimes: those in `white South Africa and those in the `homelands. The political and economic institutions of each of those regimes favoured a small elite: in white South Africa, whites, and in the homelands, the black chiefs and headmen. Democracy brought inclusive institutions for black residents in white South Africa but not for those in the former home- lands. This is why we see mass migration to the urban areas of South Africa today, and why addressing the institutional weaknesses of the former homelands is key to alleviating the poverty in these regions where a third of South Africans still reside.
J10|Mover Stayer Winner Loser - A study of income effects from rural migration|The accepted rural-urban migration theory suggests that economic gains are made by moving from a rural to an urban area. Its premise is: “If you stay, you lose.” However, are losses still the rule? And, if so, how big is the economic loss once other factors are controlled for? In this paper, we specifically focus on the income effects of migration decisions among young individuals from rural areas, using microdata for Sweden. We find that, contrary to accepted theory, staying in a rural region most often is insignificant in relation to an individual’s income level. When taking housing values into account, it can even be financially beneficial for some to stay in a rural area. Only for highly educated individuals is it consistently financially beneficial to move to an urban area, also after controlling for housing costs.
J10|Socioeconomic Status and Housework: Cultural Differences in Participation in Routine Housework in Japan, Canada, and the US|The assumption about socioeconomic status (SES) and participation in housework are based on the empirical results in Western countries. As such, SES is assumed to work in a similar way in other regions as it does in the countries of the global north. This assumption can often lead to misguided interpretations of the effects of SES on housework participation in other cultural contexts. One such exception is Japan. We analyze time-use diaries from the American Time Use Survey for the period from 2003 to 2016, 1986-2010 Canadian General Social Survey, and the 2006 Japan Survey on Time Use and Leisure Activities (社会生活基本調査). Using the negative binomial regression, we test whether SES is associated with less time spent on housework as the outsourcing hypothesis predicts. The findings show that this hypothesis stands only for Canadian and American women, whereas married Japanese women are unlikely to reduce their participation in housework with the increase of their SES.
J10|Intergenerational Transmission of Health at Birth from Mothers and Fathers|We use a unique data set of linked birth records from Florida to analyze the intergenerational transmission of health at birth by parental gender. We show that both paternal and maternal birth weights significantly predict the child’s birth weight even after accounting for all genetic and environmental factors that are common and time-invariant within a family. Our estimates reveal that a one standard deviation increase in mother’s birth weight (535 grams) translates into a 0.13-0.23 standard deviations increase in child’s birth weight (70-123 grams), accounting or not for maternal grandmother fixed effects. On the father’s side, we find that a one standard deviation increase in father’s birth weight (563 grams) translates into a 0.10-0.14 standard deviations increase in child’s birth weight (51-73 grams), accounting or not for maternal grandmother fixed effects. The significant role of both maternal and paternal health at birth in explaining offspring health at birth is confirmed when using alternative metrics: intrauterine growth restriction, being small for gestational age, or being too heavy (i.e., macrosomic).
J10|Does Universalization of Health Work? Evidence from Health Systems Restructuring and Expansion in Brazil|We investigate universalization of access to health in Brazil. We find large reductions in maternal, foetal, neonatal and post-neonatal mortality, a reduction in fertility and, possibly on account of selection, no change in the quality of births. Using rich administrative data, we investigate changes in organization, access and outcomes, thereby illuminating the driving mechanisms. We find sharp increases in coverage of primary health facilities with GPs and outreach workers and, in line with this, increases in outpatient procedures, prenatal care visits, health-education activities and home visits by medical professionals. Consistent with an attempt to rationalize use of hospital resources, we find a decline in specialists and hospital beds per capita. Despite this, we see increases in hospital births, C-sections, and maternal hospitalization for complications, with no change in rates of infant hospitalization.
J10|Tropical storms and mortality under climate change|Extreme weather induced by climate change can have major consequences for human health. In this study, I quantify the effect of tropical storm frequency and severity on mortality using objective meteorological data and the universe of vital statistics records from a large developing country, Mexico. Using a measure of storm exposure that accounts for both windspeed dispersion and population density along the storm track, I project changes in past storm-related mortality under various scenarios of continued climate change, while holding population and income at contemporaneous levels. I find that storm-related deaths would have risen under most climate change scenarios considered, with increases of as much as 52% or declines of as much as 10%, depending on the interplay between increasing storm severity and decreased frequency.
J10|The Political Economy of a Northern Ireland Border Poll|Given the increased prominence of a border poll in Ireland, particularly following the outcome of the Brexit referendum, this paper provides an initial assessment of some of the issues that are likely to become central in any debate on this issue. We examine the relative income and growth position of Northern Ireland within a UK and Irish regional framework over time. We further compare, and contrast, in detail aspects of the structure of both economies on the island of Ireland in the areas of educational attainment, trade orientation and the role of FDI. The paper goes on to analyse other relevant issues, such as the relative strength and weaknesses of the healthcare systems and the factors determining the potential economic cost of Irish unification. The objective of the research is to initiate an evidence-based approach to the question of a border poll and to provide an initial indication of the breadth of detail and analysis required for any debate to proceed in a meaningful manner.
J10|The Asymmetry of Population Ethics: Experimental Social Choice and Dual-Process Moral Reasoning|Population ethics is widely considered to be exceptionally important and exceptionally difficult. One key source of difficulty is the conflict between certain moral intuitions and analytical results identifying requirements for rational (in the sense of complete and transitive) social choice over possible populations. One prominent such intuition is the Asymmetry, which jointly proposes that the fact that a possible child's quality of life would be bad is a normative reason not to create the child, but the fact that a child's quality of life would be good is not a reason to create the child. This paper reports a set of questionnaire experiments about the Asymmetry in the spirit of economists' empirical social choice. Few survey respondents show support for the Asymmetry; instead respondents report that expectations of a good quality of life are relevant. Each experiment shows evidence (among at least some participants) of dual-process moral reasoning, in which cognitive reflection is statistically associated with reporting expected good quality of life to be normatively relevant. The paper discusses possible implications of these results for the economics of population-sensitive social welfare and for the conflict between moral mathematics and population intuition.
J10|California Paid Family Leave and Parental Time Use| Paid family leave policies are intended to help working parents fulfill their work and child care responsibilities by providing them with paid time off from work after the birth of a child. While other research has shown that paid leave policies increase leave-taking among parents, little is known about how parents of infants spend their time while they are on leave and shortly after returning to work. Using the American Heritage Time Use Study and taking a difference-in-differences approach, this paper shows that the California Paid Family Leave policy led to an additional six hours per week mothers spend on child care activities, four additional hours in basic care and two in educational or recreational care. Notably, the availability of paid leave resulted in increases in time mothers spend with children even after they return to work. The increases in maternal time investments also appear to persist beyond infancy, until children reach age three. While fathers are also eligible for paid leave under the California policy, the policy did not induce a change in the total amount of time fathers spend on child care but did result in slightly more time spent playing with children and less time on basic care activities. Given the large literature showing that parental time investments, especially those made early in a child’s life, play a strong role in child cognitive skill development, the findings in this paper are important for policymakers considering enacting paid leave policies.
J10|Fertility Trends in the United States, 1980-2017: The Role of Unintended Births|After roughly 10 years of decline, the U.S. fertility rate reached a historic low in 2017. However, aggregate trends in fertility mask substantial heterogeneity across different demographic groups. Young women and unmarried women have seen the largest declines in fertility in recent years while women older than 30 and married women have actually experienced increases. In this paper, we explore the role of changes in unintended births in explaining fertility patterns in the U.S. from 1980 to 2017, with an emphasis on the fertility decline of the last decade. We begin by documenting heterogeneity in fertility trends across demographic groups, using data from the National Center for Health Statistics’ Natality Detail Files. We then use data from the National Survey of Family Growth to describe trends in unintended births and to estimate a model that will identify the maternal characteristics that most strongly predict them. Finally, we use this model to predict the proportion of births in the Natality Detail Files that are unintended. We find that 35% of the decline in fertility between 2007 and 2016 can be explained by declines in births that were likely unintended, and that this is driven by drops in births to young women.
J10|Technological Progress and Health Convergence: The Case of Penicillin in Post-War Italy|"Throughout history, technological progress has transformed population health, but the distributional effects of these gains are unclear. New substitutes for older, more expensive health technologies can produce convergence in population health outcomes, but may also be prone to ""elite capture"" leading to divergence. This paper studies the case of penicillin using detailed mortality statistics and exploiting its sharply-timed introduction in Italy after World War II. We find penicillin reduced both the mean and standard deviation of infectious diseases mortality, leading to substantial convergence across disparate regions of Italy. Our results do not appear to be confounded by competing risks or mortality patterns associated with World War II."
J10|The Economic Value of Breaking Bad: Misbehavior, Schooling and the Labor Market|Prevailing research argues that childhood misbehavior in the classroom is bad for schooling and, presumably, bad for adult outcomes. In contrast, we argue that childhood misbehavior represents some underlying non-cognitive skills that are valuable in the labor market. We follow work from psychology and categorize observed classroom misbehavior into two underlying latent factors. We then estimate a model of educational attainment and earnings outcomes, allowing the impact of each of the two factors to vary by outcome. We find one of the factors, labeled in the psychological literature as externalizing behavior (and linked, for example, to aggression), reduces educational attainment yet increases earnings. Unlike most models where non-cognitive skills that increase human capital through education also increase labor market skills, our findings illustrate how some non-cognitive skills can be productive in some economic contexts and counter-productive in others. Policies designed to promote human capital accumulation could therefore have mixed effects or even negative economic consequences, especially for policies that target non-cognitive skill formation for children or adolescents which are aimed solely at improving educational outcomes.
J10|Whitelashing: Black Politicians, Taxes, and Violence|This paper provides the first evidence of the effect of tax policy on the likelihood of violent attacks against black politicians. I find a strong positive effect of local tax revenue on subsequent violence against black politicians. A dollar increase in per capita county taxes increases the likelihood of a violent attack by more than 25%. The result is robust to numerous economic, social, historical, and political factors. I also find that counties where black officeholders were attacked had the largest negative tax revenue changes between 1870 and 1880 and that violence against black politicians is unrelated to other forms of post-Reconstruction racial violence. This provides the first quantitative evidence that political violence at Reconstruction's end was related to black political efficacy.
J10|Gastos Médicos en España: Estimaciones del Sistema de Demanda Casi Ideal y del Modelo de Rotterdam<BR>[Medical Expenses in Spain: Estimations of the Almost Ideal Demand System and of the Rotterdam Model]|En este estudio analizamos los Gastos Médicos en España desde una perspectiva micro-econométrica. Observamos que el modelo microeconómico que mejor se asemeja con las preferencias de los consumidores españoles para los años 1980 a 2015 es el modelo Rotterdam dinámico y obtenemos una serie de valores para describir cómo se comporta el consumidor en la realidad.Las distintas categorías de Gastos Médicos presentan elasticidades totalmente diferentes. Vemos que gracias a la inversión pública, los productos médicos han pasado a comportarse como bienes de primera necesidad, mientras que la elasticidad de servicios y hospital ha aumentado. Sobre el análisis de las elasticidades precio, las elasticidades Marshallianas nos permiten constatar bienes complementarios brutos, mientras que las elasticidades precio Hicksianas nos confirman que los Gastos Médicos son sustitutivos netos.
J10|Socioeconomic Status and Housework : Cultural Differences in Participation in Routine Housework in Japan, Canada, and the US|The assumption about socioeconomic status (SES) and participation in housework are based on the empirical results in Western countries. As such, SES is assumed to work in a similar way in other regions as it does in the countries of the global north. This assumption can often lead to misguided interpretations of the effects of SES on housework participation in other cultural contexts. One such exception is Japan. We analyze time-use diaries from the American Time Use Survey for the period from 2003 to 2016, 1986-2010 Canadian General Social Survey, and the 2006 Japan Survey on Time Use and Leisure Activities (社会生活基本調査). Using the negative binomial regression, we test whether SES is associated with less time spent on housework as the outsourcing hypothesis predicts. The findings show that this hypothesis stands only for Canadian and American women, whereas married Japanese women are unlikely to reduce their participation in housework with the increase of their SES.
J10|Technological Progress and Health Convergence: The Case of Penicillin in Post-War Italy|Throughout history, technological progress has transformed population health, but the distributional effects of these gains are unclear. New substitutes for older, more expensive health technologies can produce convergence in population health outcomes, but may also be prone to “elite capture” leading to divergence. This paper studies the case of penicillin using detailed mortality statistics and exploiting its sharply-timed introduction in Italy after World War II. We find penicillin reduced both the mean and standard deviation of infectious diseases mortality, leading to substantial convergence across disparate regions of Italy. Our results do not appear to be confounded by competing risks or mortality patterns associated with World War II.
J10|A mailshot in the dark? The impact of the UK government's lea fet on the 2016 EU referendum|In this paper I explore the causal effect of exposure to the UK government’s mailshot on vote preference in the 2016 EU referendum. I find that exposure caused a drop in the probability of voting leave by 3 percentage points. The effect is stronger in individuals who were exposed to few other sources of referendum information. For instance, females and the risk averse were even less likely to vote leave after exposure. The effect was also larger for Conservative party supporters who consumed many other sources of information. The evidence is consistent with voters being liable to persuasion. On the mechanism, I show that exposed individuals experiencea “persuasion-through-knowledge” effect, which changes beliefs on topics of contention.
J10|For whom are cities good places to live?|We use survey data to examine whether there are some sociodemographic groups that particularly value the amenities that cities provide. We find that young, single and childless persons and young men with tertiary education are relatively more satisfied with urban areas as place of residence. Being single is more important for women's appraisal of places, while having children matters more for men’s preferences. There is a high degree of agreement between sociodemographic groups on whether a particular amenity represents an urban amenity or an urban disamenity. Higher education, public transportation, culture, leisure activities and shopping opportunities are urban amenities, whereas other public services, safety, living conditions for children and outdoor recreation are urban disamenities.
J10|The Effect of the Great Recession on Health: A longitudinal study of Irish Mothers 2001-2011|The relationship between recessions and health is mixed, with some evidence from the most recent financial crisis finding a positive effect on heath behaviours. This study uses longitudinal data spanning the periods before, during and after the Irish crisis of 2008, to test the impact of economic expansion and contraction on mothers physical and mental health and health behaviours. Three waves of data from the Irish Lifeways Cohort Study for the period 2001-2011, and local area employment rates from the Irish Census, are used to capture the impact of the recession on health, independent of individual employment status. The results from fixed effect linear probability models demonstrate that increases in the local unemployment rate are associated with significant increases in the probability of mothers reporting poor self-rated health and poor mental well-being. Yet the association between local area unemployment and health behaviours is mostly positive, with higher unemployment reducing the probability of being obese and tobacco consumption. The relationship with physical activity is more ambiguous. These results are largely consistent with the US literature, which is predominantly based on working men, thus demonstrating the universal impact of recessions on health.
J10|The Effect of the Great Recession on Health: A Longitudinal Study of Irish Mothers 2001-2011|The relationship between recessions and health is mixed, with some evidence from the most recent financial crisis finding a positive effect on heath behaviours. This study uses longitudinal data spanning the periods before, during and after the Irish crisis of 2008, to test the impact of economic expansion and contraction on mothers physical and mental health and health behaviours. Three waves of data from the Irish Lifeways Cohort Study for the period 2001-2011, and local area employment rates from the Irish Census, are used to capture the impact of the recession on health, independent of individual employment status. The results from fixed effect linear probability models demonstrate that increases in the local unemployment rate are associated with significant increases in the probability of mothers reporting poor self-rated health and poor mental well-being. Yet the association between local area unemployment and health behaviours is mostly positive, with higher unemployment reducing the probability of being obese and tobacco consumption. The relationship with physical activity is more ambiguous. These results are largely consistent with the US literature, which is predominantly based on working men, thus demonstrating the universal impact of recessions on health.
J10|Education and Gender Differences in Mortality Rates|We examine the gender asymmetries in mortality generated by a Spanish reform raising the legal working age from 14 to 16 in 1980. While the reform, though its effects on education, decreased mortality at ages 14-29 among men (6.3%) and women (8.9%), it increased mortality for prime-age women (30-45) by 6.3%. This last effect is driven by increases in HIV mortality, as well as by diseases of the nervous and circulatory system. All in all, these patterns help explain the narrowing age gap in life expectancy between women and men in Spain.
J10|Cultural Transmission with Incomplete Information: Parental Perceived Efficacy and Group Misrepresentation|This paper introduces incomplete information in the standard model of cultural transmission (Bisin and Verdier, 2001). We allow parents to ignore own group size and the efficiency of their cultural transmission technology, while receiving a feedback from their children. Using the selfconfirming equilibrium concept, parents may end up to sustain, and be confirmed about, wrong conjectures. We show that in equilibrium optimal socialization efforts display cultural complementarity with respect to own population share, while the standard substitution result holds with respect their own conjectured population shares. Considering the population dynamics, if conjectures about population shares are shaped by cultural leaders who want to maximize the presence of own traits in the next period, then conjectures are characterized by negative biases. Our main finding is that, depending on the magnitude of the bias, the dynamics can display stable or unstable polymorphic equilibria, or just a stable homomorphic equilibrium, potentially reverting standard predictions.
J10|A Simple Solution to the Problem of Independence of Irrelevant Alternatives in Choo and Siow Marriage Market Model|"This paper proposes a simple solution to the independence of irrelevant alternatives (IIA) problem in Choo and Siow (2006) model, overcoming what is probably the main limitation of this approach. The solution consists of assuming match-specific rather than choice-specific random preferences. The original marriage matching function gets modified by an adjustment factor that improves its empirical properties. Using the American Community Survey, I show that the new approach yields significantly different results affecting the qualitative conclusions of the analysis. The proposed solution to the IIA problem applies to other settings in which the relative ""supply"" of choices is observable."
J10|Demographic Change and Political Polarization in the United States|I construct an index of political polarization using seven previously proposed measures. I estimate the relative propensity for polarization across demographic groups in a regression framework and examine the extent to which demographic change can explain recent trends in polarization. Assuming fixed propensities for polarization, I estimate that 25 to 59 percent of the change in polarization between 1984 and 2016 can be attributed to demographic change in the United States.
J10|Health Disparities for Immigrants: Theory and Evidence from Canada|Few empirical studies have been conducted to analyse the disparities in health variables affecting immigrants in a given country. To our knowledge, no theoretical analysis has been conducted to explain health disparities for immigrants between regions in the same country that differs in term of languages spoken and income. In this paper, we use the Canadian Community Health Survey (CCHS) to compare multiple health measures among immigrants in Quebec, immigrants in the rest of Canada and Canadian-born individuals. We propose a simple structural model and conduct an empirical analysis in order to assess possible channels that can explain the health disparities for immigrants between two regions of the same country. Our results show that well-being and health indicators worsen significantly for immigrants in Quebec, compared to their counterparts in the rest of Canada and Canadian-born individuals. Additional econometric analysis also shows that life satisfaction is statistically and significantly associated with health outcomes. The proposed structural model predicts that, when the decision to migrate to a particular area is based on income alone, and if the fixed costs associated with the language barrier are large, immigrants may face health issues.
J10|Mercado Matrimonial Dominicano: Impacto del Nivel de Educación en el Proceso de Selección de Parejas y su Vinculación con el Mercado Laboral<BR>[Marriage Market in the Dominican Republic: Impact of Educational Attainment in the Mating Process and its Relation with the Labor Market]|In this paper we use microdata from population and housing census and the National Labor Force Survey in order to study the behavior of people in the marriage market of the Dominican Republic, with emphasis in the evolution of the patterns of educational assortative matching. We explore the interaction between mating decision-making and participation in the labor market. Among the main results, we identify an increase in the level of educational homogamy in recent decades, particularly in couples who live in condition of cohabitation. In addition, we confirm the existence of division of labor within the household, affecting the participation of women in the labor market. Finally, we find evidence of a positive relation between labor income of people in a marital relationship and the educational attainment of their partners.
J10|Tres teorías demográficas, las evidencias disponibles y el paso de la descripción del cómo al entendimiento del porqué: Una aplicación y una crítica de tres hipótesis poblacionales en base a los casos de España y de la India (1950-2020)<BR>[Three demographic theories, the disposable evidence and the step between description and comprehension: An application and a critique of three population hypotheses based on the cases of Spain and India (1950-2020)]|This work aims to expose three of the main demographic theories, Demographic, Epidemiologic and Sanitary Transition theories, and explore its explanatory capacity. The content is structured in four sections. In the first we briefly review these theories. Secondly, we elaborate a diagnosis of the demographic structure of India and Spain, through its contextualization in the Asian and European context, respectively, and the use of several indicators. Next, we value the relationship between the evidence on these case studies and the hypotheses exposed. Finally, we outline possible theoretical critics based on these two cases
J10|Trade Openness and Fertility Rates in Africa: Panel-Data Evidence|We study the effect of trade openness on fertility rates in fifty African countries during the 1970 – 2010 period. Allowing for country and time fixed effects, our results indicate that trade openness and imports of manufactured goods are related to lower fertility. Furthermore, trade with the former colonial powers and imports of high-skilled manufactured goods, which include television receivers and telecommunications equipment, are related to lower fertility too. Although Africa still export agricultural products and raw materials, and in contrast with the comparative-advantages prediction, our results suggest that the knowledge and gender norms emanating from imported high-skilled manufactured goods are affecting fertility choices and, ultimately, having a reinforcing effect on Africa's ongoing demographic transition.
J10|Trends in Inequalities in Child Stunting in South Asia|We analysed socioeconomic inequalities in stunting in South Asia and investigated disparities associated with factors at the individual, caregiver, and household levels (poor dietary diversity, low maternal education, and household poverty). We used time-series analysis of data from 55,459 children ages 6–23 months from Demographic and Health Surveys in Bangladesh, India, Nepal, and Pakistan (1991–2014). Logistic regression models, adjusted for age, sex, birth order, and place of residency, examined associations between stunting and multiple types of socioeconomic disadvantage. All countries had high stunting rates. Bangladesh and Nepal recorded the largest reductions—2.9 and 4.1 percentage points per year, respectively—compared to 1.3 and 0.6 percentage points in India and Pakistan, respectively. Socioeconomic adversity was associated with increased risk of stunting, regardless of disadvantage type. Poor children with inadequate diets and with poorly educated mothers experienced greater risk of stunting. Although stunting rates declined in the most deprived groups, socioeconomic differences were largely preserved over time and in some cases worsened, namely, between wealth quintiles. The disproportionate burden of stunting experienced by the most disadvantaged children and the worsening inequalities between socioeconomic groups are of concern in countries with substantial stunting burdens. Closing the gap between best and worst performing countries, and between most and least disadvantaged groups within countries, would yield substantial improvements in stunting rates in South Asia. To do so, greater attention needs to be paid to addressing the social, economic, and political drivers of stunting with targeted efforts towards the populations experiencing the greatest disadvantage and child growth faltering.
J10|The Great Recession, Household Income, and Children’s Test Scores|The Great Recession had a major impact on the wellbeing and welfare of households worldwide. Irish data provide a unique opportunity to examine how the recession affected children’s educational performance given the extent of the economic contraction in Ireland during this period. We use longitudinal data from the Growing Up in Ireland study to examine the impact of changes in household income on standardised numerical and verbal test scores during the recession, when cohort members were aged between 9 and 13. We compare regression results from random effects and fixed effects models, the latter of which account for time invariant omitted variables that are potential common causes of both household income and academic performance. We also investigate non-linearities and effect heterogeneity using quantile regression. Log household income is strongly correlated with test scores in the random effects models: a unit decrease is associated with a reduction of 0.2 standard deviations in verbal and numerical test scores for boys and verbal scores for girls, and 0.1 standard deviations in numerical scores for girls. Quantile results suggest that, for boys, those with high ability are less affected. However, in the fixed effects models the coefficients are attenuated by more than 50%. Overall, there is little evidence of short-run negative effects of the Great Recession on children’s educational performance. In this paper we estimate the effect of transitory shocks; further data are required to isolate the impact of permanent income and any long-run impacts.
J10|Institutional Economics: A Sketch of Economic Growth Policy|No abstract is available for this item.
J10|The kids are alright - labour market effects of unexpected parental hospitalisations in the Netherlands|Unexpected negative health shocks may have serious consequences for labour force participation, not only for those who incur the shock but also for their family members. In particular, adult children may spend substantial time providing informal care and may incur stress-induced mental health problems following a parental health shock, which may in turn lead to reductions in labour supply. We link administrative data on labour market outcomes, hospitalisations and family relations for the full Dutch population for the years 1999-2008 to evaluate the effect of an unexpected parental hospitalisation on the probability of employment and on conditional earnings for the working age population. Using a difference-in-differences model combined with coarsened exact matching and individual fixed effects, we find no effect of an unexpected parental hospitalisation on either the probability of employment or conditional earnings for Dutch men and women, and neither for the full population nor for subpopulations most likely to become a caregiver. These findings suggest that the extensive public coverage of formal long-term care in the Netherlands provides sufficient opportunities to deal with adverse health events of family members without having to compromise one’s labour supply.
J10|Unbalanced Sex Ratios in Germany Caused by World War II and their Effect on Fertility : A Life Cycle Perspective|This paper analyses long-term effects of highly unbalanced sex ratios in Germany caused by World War II on fertility outcomes over the life cycle. By using Census data linked with individual biography data, we find that a permanent reduction in the number of men delayed women’s first birth. However, the effects crucially depend on at what age fertility of women is evaluated. While women with low sex ratios have fewer children at younger ages, they compensate at later ages. We also find substitution from the extensive towards the intensive margin. Mechanisms are marrying later, accepting lower quality matches and expanding the child-bearing period.
J10|The Great Recession, Household Income, and Children's Test Scores|The Great Recession had a major impact on the economic welfare of households worldwide. We examine how income changes during the recession were associated with children's educational performance in Ireland, one of the most affected countries. Using longitudinal data on standardised numerical and verbal test scores, collected before and after the height of the recession when cohort members were aged 9 and 13, we compare regression results from random effects and fixed effects models. The latter account for time invariant omitted variables that are potential common causes of both household income and academic performance. We also investigate non-linearities and effect heterogeneity using quantile regression. Log household income is correlated with reading and maths test scores in the random effects models for both girls and boys. Quantile results suggest that, for boys, those with high ability are less affected. However, in the fixed effects models the coefficients are attenuated by more than 50%. We find similar results using subjective perception of exposure to financial losses in place of household income. Overall, there is little evidence of short-run negative effects of income losses during the Great Recession on children's educational performance. In this paper we estimate the effect of transitory shocks; further data are required to isolate the impact of permanent income and any long-run impacts.
J10|La mortalité selon le revenu: estimation à partir de données européennes|Nous estimons la relation entre mortalité et revenu pour plusieurs pays européens dont la France. A partir d’une méthode de régression pondérée, l’espérance de vie par classe de revenu est dérivée de l’espérance de vie observée pour différents niveaux d’éducation. Nous distinguons plusieurs cohortes selon le sexe. Les résultats montrent que le différentiel de mortalité selon le revenu est plus important chez les hommes que chez les femmes et qu’il tend à augmenter légèrement avec l’âge. De fortes disparités entre pays sont cependant observées avec des inégalités faibles dans les pays nordiques et plus fortes dans les pays de l’Est. La France présente un différentiel de mortalité selon le revenu plutôt faible comparé aux autres pays de l’échantillon.
J10|Becoming a mompreneur: Parental leave policies and mothers' propensity for self-employment|Contractionary parental leave policy reforms decrease the time mothers can stay at home after giving birth. This might discourage them to become an entrepreneur. Exploiting a German parental leave policy reform, we apply a regression discontinuity approach to establish a causal relationship between parental leave policies and the probability for mothers to become entrepreneurs (i.e., “mompreneurs”). We find that a decrease in the generosity of parental leave lowers the odds of mothers to become self-employed by 17%. We show additional evidence that suggests that this is particularly due to the reduced period of paid parental leave.
J10|Becoming a mompreneur: Parental leave policies and mothers' propensity for self-employment|Contractionary parental leave policy reforms decrease the time mothers can stay at home after giving birth. This might discourage them to become an entrepreneur. Exploiting a German parental leave policy reform, we apply a regression discontinuity approach to establish a causal relationship between parental leave policies and the probability for mothers to become entrepreneurs (i.e., “mompreneurs”). We find that a decrease in the generosity of parental leave lowers the odds of mothers to become self-employed by 17%. We show additional evidence that suggests that this is particularly due to the reduced period of paid parental leave.
J10|Blessed are the first: The long-term effect of birth order on trust|The renewed interest by the economic literature in the effect of birth order on children’s outcomes has neglected trust as a long-term output of familial environment. Acknowledging childhood as a crucial stage of life for the formation of social preferences, we go deeper into the early-life determinants of trust, a widely recognized driver of socio-economic success. We analyze if and how differences in the order of birth predict heterogeneous self-reported trust levels in Britain. We draw hypotheses from psychology, economics and sociology, and test alternative explanations to the association between birth order and trust. Relying on an index measuring birth order independently from sibship size, we find a negative and robust effect of birth order, with laterborns trusting less than their older siblings. This effect is not accounted for by personality traits, strength of family ties, risk aversion and parental inputs. It is only partially explained by complementary human-capital outcomes, and it is robust when we use alternative dependent variables and control for endogenous fertility. Multilevel estimates suggest that trust is mostly driven by within- rather than between-family characteristics. The effect of birth order is eclipsed by education outcomes only for women, while it is counterbalanced by mother’s education for the entire sample, thereby leading to relevant policy implications.
J10|Estimating Institutionalization and Homelessness for Status First Nations in Canada: A Method and Implications|We propose an accessible and repeatable method for calculating rates of institutionalization and homelessness among Status First Nations in Canada by age and gender. We show that this calculation is possible through combining Census and administrative data and could be computed at regular intervals. We estimate extremely high rates of institutionalization and homelessness, especially among young Status men. Averaging over 2001 and 2006, an upper bound estimate of 12% of the Status male population was either institutionalized or homeless. We show that this high rate of institutionalization and homelessness results in a distortion in the male-female gender ratio which may have long-run implications for the continued legal existence of Status First Nations in Canada. JEL Classification: J10,J15,J16,O15,I14,I15,I32
J10|Hours worked of the self‐employed and agglomeration|This paper investigates the causal effects of agglomeration on hours worked by the self‐employed. Urbanization and localization are instrumented using the minimum distance from the work Public Use Microdata Area centroid to the United States’ coastlines and estimated industry shares in 1930. The 2SLS results demonstrate that urbanization decreases, and localization increases, hours worked of the self‐employed, respectively. These results are mainly from outsourcing and competition, whereas sorting, simultaneity, and agglomeration wage effect are less likely to be influential. Additionally, only small business owners perceive the pressures of competition in localization economies. The young unincorporated self‐employed are more likely to be affected by peer competitors, whereas the elder unincorporated perceive more pressures from large firms.
J10|Three pillars of urbanization: Migration, aging, and growth|Economic development in industrialized countries is characterized by rising per capita GDP, increasing life expectancy, and an ever larger share of the population living in cities. We explain this pattern within a regional innovation-driven economic growth model with labor mobility and a demographic structure of overlapping generations. The model shows that there is a natural tendency for core-periphery structures to emerge in modern knowledge-based economies.
J10|Frühe Eltern entscheiden sich für größere Familien: Determinanten des Übergangs zu erstem, zweitem und dritten Kind|Um dem demografischen Wandel in Deutschland nachhaltig entgegenzuwirken, könnten mehr junge Menschen dafür gewonnen werden, sich für das erste, zweite, dritte und weitere Kinder zu entscheiden. Allerdings ist trotz jahrelanger intensiver Forschung zu diesem Thema nach wie vor nicht vollständig klar, welche Faktoren dabei fördernd oder hemmend wirken. Ein zentrales Problem ist hierbei, dass sich die Rahmenbedingungen für das Familienleben und damit auch mögliche Determinanten für die Entscheidung über Kinder, wie das Einkommen, mit der Geburt des Kindes ändern. Daher wird im vorliegenden Beitrag mit Hilfe des Sozioökonomischen Panels die Situation von Personen, die sich erst in den Folgejahren für oder gegen erste und weitere Kinder entschieden haben, verglichen. Da hier allerdings insbesondere die Abgrenzung der Beobachtungsgruppen eine Herausforderung darstellt, wird das Verfahren nur angewandt, sofern sich die betrachteten Größen über die Zeit verändern können. Ist dies, wie beim Alter bei der ersten Geburt, nicht der Fall, erfolgt eine einfachere Ex-Post- Betrachtung von Eltern die ihre fertile Phase bereits abgeschlossen haben. Es zeigt sich, dass das Timing der Geburten von großer Bedeutung für die letztendliche Familiengröße ist. So haben 59 Prozent der Mütter im Alter zwischen 40 und 54 Jahren mit drei und mehr Kindern ihr erstes Kind im Alter unter 25 Jahren bekommen aber nur 28 Prozent der Mütter mit einem Kind. Auch liegt der Altersabstand zwischen dem ersten und zweiten Kind unter drei Jahren bei 51 Prozent bei Müttern mit drei und mehr Kindern, aber nur bei 31 Prozent bei Mütter mit zwei Kindern. Für die Familiengründung ist darüber hinaus eine verfestigte Partnerschaft von großer Bedeutung. So lebten 67 Prozent der im Jahr 2010 zwischen 25 und 29 Jahre alten, kinderlosen Frauen, die bis 2015 ihr erstes Kind bekommen haben, zu diesem Zeitpunkt mit einem Partner in einem Haushalt, während dies nur auf 37 Prozent derer zutraf, die kein Kind bekommen haben. Ein weiterer Faktor ist der soziale Hintergrund. So bekommen insbesondere Migranten und Personen, die selbst mehrere Geschwister haben, drei und mehr Kinder. Für die Politik lässt sich aus den Ergebnissen ableiten, dass einerseits Rahmenbedingungen geschaffen werden sollten, die es Paaren leicht machen, sich bereits früh für erste und weitere Kinder zu entscheiden, und andererseits darauf hingearbeitet werden sollte, dass eine vergleichsweise frühe Elternschaft und große Familien mit drei und mehr Kinder in der öffentlichen Wahrnehmung stärker sichtbar werden.
J10|Dilution effects, population growth and economic growth under human capital accumulation and endogenous technological change|This paper answers the following two questions: 1) In the data, can we find a dilution effect of population growth also on per-capita human capital investment? If yes, 2) how can we use this fact to explain theoretically the existence of a differential impact of population change on economic growth across countries? In the first part of the article we document empirically the considerable across-countries heterogeneity of a dilution effect of population growth also in regard to the process of per-capita human capital formation and observe that, at a country's level, population growth may be relevant (either positively or negatively) for economic growth depending on the specific way it affects the process of schooling-acquisition by agents. In the second part of the paper we use these results in order to build a multi-sector growth model which is capable of accounting (depending on the strength of the found dilution effect of population growth on per-capita human capital formation) for the non-monotonous correlation between demographic and economic growth rates in the long-run.
J10|Knowing Me, Knowing You? Similarity to the CEO and Fund Managers' Investment Decisions|This study provides evidence that investors’ demographic similarity to CEOs affects their investment decisions. We find that mutual fund managers overweight firms led by CEOs who resemble them in terms of age, ethnicity and gender. This finding is robust to excluding educational and local ties and is supported by variation in similarity caused by CEO departures. Investing in firms run by similar CEOs, on average, is associated with superior performance and is more pronounced when CEOs have more impact on their firms. Results suggest that demographic similarity to CEOs facilitates informed trading, implying that investors’ information production incorporates firm management.
J10|La maternidad y el empleo formal en Colombia|Usando los registros de la Planilla Integrada de Liquidación de Aportes (PILA), en este documento se investigan las dinámicas de empleo de una población de mujeres jóvenes, que tenían trabajos formales y tomaron licencias de maternidad cuando estas aumentaron de 12 a 14 semanas. Al tratarse de un cambio no anticipado, se argumenta que la Ley 1468 de julio de 2011 dio un tratamiento diferenciado a las mujeres que estaban próximas a recibirla. Para diferentes grupos se compararon las probabilidades de conservar el empleo, iniciar uno nuevo, salir temporalmente de la formalidad o abandonarla permanentemente; en un periodo de 60 meses de observación desde el momento que iniciaron la licencia. Los resultados indican que las licencias protegen el empleo de las madres en el corto plazo y el aumento en la duración no afectó la probabilidad de continuar con el mismo empleo. Sin embargo, a largo plazo sí disminuyó la probabilidad de reengancharse en nuevos trabajos e incrementó la probabilidad de abandonar la formalidad. ******* ABSTRACT: Using the Colombian Integrated Record of Contributions to Social Security, this document investigates the labor dynamics of a population of young women, who had formal jobs and were close to receive a maternity leave when it was increased from 12 to 14 weeks. Being an unanticipated change, it is argued that the Law 1468 of July 2011 gave different treatments to these women. For an observational period of 60 months, intergroup comparisons were made using the probabilities to continue with the same job, to start a new one, to take a temporary leave from the formality, and to drop out of the formal labor market. Results show that the Colombian maternity leave does protect the employment of mothers in the short term; and the increase in duration did not affect the probability to continue with the same job. However, the long-term effects of an extended maternity leave would include lower probabilities to start new jobs and higher probabilities to abandon the formal market.
J10|Estimation of Long-term Housing Demand and Related Housing Construction Investment in North Korea (in Korean)|This paper estimates long-term housing demand and the related housing construction investment in North Korea, to ascertain whether the growth in housing construction investment, which is considered an important part of private economic activity in North Korea, will continue in the future. First, long-term housing demand is estimated based on the Mankiw-Weil model. We then calculate the demographics-driven aggregate housing demand in North Korea, by estimating individuals¡¯ demands for housing using age-based survey data on North Korean defectors, and applying it in view of the age structure of North Korea¡¯s population. According to these estimates, the pace of increase in demographics-driven housing demand shows a gradual slowdown, from an annual average of 0.6% to 0.9% between 2001 and 2020, to 0.3% between 2021 and 2030. This paper next forecasts housing demand and the scale of housing construction in North Korea based on the assumption that the country will pursue external openness on full scale from 2021, and that this will lead to considerable growth in income. If external openness leads to a declining mortality rate and increases in individual demand, then an additional 0.6%p (for the low growth scenario) to 1.8%p (for the high growth scenario) in the annual rate of growth in total housing demand is likely, compared to the baseline scenario. The related housing construction investment is anticipated to show additional increases of 12.3 million pyeong (1 pyeong ¡Ö 3.3§³) (low growth scenario) to 34.1 million pyeong (high growth scenario) in terms of area, and of 28 trillion won (low growth) to 77 trillion won (high growth) in terms of amount during the 10 years from 2021. This suggests that, if North Korea¡¯s efforts to open to the world reach full swing, housing demand is likely to grow significantly and more housing construction investment will be needed than is currently projected.
J10|Factors Affecting the Labor Force Participation of People Ages 25 to 54|Since 1990, the rate of labor force participation for people ages 25 to 54 has dropped from 84 percent to 81 percent. Most of that change has been related to demographic factors, economic conditions, and the governmentâ€™s fiscal policies. In this analysis, CBO examines how seven demographic factors relate to participation in the labor force and how economic conditions and fiscal policies are expected to affect labor force participation over the next decade. CBO also examines what keeps people from participating in the labor force.
J10|Blessed are the First: The Long-Term Effect of Birth Order on Trust|The renewed interest by the economic literature in the effect of birth order on children’s outcomes has neglected trust as a long-term output of familial environment. Acknowledging childhood as a crucial stage of life for the formation of social preferences, we go deeper into the early-life determinants of trust, a widely recognized driver of socio-economic success. We analyze if and how differences in the order of birth predict heterogeneous self-reported trust levels in Britain. We draw hypotheses from psychology, economics and sociology, and test alternative explanations to the association between birth order and trust. Relying on an index measuring birth order independently from sibship size, we find a negative and robust effect of birth order, with laterborns trusting less than their older siblings. This effect is not accounted for by personality traits, strength of family ties, risk aversion and parental inputs. It is only partially explained by complementary human-capital outcomes, and it is robust when we use alternative dependent variables and control for endogenous fertility. Multilevel estimates suggest that trust is mostly driven by within- rather than between-family characteristics. The effect of birth order is eclipsed by education outcomes only for women, while it is counterbalanced by mother’s education for the entire sample, thereby leading to relevant policy implications.
J10|A população na cena política: o debate sobre as consequências do envelhecimento populacional|This article intends to analyze the demographic transition in Brazil, especially, its most debated consequence in the current moment: the aging of the population. Around it, normative, theoretical and ideological arguments have been constructed, with the aim of regulating its consequences. In other words, population or, more specifically, its aging, has been incorporated into the political scene and has become the object of the confrontation of divergent political conceptions and interests. The debates in the political scene, independent of the academic construction of the arguments, do not escape the political and ideological dimension. The association of the debate on aging with social security brings together positions, not only on what would be a society with a more aged population, but also on the parameters that should be considered in the formulation of broader social security policies.
J10|Social Integration of Immigrants and the Attitude of the Native Population in European Countries|In this paper, I focus on the relationships between the attitude of the native population towards immigrants and immigration (ATII) in 20 European countries and the level of social integration and perceived discrimination of first and second generation immigrants in those countries. The stringency of naturalization policies in the host countries is also taken into consideration as a mechanism of the development of these relationships. The results confirm that a country’s naturalization policies fairly represent most ATII indicators, and that immigrants feel less discriminated against in more welcoming societies. However, no systematic relationship was revealed between the attitude of the native population and the social integration of immigrants. On the other hand, the results suggest lower perceived discrimination and higher social integration of first generation immigrants in countries where the naturalization status of immigrants is more secured, and the possibility of dual nationality is more restricted. The results also show that the perceived discrimination of immigrants does not decline with the duration of residence in the host countries, but the latter revealed a positive relationship with the social integration of immigrants.
J10|Let the Little Children Come to Me|We document the relationship of a set of individual choices - including parenthood, marital state, and income - with an individual’s cause of death. Using the data set of the Office for National Statistics Longitudinal Study (ONS-LS) which follows one percent of the population of England and Wales along five census waves 1971, 1981, 1991, 2001, and 2011, our competing risks analysis yields several striking results. 1) Females have only a 28% chance to die of cancer when they have children (compared to childless females); 2) males have a 71% increased chance of dying from cancer when they are married (compared to unmarried males); 3) females with children have only a 34% risk to die of heart disease and 4) a 53% chance of dying from infections (compared to females without children); 5) married men have an increased expectation of 23% to die of heart disease (compared to unmarried men); 6) high income and house ownership always is associated with higher survival but less so than having children.
J10|Refugee resettlement, redistribution and growth|This paper studies the effect of refugee resettlement on human capital accumulation. The analysis is performed in a growth model with endogenous fertility. I show how refugee resettlement from a more advanced and wealthier economy to a less advanced and less wealthy economy combined with income transfers is Pareto-improving for indigenous populations in both countries. I also derive conditions for the proposed resettlement policy to stimulate human capital accumulation and hence economic growth in both economies.
J10|Freihandel von Lissabon nach Wladiwostok: wem nutzt, wem schadet ein eurasisches Freihandelsabkommen?|"Der Handel zwischen der EU und Russland ist derzeit durch Sanktionen des Westens gegen Russland und gegenseitige Embargo-Maßnahmen schwer belastet, ohne dass eine sichtbare Veränderung der geostrategischen Ausrichtung Russlands erreicht wurde. Vielleicht erfordert ein Interessensausgleich weniger Strafmaßnahmen, sondern eher die Perspektive auf vertiefte wirtschaftliche Kooperation. Sowohl die EU als auch die Nachfolgestaaten der Sowjetunion sollten großes Interesse an einer Freihandelszone „von Lissabon bis Wladiwostok"" haben, weil die Strukturen ihrer komparativen Vorteile stark komplementär zueinander sind. Für Russland könnte ein tiefgreifendes Abkommen zwischen der EU und der Eurasischen Wirtschaftsgemeinschaft einen Zuwachs der realen Pro-Kopf-Einkommen um 3% bringen; für Deutschland um 0,2%. Das bedeutet ein Einkommenszuwachs von 235 Euro pro Kopf und Jahr für Russland und 91 Euro für Deutschland. Damit könnten Russland und die anderen Länder der ehemaligen Sowjetunion interessante Partner für eine vertiefte wirtschaftliche Zusammenarbeit mit der EU sein. Die EU sollte an einer stabilen wirtschaftlichen Entwicklung in ihrer unmittelbaren Nachbarschaft größtes Interesse haben. Außerdem verspricht die komplementäre Spezialisierungsstruktur dieser Länder substantielle wirtschaftliche Vorteile auch für die EU."
J10|Maternidad Temprana: una aproximación al efecto de factores a lo largo de la vida|A partir de los datos de la Encuesta Longitudinal Colombiana de la Universidad de los Andes (ELCA) se analiza el efecto de los factores socioculturales a nivel individual, interpersonal y de contexto sobre la probabilidad de ser madre entre los 12 y los 19 años para un grupo de mujeres de 15-24 años en 2016. Los datos muestran que la prevalencia de la maternidad es menor en las mujeres que habitan en zona urbana en comparación con las que habitan en las microrregiones rurales. Así mismo se encuentra que las mujeres más jóvenes (cohorte de 17 a 20 años) tienen una menor prevalencia que las mayores (21-24 años). Utilizando un modelo de riesgo de tiempo discreto para estimar la probabilidad de que una mujer tenga su primer hijo antes de los 20 años se encuentra que las que mayor probabilidad de tener un hijo presentan son las de mayor edad, las no solteras y las de menor nivel educativo (menor a básica secundaria), siendo mayores los resultados para las mujeres de la zona urbana. También se encuentra que, en la zona urbana, las mujeres pertenecientes a hogares de menor riqueza son las que mayores probabilidades presentan, mientras que en las microrregiones rurales, es para aquellas cuya comunidad no tiene una escuela secundaria.
J10|La maternidad y el empleo formal en Colombia|Usando los registros de la Planilla Integrada de Liquidación de Aportes (PILA), en este documento se investigan las dinámicas de empleo de una población de mujeres jóvenes, que tenían trabajos formales y tomaron licencias de maternidad cuando estas aumentaron de 12 a 14 semanas. Al tratarse de un cambio no anticipado, se argumenta que la Ley 1468 de julio de 2011 dio un tratamiento diferenciado a las mujeres que estaban próximas a recibirla. Para diferentes grupos se compararon las probabilidades de conservar el empleo, iniciar uno nuevo, salir temporalmente de la formalidad o abandonarla permanentemente; en un periodo de 60 meses de observación desde el momento que iniciaron la licencia. Los resultados indican que las licencias protegen el empleo de las madres en el corto plazo y el aumento en la duración no afectó la probabilidad de continuar con el mismo empleo. Sin embargo, a largo plazo sí disminuyó la probabilidad de reengancharse en nuevos trabajos e incrementó la probabilidad de abandonar la formalidad. ******* ABSTRACT: Using the Colombian Integrated Record of Contributions to Social Security, this document investigates the labor dynamics of a population of young women, who had formal jobs and were close to receive a maternity leave when it was increased from 12 to 14 weeks. Being an unanticipated change, it is argued that the Law 1468 of July 2011 gave different treatments to these women. For an observational period of 60 months, intergroup comparisons were made using the probabilities to continue with the same job, to start a new one, to take a temporary leave from the formality, and to drop out of the formal labor market. Results show that the Colombian maternity leave does protect the employment of mothers in the short term; and the increase in duration did not affect the probability to continue with the same job. However, the long-term effects of an extended maternity leave would include lower probabilities to start new jobs and higher probabilities to abandon the formal market.
J10|Impacto de la mortalidad evitable en los patrones de mortalidad de la región Caribe, 1999—2014|Impacto de la mortalidad evitable en los patrones de mortalidad de la región Caribe, 1999—2014 Impact of avoidable mortality on mortality patterns in the Caribbean Region, 1999—2014 Alí M. Arrieta—Arrieta* Álvaro J. Flórez—Tanús** Nelson Alvis Guzmán*** * Economista. Universidad de Cartagena. Grupo de Investigación en Economía de la Salud –GIES. Cartagena, Colombia. aarrietaa@unicartagena.edu.co ** Magíster en Economía de la Salud y del Medicamento (e). Universidad Pompeu Fabra. Grupo de Investigación en Economía de la Salud –GIES. Universidad de Cartagena. Cartagena, Colombia. alvaroflorezt@gmail.com *** MD. MPH. Ph. D. Universidad de Cartagena. Profesor Titular — Senior Researcher. Director Grupo de Investigación en Economía de la Salud –GIES. Cartage na, Colombia. nalvis@yahoo.com. Universidad de la Costa. Grupo de Investigaciones en Gestión Hospitalaria y Políticas de Salud. Resumen Actualmente la muerte es un hecho inevitable, sin embargo, la esperanza de vida ha cambiado de forma importante en el tiempo y aún en nuestros días difiere ampliamente entre grupos humanos. El avance de la tecnología sanitaria ha permitido que ciertas muertes puedan controlarse, postergarse o evitarse. Por ello, el objetivo de este artículo es medir el impacto que tienen las causas de muerte evitable, sobre las variables demográficas en la región Caribe colombiana, 1999—2014. Para lograrlo, se utilizó el método de eliminación hipotética de causas de muertes usando tablas de vidas. Los resultados indican que si en el periodo de estudio se hubiesen evitado algunas muertes a causa de enfermedades del sistema circulatorio y causas externas de mortalidad, la esperanza de vida de esta población se hubiera prolongado significativamente. Palabras clave: Mortalidad evitable, tablas de vida, región Caribe, Colombia. Clasificación JEL: J10, J11, J18, C13, C41. Abstract Death is now an inevitable fact, however, life expectancy has changed significantly in time and still in our day it differs widely between human groups. The advancement of health technology has allowed certain causes of death to be controlled, postponed or avoided. Therefore, the objective of this research is to measure the impact of a preventable death cause on demographic variables in the Colombian Caribbean region 1999—2014. To achieve this, the hypothetical method of elimination death causes using life—tables. The results indicate that in this period of study, if deaths from diseases of the circulatory system and external causes of mortality had been avoided, the life expectancy of this population would have been significantly prolonged. Keyword: Avoidable mortality, life tables, Caribbean region, Colombia. JEL Codes: J10, J11, J18, C13, C41. 1. INTRODUCCIÓN La muerte es un hecho inevitable, sin embargo, la edad promedio de la defunción ha cambiado de forma importante a lo largo de la historia y aún en nuestros días var a ampliamente entre diferentes comunidades. Estas variaciones son el efecto de determinantes biológicos, ambientales, socioeconómicos y psicosociales, que influyen sobre el proceso vital. Dichos factores están sujetos a su vez a su propia dinámica histórica, se articulan de manera diferente y responden en grado variable a los avances tecnológicos (Gómez—Arias, 2008). Uno de los campos específicos del análisis de la mortalidad como fenómeno socioeconómico es el de la mortalidad evitable. Si bien es cierto que la muerte es un hecho inevitable, existen diferentes mecanismos o alternativas que hacen posible frenarla o postergarla si se interviene tempranamente en los factores que la desencadenan (Dávila—Cervantes & Agudelo—Botero, 2014). En el estudio de la mortalidad evitable se justifica, al igual que en el resto de causas de mortalidad, la incorporación de los factores socioeconómicos, a fin de explicar las desigualdades existentes en su distribución entre los diferentes grupos de población. Algunos autores han propuesto listas de causas de mortalidad evitable basadas en la Clasificación Internacional de Enfermedades (CIE), las cuales varían según el concepto que cada autor tenga sobre la evitabilidad de las diferentes condiciones. Este concepto toma importancia desde los años 70 en el campo de la epidemiología y en la literatura científica, sin embargo, no se cuenta con una definición exacta de ella. De acuerdo con Taucher (1978), a quien se le atribuye en gran parte el avance y desarrollo de este tema en América Latina, la estructura por causa de las defunciones está vinculada al grado de desarrollo de un país, ya que las tasas de mortalidad por causas se usan como indicadores del nivel de salud e identificación de los principales problemas de la población, porque es más fácil medir la mortalidad que la morbilidad. De acuerdo con Acosta & Romero (2014), las causas de muerte más sobresalientes están constantemente relacionadas con factores que pueden ser evitables, en la medida en que se pueda entender de qué se muere la población y cuáles son los grupos más vulnerables. Indagar sobre el tema de mortalidad evitable continúa siendo de vital interés en los campos de la demografía, la salud pública y la planificación del desarrollo. Esto puede atribuirse en gran medida a las relaciones existentes entre mortalidad y condiciones socioeconómicas, que se reflejan en diferencias de niveles y de causas de mortalidad entre países y entre sectores de un mismo país (Taucher, 1978). Así, la mortalidad evitable es considerada como uno de los indicadores más importantes al momento de medir las condiciones y calidad de vida de una población. El término evitabilidad depende en gran parte de las condiciones socioeconómicas de cada país. En el caso de Colombia y, en especial, la región Caribe, se experimenta una importante transición demográfica y epidemiológica, acompañada del avance tecnológico y el desarrollo científico en la medicina; así, las causas de muerte por enfermedades transmisibles se desplazan por enfermedades no transmisibles (cardiovasculares y cánceres) (Acosta & Romero P., 2014). En tal sentido, el estudio de la mortalidad evitable constituye un factor importante para medir el desempeño de los sistemas de salud y de los avances en desarrollo y bienestar en una comunidad. Las muertes evitables representan un costo social. En efecto, cuanto más joven es la persona que fallece “antes de lo esperado”, se provoca un impacto mayor sobre el capital humano de una ciudad, región o país (Alvis—Guzmán & Alvis—Estrada, 2009). Por ello, el objetivo de esta investigación es medir el impacto que tiene la mortalidad evitable, sobre los patrones de mortalidad de los habitantes de la región Caribe colombiana, durante el periodo 1999 a 2014. 2. MORTALIDAD EVITABLE: UNA REVISIÓN A LA LITERATURA INTERNACIONAL Y NACIONAL El concepto de mortalidad evitable tiene su origen hace cuatro décadas, y es el resultado del cuestionamiento por el impacto de los avances de la medicina en el descenso de la mortalidad observado durante la primera mitad del siglo XX. También se debe en gran parte al interés de un grupo de expertos de la Universidad de Harvard por desarrollar indicadores colectivos e individuales para evaluar la calidad de la atención médica (Franco et al., 2006). El uso de la mortalidad por causas específicas para evaluar el estado de los servicios sanitarios y las políticas públicas en salud asistencial nace en el siglo XX. Juanatey (2015) señala que los primeros vestigios datan desde el año 1928 en Reino Unido, donde se efectuaron estudios acerca de la mortalidad materna con la finalidad de identificar los errores y las áreas en las que se podrían realizar mejoras, y así poder evitar muertes innecesarias. Asimismo, plantea que en Estados Unidos se realizaron estudios similares en 1930, lo que conllevó a reducciones importantes en las tasas de mortalidad materna. El concepto toma mayor fuerza a partir de la década de los 70, con los importantes aportes de Rutstein, a quien se le atribuye ser el padre del concepto de evitabilidad (Rutstein et al. 1976). Él dirigió el Grupo Activo de Enfermedades Evitables y Manejables, el cual tomó como fuente el concepto de médicos especialistas y elaboró una lista de enfermedades, incapacidades y causas de muerte conocidas, consideradas innecesariamente precoces, pues si todo lo que se tenía que hacer se hubiera hecho, dichas defunciones se hubieran prevenido o retrasado. Este grupo desarrolló un método de medición de la calidad de los cuidados médicos, sustentado en contar los casos de enfermedades innecesarias, discapacidad y muertes prematuras. Por tanto, construyeron una lista de 90 condiciones que denominaron “eventos centinela de la salud”, pues suponían que su presencia era una señal de alerta para el seguimiento de la atención médica, ya que los casos de enfermedad, discapacidad o muerte en estas condiciones se consideran prevenibles y/o tratables mediante atención médica adecuada y oportuna (Rutstein et al., 1976). Para el grupo de Rutstein (1976), el hallazgo de muertes clasificadas como evitables debía interpretarse como una señal de alarma para las autoridades sanitarias, pues estas defunciones constituían indicadores de que la calidad de la atención médica, en alguno de sus niveles, era susceptible de mejorar. En consecuencia, se proponía incorporar el estudio de las causas de muerte evitable a los sistemas de vigilancia en salud pública (Juanatey, 2015). Para la década de los 80, aparece un grupo de investigadores británicos, que tiene como máximo exponente a Charlton. Este grupo de investigadores fue el pionero en utilizar el concepto de mortalidad evitable en un estudio empírico con datos procedentes de Inglaterra y Gales (Charlton et al., 1983), y en examinar las tendencias nacionales e internacionales. Rescatan la preocupación y necesidad de diseñar indicadores del resultado de la atención médica contra los cuales pudiera evaluarse el uso de los recursos. Es decir, el propósito central iba encaminado a establecer índices que pudieran mostrar el resultado de las intervenciones médicas. Así, Charlton et al. (1983) afianzaron la posibilidad de poder usar la mortalidad evitable como indicador para monitorizar el proceso y los resultados de la atención sanitaria. Los primeros resultados de las investigaciones de este grupo muestran que los factores sociales cobran un papel importante a la hora de comparar las razones estandarizadas de mortalidad, ya que se encontraron variaciones determinantes entre las diferentes regiones, es decir que la muerte evitable, así como la atención médica, eran también influenciadas por factores sociales. Pero las diferencias permanecían después del ajuste por factores sociales, sugiriendo que la variación en la mortalidad por estas causas se relacionaba también con los servicios de salud. Posteriormente, para la segunda mitad de la década de los años 1980 aparecen los aportes de Holland (1986), quien, junto con otro grupo de investigadores, por medio del Programa de Investigación de Servicios de Salud de la Comunidad Europea, publicó el Atlas de Mortalidad Evitable de la Comunidad Europea. En los análisis propuestos por este grupo de investigación, se evidencia la afinidad con las conclusiones propuestas por Charlton, que buscaba mejorar la relación entre algunas causas de muerte e intervenciones médicas específicas. Las causas de muerte se consideraron evitables cuando eran objeto de intervenciones efectivas y de proveedores de atención médica que fueran identificables. Para Holland (1986), las defunciones evitables pueden subdividirse en indicadores de atención médica (causas de muertes evitables con servicios médicos) e indicadores de políticas nacionales de salud (causas de muertes evitables con programas de salubridad pública). El Atlas denominaba a estas causas “indicadores de mortalidad evitable” con la intención de proveer señales de advertencia de fallas potenciales en la prestación de los servicios de salud. De acuerdo con Nolte & Mckee (2004), el concepto de mortalidad evitable se ha utilizado en mayor medida a finales del siglo XX, según las premisas provenientes de Rutstein (1976). Ellos introdujeron la noción de muertes evitables, proponiendo una lista de las condiciones en las que la muerte no debe ocurrir en presencia de atención médica oportuna y eficaz. Los datos de mortalidad con los cuales realizaron su estudio fueron extraídos de los archivos de mortalidad de la OMS para los años 1980—1998. Utilizaron una lista abreviada de causas de mortalidad evitable acorde con la lista de revisión de la CIE por sexo y edad. El análisis de la mortalidad evitable de Nolte & Mckee (2004) se limitó a los grandes estados miembros de la Unión Europea. Así, se observaron cambios susceptibles de mortalidad evitable en Austria, Dinamarca, Finlandia, Francia, Grecia, Alemania, Italia, los Países Bajos, Portugal, España, Suecia y Reino Unido. En términos generales, Holland et al. (2009) establecen que la mortalidad evitable es un concepto atractivo para los investigadores del campo de la salud, lo que ha conducido a un sinnúmero de publicaciones académicas a nivel internacional, pero lamentablemente son pocos los estudios de la utilización de los datos para mejorar los servicios. Argumenta que, cuando se han utilizado, se han centrado en la identificación de las fallas a nivel individual (médicos), en lugar de identificar las deficiencias del sistema, la mala ejecución de las políticas, la falta de recursos y la falta de coordinación de atención, entre otros factores. En América Latina, una de las pioneras en el análisis de mortalidad evitable fue Taucher (1978), quien argumenta que, a pesar de ser la muerte un evento inevitable, existen causas que pueden ser evitadas. Plantea que las enfermedades aceptadas como causa de muerte no tenían necesariamente un desenlace fatal y propuso clasificar las causas de defunción en evitables y no evitables, de acuerdo con el conocimiento vigente. Por consiguiente, los análisis de las causas de muerte podían utilizarse tanto para evaluar como para planificar las intervenciones, y se revelan como un recurso esencial para la gestión de políticas públicas. Taucher (1978) consideraba que la muerte es el resultado de múltiples condiciones, y proponía reagrupar las defunciones según grupos de intervenciones que más pudieran contribuir a su control. Entre las conclusiones a las que llegó Taucher (1978), se argumenta que las causas que provocan un mayor número de muertes, y que podrían evitarse con algunas medidas de fácil aplicación en el estado actual del conocimiento científico, son: los accidentes, las neumonías y las enfermedades de la primera infancia. A su vez, deja el camino abierto a la profundización del análisis de algunos factores condicionantes en el marco de las políticas de desarrollo, como lo son la mortalidad infantil y algunas de sus causas agrupadas en el rubro de “evitables por medidas mixtas”. En el caso colombiano, en la última década han surgido importantes estudios en esta materia. Entre estos resalta el trabajo investigativo propuesto por Gómez—Arias et al. (2009), quienes afianzaron su estudio hacia la elaboración de un inventario de indicadores de mortalidad evitables, para que los tomadores de decisiones puedan usar en el estudio de las fallas en el control de los riesgos de mortalidad predominantes en Colombia y en otros países con condiciones epidemiológicas y sanitarias similares. Para lograr el cometido, Gómez—Arias et al. (2009), utilizaron los registros oficiales de mortalidad de Colombia de 1985 a 2001. Una vez establecido el perfil de la mortalidad, procedieron a definir un sistema de clasificación de la mortalidad evitable, que pudiera aplicarse a las causas de muerte predominantes en el país. Para ello, en lugar de recurrir a un grupo de expertos, para construir este indicador, seleccionaron los indicadores de las listas de mortalidad evitable de Holland y Taucher, ya que ambas han logrado un buen consenso a nivel internacional. En consecuencia, para darle una mayor contextualización al indicador, dadas las condiciones epidemiológicas locales, decidieron integrar los dos enfoques propuestos mediante un algoritmo que combinó las listas. Así, cada causa de muerte ocurrida en el tiempo de estudio se clasificó como evitable o no, según el algoritmo establecido. Posteriormente, sobresalen los aportes del Instituto Nacional de Salud (INS, 2014a, 2014b), que parten del concepto de muerte evitable como aquella que, dados los conocimientos médicos y la tecnología actual, podría evitarse con servicios de salud de prevención y/o tratamiento. Por ello, proponen ampliar este concepto, sus costos y perspectivas adicionales del análisis. Para lograrlo, la institución elaboró un listado actualizado de mortalidad evitable, apoyado en las clasificaciones aceptadas internacionalmente (Taucher, 1978; Holland, 1986; Nolte & Mckee, 2004; Carvalho & Duarte, 2007 & Gómez—Arias et al., 2009). Una vez obtenida la lista de causas, realizan la estimación de las tasas de mortalidad ajustadas por edad y sexo, por toda causa y por causa de muerte evitable. Adicionalmente, agruparon los eventos con base en la clasificación de grupo de causas del Estudio de Carga Global de Enfermedad, GBD—2010 (IHME, 2010). Asimismo, estimaron los APVP para todas las causas de muerte evitable, a partir de la expectativa de vida de referencia del GBD, 2010. Para las causas de muerte evitable valoraron la pérdida económica por la pérdida de productividad. Posteriormente, Acosta & Romero (2014), en su investigación basaron el interés en conocer los cambios de las principales causas de muerte en Colombia. Considerando que las causas de muerte más destacadas están usualmente relacionadas con factores que pueden ser evitables, en la medida en que se entienda de qué se muere la población y cuáles son los grupos de edad más vulnerables. Los autores acuden a la estimación de la esperanza de vida en el caso hipotético de la eliminación de enfermedades y factores externos que causan el mayor número de muertes en el país. De igual forma calculan, para cada grupo de edad, la probabilidad de fallecer por las distintas causas de defunción seleccionadas. Acosta & Romero (2014) realizan el análisis de causas de muerte utilizando tablas de vida, las cuales brindan la facilidad de calcular la probabilidad de morir y de sobrevivencia en una edad y por una causa determinada. En sí, este estudio permite conocer los beneficios de utilizar las tablas de vida en el análisis de causas de muerte, ya que dan la oportunidad de conocer la severidad de las distintas causas, lo que no es posible inferir a partir de tasas brutas o porcentajes simples. A partir de estos primeros antecedentes, se puede denotar que el concepto de mortalidad evitable es relativamente reciente, teniendo en cuenta que los primeros estudios de mortalidad se llevaron a cabo hace mucho tiempo. Este concepto se inició teniendo en cuenta la mortalidad materna, dado que el seguimiento y el control en las mujeres embarazaras era mucho más factible. Otro aspecto para resaltar es que el estudio de la mortalidad evitable es diferente según el contexto que se esté analizando; y estas diferencias se hacen mucho más palpables cuando se comparan los estudios entre países desarrollados y en desarrollo, ya que el término de evitabilidad depende en gran medida de las condiciones socioeconómicas, tecnológicas, políticas y ambientales de cada país. 3. METODOLOGÍA: ELIMINACIÓN HIPOTÉTICA DE CAUSAS DE MUERTE EVITABLE USANDO TABLAS DE VIDAS CON MÚLTIPLES SALIDAS Para el análisis de la mortalidad en la región Caribe, se utilizaron los registros de estadísticas vitales publicados por el Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Estadísticas (DANE). Específicamente, el número de defunciones por sexo, grupo etario y causas agrupadas según la lista de 6/67—CIE—101 (OPS; OMS, 2008). Fue necesario conocer el listado de todas las causas que son consideradas evitables. En este sentido, se tuvo en cuenta la lista de causas de muerte evitable formulada por el INS (2014b). Esta lista tiene en cuenta la clasificación a nivel internacional y a nivel latinoamericano. Es decir, tiene en cuenta la lista de causas de muerte evitable descrita Al seleccionar las causas de muertes evitables para Colombia, se parte del supuesto que estas mismas causas podrían ser evitadas en cada una de las regiones que componen el territorio nacional. Así, se estaría dejando a un lado las diferencias geográficas, climáticas, sociales, económicas y tecnológicas internas, las cuales podrían afectar la evitabilidad de las distintas causas de muerte. La metodología que se sigue en el desarrollo de esta investigación es la descrita por Acosta & Romero (2014), quienes utilizan el proceso de eliminación hipotética de causas de muerte con tablas de vida con múltiples salidas, como herramienta para conocer los patrones de mortalidad en una población especifica. Los autores consideran que trabajar con tablas de vida representa ciertas ventajas en el análisis socioeconómico de las variables que atañen a la mortalidad en una población específica. Principalmente, porque, al evaluar el impacto de una causa de muerte sobre una población con tablas de vida, se deja a un lado el riesgo de caer en las malas interpretaciones de las tasas de mortalidad cuando no se tiene en cuenta el efecto poblacional. Otro aspecto importante es que las tablas de vida tienen la particularidad de ser estacionarias, lo que significa que el número de nacidos es igual al número de defunciones ocurridas en todas las edades. Así, los cálculos realizados a partir de ellas, no están influenciados por el tamaño de las cohortes. A su vez, permiten identificar las edades en las que es más probable morir por determinada causa, siendo este uno de los aspectos que más contribuyen con el objeto de esta investigación, ya que se pueden identificar del total de muertes, consideradas evitables, cuál es la que mayor peso tiene en la región Caribe. El proceso de eliminación hipotética de causas de muerte en distintos escenarios, descrito por Acosta & Romero (2014), parte de dos postulados esenciales. El primero se refiere a la estacionariedad de las tablas de vida, lo cual hace referencia a que el número de nacidos l(0), es igual al número de defunciones ocurridas en todas las edades, es decir: El segundo se refiere a que la tasa específica de mortalidad de una persona en una edad exacta x, o sea u(x), equivale a la suma de todas las tasas de mortalidad por todas las causas de muerte. En términos matemáticos sería: Donde: uj (x) ? 0 es la tasa de mortalidad relacionada con la causa de muerte j. Al promediar esta tasa con la población comprendida entre [x, x+n], es posible conocer la tasa central de mortalidad para una causa en específico, como se muestra en la siguiente ecuación: En la ecuación anterior, se denota que la tasa central de mortalidad total es igual a la sumatoria de cada una de las tasas de mortalidad por cada causa. En este mismo sentido, es preciso conocer que el término , es decir, el número de años vividos entre las edades x y x+n, es igual a la población estacionaria comprendida entre estas edades. Este factor, al ser multiplicado por la tasa de mortalidad central, muestra el número de muertes ocurridas a una generación entre las edades x y x+n, es decir: De la fórmula anterior es posible conocer el número de muertes por una causa en específico (ecuación a) y la proporción en el número de defunciones por determinada causa (ecuación b). De igual forma, las tablas de vidas permiten conocer la probabilidad que tiene una persona de x años de edad de fallecer por una causa de muerte en específico. Este hecho es posible, si se parte del supuesto que las causas de muerte se mantienen constantes en el tiempo, sin tener en cuenta su evolución. Esta probabilidad se puede conocer de la siguiente manera: Por otra parte, y siguiendo de igual forma a Acosta & Romero (2014), a partir de las tablas de vida se puede establecer escenarios hipotéticos donde se eliminan las tasas de mortalidad producidas por una causa en específico. Para esta investigación se eliminan las causas de muerte consideradas evitables; así se analizaría el impacto que tiene cada una de ellas en la tasa de mortalidad general, en el número de sobrevivientes y, mejor aún, en la esperanza de vida. Para poder realizar estas estimaciones es preciso definir una nueva función de mortalidad. Esta estaría expresada de la siguiente manera: uj*(x) por ende, la suma de todas las tasas de mortalidad va a cambiar, dado que se le está restando la participación de la j causa de mortalidad. Este proceso queda reflejado de la siguiente manera: Así las cosas, la nueva tasa de mortalidad (sin incluir la participación de muertes ocasionadas por la causa de muerte que se elimina), es determinada por el producto entre la tasa general de mortalidad y un factor Rj(x); dicho factor expresa la proporción de muertes que no están relacionadas con la causa de muerte que no se quiere eliminar. Este factor está presente para todas las funciones de la nueva tabla de vida a calcular y varía dependiendo la edad que se esté analizando, como se muestra a continuación: Dónde: nDx: es el total de defunciones por cada grupo de edad. nDx*j : es la suma de todas las defunciones, excepto las muertes por las causas que se quiere eliminar, por grupos de edad. Una vez calculado el valor del factor, se puede conocer los cambios en las probabilidades de supervivencia, al eliminar una causa de muerte, en este caso las causas evitables. El proceso se explica de la siguiente manera: Donde: npx : es la probabilidad de supervivencia por edad, teniendo en cuenta todas las causas de muerte. npx*j : es la probabilidad de supervivencia por edad, habiendo eliminado una causa de muerte. Ahora bien, dado que la tasa de mortalidad total disminuye al eliminar las muertes por la causa que se quiere eliminar, el número de sobrevivientes a la edad exacta x aumentará, es decir: De igual forma, al disminuir la tasa de mortalidad, la esperanza de vida tenderá a aumentar. Para poder conocer los cambios que experimenta la esperanza de vida, es necesario acudir al principio que dice que la participación de un individuo en la esperanza de vida es el tiempo que transcurre entre el momento en el que se alcanza la edad x años de vida y el momento en el que muere. Por ello, la manera de conocer la “nueva esperanza de vida” está dada por la siguiente ecuación: Este aporte de Acosta & Romero (2014), junto con las premisas de mortalidad hipotética nula realizadas por Arriaga (1996) y los aportes de Bocco (1996), permite conocer el impacto de la mortalidad por causa de muerte específica sobre la esperanza de vida de la población entre dos edades seleccionadas para el análisis. Por ejemplo, si se quiere estudiar la mortalidad en edades reproductivas, en edades laborales, o en edades muy avanzadas. En este caso se analizarán los cambios en la mortalidad y el impacto que tienen sobre la población las causas de muerte consideradas evitables. 4. IMPACTO DE LAS CAUSAS DE MUERTE EVITABLE EN LOS PATRONES DE MORTALIDAD DE LOS HABITANTES DE LA REGIÓN CARIBE En la región Caribe durante el periodo en estudio se observa una importante incidencia de muertes evitables. Las causas de muerte evitable relacionadas con las causas extremas, las enfermedades del sistema circulatorio y las enfermedades del sistema respiratorio, entre otras, son las más sobresalientes. Por ello, se valora el impacto que tendría la eliminación (evitar) de las muertes que se dieron a causas de estas enfermedades en los patrones de mortalidad de los habitantes de la región, a saber: la probabilidad de morir, la probabilidad de sobrevivencia, y la esperanza de vida por grupos etarios y por género. Del total de causas de muertes evitables descritas por el INS (2014b), el 56,7% corresponden a causas extremas; el 8,9% a enfermedades infecciosas y parasitarias; un 8,4% a embarazo, parto y puerperio; y un 6,6% a causas de muerte relacionadas con afecciones en el periodo neonatal, siendo estos cuatro grupos los que abarcan el 80,6% del total de causas evitables descritas por la institución. También es de resaltar la baja participación de las enfermedades de la piel, trastornos mentales, las enfermedades del sistema nervioso, las enfermedades del sistema genitourinario y las malformaciones. A pesar que el grupo de causas de muerte extremas contiene gran parte de las casusas de muerte evitable, en la práctica suele ser diferente, y mucho más en la región Caribe. Las causas relacionadas con el sistema circulatorio han sido las de mayor prevalencia en los últimos quince años; seguidas de las causas extremas, las enfermedades del sistema respiratorio, los cánceres, las enfermedades endocrinas y nutricionales, y las enfermedades infecciosas y parasitarias. Estos grupos de enfermedades presentan una participación muy marcada, sin embargo, la prevalencia de las causas de muerte que conforman cada grupo ha variado. En el caso de las causas evitables relacionadas con el sistema circulatorio, de 1999 a 2008 (primer y segundo quinquenio de estudio) las enfermedades isquémicas del corazón y accidentes cerebrovasculares fueron las de mayor participación; sin embargo, de 2009 a 2014 (último quinquenio del periodo de estudio) se mantienen las enfermedades isquémicas del corazón, pero aumentan las muertes a causa de las hemorragias y la cardiopatía hipertensiva. Para el caso de las causas de muerte evitable extremas, durante los dos primeros quinquenios, los homicidios y los accidentes de tránsito en carretera abarcan el 60% de las muertes de este grupo; no obstante, para el último quinquenio las muertes a causa de los accidentes en motocicletas aumentaron considerablemente; es decir que en los últimos cinco años las dos principales causas de muerte evitable extremas en la región Caribe son los homicidios, accidentes en motocicleta y los accidentes automovilísticos. En el caso de las causas evitables relacionadas con el sistema respiratorio, las enfermedades respiratorias bajas y las enfermedades pulmonares crónicas han sido las dos principales causas de muerte evitable en los dos primeros quinquenios; y para el último quinquenio las enfermedades crónicas del pulmón han tomado mayor participación. Por el lado de los cánceres, se encontró que el grupo considerado evitable ha tendido a disminuir, pero las enfermedades que lo conforman han tenido una distribución casi que constante. En 1999, el 60% de los cánceres considerados evitables fueron: cáncer de tráquea, bronquios y pulmón (22,9%); seguido del cáncer de cuello uterino (13,4%); cáncer de colon y recto (12%) y por último el cáncer de mama (11,5%). Para el año 2008, la distribución cambia un poco: el cáncer de tráquea, bronquios y pulmón sigue en primer lugar (26,8%), pero el cáncer de mama gana participación (14%), el cáncer de cuello uterino se mantiene (13%), y el cáncer de colon disminuye (10,2%). Para el año 2014, la participación en las muertes, a causa de cáncer de tráquea, bronquio y pulmón, tienden a disminuir (24,5%); sin embargo, se resalta el aumento significativo del cáncer de mama, el cual pasó a 18,7%, el cáncer de colon y recto disminuyó (11,8%), al igual que las muertes a causa del cáncer de cuello uterino (11,4%). Con respecto a las enfermedades endocrinas y nutricionales, se tiene que las principales causas evitables durante el periodo de análisis han sido: en primer lugar, la diabetes (57%), seguida de la desnutrición (30,2%) y enfermedades crónicas del riñón a causa de la diabetes (12,8%). En el grupo de enfermedades infecciosas y parasitarias, se resalta que en 1999 las principales causas evitables eran las enfermedades diarreicas (36,3%), seguidas de las enfermedades relacionadas con el VIH (26,1%), y la tuberculosis (21,7%). En 2014, las enfermedades diarreicas abarcaron el 38,4%, las enfermedades relacionadas con VIH pasaron al 30%, y la tuberculosis fue de 12,9%. 4.1. Eliminación hipotética de causas de muerte evitable Un primer ejercicio consistió en calcular las diferencias en la probabilidad de morir, eliminando los distintos grupos de causas de muerte evitable. En la figura 1, se muestran tres paneles, los cuales corresponden a los tres quinquenios de estudio (1999—2003; 2004—2008; 2009—2014). Los resultados muestran que, manteniendo constantes las condiciones de mortalidad observadas durante el primer quinquenio (panel a), la probabilidad de morir en los hombres de la región no varía significativamente al eliminar las causas de muerte relacionadas con enfermedades del sistema digestivo, las infecciones—parasitarias y los cánceres. La eliminación de las causas relacionadas con las afecciones en el periodo neonatal disminuye la probabilidad de morir considerablemente en los niños menores de 5 años. Las diferencias más significativas se observan al momento de eliminar las causas extremas, las del sistema circulatorio y las del sistema respiratorio. Con la eliminación de las causas extremas, disminuye considerablemente, y en mayor proporción en las edades de 5 a 55 años. En el caso de la eliminación de las causas del sistema circulatorio, las diferencias se ven reflejadas en mayor medida en las edades de 50 a 75 años, al igual que el caso de haberse evitado las causas del sistema respiratorio. En el segundo y tercer periodos de análisis, la situación es un poco distinta (panel c). Las probabilidades son más bajas en comparación con el periodo anterior. Las variaciones se observan, en mayor medida, en el último quinquenio de estudio (panel e), donde la eliminación de las principales causas de muerte representa un mayor peso en el total de defunciones; por tanto, las probabilidades disminuyen al momento que se eliminan tales causas, mucho más cuando se eliminan las causas de muerte extremas y las relacionadas con el sistema circulatorio. La mayor diferencia entre el primer y último quinquenio está en que en el último, con la eliminación de las causas de muerte relacionadas con el sistema circulatorio, las probabilidades disminuyan desde edades superiores a los 10 años, mas no a partir de los 55 años, como se daba al principio. Para el caso de las mujeres, los escenarios son distintos. Las funciones de probabilidad de morir en las mujeres tienen una curva mucho más definida (forma de jota), y menores en comparación con la de los hombres. En el primer quinquenio (panel b), la eliminación de las causas de muerte relacionadas con el sistema circulatorio son las más significativas a partir de edades superiores a los 50 años. Para el segundo quinquenio (panel d), la situación cambió un poco. En adición a las enfermedades del sistema circulatorio, la eliminación de las causas extremas tiende a disminuir la probabilidad de muerte, y en especial en las mujeres de edades inferiores, de 5 a 45 años. En los últimos cinco años (panel f), el panorama se ve mucho más distinto. Al eliminar las principales causas de muerte evitable, el riesgo de muerte para las mujeres disminuye de modo considerable, principalmente al eliminar las causas extremas y las del sistema circulatorio. Un segundo ejercicio consistió en evidenciar el impacto que tienen las distintas causas de muerte evitable sobre la probabilidad de sobrevivencia de los individuos de la región. En la figura 2, en los paneles a, c, e, se observan las probabilidades de sobrevivir en hombres. En el primer quinquenio, la eliminación de la mayoría de las causas no impacta significativamente las probabilidades de sobrevivir, sin embargo, la eliminación de las causas extremas lo hacen, principalmente en los hombres con edades de 15 a 55 años. Por su parte, la eliminación de las causas de muerte relacionadas con el sistema circulatorio también muestra cambios significativos en los hombres con edad superior a los 55 años, al igual que las muertes a causa de enfermedades del sistema respiratorio. En el segundo quinquenio, el panorama es muy parecido, pero, al eliminar las causas extremas, la probabilidad de supervivencia empieza a aumentar desde edades más tempranas, es decir, empieza desde los 5 a los 55 años. Este mismo comportamiento se evidencia al eliminar las enfermedades del sistema circulatorio, en las cuales las diferencias se notan desde la edad de los 40 años. Para el último periodo, las diferencias son mucho más marcadas. Al eliminar las causas extremas, las probabilidades de supervivencia aumentan desde edades muy tempranas, y la brecha aumenta mucho más en las edades productivas, 15 a 65 años. En el caso de eliminar las causas de muerte relacionadas con el sistema circulatorio, la probabilidad de supervivencia en los hombres mayores a 50 años se hace mayor. Para el caso de las mujeres, los resultados muestran que las probabilidades de supervivencia son mayores a las de los hombres. Si se analizan los paneles b, d y f, se observa que las probabilidades son mayores durante casi todo el ciclo de la vida, y tienden a ser parecidas después de los 65 años. Este comportamiento podría explicarse porque los hombres están expuestos en mayor medida a causas extremas de mortalidad, principalmente en edades de 15 a 60 años. De 1999 a 2003, las principales causas de muerte que impactan la probabilidad de sobrevivencia en las mujeres fueron las relacionadas con el sistema circulatorio y las respiratorias. 4.2. Impacto de las causas de muerte evitable en la esperanza de vida Un tercer ejercicio consistió en calcular la probabilidad de morir que tienen los habitantes de la región durante el resto de años que les queda por vivir. El ejercicio se realizó teniendo en cuenta los distintos grupos de causas de muerte evitable y grupos de edad, bajo el supuesto de que las condiciones de mortalidad observadas en la región se mantienen constantes en el tiempo. También se parte del supuesto que, al analizar el impacto de una causa en específico, el efecto de las otras es nulo, es decir, son mutuamente excluyentes e independientes. Los resultados observados en la tabla 2 describen que los niños menores de 5 años, independientemente del género, tienen mayor probabilidad de morir a causa de enfermedades infecciosas y parasitarias, aunque en el último quinquenio la probabilidad de que mueran a causa de enfermedades del sistema respiratorio ha aumentado. A pesar de que las defunciones por causas extremas han disminuido, continúan siendo la principal causa de muerte en los hombres de la región. En 1999, la probabilidad que tenía un hombre con 25 años de morir por una causa extrema en el resto de su vida fue de 41%, mientras que en 2014 la probabilidad pasó a 34,3%. En el caso de los hombres con 45 años, la situación es muy parecida, sin embargo, están altamente expuestos a morir por una enfermedad del sistema circulatorio. Para los hombres con edades superiores a 65 años, las causas extremas representan bajo riesgo; por tanto, la mayor probabilidad de morir en lo que les resta de vida es a causa de enfermedades del sistema circulatorio, los cánceres y las enfermedades del sistema respiratorio. En el caso de las mujeres, las diferencias con respecto a los hombres son más significativas cuando están en edad de 25 años, dado que el riego de morir por una causa extrema es bajo, pero es alta la probabilidad de morir a causa de un cáncer, de un embarazo, por un parto riesgoso o una enfermedad del sistema circulatorio. En el caso de las mujeres con 45 años, tienen mayor probabilidad de morir a causa de cáncer, principalmente el cáncer de mama y el de cuello uterino. También están altamente expuestas a morir a causa de enfermedades del sistema circulatorio, e incluso en mayor medida que las mujeres de 25 años. En el caso de las mujeres con 65 años y más, la prevalencia de los cánceres y las enfermedades del sistema circulatorio se mantienen, si bien ha aumentado la probabilidad de morir a causa de problemas en el sistema respiratorio. Analizar el impacto que tiene los distintos grupos de causas de muerte evitable sobre las probabilidades de mortalidad y, por ende, de sobrevivencia, conlleva directamente al análisis de los cambios en la esperanza de vida de los habitantes de la región. Este indicador, como se mencionó antes, es uno de los más importantes al momento de planificar y evaluar políticas públicas en salud, ya que en ella se ve reflejada la eficiencia de dichas políticas. Por ello, un cuarto ejercicio consistió en realizar ensayos en los que, al eliminar las causas de muerte consideradas evitables, se evidenciaran los cambios que producían en la esperanza de vida por cada grupo de edad. En la tabla 3, los resultados muestran que, si en el periodo de 1999 a 2003 se hubiesen controlado o evitado las muertes a causa de algunas enfermedades del sistema circulatorio, los hombres hubiesen ganado 9,7 años más de vida, mientras que las mujeres hubiesen ganado 14 años, aproximadamente. En el caso de que se hubiesen evitado las muertes por causas extremas, los “beneficiados” en este caso solo serían los hombres, con 4,2 años adicionales, mientras que en las mujeres solo se hubiese prolongando la vida en 0,8 años. Para el quinquenio de 2004 a 2008, la distribución se mantiene, sin embargo, se resalta el aumento de los años ganados a causa de las muertes evitables relacionadas con el sistema respiratorio, tanto en hombres como en mujeres. Para el quinquenio de 2009 a 2014, la situación es un poco distinta. A pesar de que la esperanza de vida aumentó tanto en hombres como en mujeres, las enfermedades consideradas evitables han tendido a disminuir, por tanto, los años de vida ganados por dichas causas también lo han hecho. De 2009 a 2014, los años de vida ganados, con la eliminación de las causas evitables del sistema circulatorio, pasaron a 7,8 años en los hombres, y en las mujeres fue de 9,6 años. Es decir que, en los hombres, en estos quince años, los años de vida ganados disminuyeron en 20,1%, y en las mujeres 31,8%. Estos resultados indican que en la región Caribe, a medida que transcurre el tiempo, están disminuyendo las enfermedades consideradas evitables, dando paso a enfermedades no evitables, dado el alcance de la tecnología y la infraestructura médica. Un ejemplo de esta premisa se constata al observar los años de vida ganados a causa de las enfermedades infecciosas y parasitarias. También se observa la disminución en los años de vida ganados a causa de cánceres considerados evitables, a pesar de que este grupo de enfermedades han aumentado en la región. 5. DISCUSIÓN/CONCLUSIONES Con la finalización de este estudio, que condujo al presente artículo, se pudo determinar que entre el 80% y 90% de las defunciones ocurridas en el grupo de edad menor a 5 años podrían ser evitadas. Las muertes a causa de afecciones en el periodo neonatal son las de mayor impacto en esta población, es decir, la brecha entre la prevalencia de este grupo con el resto es muy marcada, aproximadamente seis veces mayor. Asimismo, se resalta la distribución constante que han tenido las causas de muerte evitable en este grupo poblacional. Para el caso de la población vulnerable, es decir aquella mayor a 65 años, el grupo de causas evitables relacionadas con el sistema circulatorio, como lo son las enfermedades isquémicas del corazón, los accidentes cerebrovasculares y la cardiopatía hipertensiva, son las de mayor prevalencia en estos quince años de estudio. Sin embargo, con menor proporción en los últimos años. En 1999, la participación de estas enfermedades en este grupo poblacional fue de 58,7%, y en 2014 pasó a 51,3%. Por otra parte, es de resaltar el aumento de las defunciones a causa de enfermedades del sistema digestivo, las cuales, en 1999, abarcaban el 2,9% y en 2014 pasaron al 4,1%. De igual forma, en este grupo poblacional, las defunciones a causa de cánceres evitables y las enfermedades del sistema genitourinario evitables han disminuido. En el grupo poblacional de 15 a 64 años, se realizó el análisis por género. Para el caso de los hombres, la mayor tasa de defunción evitable se debe a las causas extremas. Sin embargo, a partir de 2008, ha presentado un ritmo decreciente, ubicándose en 2014 con los niveles más bajos en este periodo de estudio. Por su parte, se evidenció aumento en las causas relacionadas con las enfermedades del sistema circulatorio; en 1999, la participación de estas enfermedades fue del 17%, y para 2014 la proporción pasó a 23,4%, lo que significa que estas enfermedades están aumentando en hombres. Para el caso de las mujeres, se resalta el aumento significativo de los cánceres evitables. En 1999, la participación fue de 20%, aproximadamente, mientras que en 2014 pasó a 27%, lo que evidencia el aumento de la mortalidad a causa de cánceres que pueden ser evitados. Esta característica diferencia, en gran parte, los patrones de mortalidad evitable de las mujeres con los hombres; mientras que en las mujeres aumentan las causas de muerte por cánceres evitables, en los hombres disminuye. Asimismo, mientras que en las mujeres disminuyen las causas de muerte evitable relacionadas con el sistema circulatorio, en los hombres sucede lo contrario. Ahora bien, si en el periodo de 1999 a 2014 se hubiesen controlado o evitado las muertes por causas extremas o algunas enfermedades del sistema circulatorio, las probabilidades de morir en un hombre disminuirían en 37,2% y 15,8%, respectivamente. En las mujeres, estas probabilidades disminuirían en 19,7% y 10,4% si se controlarán las muertes a causa de las enfermedades del sistema circulatorio y respiratorio. De manera análoga, las probabilidades de sobrevivencia de un hombre, en promedio, aumentarían en un 14% y 6,1% si se controlaran las causas extremas de mortalidad y las causas de muerte relacionadas con el sistema circulatorio. En las mujeres, las probabilidades de sobrevivencia aumentarían en 8,7%, 6,2% y 5,2%, si se postergaran las causas de muerte relacionadas con enfermedades del sistema circulatorio, las enfermedades del sistema respiratorio, y los cánceres evitables (principalmente el cáncer de mama y cuello uterino). En concreto, los cambios en los patrones de mortalidad experimentados en la población de la región Caribe a causa de la mortalidad evitable, se traducen en cambios significativos en la esperanza de vida. Por ello, si en estos quince años de estudio se hubiesen evitado o postergado las muertes a causa de enfermedades del sistema circulatorio, los hombres hubiesen ganado, en promedio, 7,8 años más de vida, mientras que las mujeres hubiesen ganado 10 años, aproximadamente. En el caso de que se hubiesen evitado las muertes por causas extremas, los “beneficiados” en este caso solo serían los hombres, con 5 años adicionales. 6. LIMITACIONES Los aspectos que más limitaron el desarrollo de esta investigación fueron principalmente dos. Inicialmente, no se cuenta con una lista de causas de muerte evitable actualizada para la región Caribe, por tanto, al utilizar la lista establecida por el INS (2014b), se está dejando a un lado las diferencias geográficas, climáticas, sociales, económicas y tecnológicas internas del país, las cuales podrían afectar la evitabilidad de las distintas causas de muerte. Un segundo aspecto limitante tiene que ver con la metodología. Específicamente el supuesto de permanencia en las causas de muerte en el transcurso del tiempo, ya que las causas de muerte varían considerablemente con el desarrollo económico, social y tecnológico de un país o región. Notas 1 Clasificación Internacional de Enfermedades (10a versión).por Holland (1986) y Nolte & Mckee (2004). Para el segundo caso, se tiene en cuenta las listas descritas por Taucher (1978), Gómez—Arias (2008) y Carvalho & Duarte (2007) (tabla 1). Se tomó como referencia este listado de causas evitables, porque es el estudio que ha implementado la lista de causas evitables más reciente para el país. REFERENCIAS Acosta, K., & Romero P., J. (2014). Cambio recientes en las principales causas de mortalidad en Colombia (Documentos de Trabajo Sobre Economía Regional n.° 209). Cartagena de Indias. Alvis—Guzmán, N., & Alvis—Estrada, L. (2009). Costos económicos de la mortalidad evitable en Cartagena, Colombia, 2000—2005. Rev. Salud Pública, 11(6), 970—978. Arriaga, E. (1996). Los años de vida perdidos: su utilización para medir el nivel y cambio de la mortalidad. Notas de Población, 24(63), 7—38. Bocco, M. (1996). La relación entre los años de vida perdidos y la esperanza de vida: aplicaciones para el análisis de la mortalidad. Notas de Población, XXIV(63), 39—60. Carvalho Malta, D., & Duarte, E. C. (2007). Causas de mortes evitáveis por ações efetivas dos serviços de saúde: uma revisão da literatura. Ciência & Saúde Coletiva, 12(3), 765—776. Charlton, J. R. H., Silver, R., Hartley, R. M., & Holland, W. W. (1983). Geographical variation in mortality from conditions amenable to medical intervention in England and Wales. The Lancet, 321(8326), 691—696. DANE, D. A. N. de E. (2017). Nacimientos y defunciones. Retrieved September 2, 2017. Dávila—Cervantes, C., & Agudelo—Botero, M. (2014). Mortalidad evitable en México y su contribución a los años de vida perdidos. Análisis por grado de marginación estatal, 2001—2010. Papeles de Población, 20(82), 267—286. Franco—Marina, F., Lozano, R., Villa, B., Soliz, P., & Secretaría de Salud de México, M. (2006). La mortalidad en México, 2000—2004. Muertes evitables: magnitud, distribución y tendencias. México, D.F. Gómez—Arias, R. D. (2008). La mortalidad evitable como indicador de desempeño de la política sanitaria. Colombia, 1985—2001 (Primera). Colombia: Universidad de Antioquia. Gómez—Arias, R. D., Bonmatí, A. N., Pereyra—Zamora, P., Rodríguez—Ospina, F., & Agudelo—Londoño, S. (2009). Mortalidad evitable y políticas en salud. Colombia, 1985—2002. Colombia Médica, 40(4), 373—86. Holland, W., Berenberg, W., & Chalmers, T. (2009). Measuring the quality of medical care. J Health Serv Res Policy, 14(3), 183—186. Holland, W. W. (1986). The “avoidable death” guide to Europe. Health Policy, 6(2), 115. IHME, I. for H. M. and E. (2010). The global burden of disease: Generating evidence, guiding policy. The Global Burden of Disease, 52. INS, I. N. de S. (2014a). Informe 3: Mortalidad evitable en Colombia para 1998—2011. Bogotá, Colombia. INS, I. N. de S. (2014b). Metodología de análisis. Informe 3: Mortalidad evitable en Colombia. Bogotá, Colombia. Juanatey, A. (2015). Análisis temporal y geográfico de la mortalidad evitable en España 1990—2011. Universiad de Santiago de Compostela. Nolte, E., & Mckee, M. (2004). Does health care save lives? Avodaible mortality revisited (The Nuffel). London. OPS, Organización Panamericana de la Salud; OMS, (2008). Clasificación estadística internacional de enfermedades y problemas relacionados con la salud—CIE—10. Rutstein, D. D., Berenberg, W., Chalmers, T. C., Child, C. G., Fishman, A. P., Perrin, E. B., Evans, C. C. (1976). Measuring the quality of medical care. A Clinical Method. New England Journal of Medicine, 294(11), 582—588. Taucher, E. (1978). Chile: Mortalidad desde 1955 a 1975. Tendencias y causas. Centro Latinoaméricano de Demografía, Serie A(162), 83.
J10|Torn Apart? The Impact of Manufacturing Employment Decline on Black and White Americans|"This paper examines the impact of manufacturing employment decline on the socio-economic outcomes within and between black and white Americans from 1960 to 2010. Exploiting variation across cities and over time, the analysis shows that manufacturing decline negatively impacted blacks (men, women, and children) in terms of their wages, employment, marriage rates, house values, poverty rates, death rates, single parenthood, teen motherhood, child poverty, and child mortality. In addition, the decline in manufacturing increased inequality within the black community in terms of overall wages and the gaps between education groups in wages, employment, and marriage rates. Many of the same patterns are found for whites, but to a lesser degree – leading to larger gaps between whites and blacks in wages, marriage patterns, poverty, single-parenthood, and death rates. The results are robust to the inclusion or exclusion of several control variables, and the use of a ""shift-share"" instrument for the local manufacturing employment share. Overall, the decline in manufacturing is reducing socio-economic conditions in general while increasing inequality within and between racial groups – which is consistent with a stronger general equilibrium effect of the loss of highly-paid, lower-skilled jobs on the less-educated segments of the population."
J10|Cuban Demography and Economic Consequences|Cuban Demography and Economic Consequences is part of the 2018 Annual Proceedings of The Association for the Study of the Cuban Economy.
J10|The Migration of Fear: An Analysis of Migration Choices of Syrian Refugees|The current literature on forced migration offers only limited knowledge of how each of the different consequences of war, such as damage to property and casualties to family members, and the services provided to the refugees in the host country, affect the difficult choices that refugees subsequently must make as to when and where to migrate once again. This paper contributes to the literature on forced migration by studying the effects of armed violence in the country that has given rise to the largest number of refugees in the world in the last decade, namely Syria, on those various migration-related decisions. The study is based on all three waves (2013, 2014 and 2015) of a survey conducted of Syrian refugees in Turkey, the country with the largest number of Syrian refugees. The study first examines the various impacts of war (property damage, casualties, sleeping disorders) on the refugees by gender, age, education, income and other characteristics. More importantly, it then investigates the consequences of these different impacts of war as well as the duration of the refugee’s stay in Turkey, the quality of services provided to these refugees and the individual characteristics of the refugees on various alternative choices about the timing and destination of future migration by refugees using a logit model. The results show that (1) the longer and greater the level of violence in the country of origin, and the longer the time spent outside of Syria, the lower the likelihood of the choice to return to the country of origin; (2). the longer the time the refugee has spent in Turkey, the higher is the probability of permanent settlement in another European country; and (3) the more and higher quality of services provided to the refugees, the more likely they are to remain in Turkey While females are more likely to want to return to Syria, men and especially those with greater education, higher income and personal networks are more likely to want to relocate somewhere in Europe or elsewhere.
J10|The Impact of New Drug Launch on Life-Years Lost in 2015 from 19 Types of Cancer in 36 Countries|This study employs a two-way fixed effects research design to measure the mortality impact and cost-effectiveness of cancer drugs: It analyzes the correlation across 36 countries between the relative mortality from 19 types of cancer in 2015 and the relative number of drugs previously launched in that country to treat that type of cancer, controlling for relative incidence. The sample size (both in terms of number of observations and population covered) of this study is considerably larger than the sample sizes of previous studies; a new and improved method of analyzing the lag structure of the relationship between drug launches and life-years lost is used; and a larger set of measures of the burden of cancer is analyzed. The number of DALYs and life-years lost are unrelated to drug launches 0–4 years earlier. This is not surprising, since utilization of a drug tends to be quite low during the first few post-launch years. Moreover, there is likely to be a lag of several years between utilization of a drug and its impact on mortality. However, mortality is significantly inversely related to the number of drug launches at least 5 years earlier, especially to drug launches 5–9 years earlier. One additional drug for a cancer site launched during 2006–2010 is estimated to have reduced the number of 2015 DALYs due to cancer at that site by 5.8%;; one additional drug launched during 1982–2005 is estimated to have reduced the number of 2015 DALYs by about 2.6%. Lower quality (or effectiveness) of earlier vintage drugs may account for their smaller estimated effect. We estimate that drugs launched during the entire 1982–2010 period reduced the number of cancer DALYs in 2015 by about 23.0%, and that, in the absence of new drug launches during 1982–2010, there would have been 26.3 million additional DALYs in 2015. Also, the nine countries with the largest number of drug launches during 1982–2010 are estimated to have had 14% fewer cancer DALYs (controlling for incidence) in 2015 than the nine countries with the smallest number of drug launches during 1982–2010. Estimates of the cost per life-year gained in 2015 from drugs launched during 2006–2010 range between $1,635 (life-years gained at all ages) and $2,820 (life-years gained before age 65). These estimates are similar to those obtained in previous country-specific studies of Belgium, Canada, and Mexico, and are well below the estimate obtained in one study of Switzerland. Mortality in 2015 is strongly inversely related to the number of drug launches in 2006–2010. If the relationship between mortality in 2020 and the number of drug launches in 2011–2015 is similar, drug launches 5–9 years earlier will reduce mortality even more (by 9.9%) between 2015 and 2020 than they did (by 8.4%) between 2010 and 2015.
J10|Political viability of intergenerational transfers. An empirical application|Public intergenerational transfers (IGTs) may arise because of the failure of private arrangements to provide optimal economic resources for the young and the old. We examine the political sustainability of the system of public IGTs by asking what the outcome would be if the decision per se to reallocate economic resources between generations was put to the vote. By exploiting the particular nature of National Transfer Accounts data – transfers for pensions and education and total public transfers – and the political economy application proposed by Rangel (2003) we show that most developed countries would vote in favor of a joint public education and pension system. Moreover, our results indicate that a system of total public IGTs to the young and elderly would attract substantial political support and, hence, would be politically viable for most countries in the sample.
J10|The Khoikhoi Population, 1652-1780: A Review of the Evidence and Two New Estimates|Fourie and Green construct estimates of the Khoikhoi population over the 1652-1780 period using benchmarks for the initial and terminal Khoi populations and benchmarks for the punctuated population declines from smallpox epidemics in 1713 and 1755. I review the evidence underlying each of the four population benchmarks and argue for a revised 1780 benchmark. Qualitative evidence also points to a higher rate of population decline between 1652 and 1723 and a smaller rate of decline between 1723 and 1780. Using the Fourie-Green methodology and adopting 3 of their 4 population benchmarks, I develop two revised estimates of the Khoi population to supplement the original Fourie and Green estimates.
J10|Working time regulation, unequal lifetimes and fairness|Abstract We examine the redistributive impact of working time regulations in an economy with unequal lifetimes. We first compare the laissez-faire equilibrium with the ex post egalitarian optimum, where the realized lifetime well-being of the worst off (usually the short-lived) is maximized, and show that, unlike the laissez-faire, this social optimum involves an increasing working time age profile and equalizes the realized lifetime well-being of the short-lived and the long-lived. We then examine whether working time regulations can compensate the short-lived. It is shown that uniform working time regulations cannot improve the situation of the short-lived with respect to the laissez-faire, and can only reduce well-being inequalities at the cost of making the short-lived worse off. However, age-specific regulations involving lower working time for the young and higher working time for the old make the short-lived better off, even though such regulations may not fully eradicate well-being inequalities.
J10|Environmental bottlenecks in children’s genetic potential for adult socio-economic attainments: Evidence from a health shock| This paper explores gene–environment interactions—interactions between family environments and children’s genetic predispositions—in determining educational attainment. The central question is whether poor childhood family environments reduce children’s ability to leverage their genetic gifts to achieve high levels of educational attainment—are there important ‘bottlenecks’ for poor children? The multigenerational information and genetic data contained in the United States’ Health and Retirement Study are used to separate two mechanisms for intergenerational transmission of socio-economic status: genetic endowments and family environments. Using parental in utero exposure to the 1918–19 influenza pandemic as a source of quasi-experimental variation in family environments (that did not affect children’s genetic endowments), I estimate interactions between parental investments and children’s genetic potential. The main finding suggests that girls with high genetic potential whose fathers were exposed to influenza face reduced educational attainments—a gene–environment interaction—but there is no similar effect for boys.
J10|The Life Expectancy of Older Couples and Surviving Spouses|Individual life expectancies are easy to calculate from individual mortality rates and provide useful summary measures for individuals making retirement decisions and for policy makers. For couples, analogous measures are the expected years both spouses will be alive (joint life expectancy) and the expected years the surviving spouse will spend as a widow or widower (survivor life expectancy). Using individual life expectancies to calculate summary measures for couples yields substantially misleading results because the mortality distribution of husbands and wives overlap substantially. To illustrate, consider a wife aged 60 whose husband is 62. In 2010, the wife's life expectancy was 24.5 years and her husband's 20.2 years. The couple's joint life expectancy, however, is only 17.7 years. Although her life expectancy is four years longer than his, if she is widowed (probability: .62), her survivor life expectancy is 12.5 years; if the husband is a widower (probability: .38), his survivor life expectancy is 9.5 years. We calculate trends and patterns in joint and survivor life expectancy in each census year from 1930 to 2010. Using 2010 data, we also investigate differences in joint and survivor life expectancy by race and ethnicity and by education.
J10|The Gender Gap in Citations: Lessons from Demographic Economics Journals|This paper investigates gender differentials in citations of articles published in two journals specialized in Demographic Economics, a field that has traditionally attracted relatively large numbers of women researchers. In contrast to findings based on citations of top economics journals, we find a gender gap in citations favoring women among articles published in the Journal of Population Economics (JPOP) or the Review of Economics of the Household (REHO) between 2003 and 2014 . If the corresponding author is male, having at least one female co-author boosts citations. Across subfields of demographic economics, citations of female authors increase as female representation in the subfield increases. The gender gap in citations favoring women is not found for authors with limited experience past graduate school, which supports an explanation for the gender gap based on authors’ prior experience with economics journals of higher rank.
J10|Peers’ Parents and Educational Attainment|This paper contributes to the discussion on childhood exposure by investigating the extent to which the educational background of peers’ parents is related to a child’s future college attainment. I analyze the friendship networks of a nationally representative sample of high-school students in the US and find that the spillover from peers’ parents of the same gender operates independently of peer effects. The effects are robust to addressing friendship selection. The same gender pattern suggests either the transmission of gender-specific information or the presence of a role model effect. Furthermore, the same gender spillover is significant only for students from lower-educated families. A student whose father is absent or less caring also experiences significant influence from peers’ fathers. The heterogeneity by own family background indicates the influences from parental and non-parental adults are substitutes.
J10|Torn Apart? The Impact of Manufacturing Employment Decline on Black and White Americans|"This paper examines the impact of manufacturing employment decline on the socio-economic outcomes within and between black and white Americans from 1960 to 2010. Exploiting variation across cities and over time, the analysis shows that manufacturing decline negatively impacted blacks (men, women, and children) in terms of their wages, employment, marriage rates, house values, poverty rates, death rates, single parenthood, teen motherhood, child poverty, and child mortality. In addition, the decline in manufacturing increased inequality within the black community in terms of overall wages and the gaps between education groups in wages, employment, and marriage rates. Many of the same patterns are found for whites, but to a lesser degree leading to larger gaps between whites and blacks in wages, marriage patterns, poverty, single-parenthood, and death rates. The results are robust to the inclusion or exclusion of several control variables, and the use of a ""shift-share"" instrument for the local manufacturing employment share. Overall, the decline in manufacturing is reducing socio-economic conditions in general while increasing inequality within and between racial groups which is consistent with a stronger general equilibrium effect of the loss of highly-paid, lower-skilled jobs on the less-educated segments of the population."
J10|Institutions, Attitudes and LGBT: Evidence from the Gold Rush|This paper analyzes the determinants behind the spatial distribution of the LGBT population in the U.S. We relate the size of the present-day LGBT population to the discovery of gold mines during the 19th century gold rushes. Comparing the surroundings of these gold mines to other current and former mining counties, we find that there are currently 10-15% more same-sex couples in counties in which gold discoveries were made during the gold rushes. We also provide empirical evidence that residents of gold rush counties still have more favorable attitudes toward homosexuality nowadays. Our findings are consistent with two mechanisms. First, gold rushes led to a large (temporary) increase in the male-to-female ratio. Second, we show that gold rush counties were less likely to house a notable place of worship at the time of the discovery (and in the following decades) and are currently less religious, suggesting a role of institutions in shaping attitudes and norms.
J10|Entrepreneurship and Job Satisfaction: The Role of Age|This paper investigates the relationship between job satisfaction and age for self-employed persons as compared to paid employees. While, on average, there are higher levels of job satisfaction in self-employment as compared to paid employment, we find that an individual's age is an important moderator in this relationship. Specifically, the probability of the self-employed to experience high levels of job satisfaction is quite similar across all age cohorts, but the job satisfaction of paid employees varies significantly with age. The degree to which self-employed people are more satisfied with their work than paid employees, therefore, is affected by the age of the individuals involved. We find that only those paid employees at the final stage of their working life have the same probability of experiencing a high level of job satisfaction as a self-employed person with comparable individual characteristics.
J10|HRMI Civil and Political Rights Metrics: 2018 Technical Note|This paper details a new methodology developed to measure civil and political rights violations in a pilot sample of 13 diverse countries. In doing so, we discuss the problems present in previous attempts to measure civil and political rights cross-nationally and argue that our approach overcomes many of those problems. Using an expert survey that draws on the knowledge of human rights researchers, advocates, lawyers, journalists, and others responsible for directly monitoring the human rights situation in countries worldwide, we present new measures of the intensity and distribution of respect for seven separate areas of civil and political rights and compare those data with existing work. The results demonstrate that our technique for producing data on civil and political rights produces outcomes with strong face validity vis-à-vis existing measures, while providing more and better information than any previous cross-national data collection effort. We aim to extend this approach to most other countries in the world over the coming years.
J10|Linking Individuals Across Historical Sources: a Fully Automated Approach|Linking individuals across historical datasets relies on information such as name and age that is both non-unique and prone to enumeration and transcription errors. These errors make it impossible to find the correct match with certainty. In the first part of the paper, we suggest a fully automated probabilistic method for linking historical datasets that enables researchers to create samples at the frontier of minimizing type I (false positives) and type II (false negatives) errors. The first step guides researchers in the choice of which variables to use for linking. The second step uses the Expectation-Maximization (EM) algorithm, a standard tool in statistics, to compute the probability that each two records correspond to the same individual. The third step suggests how to use these estimated probabilities to choose which records to use in the analysis. In the second part of the paper, we apply the method to link historical population censuses in the US and Norway, and use these samples to estimate measures of intergenerational occupational mobility. The estimates using our method are remarkably similar to the ones using IPUMS’, which relies on hand linking to create a training sample. We created an R code and a Stata command that implement this method.
J10|Making growth more inclusive in Thailand|The People pillar of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development focuses on quality of life in all its dimensions, and emphasises the international community’s commitment to ensuring all human beings can fulfil their potential in dignity, equality and good health. Thailand’s path from a low-income to an upper-middle-income country over recent decades is widely hailed as a development success story. Poverty has fallen impressively and inequality is on a downwards trend, but more efforts are needed to reduce still widespread informality and persistent, substantial regional inequalities, and to further improve living standards, especially for those who currently work informally. To achieve these objectives, the government needs to: (i) consider tax and regulatory measures to encourage formalisation; (ii) boost the participation rates of informal workers in social protection schemes; (iii) expand adequate social safety nets for poor households and the elderly; (iv) prepare the healthcare system for an ageing and modernising society; and (v) improve the education system, particularly in rural areas. Gaps also remain in ensuring women’s political participation and reducing gender-based violence. This Working Paper relates to the 2018 Initial Assessment report of the Multi-dimensional Country Review of Thailand (http://www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/multi-dimensional-review-thailand.htm)
J10|Institutions, Attitudes and LGBT: Evidence from the Gold Rush|This paper analyzes the determinants behind the spatial distribution of the LGBT population in the U.S. We relate the size of the present-day LGBT population to the discovery of gold mines during the 19th century gold rushes. Comparing the surroundings of these gold mines to other current and former mining counties, we find that there are currently 10-15% more same-sex couples in counties in which gold discoveries were made during the gold rushes. We also provide empirical evidence that residents of gold rush counties still have more favorable attitudes toward homosexuality nowadays. Our findings are consistent with two mechanisms. First, gold rushes led to a large (temporary) increase in the male-to-female ratio. Second, we show that gold rush counties were less likely to house a notable place of worship at the time of the discovery (and in the following decades) and are currently less religious, suggesting a role of institutions in shaping attitudes and norms.
J10|The ageing population phenomenon|Each of us is a member of a population and its factors have an impact on many aspects of life. The knowledge of population data, whether the people living inside the country borders or those living in other countries, but having their permanent residence in Romania, are of particular importance in various aspects. The population size and quality, two dimensions in a complex connection, determine both the intensity of socio-economic processes and the specificity of their performance. Overtime changes in population, such as the number of persons and the structure, define the demographic behaviour of a country, accounting for a major milestone in the political, economic, social and cultural context. Demographic ageing is already a phenomenon in Romania, produced independently, as a result of social and economic conditions which characterise the society we live in a given period of time.
J10|On Intergenerational Immobility : Evidence that Adult Credit Health Reflects the Childhood Environment|Using a novel dataset that links socioeconomic background to future credit, postsecondary education, and federal student loan and grant records, we document that, even though it is not and cannot be used by credit agencies in assigning risk, background is a strong predictor of adult credit health. A relationship remains upon inclusion of achievement, attainment, and debt management metrics. These findings reveal a new dimension along which childhood circumstances persist into adulthood and imply that the many important contexts in which credit scores are relied upon to evaluate individuals (e.g., lending, insurance, employment) may be helping to preserve inherited inequities.
J10|Gender representation in economics across topics and time: evidence from the NBER|We document the representation of female economists on the conference programs at the NBER Summer Institute from 2001 to 2016. Over the 2013-16 period, women made up 20.6 percent of all authors on scheduled papers. However, there was large dispersion across programs, with the share of female authors ranging from 7.3 percent to 47.7 percent. While the average share of women rose slightly—from 18.5 percent in 2001-04—a persistent gap between the finance, macroeconomics, and microeconomics subfields remains, with women representing 14.4 percent of authors in finance, 16.3 percent of authors in macroeconomics, and 25.9 percent of authors in microeconomics. We examine three channels potentially affecting female representation. First, using anonymized data on submissions, we show that the rate of paper acceptance for women is statistically indistinguishable from that of men. Second, we find that the share of female authors is comparable to the share of women among all tenure-track professors, but is 10 percentage points lower than the share of women among assistant professors. Finally, within conference programs, we find that when a woman organizes the program, the share of female authors and discussants is higher.
J10|The Demand for Different Types of Childcare by Working Mothers in Palembang, South Sumatera, Indonesia|"""Objective – This study aims to analyse the factors effecting the different demand on childcare services made by working mothers, focusing on two types of childcare. Methodology/Technique – The analysis method used is a logit regression with a binary dependent variable worth. The respondents are working mothers who with young children, living in Palembang. This research uses primary data to perform the data collection, through the use of questionnaires and interviews. Findings – The results show that the cost of daycare and the hours spent in daycare have an affect on a working mother's choice of the type of daycare used. Novelty – This study represents a different approach from previous studies because: (i) the study examines whether the cost of child care has an effect on a working mothers' choice of the type of daycare and (ii) the study also tests whether the number of hours mothers leave their children in daycare has an effect on their choice of daycare. """
J10|Longevity, age-structure, and optimal schooling|The mechanism stating that longer life implies larger investment in human capital, is premised on the view that individual decision-making governs the relationship between longevity and education. This relationship is revisited here from the perspective of optimal period school life expectancy, obtained from the utility maximization of the whole population characterized by its age structure and its age-specific fertility and mortality. Realistic life tables such as model life tables are mandatory, because the age distribution of mortality matters, notably at infant and juvenile ages. Optimal period school life expectancy varies with life expectancy and fertility. The application to French historical data from 1806 to nowadays shows that the population age structure has indeed modified the relationship between longevity and optimal schooling.
J10|Premature Deaths, Accidental Bequests and Fairness|While little agreement exists regarding the taxation of bequests in general, there is a widely held view that accidental bequests should be subject to a confiscatory tax. We propose to reexamine the optimal taxation of accidental bequests in an economy where individuals care about what they leave to their offspring in case of premature death. We show that, whereas the conventional 100 % tax view holds under the standard utilitarian social welfare criterion, it does not hold under the ex post egalitarian criterion, which assigns a strong weight to the welfare of unlucky short-lived individuals. From an egalitarian perspective, it is optimal not to tax, but to subsidize accidental bequests. We examine the robustness of those results in a dynamic OLG model of wealth accumulation, and show that, whereas the sign of the optimal tax on accidental bequests depends on the form of the joy of giving motive, it remains true that the 100 % tax view does not hold under the ex post egalitarian criterion.
J10|The Geography of Economic Segregation|This study examines the key factors that are associated with the geography of economic segregation across US metros. It connects the sociological literature on the extent and variation of economic segregation to the urban economics literature on the factors associated with urban and regional performance. It advances the hypothesis that economic segregation will be greater in larger, denser, more knowledge-based regions as well as in light of racial factors and income inequality. It utilizes measures of Income, Educational, and Occupational Segregation along with a combined measure of Overall Economic Segregation. Our findings are in line with the hypothesis and indicate that economic segregation is associated with larger, denser, more highly educated metros. Economic segregation is also to a certain extent related with race and ethnicity, commuting style, and income inequality.
J10|The Political Economics of Growth, Labor Control and Coercion: Evidence from a Suffrage Reform|In this paper, we analyze how a suffrage reform in 1862/63 that shifted the de jure distribution of political power from landowners to industrialists affected Sweden’s industrialization and economic and social development from the 1860s to the 1910s. Using a newly constructed, comprehensive historical data set of the universe of approximately 2,400 Swedish local governments, we document that the change in suffrage affected a very large number of development and social outcomes at the local level, such as labor coercion, factor price manipulation in the form of entry barriers including investments in local public goods (i.e., schooling) and transportation (i.e., local railways), the real wage structure, technology adoption in both agriculture and industry, labor productivity in both agriculture and industry, changes in the composition of employment and the structure of production, demographic transition, organized labor, and persistence in dysfunctional local political institutions. Our findings are consistent with the idea that political institutions are a key determinant of long-run development and growth. Specifically, our results suggest that politically powerful landowners can block economic development using labor coercion and factor price manipulation, i.e., using entry barriers and other distortionary policies.
J10|Individual’s Risk Attitudes in sub-Saharan Africa: Determinants and Reliability of Self-reported Risk in Burkina Faso|Risk taking is an important topic in Africa, as access to financial institutions and social security is scarce. Data on risk attitudes in Africa is limited and the available data collected might not be reliable. We investigate the determinants of risk attitudes and the reliability of survey data in a sub-Saharan country, like Burkina Faso. Using a large representative panel survey of 31 677 individuals, we analyze the determinants and the test-retest reliability for different risk attitudes in general, traffic and financial matters. Our results show that determinants such as individual’s sex and age are significantly associated with willingness to take risk. Women have more reliable risk measures compared to men, older individuals have more reliable risk measures than younger individuals and those with high education exhibit a higher reliability in terms of their self-reported risk attitude compared to people with low education. Reliability differs across risk attitudes; risk-taking in traffic has the highest
J10|Gender gaps in the effects of childhood family environment: Do they persist into adulthood?|We examine the differential effects of family disadvantage on the education and adult labor market outcomes of men and women using high-quality administrative data on the entire population of Denmark born between 1966 and 1995. We link parental education and family structure during childhood to male–female and brother–sister differences in adolescent outcomes, educational attainment, and adult earnings and employment. Our results are consistent with U.S. findings that boys benefit more from an advantageous family environment than do girls in terms of grade-school outcomes. Father’s education, which has not been examined in previous studies, is particularly important for sons. However, we find a very different pattern of parental influence on adult outcomes. Gender gaps in educational attainment, employment, and earnings are increasing in maternal education, benefiting daughters. Paternal education decreases the gender gaps in educational attainment (favoring sons) and labor market outcomes (favoring daughters). We conclude that differences in the behavior of school-aged boys and girls may be poor proxies for differences in skills that drive longer-term outcomes.
J10|The Cobb Douglas marriage matching function: Marriage matching with peer and scale effects|This paper proposes an elementary empirical framework to study behavioral marriage matching models, the Cobb Douglas marriage matching function (CD MMF). It accommodates different kinds of relationships, peer and scale effects, changes in population supplies and gains to relationships. The CD MMF encompasses the Choo and Siow (2006a, CS), Dagsvik (2000), Menzel (2015), Chiappori, Salanie and Weiss (1016) MMFs, and CS with peer and scale effects (CSPE). Given population supplies, the CD MMF equilibrium matching always exists and is unique. The CD MMF is estimated on marriage and cohabitation of the white population in US states from 1990 to 2010. Scale effects are present in US marriage markets. CSPE is not rejected by the data. The paper also extends the framework to consider Brock and Durlauf (2001) peer effects specification in marriage matching models.
J10|Family Inequality: Diverging Patterns in Marriage, Cohabitation, and Childbearing|"Popular discussions of changes in American families over the past 60 years have revolved around the ""retreat from marriage."" Concern has focused on increasing levels of nonmarital childbearing, as well as falling marriage rates that stem from both increases in the age at first marriage and greater marital instability. Often lost in these discussions is the fact that the decline of marriage has coincided with a rise in cohabitation. Many ""single"" Americans now live with a domestic partner and a substantial fraction of ""single"" mothers are cohabiting, often with the child's father. The share of women who have ever cohabited has nearly doubled over the past 25 years, and the majority of nonmarital births now occur to cohabiting rather than to unpartnered mothers at all levels of education. The emergence of cohabitation as an alternative to marriage has been a key feature of the post–World War II transformation of the American family. These changes in the patterns and trajectories of family structure have a strong socioeconomic gradient. The important divide is between college graduates and others: individuals who have attended college but do not have a four-year degree have family patterns and trajectories that are very similar to those of high school graduates."
J10|Zika Virus Prevalence, Correlates and Preventive Behaviors: New Evidence from Survey Data|Brazilian health authorities have recommended that pregnant women take meticulous precaution to avoid mosquito bites, and use contraceptive methods to postpone/delay pregnancies. In this article, we present new estimates on the Zika virus prevalence, its correlates and preventive behaviors in the Northeast of Brazil, where the outbreak initiated, using survey data collected between March 30th and June 3rd of 2016. The target population are women aged 15-49 in the capital cities of the nine states of the Northeast region of Brazil. We find that more educated women are less likely to report suffering from Zika (or its symptoms), and more likely to avoid pregnancy in the last 12 months and being informed about the association between Zika and microcephaly. In addition, more educated women are more likely to follow preventive measures against the Zika virus: having used long and light-colored clothes, having used mosquito repellent or insecticides, having used mosquito protective screens or kept windows closed, and having dumped standing water where mosquitoes can breed.
J10|Infant Mortality and the Repeal of Federal Prohibition|Exploiting new data on county-level variation in alcohol prohibition from 1933 to 1939, we investigate whether the repeal of federal prohibition increased infant mortality, both in counties that repealed and in their neighboring counties. Using a binomial fixed-effects model, we find that repeal is associated with a 4.0% increase in infant mortality rates in counties that chose wet status via local option elections or state-wide legislation and with a 4.7% increase in neighboring dry counties, suggesting a role for cross-border policy externalities. Cumulatively, these estimates imply 26,960 infant deaths that could potentially be attributed to the repeal of federal prohibition.
J10|Age of Marriage, Weather Shocks, and the Direction of Marriage Payments|This paper studies how aggregate economic conditions affect marriage markets in developing countries where marriage is regulated by traditional customary norms. We examine how local economic shocks influence the timing of marriage, and particularly child marriage, in Sub-Saharan Africa and in India, where substantial monetary or in-kind transfers occur with marriage: bride price across Sub-Saharan Africa and dowry in India. In a simple equilibrium model of the marriage market in which parents choose when their children marry, income shocks affect the age of marriage because marriage payments are a source of consumption smoothing, particularly for a woman's family. As predicted by our model, we show that droughts, which reduce annual crop yields by 10 to 15%, have opposite effects on the marriage behavior of a sample of 400,000 women in the two regions: in Sub-Saharan Africa, they increase the annual hazard into child marriage by 3%, while in India droughts reduce such a hazard by 4%. Changes in the age of marriage due to droughts are associated with changes in fertility, especially in Sub-Saharan Africa, and with declines in observed marriage payments. Our results indicate that the age of marriage responds to short-term changes in aggregate economic conditions and that traditional norms determine this response. This suggests that, in order to design successful policies to combat child marriage and improve investments in daughters' human capital, it is crucial to understand the economic role of traditional cultural norms.
J10|Do significant labor market events change who does the chores? Paid work, housework, and power in mixed-gender Australian households|Abstract We examine how men and women in mixed-gender unions change the time they allocate to housework in response to labor market promotions and terminations. Operating much like raises, such events have the potential to alter intra-household power dynamics. Using Australian panel data, we estimate couple-specific fixed effects models and find that female promotion has the strongest association with housework time allocation adjustments. These adjustments are in part attributable to concurrent changes in paid work time, but gender power relations also appear to play a role. Further results indicate that households holding more liberal gender role attitudes are more likely to adjust their housework time allocations after female promotion events. Power dynamics cannot, however, explain all the results. Supporting the sociological theory that partners may “do gender,” we find that in households with more traditional gender role attitudes, his housework time falls while hers rises when he is terminated.
J10|The Effects of Lifetime Work Experience on Incidence and Severity of Elderly Poverty in Korea|This study investigates the characteristics that contribute to elderly poverty, mainly focusing on individuals' lifetime work experience. It adopts the heterogeneous relative poverty line which differs by gender, province of residence and over time. It calculates the work experience and obtains demographic variables using the Korean Labor and Income Panel Study's survey data for 2006, 2009, 2012 and 2015. The objective is to estimate poverty amongst elderly and explain its variations in relation to individual characteristics and lifetime work experience. Poverty is measured as the head count, poverty gap and the poverty severity indices. The poverty measures are based on the monetary dimensions of well-being namely income and consumption. The methodology used in this study is the logit model to explain incidence of poverty and the sample selection model to analyze the depth and severity of poverty. The results show evidence of a significant selection bias in all the poverty models based on income, but not on the consumption. In both income and consumption models increase in the total work years lessens the incidence of poverty and a decrease in the gap years downsizes the probability of being poor. High-income occupation and labor market participation greatly decrease the incidence of poverty. Most of the work relevant variables become insignificant in the poverty gap and severity models of consumption while both work years and gap years are significant in the income model. The number of jobs representing turnover rate significantly increases the probability of being impoverished only in the consumption model.
J10|How effective is compulsory schooling as a policy instrument?|Compulsory schooling laws are a common policy tool to achieve greater participation in education, particularly from marginalized groups. Raising the compulsory schooling requirement forces students to remain in school which, on balance, is good for them in terms of labor market outcomes such as earnings. But the usefulness of this approach rests with how the laws affect the distribution of years of schooling, and the wider benefits of the increase in schooling. There is also evidence that such a policy has an intergenerational impact, which can help address persistence in poverty across generations.
J10|Human capital and the quantity–quality trade-off during the demographic transition|Abstract This paper provides an empirical test of the child quantity–quality (QQ) trade-off predicted by unified growth theory. Using individual census returns from the 1911 Irish census, we examine whether children who attended school were from smaller families—as predicted by a standard QQ model. To measure causal effects, we use a selection of models robust to endogeneity concerns which we validate for this application using an Empirical Monte Carlo analysis. Our results show that a child remaining in school between the ages of 14 and 16 caused up to a 27 % reduction in fertility. Our results are robust to alternative estimation techniques with different modeling assumptions, sample selection, and alternative definitions of fertility. These findings highlight the importance of the demographic transition as a mechanism which underpinned the expansion in human capital witnessed in Western economies during the twentieth century.
J10|The Celtic Tiger and home leaving among Irish young adults|Abstract This paper examines the effect of local economic growth on whether young adults move out of the parental home to form new households—an important milestone in the transition to adulthood. I use the placement of foreign direct investment during the Celtic Tiger, the large economic expansion in Ireland during the 1990s, to estimate the impact of local job growth on the likelihood that young adults leave home. This paper contributes to the literature by exploiting an exogenous shock to the local labor market to identify the main effect of employment growth on home leaving behavior. The results show that local economic growth increases the probability that young adults leave home particularly for the well-educated young adults most likely to be employed in the factories that opened during the period.
J10|Inequality in an Equal Society|A society in which everybody is the same at the same stage of the life-cycle will exhibit substantial income and wealth inequality. We use this idea to empirically quantify natural inequality – the share of observed inequality attributable to life-cycle profiles of income and wealth. We document that recent increases in inequality in the United States and other developed countries are both larger than observed rates would suggest, and represent a distinct change from the period 1960-1980. Extrapolating our measures forward suggests that natural inequalities will fluctuate over the next 20 years before settling to a new higher level.
J10|Premature deaths, accidental bequests and fairness|While little agreement exists regarding the taxation of bequests in general, there is a widely held view that accidental bequests should be subject to a confi…scatory tax. We propose to reexamine the optimal taxation of accidental bequests in an economy where individuals care about what they leave to their offspring in case of premature death. We show that, whereas the conventional 100 % tax view holds under the standard utilitarian social welfare criterion, it does not hold under the ex post egalitarian criterion, which assigns a strong weight to the welfare of unlucky short-lived individuals. From an egalitarian perspective, it is optimal not to tax, but to subsidize accidental bequests. We examine the robustness of those results in a dynamic OLG model of wealth accumulation, and show that, whereas the sign of the optimal tax on accidental bequests depends on the form of the joy of giving motive, it remains true that the 100 % tax view does not hold under the ex post egalitarian criterion.
J10|Some notes on population history, the demographic transition and the demographic future of the world|A short summary of human population history, a critical analysis of available empirical evidence and an interpretation of data free of reverence toward the dominant theories bring to the conclusion that up to now the human population has experienced only two demographic regimes. The first was characterized by high rates of mortality and fertility. Its main characteristic was that man did not have the capability to control fertility and intervene on mortality so that periods of high demographic growth were followed by periods of pronounced demographic decline. In spite of this, at the end, the demographic history of men has been a success story. It is then argued that around 1850 an unprecedented demographic revolution was ignited by extraordinary advancements in medicine, chemistry and biology, as well as the development of new laboratory tools and techniques that opened the way to the introduction of powerful vaccines. This allowed defeating the most dangerous infectious diseases and waging a successful war against premature death. The final result was that the economically more advanced countries reached a new demographic regime, the modern regime, characterized by low fertility and low mortality rates. The fundamental characteristic of the modern regime is the capability of men to choose and determine his reproductive behavior and to control more and more the causes of death. According to present empirical evidence, the modern regime is not characterized by a demographic equilibrium, but by vastly spread situations of negative natural growth. Finally the paper argues that, in spite of the fact that deaths take place in the natural and chronological order, the modern regime is not necessarily more efficient than the natural regime. The main reason is that in this new demographic situation economic growth brings to demographic disequilibrium and the different historical moments in which the demographic “transition” has started in different countries is creating the preconditions for migration flows of unprecedented size. A paragraph of the paper is also devoted to a revisit and formalization of Carlo Cipolla hypothesis on energy and demographic growth and to the analysis of its validity both in the past and today.
J10|How the Growing Gap in Life Expectancy May Affect Retirement Benefits and Reforms|Abstract Older Americans have experienced dramatic gains in life expectancy in recent decades, but an emerging literature reveals that these gains are accumulating mostly to those at the top of the income distribution. We explore how growing inequality in life expectancy affects lifetime benefits from Social Security, Medicare and other programmes and how this phenomenon interacts with possible programme reforms. We first project that life expectancy at age 50 for males in the two highest income quintiles will rise by seven to eight years between the 1930 and 1960 birth cohorts, but that the two lowest income quintiles will experience little to no increase over that time period. This divergence in life expectancy will cause the gap between average lifetime programme benefits received by men in the highest and lowest quintiles to widen by US$130,000 (in US$2009) over this period. Finally, we simulate the effect of Social Security reforms such as raising the normal retirement age and changing the benefit formula to see whether they mitigate or enhance the reduced progressivity resulting from the widening gap in life expectancy.
J10|Unwelcome Guests? The Effects of Refugees on the Educational Outcomes of Incumbent Students|The world is experiencing the second largest refugee crisis in a century, and one of the major points of contention involves the possible adverse effects of incoming refugees on host communities. We examine the effects of a large refugee influx into Florida public schools following the Haitian earthquake of 2010 using unique matched birth and schooling records. We find precise zero estimated effects of refugees on the educational outcomes of incumbent students in the year of the earthquake or in the two years that follow, regardless of the socioeconomic status, grade level, ethnicity, or birthplace of incumbent students.
J10|Trust and Trustworthiness in College: An Experimental Analysis|We use experimental data to examine the effect of ethnicity (foreign, indigenous, and mestizo) and gender on trust and trustworthiness in Peru. Comparing to the foreign group, we find that the indigenous group is more trusted (positive discrimination), while the mestizo group is less trustworthy (negative discrimination). Likewise, subjects reciprocate more when a male acts as their counterpart. We further analyze whether cognitive ability, the Big Five Personality Traits, and the social dominance orientation scale (SODS) can predict trust and trustworthiness. We find that the Cognitive Reáection Test score is positively correlated with trust, while the cumulative college GPA is negatively correlated with trustworthiness. We find that neuroticism is correlated with trusting behavior, while the SODS is (negatively) correlated with the trustworthiness ratio.
J10|Heritability of time preference: Evidence from German twin data|Intergenerational correlations of time preference are well documented. However, there is still limited empirical evidence about the role of genetics in this transmission process. In our paper, we use data on roughly 3,000 twins from the German TwinLife project to estimate the heritability of time preference. We rely on an experimentally validated survey measure of temporal discounting, namely, self-assessed patience. The analysis of monozygotic and dizygotic twins enables us to apply standard biometric models. We find that genetic differences explain up to 23 percent of individual variation in patience. Whereas the additive genetic effect and common environmental effects are of minor importance, a major dominant genetic effect is present. These results indicate a notable degree of genetic infuence on economic time preferences.
J10|The Relevance of Age Categories in explaining Internet Banking Adoption Rates and Customers' Attitudes towards the Service|This paper focuses on customersâ€™ attitudes towards internet banking (IB), with particular reference to generational differences vis-Ã -vis such service. These factors are important for banks to project how demand is likely to develop over time. After modelling the IB adoption decision across a sample of countries, we conduct a questionnaire amongst bank customers who include users and non-users of IB and set up focus groups, each comprising participants from a specific age bracket. Whilst generational factors do not emerge as significant in the regression models, the questionnaires and focus groups suggest that generations differ in their attitudes towards IT-delivery systems and choice of preferred delivery channels. In this way banks have to constantly ensure that their online product mix is appropriate to cater for such distinct needs, especially in view of the increasing competition from non-bank entities in areas such as payments services.JEL classification numbers: J10, M15, M31, O33Keywords: Bank Delivery Channels, Generations, Internet Banking, Malta, Retail Banking
J10|Health Inequalities for Immigrants in Canada : Quebec versus the Rest of Canada|Little is known about immigrant health inequalities in Canada by province. To address this knowledge gap, we compare multiple health indicators among immigrants in Quebec, immigrants in the rest of Canada and Canadian-born individuals. The literature emphasizes that it is more difficult for immigrants in Quebec to integrate into the job market compared to immigrants in other Canadian provinces. There is an important link between the labour market situation of immigrants and their mental and physical health. Our results---obtained from data in the Canadian Community Health Survey (CCHS)---show that well-being and health indicators worsen significantly for immigrants in Quebec compared to their counterparts in the rest of Canada and Canadian-born individuals. This is particularly true for mental health and life satisfaction.
J10|Impact of the Syrian refugee influx on Turkish native workers : An ethnic enclave approach|Turkey received about 2.7 million Syrian refugees between 2011 and 2015. This paper examines the causal impact of this influx on the Turkish natives' labor market outcomes using the micro level annual Household Labor Force Surveys. The migration impact is analyzed in two distinct categories considering the motives behind the migration decision. The initial migration to the border regions is defined as the primary migration and a standard difference in differences strategy is employed to estimate the labor market impacts in those regions since the initial flow to the border regions was completely exogenous. The migration from the primary regions towards the inner regions, on the other hand, is subject to endogenous selection. Hence, I defined it as the secondary migration and developed an instrumental variables estimation method to address the selection bias following the Card (2009)'s ethnic enclave approach. I found statistically significant negative employment and wage effects on the low-skilled and less-experienced individuals in the primary migration analysis. The decline in the wages of informal workers is the main contributor of the negative wage effects. Secondary migration has no impact on the employment but there are statistically significant negative wage effects on the low-skilled and less-experienced workers.
J10|An Empirical study of the Role of Demographics in Job Satisfaction of Sunyani Technical University staff|The paper analyses the effects of demographic variables on overall job satisfaction and satisfaction elements for Sunyani Technical University using standard Ordinary Least Square method (OLS). The estimates of the regression analysis indicate that demographic variables have insignificant positive and negative effect on overall job satisfaction. However, the estimates show significant positive and negative effect of demographic variables on some elements of job satisfaction. Managements of academic institutions should take into account the findings of the study to ensure that workers are well satisfied with their job so that productivity will not be affected. Future study should replicate the current study in a comparative study of private and public academic institutions.
J10|Aggregating the Fertility Transition: Intergenerational Dynamics in Quality and Quantity|Fertility change is distinct from other forms of social and economic change because it directly alters the size and composition of the next generation. This paper studies how changes in population composition over the fertility transition feed back into the evolution of average fertility across generations. Theory predicts that changes in the relationship between human capital and fertility first weaken and then strengthen fertility similarities between mothers and daughters, a process that first promotes and then restricts aggregate fertility decline. Consistent with these predictions, microdata from 40 developing countries over the second half of the 20th century show that intergenerational fertility associations strengthen late in the fertility transition, due to the alignment of the education-fertility relationship across generations. As fertility approaches the replacement level, the strengthening of these associations reweights the population to raise aggregate fertility rates, pushing back against aggregate fertility decline.
J10|Heterogeneity in Early Life Investments: A Longitudinal Analysis of Children’s Time Use|Early life investments in children promote skills and capabilities, and subsequently influence a variety of health, social, and economic outcomes in later life. In this paper, we examine heterogeneity in children’s time use using diary data from two waves of a nationally representative longitudinal cohort study. Children from disadvantaged households spend significantly less time reading and engaging in sport than their counterparts, and more time in unstructured activities and using media. Though gaps are relatively small at age 9, they widen considerably over time. At age 13, girls in households with low maternal education spend on average 6 minutes per day reading (95% CI 3-10) and 12 minutes per day in sport (95% CI 8-16), while girls in households with high maternal education spend 14 minutes reading (95% CI 11-17) and 27 minutes in sport (95% CI 23-31). Similar differences were found for boys. Using a decomposition analysis, we find that resources, preferences, initial endowments, and differential costs all play a role in explaining time use concentration across households, indicating that disadvantaged families may be constrained in how they choose their preferred time use options. Given the important role of extra-curricular activities in promoting cognitive and non-cognitive skill development, the systematic differences in time use we document in this paper are likely to contribute to cumulative disadvantage and widening skill gaps over adolescence and into adulthood.
J10|A Review of the Evidence Linking Child Stunting to Economic Outcomes|To understand the full impact of stunting in childhood it is important to consider the long run effects of undernutrition on the outcomes of adults who were affected in early life. Focusing on the costs of stunting provides a means of evaluating the economic case for investing in childhood nutrition. We review the literature on the association between stunting and undernutrition in childhood and economic outcomes in adulthood. At the national level, we also evaluate the evidence linking stunting to economic growth. Throughout, we consider RCTs, quasi-experimental approaches, and observational studies. Long-run evaluations of two randomized nutrition interventions indicate substantial returns to the programs (a 25% and 46% increase in wages for those affected as children). Cost-benefit analyses of nutrition interventions report a median return of 17.9:1 per child. Assessing the wage premium associated with adult height, we find that a 1 centimeter increase in stature is associated with a 4% increase in wages for men and a 6% increase in wages for women in our preferred set of studies which attempt to address unobserved confounding and measurement error. In contrast, the evidence on the association between economic growth on stunting is mixed. Countries with high rates of stunting, such as those in South Asia and sub-Saharan Africa, should scale up policies and programmes aiming to reduce child undernutrition as cost-beneficial investments that expand the economic opportunities of their children, better allowing them and their countries to reach their full potential. However, economic growth as a policy will only be effective at reducing the prevalence of stunting when increases in national income are directed at improving the diets of children, addressing gender inequalities and strengthening the status of women, improving sanitation, and reducing poverty and inequities.
J10|Understanding the association between stunting and child development in low- and middle-income countries: Next steps for research and intervention|Stunting, caused by experiences of chronic nutritional deprivation, affects approximately 25% of children under age five globally (i.e., 156 million children). In this review, evidence of a relationship between stunting and child development in low- and middle-income countries is summarized, and issues for further research are discussed. We focus on studies that measured low height-for-age among children less than 5 years old as the exposure and gross/fine motor skills, psychosocial competencies, cognitive abilities, or schooling and learning milestones as the outcomes. This review highlights three key findings. First, the variability in child development tools and metrics used among studies and the differences in the timing and frequency of the assessments complicate comparisons across study findings. Second, considerable evidence from across many countries supports an association between stunting and poor child development despite methodological differences and heterogeneity in the magnitude of associations. Further, effect sizes differ by developmental domain with greater associations shown for cognitive/schooling outcomes. How stunting influences child development, which domains of child development are more affected, and how the various domains of child development influence one another require further experimental research to test causal pathways. Finally, there is mixed evidence of the additive effect of nutrition + stimulation interventions on child development. However, understanding best methods for improving child developmental outcomes – either through nutrition programs or through integrated nutrition + psychosocial stimulation programs (or nutrition + other program interventions) – is a key area of further inquiry. Given that nearly 40% of children under age five suffer from loss of developmental potential - for which stunting is likely one of the key risk factors - reductions in stunting could have tremendous implications for child development and human capital formation, particularly in low- and middle-income countries.
J10|Family Economics Writ Large|Powerful currents have reshaped the structure of families over the last century. There has been (1) a dramatic drop in fertility and greater parental investment in children; (2) a rise in married female labor-force participation; (3) a significant decline in marriage; (4) a higher degree of positive assortative mating; (5) more children living with a single mother; and (6) shifts in social norms governing premarital sex and married women's roles in the workplace. Macroeconomic models explaining these aggregate trends are surveyed. The relentless flow of technological progress and its role in shaping family life are stressed.
J10|Contribution of increased life expectancy to economic growth: evidence from CEE countries|Population ageing in a backdrop of growing average life expectancy can be seen in many advanced economies, but the rapid pace of these demographic changes in Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) makes it a pressing matter for the region. We investigate these two phenomenon and compare results with prior research to determine their separate and combined effect on output growth in a panel regression model using Eurostat data for the period 1996 to 2013. Our findings point to both life expectancy and population ageing exerting a statistically significant, overlapping effect on real output. The conclusions of our research demonstrate the utility of augmenting macroeconomic models with a demographics-sensitive component.
J10|Migration and Globalization: Challenges and Perspectives|The globalization of modern world stimulated marked increases in the migration to locations both near and far supported by several factors either of economic, social or environmental nature or by political instability and the development of some sophisticated, modern transport systems and networks that facilitated easier, cheaper and quicker movement of individuals than in any other moment in mankindâ€™s history. Thus, the number of international migrants reached 244 million in 2015 on increase by 41% as compared with the year 2000. Characteristic for the migration phenomenon by the end of the 20th century and the beginning of the third millennium is the change in the structure, dimension and typology of migration flows, as the workforce demand regarding the labor force market in the countries of destination is addressed especially to high-skilled immigrants. Even though for most of the times, the volume, diversity, geographic expansion, as well as the general complexity of international migration are considered as on increase as effects of the globalization processes, still this idea remains for its largest part unverified. The paper presents a brief analysis of the main globalization characteristics of globalization and its impact on the volume, structure, and trends of the migration flows.
J10|Migration and (Macro) Economic Risksâ€“Romania s Case|Migration is one of the predominant phenomena in debating core issues of politics, economy and society at the beginning of the 21st century. In order to understand the complexity of this phenomenon, it is necessary to investigate its main determinants that maintained from historical perspective some of the characteristics from the beginning of the 20th century; however, at increased complexity, in the context of constant changes of geopolitical and economic regional configurations. The European enlargement towards the central and eastern part of the continent brought about also changes regarding increased demographic and economic risks in the absence of global migration governance, but also due to the frailty of national institutions in the field of migration and labor market. The paper intends to briefly enumerate main (macro)economic and demographic risks for Romania by underpinning the contribution of institutional factors to improving the management of this phenomenon at national level.
J10|Small and medium cities and development of Mexican rural areas|Like the rest of Latin America, Mexico is a highly-urbanized country. Yet rural populations, geographies and economic activities continue to play a significant role in national development, while there are persistent and large rural-urban inequalities in well-being and opportunities. Promoting rural-urban linkages has been proposed as a strategy to reduce spatial inequalities, but there is much academic and policy debate about whether urban development has positive (spread) or negative (backwash) effects on rural development. This could translate into synergistic or predatory urban-rural linkages. This study examines how proximity to cities, and population and per capita income in cities, affect population growth and welfare in rural places in Mexico. Using data for 2000 and 2010, our findings include: (a) 75% of rural people live within 90 min of an urban area, and 60% within 60 min; (b) proximity to a city increases rural population growth and welfare; (c) adverse (backwash) effects on rural areas due to increases in urban per capita income are very small and of no economic significance; (d) cities with populations in the 350,000–500,000 range appear to have more positive effects on rural areas than smaller or larger cities; (e) rural localities interact with multiple urban places simultaneously.
J10|Assessing the evidence on neighborhood effects from Moving to Opportunity|Abstract The Moving to Opportunity (MTO) experiment randomly assigned housing vouchers that could be used in low-poverty neighborhoods. Consistent with the literature, I find that receiving an MTO voucher had no effect on outcomes like earnings, employment, and test scores. However, after studying the assumptions identifying neighborhood effects with MTO data, this paper reaches a very different interpretation of these results than found in the literature. I first specify a model in which the absence of effects from the MTO program implies an absence of neighborhood effects. I present theory and evidence against two key assumptions of this model: that poverty is the only determinant of neighborhood quality and that outcomes only change across one threshold of neighborhood quality. I then show that in a more realistic model of neighborhood effects that relaxes these assumptions, the absence of effects from the MTO program is perfectly compatible with the presence of neighborhood effects. This analysis illustrates why the implicit identification strategies used in the literature on MTO can be misleading.
J10|Heterogeneity in Early Life Investments: A Longitudinal Analysis of Children's Time Use|Early life investments in children promote skills and capabilities, and subsequently influence a variety of health, social, and economic outcomes in later life. In this paper, we examine heterogeneity in children's time use using diary data from two waves of a nationally representative longitudinal cohort study. Children from disadvantaged households spend significantly less time reading and engaging in sport than their counterparts, and more time in unstructured activities and using media. Though gaps are relatively small at age 9, they widen considerably over time. At age 13, girls in households with low maternal education spend on average 6 minutes per day reading (95% CI 3-10), and 12 minutes per day in sport (95% CI 8-16), while girls in households with high maternal education spend 14 minutes reading (95% CI 11-17) and 27 minutes in sport (95% CI 27-31). Similar differences were found for boys. Using a decomposition analysis, we find that resources, preferences, initial endowments, and differential costs all play a role in explaining time use concentration across households, indicating that disadvantaged families may be constrained in how they choose their preferred time use options. Given the important role of extra-curricular activities in promoting cognitive and non-cognitive skill development, the systematic differences in time use we document in this paper are likely to contribute to cumulative disadvantage and widening skill gaps over adolescence and into adulthood.
J10|Brendan M. Walsh (1940-2016): The Economist at Work|Physically as well as intellectually, Brendan Walsh (BMW) bestrode the narrow world of Irish economics like a colossus for decades. In part this reflected his calm debating style, and his common-sense ability to synthesise a vast range of knowledge of the Irish economy. But it also reflected the fact that he published consistently and voluminously throughout his career.
J10|So dissatisfied to leave? The role of perceptions, expectations and beliefs on youths' intention to migrate|This study analyzes the extent to which Uruguayan youths' economic dissatisfaction drives intention to migrate by exploring those factors that can affect people's economic satisfaction. Causality is explored using instrumental variable analysis and conditional mixed process estimations. The findings of this study point to a causal negative relationship from economic satisfaction to youths' desires to migrate. Also, results highlight the importance of subjective and objective income, individuals' perceptions of the opportunities available in the country regarding social mobility, job access, housing, and adequate income, in shaping youths' reported economic satisfaction and therefore their desire to migrate.
J10|Agriculture to Industry: the End of Intergenerational Coresidence|We show that the structural change of the economy from agriculture to industry was a major determinant of the observed shift in intergenerational coresidence. We build a one-good, two-sector overlapping generation model of the structural change out of agriculture, in which the coresidence choice is endogenous. We calibrate the model on U.S. data and simulate it. The model can match the decline in U.S. intergenerational coresidence both qualitatively and quantitatively. (Copyright: Elsevier)
J10|Who is this, who enters there? - Migration in Italy and its effect on fiscal sustainability and pensions|Our paper estimates the impact of immigration on the sustainability of the Italian public finances using the methodology of Generational Accounting. We take into account socio-economic differences between the main migrants’ communities resident in Italy and we present three possible scenarios to reflect the potential economic degree of integration of foreigners in the Italian territory. Moreover, for each scenario we propose several options for migrants concerning both the length of permanence in Italy and the possible collection of retirement benefits. Our results show that the burden of current fiscal policy reduces as integration of the foreign-born increases. If migrants’ children are economically perfectly integrated, the fiscal gap is reduced from 71.9 to -15.3 percent of GDP.
J10|Knowing Me, Knowing You? Similarity to the CEO and Fund Managers’ Investment Decisions|We study whether investors' demographic similarity to CEOs affects their investment decisions. Mutual fund managers are found to overweight firms led by CEOs who resemble them in terms of age, ethnicity and gender. This finding is robust to excluding educational and local ties and is supported by variation in similarity caused by CEO departures. Investing in firms run by similar CEOs, on average, is associated with superior performance and is more pronounced when uncertainty is higher. Results suggest that demographic similarity to CEOs facilitates informed trading. They further suggest that CEOs matter to investors.
J10|A note on automation, stagnation, and the implications of a robot tax|We analyze the long-run growth effects of automation in the canonical overlapping generations framework. While automation implies constant returns to capital within this model class (even in the absence of technological progress), we show that it does not have the potential to lead to positive long-growth. The reason is that automation suppresses wages, which are the only source of investment because of the demographic structure of the overlapping generations model. This result stands in sharp contrast to the effects of automation in the representative agent setting, where positive long-run growth is feasible because agents can invest out of their wage income and out of their asset income. We also analyze the effects of a robot tax that has featured prominently in the policy debate on automation and show that it could raise the capital stock and per capita output at the steady state. However, the robot tax cannot induce a takeoff toward positive long-run growth.
J10|The World’s Oldest Profession? Employment-Age Profiles from the Transactional Sex Market|Standard labor market models predict that the likelihood of employment increases, hours worked increase, and individuals transition from less-skilled and temporary jobs to more skilled and more stable employment as they age. I examine the association between age and transactional sex work using national household surveys from Zambia, one of the few settings with general population surveys asking women about transactional sex and a relatively high documented prevalence of employment in transactional sex. My results indicate that the likelihood of employment in transactional sex sharply falls with age. Increased employment opportunities outside of transactional sex do not appear to explain the transactional sex employment-age profile and marital status appears to explain only a portion of it. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that clients prefer younger females and suggest that interventions designed to reduce client demand younger females may be particularly effective at reducing transactional sex.
J10|Children's health, human capital accumulation, and R&D-based economic growth|We analyze the effects of children's health on human capital accumulation and on long-run economic growth. For this purpose we design an R&D-based growth model in which the stock of human capital of the next generation is determined by parental education and health investments. We show that i) there is a complementarity between education and health: if parents want to have better educated children, they also raise health investments and vice versa; ii) parental health investments exert an unambiguously positive effect on long-run economic growth, iii) faster population growth reduces long-run economic growth. These results are consistent with the empirical evidence for modern economies in the twentieth century.
J10|On the possibility of automation-induced stagnation|We analyze the long-run growth effects of automation in the standard overlap- ping generations framework. We show that, in contrast to other neoclassical models of capital accumulation, automation does not promote growth but induces economic stagnation. The reason is that automation suppresses wages, which are the only source of investment in the overlapping generations framework.
J10|Less is More? The child quantity-quality trade-off in early 20th century England and Wales|Whilst the child quantity-quality (QQ) model is theoretically well-established, the empirical literature offers only partial support. Motivated by the limited causal empirical evidence in both historic and contemporary societies, this study examines the relationship connecting fertility and child quality for individual families in England and Wales at the start of the 20th century. Using data from the 1911 census returns, I estimate whether reductions in family size reduce the probability of leaving school. To account for the endogenous nature of fertility decisions, I use the sex composition of the first two births in families with at least two children as an instrumental variable (IV) for family size. Overall, I find evidence in support of a child QQ effect, as children in the 13-15 age cohort born into smaller families were more likely remain in school. Whilst the IV results are very similar to the non-IV ones, one drawback is that the IV estimates are quite imprecise.
J10|Redistributive effects of the US pension system among individuals with different life expectancy|We investigate the differential impact that pension systems have on the labor supply and the accumulation of physical and human capital for individuals that differ by their learning ability and levels of life expectancy. Using a general equilibrium model populated by overlapping generations, in which all population groups interact through the pension system, the labor market, and the capital market, we show that the increasing gap in life expectancy by socioeconomic status makes the US pension system progressively more regressive and explains the increasing per capita income gap across ability groups.
J10|The Different Sides Of Objective And Subjective Well-Being: Implications On The Changes At Institutional Level|The scenery of social movement in Romania, started at the beginning of this year following the Emergency Ordinance issued by the Romanian Government, which provided, among others, collective pardons and amendments of the Penal Code, was largely described by the media in two key points: On one hand, a political one, which placed under discussion the alleged manipulation of the parties in opposition, parties which accumulated frustrations related to the weak results obtained at the last parliamentary elections; the rejuvenation of the anti-PSD sentiment; the attempt to break the main party in the Government; blocking the economic investment program of the government installed after the elections; the reconstruction of the popularity of Romanian President Klaus Iohannis, which declared himself against the Government program, but also against the main political party in Government, etc. On the other hand, one in which the moral component was in the focus of the public debate, by underlying several messages with ethical roots; the diversification of the forms of masked corruption; “unfair behavior in the public space”1 of the government party; the fear that the history is reversible; the fact that the attempt of the Government to implement a law in the area of corruption had hidden and well-calculated objectives. At the intersection between the two explanatory frontiers, once with the disarming of the conflict, it remained a media construction unidentified scientifically: the image of the two countries of Romania which are irreconcilable (the poor Romania versus the rich Romania), willing in the future to confront argumentatively their own decisional alternatives as regards their own social path. Complementary to the two approaches, the article seeks to introduce in the explanatory equation a new variable, almost absent in the series of the debates in the Romanian press: social pressure to change the institutional behavior in Romania. Has the Romanian society changed in the last 27 years in a way that we can feel a pressure towards changing the formal institutions, as a first step of changing the political practices? What has changed and how can we explain this pressure towards change? Do we have data that support this hypothesis? We know from Robert Putnam that the “performance of an institution depends on its social, economic and cultural background.” How does this background in Romania looks like at the beginning of 2017? How do the Romanians perceive the quality of their own lives at present?
J10|Heritability of time preference: Evidence from German twin data|Intergenerational correlations of time preference are well documented. However, there is still limited empirical evidence about the role of genetics in this transmission process. In our paper, we use data on roughly 3,000 twins from the German TwinLife project to estimate the heritability of time preference. We rely on an experimentally validated survey measure of temporal discounting, namely, self-assessed patience. The analysis of monozygotic and dizygotic twins enables us to apply standard biometric models. We find that genetic differences explain up to 23 percent of individual variation in patience. Whereas the additive genetic effect and common environmental effects are of minor importance, a major dominant genetic effect is present. These results indicate a notable degree of genetic influence on economic time preferences.
J10|La mortalidad de la Guerra de los Mil Días, 1899-1902|La Guerra de los Mil Días fue la más letal y costosa guerra civil de Colombia. Hay cierto consenso sobre las consecuencias materiales, pero menos atención ha recibido la pérdida de vidas humanas. Aunque muchos historiadores repiten la cifra de 100.000 víctimas, no está respaldada por un análisis formal. Dado que la población apenas superaba los 4 millones, es una cantidad elevada que amerita una revisión cuidadosa. Utilizando los censos colombianos y los registros del Human Mortality Database, este documento estima el patrón de edad de la mortalidad y evalúa el aumento que estaría relacionado con la guerra. Observando la experiencia de otros países, los modelos ayudan a estimar un valor máximo posible de pérdidas humanas. Si la mortalidad colombiana hubiera aumentado tanto como en Francia durante la Primera Guerra Mundial, el número de víctimas no superaría los 100.000. En un caso mucho menos extremo, si hubiera aumentado tanto como en Inglaterra y Gales durante la Primera Guerra Mundial, el número de muertos sería de 38.724. ******ABSTRACT: The War of the Thousand Days was the most deadly and costly civil war in Colombian history. There is some consensus about the material consequences, but less attention has been paid to human losses. Although the figure of 100,000 casualties is repeated, no support has been provided by formal analysis. Since the population barely exceeded 4 million, it is a high figure deserving a careful reexamination. Using Colombian censuses and the Human Mortality Database, this paper estimates the age-pattern of mortality and assesses the increase that would be related to war. Observing the experience of other countries, models help to estimate maximum possible human losses. If the Colombian mortality had increased as much as in France during World War I, the number of casualties would not exceed the 100,000. In a far less extreme case, if the it had increased as much as in England and Wales during WWI, the death toll would be as high as 38,724.
J10|Demographic Policies against Aging in OECD countries (in Korean)|In most advanced economies, population aging has been happening due to low fertility and long life expectancy, which has increased the burden of supporting the elderly and lowered the share of working-age population. Many countries have embarked on demographic policies against a decrease in potential growth due to low fertility and fast aging, an increase in cost of social security, and inter-generational conflicts between the young and the old. This paper researches on various policies by OECD countries focusing on work-family balance, pension reform, employment policies, and immigration policies; we also provide some lessons for Korea by comparing its demographic policies with other OECD countries. Demographic policies against aging have succeeded only when they are combined in an effective manner with work-family balance, pension reform, employment policies, and immigration policies. Especially, it is necessary to lower the wage differential between genders and to change the sociocultural understanding of childbirth and childbearing. As for pension reform, it is recommended to adjust the qualifying age of the national pension and to cooperate with private pension providers in order to enhance the sustainability of the pension system. At the same time, the system should be able to help the elderly secure income after retirement to prevent elderly poverty; to this end, the blind spot of the pension system needs to be resolved, such as low income earners and temporary workers. With respect to employment policies, it is necessary to adopt a division of labor between the elderly and the youth, along with age specific policies. More specifically, employment services tailored for the elderly may support job searching and help them to continue previous careers; in the youth front, active labor market policies will increase youth employment, such as combining education with job training. Finally, it is about time to decide on Korea's position on immigration policies--in terms of both employment policies and demographic policies with more inclusive stance for foreign workers.
J10|Impact of population aging on the housing market (in Korean)|Population aging due to low fertility and prolonged life expectancy is expected to bring a large structural change in the housing market in the mid to long-term in terms of i) occupation type and residential areas, ii) housing type and iii) purpose of possession, and others. In particular, the rate of population aging in Korea is faster than that in other major countries, and it is highly likely that the effects of populations aging on the housing market will appear to be compressive as baby boomers become 65 or above after 2020. First of all, in the case of housing occupation type and residential area, it is necessary for some elderly households to preserve their income by disposing houses under insufficient provision of future living expenses. This phenomenon is expected to slow down the growth of housing demand, on top of young households decreasing demand for housing and shrinking residential areas. In addition, as the number of elderly household with 1~2 people increases and the need for liquidation of housing assets after retirement grows, demand for small- to mid-sized houses and apartments is likely to increase. Meanwhile, It is highly likely that the leasing market will continue to change due to an increase in incentives to pursue stable cash flows through monthly rental for multi-house owners and young households' steady demand for leases. In order to prevent structural changes in house market, due to population aging, from causing supply-demand imbalance of the housing market, it is necessary to stabilize the supply and demand of mid- and long-term housing. At the same time, supplying customized housing for the aged, expanding public rental housing for people with housing disadvantages such as young, low income, and impoverished elderly and promoting inventory management measures such as utilization of vacant houses should be implemented. Especially, if the housing disposal of baby boomers is concentrated in the short term, it can act as a pressure to lower house price. To this end, measures should be taken to mitigate the pressure on the sale of housing for the elderly, such as the activation of housing pensions and the support for retirement home lease conversion.
J10|Growth and Welfare under Endogenous Lifetime|We develop a perpetual youth model to investigate how longevity affects economic growth and welfare. Life expectancy is determined by individuals’ investments in healthcare. We find that improvements in the healthcare technology always increase the steady state growth rate. Although the effect is small, even for large increases in longevity, welfare gains may be substantial depending on the type of the technological improvement. We identify two externalities associated with healthcare investments and provide a condition when healthcare expenditures are inefficiently low in the market equilibrium. Finally, we discuss our results with respect to alternative spillover specifications in the production sector.
J10|Malaria Risk and Civil Violence|Using high-resolution data from Africa over the period 1998-2012, this paper investigates the hypothesis that a higher exposure to malaria increases the incidence of civil violence. The econometric identification exploits exogenous monthly within-grid-cell variation in weather conditions that are particularly suitable for malaria transmission and compares the effect across cells with different latent malaria exposure, which affects the resistance and immunity of the population. By conditioning on cell-year and month fixed effects, the empirical specification accounts for most complementary determinants of violence that have been identified in the existing literature. The results document a robust effect of the occurrence of suitable conditions for malaria on civil violence. The effect is shown to be highest in areas with low levels of immunity and to affect unorganized violence in terms of riots and protests and confrontations between militias and civilians, instead of geo-strategic violence. The effect spikes during short harvesting periods of staple crops that are particularly important for the subsistence of the population. The paper ends with an exploration of the role of anti-malarial policies.
J10|Migration, Congestion and Growth|This article analyzes the effect of migration from a less advanced economy to a more advanced economy on economic growth. The analysis is performed in a two-country growth model with endogenous fertility, in which congestion diseconomies are incorporated. The model shows that out-migration increases fertility and reduces human capital in the source economy. At the same time, in-migration reduces fertility and can increase or decrease the average level of human capital in the host economy. I show how migration affects the inter-temporal evolution of human capital in the world economy. I also demonstrate that a tax imposed on immigrants in the host economy can increase human capital accumulation in the receiving and sending economies and the world as a whole.
J10|The Macroeconomic Effects of Longevity Risk Under Private and Public Insurance and Asymmetric Information|Abstract We study the impact of a fully-funded social security system in an economy with heterogeneous consumers. The unobservability of individual health conditions leads to adverse selection in the private annuity market. Introducing social security—which is immune to adverse selection—affects capital accumulation and individual welfare depending on its size and on the pension benefit rule that is adopted. If this rule incorporates some implicit or explicit redistribution from healthy to unhealthy individuals then the latter types are better off as a result of the pension system. In the absence of redistribution the public pension system makes everybody worse off in the long run. Though attractive to distant generations, privatization of social security is not generally Pareto improving to all generations.
J10|The Modigliani Puzzle Revisited: A Note|We estimate the relationship between investment and unemployment in order to explore whether the medium-term relationship emphasized by Franco Modigliani survived the recent Great Recession. Our results indicate that the relationship held up, both employment and investment fell although the estimated coefficient of investment is slightly smaller when the period 2000-2015 is added to the 1960-2000 period.
J10|La mortalidad de la Guerra de los Mil Días, 1899-1902|La Guerra de los Mil Días fue la más letal y costosa guerra civil de Colombia. Hay cierto consenso sobre las consecuencias materiales, pero menos atención ha recibido la pérdida de vidas humanas. Aunque muchos historiadores repiten la cifra de 100.000 víctimas, no está respaldada por un análisis formal. Dado que la población apenas superaba los 4 millones, es una cantidad elevada que amerita una revisión cuidadosa. Utilizando los censos colombianos y los registros del Human Mortality Database, este documento estima el patrón de edad de la mortalidad y evalúa el aumento que estaría relacionado con la guerra. Observando la experiencia de otros países, los modelos ayudan a estimar un valor máximo posible de pérdidas humanas. Si la mortalidad colombiana hubiera aumentado tanto como en Francia durante la Primera Guerra Mundial, el número de víctimas no superaría los 100.000. En un caso mucho menos extremo, si hubiera aumentado tanto como en Inglaterra y Gales durante la Primera Guerra Mundial, el número de muertos sería de 38.724. ******ABSTRACT: The War of the Thousand Days was the most deadly and costly civil war in Colombian history. There is some consensus about the material consequences, but less attention has been paid to human losses. Although the figure of 100,000 casualties is repeated, no support has been provided by formal analysis. Since the population barely exceeded 4 million, it is a high figure deserving a careful reexamination. Using Colombian censuses and the Human Mortality Database, this paper estimates the age-pattern of mortality and assesses the increase that would be related to war. Observing the experience of other countries, models help to estimate maximum possible human losses. If the Colombian mortality had increased as much as in France during World War I, the number of casualties would not exceed the 100,000. In a far less extreme case, if the it had increased as much as in England and Wales during WWI, the death toll would be as high as 38,724.
J10|Aging, The Great Moderation, And Business-Cycle Volatility In A Life-Cycle Model|According to empirical studies, the life cycle of labor supply volatility exhibits a U-shaped pattern. This may lead to the conclusion that demographic change induces a drop in output volatility. We present an overlapping generations model that replicates the empirically observed pattern and study the impact of demographic transition on output volatility. We find that the change in age-composition itself has only a marginal influence on output volatility as the mitigating effect of lower labor supply volatility is compensated by higher labor supply. Instead, the driving force behind the Great Moderation in our model is the downward shift of the age-specific labor supply volatility curve.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J10|Teaching Piketty To Undergraduates|The primary ideas in Piketty’s Capital should be incorporated into the economics curriculum. Unfortunately, its theoretical foundation—the Solow Model—when conventionally taught with a Solow diagram or analytical solution, is beyond the reach of the typical undergraduate. The model, however, can be effectively presented via simulation, with steady-state and comparative statics properties directly observed. A single, standalone, macro-enhanced Excel workbook, Capital.xlsm, is all that is needed to teach the main ideas in Piketty’s Capital. Download it here www.depauw.edu/learn/econexcel or from this direct link: www.depauw.edu/learn/econexcel/Capital.xlsm
J10|Prisons, recidivism and the age–crime profile|This paper provides a descriptive analysis of the economic and non-economic channels that led to a U-shaped trend in the average age of male convicts in 19th century London using detailed data from the Old Bailey central criminal court. In addition to discussing industrialization and changing attitudes towards juveniles as potential mechanisms underlying the initial decrease and subsequent increase in criminal age, we put forth a new explanation of the latter. Did the abolition of capital punishment and penal transportation, which led to the rise of the modern day prison system and the emergence of recidivism, lead to a mechanical increase in the average age of criminals?
J10|The effects of bank and nonbank provider locations on household use of financial transaction services|We examine the influence that geographic proximity to bank branches and nonbank financial providers has on use of financial transaction services among U.S. households. We specify a bivariate probit model of bank account ownership and nonbank transaction product use to reflect the joint nature of these choices, and estimate the model on a large, nationally representative dataset. Our results indicate that households with reasonable geographic access to bank branches are more likely to have a bank account and less likely to use nonbank transaction products. The influence of bank and nonbank provider locations is fairly modest overall, although effects are bigger for households that are more likely to be on the margin of bank account ownership. Even among such households, however, the effects of bank and nonbank provider locations on financial transaction services use are not as large as those associated with key household-level attributes, such as income, education, or race.
J10|D - Demografía|Resumen de los cambios demográficos en Bolivia, 1990 - 2014
J10|Supply and Demand for Discrimination: Strategic Revelation of Own Characteristics in a Trust Game|In strategic settings a player may be able to influence the behavior of an opponent by revealing information about their own characteristics. They may for example aim to exploit stereotypes held by others. We provide an experimental test of this. A substantial fraction of players in a trust game exhibit a positive willingness to pay to reveal a photograph of themselves to their randomly-assigned partner. This suggests that they perceive that they can use their own characteristics to influence the behavior of others. The demand for such self-revelation depends negatively on price.
J10|Mortality Inequality: The Good News from a County-Level Approach|In this essay, we ask whether the distributions of life expectancy and mortality have become generally more unequal, as many seem to believe, and we report some good news. Focusing on groups of counties ranked by their poverty rates, we show that gains in life expectancy at birth have actually been relatively equally distributed between rich and poor areas. Analysts who have concluded that inequality in life expectancy is increasing have generally focused on life expectancy at age 40 to 50. This observation suggests that it is important to examine trends in mortality for younger and older ages separately. Turning to an analysis of age-specific mortality rates, we show that among adults age 50 and over, mortality has declined more quickly in richer areas than in poorer ones, resulting in increased inequality in mortality. This finding is consistent with previous research on the subject. However, among children, mortality has been falling more quickly in poorer areas with the result that inequality in mortality has fallen substantially over time. We also show that there have been stunning declines in mortality rates for African Americans between 1990 and 2010, especially for black men. Finally we offer some hypotheses about causes for the results we see, including a discussion of differential smoking patterns by age and socioeconomic status.
J10|A Study of Outpatient Utilization Between Widowers and Widows among the Elderly in Taiwan|Both the numbers of aging and of widowed peers are gradually increasing in Taiwan. In this context, the aim of this paper is to compare outpatient services utilization from the perspective of predisposing, enabling and need characteristics between elderly widowers and widows. Subject data were obtained from the National Health Interview Survey of Taiwan in 2009. Among these data, 998 widowed persons aged 65 years old and over were analyzed. A Chi-square test and four different logistic regression models were used to investigate the influence of predisposing, enabling and need characteristics on outpatient utilization among elderly widowed persons. The empirical findings indicated that, for the predisposing characteristics, age showed significantly different outpatient utilization for widows. Nevertheless, there was a significant education gradient in outpatient utilization for elderly widowers. Next, for the enabling characteristics, economic status and national health insurance revealed significant effects on outpatient utilization for widows but not for widowers. In addition, for need characteristics, hypertension and kidney diseases played significant predictive factors related to outpatient utilization both for widows and widowers. However, other chronic diseases revealed significant differences on outpatient utilization only for widows. Finally, empirical results further indicated that widows were more likely to use outpatient services than widowers in later life. Therefore, study findings identified that predisposing, enabling and need characteristics were strongly correlated with the utilization of outpatient services for elderly widowers and widows. Administrators and managers could add the consideration of these three import characteristics into planning for the utilization of outpatient services, designing related policies, and allocation and use of health-care resources.
J10|Series largas de algunos agregados demograficos regionales, 1950-2015|En el presente trabajo se recopilan, extienden o construyen series regionales y nacionales de movimientos naturales de poblacion, poblacion de derecho, saldos migratorios netos y estructura por edades de la poblacion para el periodo 1950-2015.
J10|Aspectos socieconómicos de la mortalidad en el Pacifico colombiano|Este trabajo examina la importancia de factores no económicos en el descenso histórico de la mortalidad y la transición epidemiológica, como lecciones que podrían aplicarse en las regiones menos desarrolladas de Colombia. Se usaron métodos demográficos para evaluar la carga de mortalidad. La evidencia sugiere que la mortalidad por causas externas reduce la esperanza de vida en el Pacífico. Las implicaciones económicas también fueron examinadas. Pese a las diferencias regionales en la disposición a pagar para eliminar los homicidios, otras causas muestran patrones similares. En efecto, suponiendo niveles de riqueza iguales, el riesgo de mortalidad por causas como la enfermedad cerebrovascular y enfermedad isquémica del corazón tendrían valores económicos similares en la región del Pacífico o en Bogotá. Puesto que realmente existen diferencias regionales en los ingresos, el mensaje en materia de salud pública es tomar acciones por igual en todas las regiones, sin tener en cuenta diferencias en el ingreso.
J10|The Impact Of Inflation On Property Crime|" type=""main"" xml:id=""coep12156-abs-0001""> Using U.S. data from 1950 to 2010, we analyze to what extent inflation raises the incidence of property crime. To match our theoretical predictions, we consider different types of property crime (larceny, burglary, motor vehicle theft, and robbery) and broad and narrow definitions of inflation separately. We control for the state of the business cycle and demographic changes over time explicitly. Unobserved or difficult-to-measure determinants of property crime are captured through a stochastic-trend specification within a state-space framework. We find a robust statistical link between inflation and each of the four property crime rates. Our findings are robust to alternative definitions of inflation and the inclusion or exclusion of different control variables. In terms of policy, our findings suggest that monetary policy that creates inflation has costly spillover effects. (JEL J10, J11)"
J10|The Cohort Size-Wage Relationship in Europe|The demographic and education composition of European countries is changing: the population share of young individuals is declining while that of the highly educated is rising. This study estimates the impact of cohort size on wages using data on several European countries to cast light on the economic consequences of these changes in the profile of the labour force. Theory predicts that within each educational class, similarly aged individuals compete for jobs but are only imperfectly substitutable with workers of different ages. Consequently, an increase in the population share of a specific age-education group is expected to have a depressing effect on the real wage rate of that group. To test this prediction empirically, this paper uses the 2010 release of the longitudinal EU-SILC which is a comprehensive data set covering individual and household-level microdata for a period of 4 years and 24 European countries. This paper differs from the preceding literature by analysing the effect of cohort size on individual wages rather than on the average wage of a specific age-education group which allows controlling for potentially confounding effects at the individual level. The effect of cohort size on male wages is identified through instrumental variables (IV) estimation that uses the birth rate at an individual's year of birth as an instrument for the potentially endogenous cohort size variable. In contrast to other identification strategies, this instrument is able to account for endogeneity caused by individual self-selection into specific educational groups as well as into specific geographical areas. The results support the hypothesis that cohort size has a negative effect on male wages, particularly for the highly educated. However, these negative cohort size effects are not persistent.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J10|Do Regional Differentials in Economic Freedom Yield Regional Unemployment Rate Differentials in the U.S.? A Brief Exploratory Note Adopting Panel Data Analysis|This study empirically investigates the hypothesis that the higher the degree of economic freedom in a state, the lower the unemployment rate in that state, other thing held the same. This hypothesis is based on the principle that greater economic freedom leads to greater real economic growth, which in turn reduces the unemployment rate. The framework studied consists of a panel dataset for the 50 U.S. states representing the period 2000 to 2012, a period which includes the Great Recession, as well as years prior to and following the Great Recession. The model estimated in this study includes for each state, in addition to a measure/index of overall economic freedom, control variables for the percentage of the population that is black, the percentage of the population that is Hispanic/Latin, the female labor force participation rate, and the percent of the population (age 25 and older) with at least a high school diploma. A number of state fixed-effects and dynamic panel data estimations are provided, all of which yield the finding that the greater the level of overall economic freedom, the lower the unemployment rate.
J10|Family Instability and Locus of Control in Adolescence|Investigating the impact of family instability is important as more and more children experience different family changes in many industrialized countries. In this paper we examine the dynamics of family structure, looking at the potential effect of yearly maternal partnership transitions on adolescents’ locus of control. We aim at combining research on family instability with research on non-cognitive skill formation. We use rich and nationwide German data to identify the relationship between family instability and adolescent locus of control. Combining entropy balancing with a novel econometric method to assess potential bias from omitted variables, we find that experiencing maternal partnership transitions is negatively associated with adolescents’ belief in self-determination and that internal locus of control is reduced by about a fifth of a standard deviation among those affected, even after conditioning on a large number of covariates. This is particularly true if the transitions take place during “middle childhood.”
J10|Family Instability and Locus of Control in Adolescence|Investigating the impact of family instability is important as more and more children experience different family changes in many industrialized countries. In this paper we examine the dynamics of family structure, looking at the potential effect of yearly maternal partnership transitions on adolescents’ locus of control. We aim at combining research on family instability with research on non-cognitive skill formation. We use rich and nationwide German data to identify the relationship between family instability and adolescent locus of control. Combining entropy balancing with a novel econometric method to assess potential bias from omitted variables, we find that experiencing maternal partnership transitions is negatively associated with adolescents’ belief in self-determination and that internal locus of control is reduced by about a fifth of a standard deviation among those affected, even after conditioning on a large number of covariates. This is particularly true if the transitions take place during “middle childhood.”
J10|Hopf bifurcation in an overlapping generations resource economy with endogenous population growth rate|As scarce environmental resources necessarily put a constraint on population growth, we use more realistic population growth dynamics which contemplates a feedback mechanism between population growth rate and resource availability. We examine the local stability properties in overlapping generations resource economies which takes this feedback mechanism into account. The results indicate that Hopf bifurcation may arise without requiring logistic regeneration or unconventional constraints on parameter values. In particular, Hopf bifurcation is encountered under convex-concave dependence of carrying capacity on the resource availability.
J10|Impact des évolutions démographiques sur l'épargne et les marchés financiers|In this article, the asset meltdown hypothesis, which anticipates a sharp fall in asset prices caused by the transition to retirement of large cohorts of the baby boom, is discussed. First, the correlation between financial and demographic variables is presented and the main theoretical arguments that support the hypothesis are developed. Second, it is shown that these arguments hardly resist a further analysis. In particular, the overall effects of the transition to retirement of the baby boomers on savings and market prices suggest that 1/total household savings should not decrease in the next years; 2/the link between demographic variables and market prices is difficult to establish. If the asset meltdown hypothesis does not seem robust, introducing demographic variables nevertheless help to better understand of the dynamics of financial variables. Classification JEL: G10, J10.
J10|Homo moralis: Personal characteristics, institutions, and moral decision-making|This paper studies how individual characteristics, institutions, and their interaction influence moral decisions. We validate a moral paradigm focusing on the willingness to accept harming third parties. Consequences of moral decisions are real. We explore how moral behavior varies with individual characteristics and how these characteristics interact with market institutions compared to situations of individual decision-making. Intelligence, female gender, and the existence of siblings positively influence moral decisions, in individual and in market environments. Yet in markets, most personalities tend to follow overall much lower moral standards. Only fluid intelligence specifically counteracts moral-eroding effects of markets.
J10|Self-enforcing family rules, marriage and the (non)neutrality of public intervention|Abstract We demonstrate that the notion of a family ‘constitution’ (self-enforcing, renegotiation-proof norm) requiring adults to provide attention for their elderly parents carries over from a world where identical individuals reproduce asexually, to one where individuals differentiated by sex and preferences marry, have children and bargain over the allocation of domestic resources. In this heterogenous world, couples are sorted by their preferences. If a couple’s common preferences satisfy a certain condition, the couple have an interest in instilling those preferences into their children. Policies are generally nonneutral. In particular, wage redistribution may raise, and compulsory education will reduce, the share of the adult population that is governed by family constitutions, and thus the share of the elderly population who receive attention from their children.
J10|Early-life Circumstances Predict Measures of Trust among Adults: Evidence from Hunger Episodes in Post-War Germany|Can a major shock in childhood permanently shape trust? We consider a hunger episode in Germany after WWII and construct a measure of hunger exposure from official data on caloric rations set monthly by the occupying forces providing regional and temporal variation. We correlate hunger exposure with measures of trust using data from a nationally representative sample of the German population. We show that individuals exposed to low caloric rations in childhood have significantly lower levels of trust as adults. This finding highlights that early-life experiences can have long-term effects in domains other than health, where such effects are well-documented.
J10|Bildung als Schlüssel zur Integration: Nur eine realistische Flüchtlingspolitik wird Erfolg haben|Bildung in Form von Sprache und Qualifikation ist der Schlüssel zur Integration von Flüchtlingen am deutschen Arbeitsmarkt und damit auch in die Gesellschaft. Sie wird nur gelingen, wenn die Politik von realistischen Prämissen über das Bildungs- und Qualifikationsniveau der Flüchtlinge ausgeht. In ihrer Breite werden die derzeit in Deutschland ankommenden Flüchtlinge den im demographischen Wandel begründeten zukünftigen Fachkräftebedarf nicht decken. Bei den Flüchtlingskindern müssen eine möglichst breite Verteilung auf die Schulen und eine schnelle Teilnahme am normalen Unterricht an erster Stelle stehen. Wenn die Integration der Flüchtlingskinder durch Bildung gelingt, können es diese sein, die in der nächsten Generation die demographischen Probleme abschwächen.
J10|Características y determinantes de la informalidad laboral en México|Desde el año 2012 el Instituto Nacional de Estadística y Geografía de México (INEGI), adoptó el enfoque de informalidad laboral y lo integró a mediciones realizadas con información captada por la Encuesta Nacional de Ocupación y Empleo (ENOE). En este documento se estudian las características individuales de los trabajadores informales bajo el enfoque de informalidad laboral citado. Entre estas características se incluyeron el género (sexo) del trabajador, edad, escolaridad y ubicación geográfica según nivel de marginación de la entidad federativa en donde labora. Se encontró que la informalidad laboral está asociada a condiciones de alta vulnerabilidad o precarización socio demográfica del trabajador, tales como: baja o nula escolaridad, alta marginación, mujeres en general, sobre todo aquellas con hijos pequeños, jóvenes en general y su extremo, los mayores de 65 años. Se mostró además que la informalidad laboral funge como mecanismo para mantener bajas las tasas de desocupación, por lo que se presenta una especie de trade-off –sobre todo en épocas de crisis- entre esas dos alternativas de participación. Se utilizaron métodos econométricos (análisis probit) con microdatos de la ENOE de 2015.
J10|Marriage and health: Selection, protection, and assortative mating|Using data from the Panel Study of Income Dynamics (PSID) and the Medical Expenditure Panel Survey (MEPS), we analyze the health gap between married and unmarried individuals of working-age. Controlling for observables, we find a gap that peaks at 10% points at ages 55–59 years. The marriage health gap is similar for men and women. If we allow for unobserved heterogeneity in innate health (permanent and age-dependent), potentially correlated with timing and likelihood of marriage, we find that the effect of marriage on health disappears below age 40 years, while about 5% points difference between married and unmarried individuals remains at older ages (55–59 years). This indicates that the observed gap is mainly driven by selection into marriage at younger ages, but there might be a protective effect of marriage at older ages. Exploring the mechanisms behind this result, we find that better innate health is associated with a higher probability of marriage and a lower probability of divorce, and there is strong assortative mating among couples by innate health. We also find that married individuals are more likely to have a healthier behavior compared to unmarried ones. Finally, we find that health insurance is critical for the beneficial effect of marriage.
J10|L’Union Europeenne Mise A L’Epreuve Par La Crise Migratoire|The European Union (EU) is currently enduring the most significant migratory crisis in its history. Thousands of people and refugees, who escaped the war and poverty in their countries of origin are crossing the EU’s borders. This unpredictable crisis has been the source of a multitude of concerns for the EU and member countries. Faced with this situation, the EU has convened several summits and many ministerial meetings in order to find an agreement to manage the crisis, but national interests have prevailed over European cohesion. This crisis has shown how fragile the solidarity between European countries is under the pressure of their national public opinion and how this situation influences the functioning of European institutions and EU’s relations with its neighbours.
J10|Trends In Education-Comparation With Ocde Countries|Comparisons are concerns of governments seeking other international education policies that increase the chances of economic and social individuals, provide conditions for greater efficiency in schools and help to mobilize the necessary resources to cover unlimited needs which are continuously increasing. All these reasons involve international organizations in education and statistics to make considerable efforts to develop and analyze comparable European and worldly indicators. Efforts in supporting the creation of educational systems that ensure the existence of labor market skills and abilities needed levels of study required by employers. Thus, while it is an increase in the global demand for education (the default will lead to increased supply of educated individuals in the labor market), it becomes particularly important to monitor this demand for skilled workers.
J10|La fecundidad adolescente en el departamento del Atlántico|Este estudio describe los patrones de fecundidad en las adolescentes del departamento del Atlántico. La literatura reciente ha destacado que el embarazo a temprana edad tiene implicaciones negativas sobre la madre, tales como la deserción escolar, una baja participación en el mercado laboral e incrementos en riesgos de muerte materna. También sus hijos tienen altos riesgos en su salud, como bajo peso al nacer y nacimiento prematuro. Con datos de la Encuesta Nacional de Demografía y Salud (ENDS) de 2010 se examinan las dinámicas sexuales y reproductivas de las mujeres entre 15 y 24 años. En general se encuentra que existe mayor incidencia de maternidad adolescente en mujeres con bajo nivel educativo, que habitan en zonas rurales o que se clasifican en los estratos socioeconómicos más bajos. Asimismo, se analiza el programa de prevención del embarazo adolescente Crisálida, de la Gobernación del Atlántico, y se hacen algunas recomendaciones sobre su diseño.
J10|A Jury of Her Peers: The Impact of the First Female Jurors on Criminal Convictions|This article uses an original data set of more than 3,000 cases from 1918 to 1926 in the Central Criminal Courts of London to study the effect of the Sex Disqualification (Removal) Act of 1919. Implemented in 1921, this Act made women eligible to serve on English juries. Results based on a pre-post research design imply that the inclusion of women had little effect on overall conviction rates but significantly impacted conviction rates on particularly female salient cases: sex offences, violent offences with female versus male victims and female defendants charged with ‘other’ (largely abortion related) offences.
J10|Families in Macroeconomics|Much of macroeconomics is concerned with the allocation of physical capital, human capital, and labor over time and across people. The decisions on savings, education, and labor supply that generate these variables are made within families. Yet the family (and decision making in families) is typically ignored in macroeconomic models. In this chapter, we argue that family economics should be an integral part of macroeconomics and that accounting for the family leads to new answers to classic macro questions. Our discussion is organized around three themes. We start by focusing on short- and medium-run fluctuations and argue that changes in family structure in recent decades have important repercussions for the determination of aggregate labor supply and savings. Next, we turn to economic growth and describe how accounting for families is central for understanding differences between rich and poor countries and for the determinants of long-run development. We conclude with an analysis of the role of the family as a driver of political and institutional change.
J10|A Culture of Kinship: Chinese Genealogies as a Souce for Research in Demographic Economics|This paper discusses the use of Chinese genealogies for research on economic demography. I focus both on what is known about the genealogy as a data source, and what are the open questions for future research. Chinese genealogies contain records at the individual level. With the publication of new catalogs and efforts to collect genealogies, the number of genealogies is even larger than previously thought, with most dating to the late Ming (1368–1644) and Qing (1644–1911) Dynasties. These records contain a rich source of information about the Chinese population history, over a period for which there is no alternative source of information. Yet, the source still remains largely unexploited. Although the work of transcribing the data is significant, and selection biases need to be carefully considered, preliminary analysis of the data for a sample of married men for Tongcheng County in Anhui Province suggests these data are a rich source of information for demographic and economics research.
J10|Microbes and Markets: Was the Black Death an Economic Revolution?|Recent papers have suggested that the Industrial Revolution in Europe ultimately derives from the labor scarce economy of northwest Europe, which some trace back to the Black Death [Voigtländer and Voth (2013a) and Allen (2011)]. This paper examines the effects of the Black Death in England. Specifically, did it merely change relative factor prices, or did it lead to lasting gains in the efficiency of the economy after 1348? Extensive wage and price data from England 1210–1800 suggest that the population losses of the Black Death were associated with a surprising increase in economic efficiency, despite the decline in the scale of the economy. But this efficiency gain disappeared when population rose again in the 16th century. There is no sign of a connection between a labor scarce economy, and a switch to faster long run economic growth through technological advance.
J10|Longevity Variations and the Welfare State|Life expectancy at birth has more than doubled in Europe since the early 19th century. This demographic trend constitutes a major victory against scarcity, but raises also deep challenges to the Welfare State, concerning the sustainability and the equity of the social protection system. This paper surveys recent developments in the economic analysis of longevity, both at the positive and the normative levels. Taking mortality risks into account is shown to affect the study of the life cycle model significantly, in particular concerning the strength of life horizon effects. It raises also, at the level of normative foundations for policy-making, a dilemma between ex ante and ex post valuations. Finally, we explore the design of policy reforms under varying longevity, in fields including preventive and curative policies, education, pension, and wealth taxation.
J10|Push, Pull, and Population Size Effects in Structural Development: Long-run Trade-offs|The process of structural transformation from the farm to a nonfarm sector is accompanied by technological change in both sectors and massive population growth. We investigate the effects of increasing population size (the population effect) and sector-specific productivity (the push and pull effects), both factor-neutral and factor-biased, in a parsimonious general equilibrium model under general forms of utility and production functions. All three effects may co-exist and interact in important ways. Generalizing the agricultural sector production function to CES is crucial for the population growth effect. Our analysis highlights how the relative importance of the three effects changes as the country develops and production and consumption conditions become more flexible.
J10|Transportation Costs And The Great Divergence|This work shows the asymmetric effect of the reduction in transportation costs across different sectors in the process of the Great Divergence. Specifically, the analysis indicates that reductions in transportation costs of industrial goods enhance convergence of the growth rates of trading economies. In contrast, reductions in transportation costs of non-industrial goods contribute to a further divergence across countries.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J10|A Lost Generation? Education Decisions and Employment Outcomes during the US Housing Boom-Bust Cycle of the 2000s|We exploit regional variations in U.S. house price fluctuations during the boom-bust cycle of the 2000s to study the impact of the housing cycle on young Americans' choices related to education and employment. We find that in MSAs which experienced large increases in house prices between 2001 and 2006, young adults were substantially more likely to forego a higher education and join the workforce, lowering skill formation. During the bust years, the young, especially those without higher education, were more likely to be unemployed in areas which experienced higher declines in house prices.
J10|Waking Up from the American Dream: On the Experience of Young Americans during the Housing Boom of the 2000s| We exploit regional variations in house price fluctuations in the United States during the early to mid‐2000s to study the impact of the housing boom on young Americans' choices related to home ownership, household formation, and fertility. We also introduce a novel instrument for changes in house prices based on the predetermined industrial structure of the local economy. We find that in regions that experienced large increases in house prices between 2001 and 2006, the youngest households were substantially less likely to purchase residential property, to be married, and to have a child, both in 2006 and in 2011.
J10|Gone with the wind: Demographic transitions and domestic saving|This study explores the relationship between demographic factors and saving rates using a panel dataset covering 110 countries between 1963 and 2012. In line with predictions from theory, this paper finds that, on average, lower dependency rates and greater longevity are associated with higher domestic saving rates. However, these correlations are statistically robust only in Asia. In particular, Latin America, which is a region that has undergone a remarkably similar “saving friendly” demographic transition since the 1970s, did not experience the same boost in saving rates as Asia. The paper highlights that the potential dividends arising from a favorable demographic transition are not automatically accrued. This is a sobering message at a time when the demographic tide is shifting in the world.
J10|Forecasting Population and Demographic Composition of Kuwait Until 2030|State of Kuwait is one of the richest countries in the world. Thanks to its oil reserves, the country hosts millions of foreign workers whose numbers have outpaced the Kuwaiti population. This article aims to forecast the future population of Kuwait using regional and nationality-gender based population data. Both linear and exponential population projections are used to obtain the most reliable estimates with the least forecasting error. Using the data between 1998 and 2015, I forecast the population of distinct administrative regions, expatriate and Kuwaiti population as well as the overall population of Kuwait. The results suggest that the population of Kuwait is likely to reach 5 million by 2020, and 7 million in 2030. The growth in expatriate population particularly male expat workers will dominate the population growth. It is recommended that state policies should consider such demographic and geographical imbalances in planning the future growth of Kuwait.
J10|Education, lifetime labor supply, and longevity improvements|This paper presents an analysis of the differential role of mortality for the optimal schooling and retirement age when the accumulation of human capital follows the so-called “Ben–Porath mechanism”. We set up a life-cycle model of consumption and labor supply at the extensive margin that allows for endogenous human capital formation. This paper makes two important contributions. First, we provide the conditions under which a decrease in mortality leads to a longer education period and an earlier retirement age. Second, those conditions are decomposed into a Ben–Porath mechanism and a lifetime-human wealth effect vs. the years-to-consume effect. Finally, using US and Swedish data for cohorts born between 1890 and 2000, we show that our model can match the empirical evidence.
J10|On the existence of stable population in life cycle models|A common assumption adopted in life cycle general equilibrium models is that the population is stable at steady state, that is, its relative age distribution becomes constant over time. An open question is whether the demographic assumptions commonly adopted in these models in fact imply that the population becomes stable. In this article we prove the existence of a stable population in a demographic environment where both the age-specific mortality rates and the population growth rate are constant over time, the setup commonly adopted in life cycle general equilibrium models. Hence, the stability of the population do not need to be taken as assumption in these models.
J10|Estimating the joint survival probabilities of married individuals|We estimate the joint survival probability of spouses using a large random sample drawn from a Dutch census. As benchmarks we use two bivariate Weibull models. We consider more flexible models, using a semi-nonparametric approach, by extending the independent Weibull distribution using squared polynomials. Also based on a nonparametric comparison, we find that extending the independent Weibull distribution by a squared third order polynomial shows the best performance. We illustrate our model by calculating remaining life expectancies and annuity values. We find that the husbands life expectancy at birth is generally increasing with his wifes age of death and the wifes life expectancy at birth is generally increasing with her husbands age of death. Ignoring the dependence between the remaining lifetimes of spouses may lead to an underestimation of the value of a joint annuity and an overestimation of the value of a single-life annuity, but less than suggested on the basis of the previous literature.
J10|Unmet aspirations as an explanation for the age U-shape in wellbeing|An emerging economic literature has found evidence that wellbeing follows a U-shape over age. Some theories have assumed that the U-shape is caused by unmet expectations that are felt painfully in midlife but beneficially abandoned and experienced with less regret during old age. This paper is the first to analyze age patterns in unmet expectations. Using the German Socio-Economic Panel, a unique data set that contains life satisfaction expectations as well as the same individuals’ subsequent life satisfaction realizations, I match 132,609 life satisfaction expectations to subsequent realizations. I find people to err systematically in predicting their life satisfaction over the life cycle. They expect – incorrectly – increases in young adulthood and decreases during old age. These errors are large, ranging from 9.8% at age 21 to −4.5% at age 68. They are stable over time and observed within cohorts and individuals as well as across socio-economic groups. These findings support theories that unmet expectations drive the age U-shape in wellbeing.
J10|The effect of job loss on health: Evidence from biomarkers|We estimate the effect of job loss on objective measures of physiological dysregulation using biomarker measures collected by the Health and Retirement Study in 2006 and 2008 and longitudinal self-reports of work status. We distinguish between group or individual layoffs, and business closures. Workers who are laid off from their job have lower health as measured by biomarker, whereas workers laid off in the context of a business closure do not. Estimates matching respondents wave-by-wave on self-reported health conditions and subjective job loss expectations prior to job loss, suggest strong effects of layoffs on biomarkers, in particular for glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c). A layoff could increase annual mortality rates by 10.3%, consistent with other evidence of the effect of group layoffs on mortality.
