J17|"""Permanent Income"" Inequality"|We estimate the degree of inequality of ``permanent income'', as well as trends over time. Our notion of permanent income is related to Friedman's (1957) original idea, but does not assume linear-quadratic utility. We account for financial and real wealth, as well as the certainty equivalent value of a household's potential future earnings, thus providing a monetary statistic directly related to economic welfare, which is not true of income or wealth alone. We combine publicly available consumption and income data from the PSID with net worth data from the SCF to produce our estimates. Our method imposes no restrictions on the dynamics of observed income processes and features state-dependent stochastic discount factors, as opposed to the risk-free discount factors commonly used to estimate the present value of lifetime earnings. We show that stochastic discount factors depend on many sources of risk beyond income risk, e.g. marital uncertainty. We use our estimates of permanent income to study how inequality in the U.S. evolved between 1989 and 2013, and how the human component of wealth varies over the life cycle of different households. Our findings suggest that accounting for human wealth significantly changes the assessment of aggregate inequality and of its evolution. Specifically, we find that: (i) top $10\%$ and top $1\% $ shares of permanent income are substantially smaller (roughly 1/2) than the corresponding shares of net worth typically reported in the literature; (ii) however, top shares of permanent income have grown much faster over the 1989-2013 period than top shares of net worth, suggesting that actual inequality has increased more than previously thought. For instance, the share of financial wealth owned by the top $10\%$ of the wealth distribution grew over that period by 8 percentage points while the share of permanent income attributable to that same group grew by 14 percentage points. Finally, we find that the share of households who sit at the top of both the net worth and human wealth distributions has actually decreased between 1989 and 2013, indicating that increased concentration of permanent income is not due to a small set of households holding increasing shares of all types of wealth. Instead, increasing concentration of permanent income is mostly due to the growing importance of real/financial wealth as a share of total wealth.
J17|Birds of a Feather: Estimating the Value of Statistical Life from Dual-Earner Families|Economists have long employed hedonic wage analysis to estimate income-fatality risk trade-offs, but some scholars have raised concerns about systematic measurement error and omitted variable bias in the empirical applications of this model. Recent studies have employed panel methods to remove time-invariant individual-specific characteristics that could induce bias in estimation. In an analogous manner, this paper proposes to exploit assortative matching on risk attitudes within married couples to control for worker characteristics that are unobserved to the econometrician. I develop and implement a modified hedonic wage estimator based on a within-coupled differenced wage equation for full-time working married couples with the Current Population Survey Merged Outgoing Rotation Group over 1996-2002. The key assumption builds on the findings in the assortative matching literature that individuals often marry those who have common traits across many dimensions, including those that may influence worker wages and are correlated with observed occupational fatality risks. This estimator identifies the compensating differential for occupation fatality risk by using within-couple differencing to remove unobserved determinants of risk attitudes and risk-mitigation ability, on which couples match, from the error term. I find that the value of statistical life (VSL) varies from $9 to $13 million (2016$). The within-couple differenced VSL estimates are stable and more robust to variation in specification of the hedonic wage model than conventional, cross-sectional hedonic wage models. I also find that the value of statistical life takes an inverted-U shape with respect to age.
J17|The Impact of Impulsivity on Suicide and Homicide Rates|Impulsivity, defined here as an unconscious willingness to act with either incorrect or incomplete information, varies substantially across individuals and is known in the neurological literature to impact behavior. We use the average number of binge drinking episodes as a proxy for impulsivity and find that it has a positive influence on suicides and homicides by firearm, but no impact on suicides and homicides by other means. Specifically, a one standard deviation rise in binge drinking behavior increases firearm homicides by between 2.25 and 6.5 and firearm suicides by between 7 and 12.6 in a state with an average population. Assuming that suicides and homicides by other means are more time-consuming compared to firearms, we identify impulsivity as a risk factor for these behaviors particularly for those with access to firearms.
J17|Is Prevention of Suicide Worth Less? -A Comparison of the Value per Statistical Life|This paper compares the value per statistical life (VSL) in the context of suicide prevention to that of prevention of traffic fatalities. We conducted a contingent valuation survey with questions on willingness to pay (WTP) in both contexts by administering a web questionnaire to 1038 individuals aged 18 to 80. We conjectured that WTP for a given impact on the number of fatalities would be lower for suicide prevention because suicide, at least to some degree, is the result of individuals’ own decisions. However, this hypothesis was not supported by the within- or between-sample estimates of VSL or by responses to direct questions. Hence, no support is provided for the use of a lower valuation of the impact of suicide prevention than for risk-reducing programs in other fields, such as traffic safety.
J17|Behavioral economics and the value of a statistical life|Abstract There are many possible connections between the value of statistical life (VSL) and behavioral economics. A list of topics includes endowment effects, risk salience, ambiguity aversion, present bias, reference groups, reference points, and experienced versus decision utilities. There are also nudges that connect to estimating or using VSL in government decisions, and cousins of behavioral economic research such as interpersonal heterogeneity, experiments, neuroeconomics, and the role of beauty or personal attractiveness in labor market outcomes. Current evidence suggests that VSL and behavioral economics best connect via (1) possible multi-attribute reference group effects and (2) a possible distinction between decision utility and experienced utility.
J17|Birds of a Feather: Estimating the Value of Statistical Life from Dual-Earner Families|Economists have long employed hedonic wage analysis to estimate income-fatality risk trade-offs, but some scholars have raised concerns about systematic measurement error and omitted variable bias in the empirical applications of this model. Recent studies have employed panel methods to remove time-invariant individual-specific characteristics that could induce bias in estimation. In an analogous manner, this paper proposes to exploit assortative matching on risk attitudes within married couples to control for worker characteristics that are unobserved to the econometrician. I develop and implement a modified hedonic wage estimator based on a within-coupled differenced wage equation for full-time working married couples with the Current Population Survey Merged Outgoing Rotation Group over 1996-2002. The key assumption builds on the findings in the assortative matching literature that individuals often marry those who have common traits across many dimensions, including those that may influence worker wages and are correlated with observed occupational fatality risks. This estimator identifies the compensating differential for occupation fatality risk by using within-couple differencing to remove unobserved determinants of risk attitudes and risk-mitigation ability, on which couples match, from the error term. I find that the value of statistical life (VSL) varies from $9 to $13 million (2016$). The within-couple differenced VSL estimates are stable and more robust to variation in specification of the hedonic wage model than conventional, cross-sectional hedonic wage models. I also find that the value of statistical life takes an inverted-U shape with respect to age.
J17|Economic Misery, Urbanization and Life Expectancy in MENA Nations: An Empirical Analysis|This paper has examined the effect of urbanization and economic misery on average life expectancy in selected MENA nations from 2001 to 2016. The selected MENA nations are: Algeria, Bahrain, Egypt, Iraq, Iran, Islamic Rep., Israel, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Morocco, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates and Yemen Rep. PP-Fisher Chi-square, Levin, Lin & Chu t*, Im, Pesaran and Shin W-stat and ADF-Fisher Chi-square unit root tests have been used for examining unit root issue in the data. Panel ARDL has been used for reviewing the co-integration among the selected indicators. The causality of the variables has been analyzed by impulse response function and variance decomposition. The outcomes reveal that food availability has significant and positive relation with an average life expectancy. The outcomes show that environmental standards put significant and positive impact on average life expectancy. The outcomes reveal that economic misery has a significant and negative influence on average life expectancy in MENA nations. The findings reveal that urbanization puts significant and positive influence on average life expectancy. So, for improving the average life expectancy in MENA nations availability of food, household final consumption and the level of urbanization must be enhanced. Whereas at the time economic misery will be reduced.
J17|Money, Lives, and Frames: What Evidence from Bulgarian Students Tells about Framing of Risky Choices|Prospect theory accounted for the framing effect by assuming an automatic translation of the problem content into expected utilities and a passive acceptance of the externally provided frame regardless of problem content. The size of the framing effect in the famous Asian Disease problem initially suggested that these assumptions are met but subsequent research showed otherwise. In a dataset collected during regular class sessions among Bulgarian students, a framing effect was found for monetary problems but not for the Disease problem. These results are consistent with previous findings by the author and add to the view that a top-down and domain-specific approach might be a necessary complication when one is aiming to account for the psychological processes during risky choices.
J17|The paradox of the unhappy, growing city: reconciling evidence|This paper attempts to explain why large cities tend to score low on indices of happiness/life satisfaction, while at the same time experiencing population growth. Using Norwegian survey and register data, we show that different population segments are behind these seemingly contradictory attributes of large cities. A minority of highly mobile citizens are satisfied with life in Norway’s biggest city, Oslo, and exhibits positive net in-migration to the city. A majority of less mobile groups are dissatisfied and tend to move out of Oslo, but these flows are too small to determine the overall migration pattern. Our results indicate that the Rosen-Roback framework for analysis of regional quality of life, which builds on the assumption of perfect mobility, is appropriate only for the most mobile segments of the population.
J17|Anticipation of deteriorating health and information avoidance|The anticipation of bad future events reduces currently experienced happiness and it may through this channel elicit detrimental behavioral responses. We explore this idea in the context of endogenous health and aging. We integrate physiological aging into a life-cycle model, calibrate it with data from gerontology, and analyze how the anticipation of a deteriorating state of health affects health spending, life expectancy, and the value of life. In counterfactual computational experiments we compare behavior and outcomes of anticipating and non-anticipating individuals and find that anticipation decreases lifetime utility, health investments, and longevity. We then use the model to contribute to the literature on information avoidance. We find that anticipation provides a strong motive to avoid medical testing even when the likelihood of developing a certain disease is high and the cost for the test is low.
J17|The Urgent Need for an Economics of “Hategoatism”|The word “scapegoat” is defined as “a person made to bear the blame for others,” and similarly, “scapegoatism” refers to “the act or practice of assigning blame or failure to another, as to deflect attention or responsibility away from oneself” (Collins English Dictionary and Dictionary.com, respectively.) While these definitions do not mention economics specifically, in most cases the blame on the scapegoat is economic in nature. Scapegoatism also provides a convenient, though extremely inferior, substitute for valid analyses of economic problems. Scapegoatism, however, has a partner, dehumanization, which is the process of demonizing certain people as less than human and unworthy of humane treatment. Scapegoatism is not only accompanied by dehumanization, but it is often motivated by it. Thus, “scapegoatism” is a euphemism and it is understudied as a result, because there is no single term of art that combines scapegoatism and dehumanization. This paper offers a solution to this semantic dilemma by proposing the new term, “HATEGOATISM,” for the simultaneous existence of scapegoatism and dehumanization. Only one subfield of economics regularly embraces hategoatism, which is Libertarianism (where the “HATEGOAT” is government workers). Economists must lead by example by combating hategoatism, and that requires cleaning their own house first.
J17|Negligible Senescence: An Economic Life Cycle Model for the Future|We propose a model of aging and health deficit accumulation model with an infinite time horizon and a steady state of constant health. The time of death is uncertain and endogenous to lifestyle and health behavior. This setup can be conceptualized as a strive for immortality that is never reached. We discuss adjustment dynamics and show that the new setup is particularly useful to understand aging of the oldest old, i.e. of individuals for which morbidity and mortality have reached a plateau. We then show how the existence of a steady state can be used to perform comparative dynamics exercises analytically. As an illustration we investigate the effects of more expensive health investment and of advances in medical technology on optimal short run and long run health behavior.
J17|Freihandel von Lissabon nach Wladiwostok: wem nutzt, wem schadet ein eurasisches Freihandelsabkommen?|"Der Handel zwischen der EU und Russland ist derzeit durch Sanktionen des Westens gegen Russland und gegenseitige Embargo-Maßnahmen schwer belastet, ohne dass eine sichtbare Veränderung der geostrategischen Ausrichtung Russlands erreicht wurde. Vielleicht erfordert ein Interessensausgleich weniger Strafmaßnahmen, sondern eher die Perspektive auf vertiefte wirtschaftliche Kooperation. Sowohl die EU als auch die Nachfolgestaaten der Sowjetunion sollten großes Interesse an einer Freihandelszone „von Lissabon bis Wladiwostok"" haben, weil die Strukturen ihrer komparativen Vorteile stark komplementär zueinander sind. Für Russland könnte ein tiefgreifendes Abkommen zwischen der EU und der Eurasischen Wirtschaftsgemeinschaft einen Zuwachs der realen Pro-Kopf-Einkommen um 3% bringen; für Deutschland um 0,2%. Das bedeutet ein Einkommenszuwachs von 235 Euro pro Kopf und Jahr für Russland und 91 Euro für Deutschland. Damit könnten Russland und die anderen Länder der ehemaligen Sowjetunion interessante Partner für eine vertiefte wirtschaftliche Zusammenarbeit mit der EU sein. Die EU sollte an einer stabilen wirtschaftlichen Entwicklung in ihrer unmittelbaren Nachbarschaft größtes Interesse haben. Außerdem verspricht die komplementäre Spezialisierungsstruktur dieser Länder substantielle wirtschaftliche Vorteile auch für die EU."
J17|Valuing Life as an Asset, as a Statistic and at Gunpoint|The Human Capital (HK) and Statistical Life Values (VSL) differ sharply in their empirical pricing of a human life and lack a common theoretical background to justify these differences. We first contribute to the theory and measurement of life value by providing a unified framework to formally define and relate the Hicksian willingness to pay (WTP) to avoid changes in death risks, the HK and the VSL. Second, we use this setting to introduce an alternative life value calculated at Gunpoint (GPV), i.e. the WTP to avoid certain, instantaneous death. Third, we associate a flexible human capital model to the common framework to characterize the WTP and the three life valuations in closed-form. Fourth, our structural estimates of these solutions yield mean life values of 8.35 M$ (VSL), 421 K$ (HK) and 447 K$ (GPV). We con firm that the strong curvature of the WTP and the linear projection hypothesis of the VSL explain why the latter is much larger than other values.
J17|The Value of a Statistical Life in a Dictatorship: Evidence from Stalin|We examine the value of a statistical life (VSL) in inter-war Soviet Union. Our approach requires to address the preferences of Stalin. We model these on the basis of the policy of statistical repression, which was an integral part of the Great Terror. We use regional variation in the victims generated by this policy to structurally estimate the value that Stalin would have been willing to accept for a reduction in citizens' fatality risk. Our estimate of this value is $43,151, roughly 6% of the VSL estimate in 1940's US and 29% of the VSL estimate in modern India.
J17|Are Retirees More Satisfied? – Anticipation and Adaptation Effects of Retirement on Subjective Well-Being: A Panel Analysis for Germany|Quality of life and satisfaction with life are of particular importance for individuals as well as for society concerning the “demographic change” with now longer retirement periods. This study will contribute to the life satisfaction discussion and quantifies life satisfaction and pattern of explanation before and after such a prominent life cycle event, the entrance into retirement. In particular, with the individual longitudinal data and 33 waves of the Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP) and the appropriate microeconometric causal fixed effects robust panel methods we ask and quantify if actual life satisfaction indeed is decreasing before retirement, is increasing at the entrance into retirement, and is decreasing then after certain periods back to a fore-going level. Thus, we ask if such an anticipation and adaptation pattern– as known from other prominent events – is also to discover for life satisfaction before and after retirement in Germany. Main result: Individual and family situation lift life satisfaction after retirement for many years, the (former) occupational situation, however, absorbs this effect both for pensioners and civil service pensioners. It remains only one period of improvement with close anticipation and adaptation at entering retirement but no furthermore significant change compared to pre-retirement life satisfaction. This holds for pensioners (German pension insurance, GRV) but there is no significant effect at all for civil service pensioners.
J17|Inequalities in life expectancy and the global welfare convergence|Becker et al. (2005) maintain that including life expectancy gains in a welfare indicator result in a reduction of inequality between 1960 and 2000 twice as great as when measured by per capita income. We discuss their methodology and show it determines the convergence result. We use an alternative methodology, based on Fleurbaey and Gaulier (2009), which monetizes differences in life expectancy between countries at each date rather than life expectancy gains. We show that including life expectancy has no effect on the evolution of world inequality.
J17|Employment of people with a history of sickness absence|This register-based follow-up study focuses on the association between workplace characteristics and recruitment of people with a history of sickness absence. The aim was to study whether recruitment differs with regard to workplace sector, number of employees, gender composition, educational level and average age, and whether these workplaces recruit differently with regard to gender and diagnosis. Swedish workplaces with five employees or more in 2012 were chosen (n = 138 081). The results showed that workplaces most likely to recruit people with a history of sickness absence were those characterized by being in the public and non-profit sector, being female-dominated, having few employees, a high proportion of low educated employees and a high average age. The likelihood of recruiting people with different diagnoses was, with a few exceptions, similar between various types of workplaces. Recruitment of men and women with a history of sickness absence was similar between the different workplaces.
J17|Combat, Casualties, and Compensation: Evidence from Iraq and Afghanistan|Our research examines the effect of combat deployments to Iraq and Afghanistan on casualties. We use restricted data from the Defense Manpower Data Center (DMDC) and Social Security Administration (SSA) to construct a panel of all U.S. Active Duty service members having served at some point during the years 2001-2012. Casualties disproportionately occur at higher rates among (i) young, white, males (ii) enlisted personnel (iii) less educated personnel (iv) and those in combat job types. Our estimates indicate that overall U.S. military personnel who deployed in an individual year to Iraq or Afghanistan had a 48 per 100,000 higher probability of death than non-deployed military personnel who remained stateside. The increased fatal injury risk of deployed U.S. military personnel is 15 times higher than the national average civilian workplace fatality rate, but roughly equal to the fatal injury risk faced in some of the most dangerous civilian occupations. Our estimates suggest a compensating wage differential equal to $808 per month would be appropriate, in comparison to the current status quo of $225 per month in danger pay (and additional tax benefits) provided to U.S. military personnel deployed into combat zones. The additional compensation should also be adjusted by service or job type.
J17|Are Retirees More Satisfied? Anticipation and Adaptation Effects of Retirement on Subjective Well-Being: A Panel Analysis for Germany|"Quality of life and satisfaction with life are of particular importance for individuals as well as for society concerning the ""demographic change"" with now longer retirement periods. This study will contribute to the life satisfaction discussion and quantifies life satisfaction and pattern of explanation before and after such a prominent life cycle event, the entrance into retirement. In particular, with the individual longitudinal data and 33 waves of the Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP) and the appropriate microeconometric causal fixed effects robust panel methods we ask and quantify if actual life satisfaction indeed is decreasing before retirement, is increasing at the entrance into retirement, and is decreasing then after certain periods back to a foregoing level. Thus, we ask if such an anticipation and adaptation pattern – as known from other prominent events – is also to discover for life satisfaction before and after retirement in Germany."
J17|Son Preference and Human Capital Investment Among China’s Rural-Urban Migrant Households|We use several datasets to study whether son preference prevails in the human capital investment among Chinese rural-urban migrant households. We find that son preference exists among the rural migrants’ households and that it caused lower probabilities relative to that of their boy counterparts that school age girls will migrate with their parents—a difference that is absent for children of preschool age. We also find that (1) boys are more likely to migrate following the reduction in the number of rural primary schools, (2) migrant households with multiple children tend to take their sons to migrate more than they take their daughters, and (3) the fact that parents of boy students spend more on their children’s education can be largely explained by the extra costs of schooling for migrant households. Finally, we show that the parents of rural children have higher expectations for boys than they do for girls. Our results suggest that son preference is detrimental to the human capital investment in girls in contemporary China when institutional arrangements result in high costs of schooling for migrants.
J17|Parenthood and labour market outcomes|This paper is an initial exploration of what we can learn regarding the drivers of the gender pay gap in New Zealand from combining administrative wage data, birth records, and survey data on hours worked and earnings. Our particular focus is the role of parenthood penalties in this pay gap. In NZ, as internationally, the gender pay gap is larger among parents than non-parents, though the mechanisms driving this relationship are not entirely clear. We use administrative wage data to describe the distribution of how long women are out of paid employment after having their first child and how this differs with pre-parenthood income. We then look at employment rates and wage earnings among employed women each month in the five years before and ten years after birth of their first child. We also compare women who spend different lengths of time out of employment both overall and within each pre-parenthood earnings quartile. Although this does not strictly isolate the causal effect of length of time out of employment on subsequent monthly earnings, it does show how, within earnings quartiles, women who return quickly to work increase their earnings lead over those who return more slowly.
J17|"What's in a Name? A Systematic Search for Alternatives to ""VSL"""|Benefit-cost analyses of environmental, health, and safety regulations often rely on an estimate of the “value of statistical life,” or VSL, to calculate the aggregate benefits of human mortality risk reductions in monetary terms. The VSL represents the marginal rate of substitution between mortality risk and money, and while well-understood by economists, to many non-economists, decision-makers, media professionals, and others, the term resembles obfuscated jargon bordering on the immoral. This paper describes a series of seven focus groups in which we applied a systematic approach for identifying and testing alternatives to the VSL terminology. Our objective was to identify a term that better communicates the VSL concept. Specifically, a list of 17 alternatives to the VSL term was developed and tested in focus groups that culminated in a formal ranking exercise. Using a round-robin tournament approach to analyze the data, and our qualitative judgments, we identify “value of reduced mortality risk” as the dominant replacement term among the alternatives tested.
J17|Assessing the economic valuation of the benefits of regulating chemicals: Lessons learned from five case studies|This paper reviews and compares five case studies on quantification and economic valuation of benefits in cost-benefit analyses (CBAs) of regulating phthalates, mercury, PFOA (perfluoro-octanic acid) and its salts, NMP (1 methyl-2-pyrroloidine) and formaldehyde. The case studies had all been carried out as part of the SACAME project, and the purpose of the present paper is to draw out cross-cutting findings from these studies.
J17|Valuing Life as an Asset, as a Statistic and at Gunpoint|The Human Capital (HK) and Statistical Life Values (VSL) differ sharply in their empirical pricing of a human life and lack a common theoretical background to justify these differences. We first contribute to the theory and measurement of life value by providing a unified framework to formally define and relate the Hicksian willingness to pay (WTP) to avoid changes in death risks, the HK and the VSL. Second, we use this setting to introduce an alternative life value calculated at Gunpoint (GPV), i.e. the WTP to avoid certain, instantaneous death. Third, we associate a flexible human capital model to the common framework to characterize the WTP and the three life valuations in closed-form. Fourth, our structural estimates of these solutions yield mean life values of 8.35 M$ (VSL), 421 K$ (HK) and 447 K$ (GPV). We confirm that the strong curvature of the WTP and the linear projection hypothesis of the VSL explain why the latter is much larger than other values.
J17|The marriage gap: Optimal aging and death in partnerships|Married people live longer than singles but how much of the longevity differential is causal and what the particular mechanisms are is not fully understood. In this paper we propose a new approach, based on counterfactual computational experiments, in order to asses how much of the marriage gap can be explained by public-goods sharing and collective bargaining of partners with different preferences and biology. For that purpose we integrate cooperative decision making of a couple into a biologically-founded life-cycle model of health deficit accumulation and endogenous longevity. We calibrate the model with U.S. data and perform the counterfactual experiment of preventing the partnership. We elaborate three economic channels and find that, as singles, men live 8.5 months shorter and women 6 months longer. We conclude that about 30% of the marriage gain in longevity of men can be motivated by economic calculus while the marriage gain for women observed in the data is attributed to selection or other (non-standard economic) motives.
J17|Health insurance, endogenous medical progress, and health expenditure growth|We study the impact of health insurance expansion in the US on health expenditure, longevity growth and welfare in an overlapping generations economy in which individuals purchase health care to lower mortality. We consider three sectors: final goods production; a health care sector, selling medical services to individuals; and an R&D sector, selling increasingly effective medical technology to the health care sector. We calibrate the model to match the development of the US economy/health care system from 1965 to 2005 and study numerically the impact of the insurance expansion on health expenditures, medical progress and longevity. We find that more extensive health insurance accounts for a large share of the rise in US health spending but also boosts the rate of medical progress. A welfare analysis shows that while the moral hazard associated with subsidized health care creates excessive health care expenditure, the gains in life expectancy brought about by induced medical progress more than compensate for this. By mitigating an intergenerational externality associated with the longevity benefits from current medical innovation the expansion of health insurance constitutes a Pareto improvement.
J17|Risky Transportation Choices and the Value of a Statistical Life|This paper exploits an unusual transportation setting to generate some of the first revealed preference value of a statistical life (VSL) estimates from a low-income setting. We estimate the trade-offs individuals are willing to make between mortality risk and cost as they travel to and from the international airport in Sierra Leone. The setting and original dataset allow us to address some typical omitted variable concerns, and also to compare VSL estimates for travelers from different countries, all facing the same choice situation. The average VSL estimate for African travelers in the sample is US$ 577,000 compared to US$ 924,000 for non-Africans.
J17|The benefits of avoiding cancer (or dying from cancer): Evidence from a four- country study|We use stated-preference methods to estimate the cancer Value per Statistical Life (VSL) and Value per Statistical Case (VSCC) from a representative sample of 45–60-year olds in four countries in Europe. We ask respondents to report information about their willingness to pay for health risk reductions that are different from those used in earlier valuation work because they are comprised of two probabilities—that of getting cancer, and that of dying from it (conditional on getting it in the first place). The product of these two probabilities is the unconditional cancer mortality risk. Our hypothetical risk reductions also include two severity-related attributes—quality-of-life impacts and pain. The results show that respondents did appear to have an intuitive grasp of compound probabilities, and took into account each component of the unconditional cancer mortality risk when answering the valuation questions. We estimate the cancer VSL to be between approximately € 2 and 5.950 million, depending on whether the (unconditional) mortality risk was reduced by lowering the chance of getting cancer, increasing the chance of surviving cancer, or both. The VSCC is estimated to be up to € 0.578 million euro, and its magnitude depends on the initial (conditional) cancer mortality and on the improvement in survival. The survey responses show that our measures of cancer severity—impacts on daily activities and pain—have little or no effect on the WTP to reduce the adverse health risks.
J17|A Novel Approach to Estimating the Demand Value of Road Safety|We estimate the demand value of road safety improvements in Switzerland from survey data using a novel elicitation approach. Individuals’ responses to questions about how much public spending on road safety should be increased are combined with observations of income, tax rate, and road usage to estimate the economic value of a statistical accident avoided. Information obtained from a risk-risk tradeoff elicitation allows us to distinguish willingness-to-pay values for various degrees of accident severity. Our most comprehensive estimate of the value of a statistical accident avoided amounts to CHF 11.0 million ($11.6 million); the corresponding value per statistical life is close to CHF 4.2 million ($4.5 million). We explore the sensitivity of these estimates to anchoring and other framing effects and find that the popularity of specific road safety programs is influenced by both the availability of different choice options and the provision of partisan cues expressing political endorsement or opposition.
J17|Human Health and Aging over an Infinite Time Horizon|Although death occurs with certainty, the time of death is uncertain. In this paper we build on this conceptualization and show that, although life ends at some point in time, human life can be meaningfully conceptualized as a strive for immortality that is never reached. We consider an intertemporal problem where health investments and consumption choices are made, taking into account that mortality depends on environmental factors, which are not controlled by the agent, and the agent's health condition, which is endogenous to lifestyle and health behavior. Formally, the infinite horizon approach has the advantage that adjustment dynamics to the steady state (i.e. human aging) can be discussed analytically. We explore the determinants of health deficits in this framework and show how individuals choose consumption and health expenditure over their lifetime in order to slow down (biological) aging. We compute analytically the impulse response functions for unexpected parameter changes. Specifically, we investigate how higher prices for medical goods and advancing medical technology affect individual behavior and health deficit accumulation.
J17|Shocking Racial Attitudes: Black G.I.s in Europe|Can attitudes towards minorities, an important cultural trait, be changed? We show that the presence of African American soldiers in the UK during World War II reduced anti-minority prejudice, a result of the positive interactions which took place between soldiers and the local population. The change has been persistent: in locations in which more African American soldiers were posted there are fewer members of the UK’s leading far-right party, less implicit bias against blacks and fewer individuals professing racial prejudice, all measured around 2010. We show that persistence has been higher in rural areas and areas with less subsequent in-migration.
J17|The domestic welfare loss of Syrian Civil War: An equivalent income approach|This paper uses an equivalent income approach to quantify the domestic welfare loss due to the Syrian Civil War. Focusing on the (income, life expectancy) space, we show that the equivalent income has fallen by about 60 % in comparison to the pre-conflict level. We also find that the differential between the equivalent income and the standard income for 2016 lies between $75 and $144. Although this low willingness to pay for coming back to pre-conflict survival conditions can be explained by extreme poverty due to the War, the small gap between standard and equivalent incomes tends to question the extra value brought by the latter for the measurement of standards of living in situations of severe poverty. We examine some solutions to that puzzle, including a more general specification of the utility function, the shift from an ex ante approach (valuing changes in life expectancy) to an ex post approach (valuing changes in distributions of realized longevities), as well as considering population ethical aspects. None of those solutions is fully successful in solving the puzzle.
J17|Investors' favourite - A different look at valuing individual labour income|Human capital is a key economic factor in both macro- and microeconomics, and, at least for most people, by far their largest asset. Surprisingly, relatively little effort has been undertaken in the extant literature to empirically determine the value of individual human capital. This paper aims at closing the gap. We use the Substantial-Gain-Loss-Ratio to calculate Good Deal bounds for securitizations of individual labour income one year ahead. We evaluate the attractiveness of hypothetical human capital contracts using US data and can thereby identify investors' favourites.
J17|Health Consequences of the Russian Weather|This paper examines and quantifies the impact of weather shocks on all-cause, cardiovascular-, and respiratory-cause mortality for different age groups in Russia. Using a regional panel data analysis from 1989 to 2014, we find that both hot and cold days cause an increase in all-cause and cause-specific mortality. On the other hand, days with extremely cold temperature (below −30°C) may have an opposite impact and reduce mortality. Overall, our findings suggest that the economic costs of all-cause mortality due to one day with hot and cold temperatures correspond to 10.25 million USD and 7.91 million USD or 0.28% and 0.22% of daily GDP in Russia, respectively. The results also suggest that regions frequently experiencing hot and cold temperatures have adapted to these temperatures.
J17|Health and work in the family: Evidence from spouses’ cancer diagnoses|Using Canadian administrative data from multiple sources, we provide the first nationally representative estimates for the effect of spouses’ cancer diagnoses on individuals’ employment and earnings and on family income. Our identification strategy exploits unexpected health shocks and combines matching with individual fixed effects in a generalized difference-in-differences framework to control for observable and unobservable heterogeneity. While the effect of spousal health shocks on labor supply is theoretically ambiguous, we find strong evidence for a decline in employment and earnings of individuals whose spouses are diagnosed with cancer. We interpret this result as individuals reducing their labor supply to provide care to their sick spouses and to enjoy joint leisure. Family income substantially declines after spouses’ cancer diagnoses, suggesting that the financial consequences of such health shocks are considerable.
J17|The insurance value of medical innovation|Economists think of medical innovation as a valuable but risky good, producing health benefits but increasing financial risk for consumers and healthcare payers. This perspective overlooks how innovation can lower physical risks borne by healthy patients facing the prospect of future disease. We present an alternative framework that accounts for all these sources of value and links them to the value of healthcare insurance. We show that any innovation worth buying reduces overall risk and generates positive insurance value on its own. We conduct a stylized numerical exercise to assess the potential empirical significance of our insights. Our calculations suggest that conventional methods meaningfully understate the value of historical health gains and disproportionately undervalue treatments for the most severe illnesses, where physical risk to consumers is the costliest. These calculations also suggest that the value of physical insurance from new technologies may exceed the financial spending risk that they pose.
J17|A Novel Approach to Estimating the Demand Value of Road Safety| We estimate the demand value of road safety improvements in Switzerland from survey data using a novel elicitation approach. Individuals’ responses to questions about how much public spending on road safety should be increased are combined with observations of income, tax rate, and road usage to estimate the economic value of a statistical accident avoided. Information obtained from a risk-risk tradeoff elicitation allows us to distinguish willingness-to-pay values for various degrees of accident severity. Our most comprehensive estimate of the value of a statistical accident avoided amounts to CHF 11.0 million ($11.6 million); the corresponding value per statistical life is close to CHF 4.2 million ($4.5 million). We explore the sensitivity of these estimates to anchoring and other framing effects and find that the popularity of specific road safety programs is influenced by both the availability of different choice options and the provision of partisan cues expressing political endorsement or opposition.
J17|The domestic welfare loss of Syrian civil war: an equivalent income approach|This paper uses an equivalent income approach to quantify the domestic welfare loss due to the Syrian Civil War. Focusing on the (income, life expectancy) space, we show that the equivalent income has fallen by about 60 % in comparison to the pre-confl ic
J17|The price of violence: Consequences of violent crime in Sweden|The connection between violence victimization and long term ill-health is well documented, but evidence is lacking on the causal effects of victimization beyond the time of the immediate injury. The aim of this study is to identify and estimate the longer term consequences of interpersonal violence on victims. Using rich administrative population data for Sweden, I compare individuals who visited a hospital in the years 1998 to 2002 due to assault with individuals who did not experience assault, but who were statistically indistinguishable from the cases of interest in the four years prior to the incident. The results suggest that violent crime has large and persistent effects on mortality, suicide, earnings, work status, disposable income, as well as on the number of days on sick leave. Specifically, an assault leading to a hospital visit is estimated to convey losses amounting to 1.4 million SEK per victimized woman and 1.5 million SEK per victimized man, whereof more than 80 percent result from excess mortality. Estimates on socio-economic outcomes show robustness against selection on unobserved characteristics. Estimates on mortality and suicides are very robust.
J17|The Value of a Statistical Life for Risk Averse and Risk Seeking Individuals|This paper estimates the Value of a Statistical Life (VSL) under the hedonic wage method accounting for individual risk preferences. This estimation is based on a unusual approach; it empirically uses two approaches to account for risk preferences in the estimation of the wage-risk trade-off and VSL estimation. First, risk aversion is directly measured using survey-measures of preferences toward hypothetical gambles, and second observed individual behaviors, that may proxy for risk preferences such as smoking status are used. The empirical results and the used of observed measures of risk aversion are reconciled with a theoretical model of economic behavior that predicts how the wage-risk trade-off changes as risk aversion differ across individuals. It also captures the effect of risk aversion across the wage distribution using quantile regressions to test for the modeling assumption that safety is a normal good. The VSL estimates range between 0.81 and 9.16 million dollars. The results using smoking behavior as proxies for risk attitudes are consistent with previous findings. However, directly measuring risk aversion corrects the wage-risk trade-off estimation bias in the opposite directions than when using smoking status. This suggests that, consistent with the literature that connects smoking behavior with labor market outcomes, smoking status could be capturing productivity effects due to poor health in addition to purely risk preferences. This paper contributes to the literature by mitigating potential bias that may appear due to individual rusk preferences using a novel approach.
J17|The Implicit Costs of Motherhood over the Lifecycle: Cross‐Cohort Evidence from Administrative Longitudinal Data|It is well known that the explicit costs of raising a child have grown over the past several decades. Less well understood are the implicit costs of having a child, and how they have changed over time. In this article, we are the first to examine the evolution of the implicit costs of motherhood over the lifecycle and across generations using high quality administrative data. We estimate that the lifetime labor market income gap between mothers and women who never have children (never‐mothers) decreases from around $350,000 to $280,000 between women born in the late 1940s and late 1960s. Gaps tend to increase monotonically over the lifecycle, and decrease monotonically between cohorts. Our evidence suggests that changes in the gaps are caused by changing labor force participation rates.
J17|What Chinese Workers Value: An Analysis of Job Satisfaction, Job Expectations, and Labour Turnover in China|This study uses data from the 2012 China Labour-Force Dynamics Survey and 2010-2012 China Family Panel Studies to investigate job satisfaction and job expectations, as well as the association between job satisfaction and job turnover by gender among employees aged 16-65. We find not only that job satisfaction levels are relatively low, with only 46% of workers explicitly satisfied, but also that worker expectations differ significantly from what their jobs actually provide. In particular, many jobs are less interesting than expected, which prevents workers from realizing their perceived potential. This expectation gap is thus a strong determinant of job satisfaction. Men and women have similar levels of job satisfaction, yet based on observables, one would expect women’s job satisfaction to be lower than it actually is, thereby lending support to the genderjob-satisfaction paradox encountered in Western studies. In contrast to Western research, we find no link between job satisfaction and job change, an observation we attribute to China’s unique Confucian-based work ethic.
J17|Measuring the economic value of the effects of chemicals on ecological systems and human health|This paper reviews and discusses the existing methods for placing a value on the effects of chemicals on human health and the environment. It surveys both methods and non-market methods, discussing their advantage and limitations. For example, when valuing non-fatal illnesses, the cost-of-illness approaches captures labour income lost to illness and medical expenditures undertaken to mitigate the illness, but fails to account for the value of the disutility of the illnesses. The paper also discusses mortality risk valuation, and the widely used metric termed the Value of a Statistical Life, the difficulties associated with estimating it, and the appropriateness of any adjustments for futurity, age, and the nature of the risk itself. Finally, the paper takes up the issue whether the source of the health risks (e.g., chemicals versus other forms of pollution versus others) affects how much the public values reducing those risks.
J17|Possibilities and challenges in transfer and generalisation of monetary estimates for environmental and health benefits of regulating chemicals|This paper reviews and discusses existing methodologies for transferring and extrapolating the economic value of health and environmental impacts across chemicals, and identifies challenges with such value transfer and when it can be suitable. The value transfer methodologies describes can be used to estimate the economic benefits of chemical management regulatory frameworks as a whole, as well as in cost-benefit analyses (CBAs) of risk management measures for individual chemicals. For economic valuation of mortality risks from chemicals, the OECD database of Stated Preference (SP) studies of Value of Statistical Life (VSL) , which should be continuously updated with new valuation studies, has a sufficient number of primary studies internationally to conduct value transfer using meta-analytic regressions. However, the empirical evidence on acute and chronic morbidity endpoints, especially concerning all costs components of chronic illnesses, seems to be scarce. The same is true for chemical-related environmental impacts, especially related to ecosystem services, for the multitude of chemicals. Thus, the main methodological and informational challenge for valid value transfer of environmental and health impacts from chemical regulations seems to be new primary valuation studies of morbidity and ecosystem services impacts caused by exposure to (groups of) chemicals. These new primary valuation studies should be designed with value transfer in mind, and cover several countries, in order to extrapolate and generalise the economic values to evaluate international chemical regulations in CBAs. These new primary studies should ideally cover all relevant scales of the impacts, in order to develop generalised adjustment factors for differences in scale of the impacts between the study sites and the policy site. This would improve the spatial transfer of values. The same is true for the combination of Geographical Information System (GIS) data with existing primary studies of impacts at different scales. Furthermore, these new primary studies should be repeated over time in order to provide more information about how values for the relevant impacts change over time; as preferences, scarcity of the public good and the real income of the affected population change. This would improve temporal transfer.
J17|Estimating the Value of Life and Injury for Pedestrians Using a Stated Preference Framework|Introduction: The incidence of pedestrian death over the period 2010 to 2014 per 1000,000 in North Cyprus is about 2.5 times that of the EU, with 10.5 times more pedestrian road injuries than deaths. With the prospect of North Cyprus entering the EU, many investments need to be undertaken to improve road safety in order to reach EU benchmarks. Method: We conducted a stated choice experiment to identify the preferences and tradeoffs of pedestrians in North Cyprus for improved walking times, pedestrian costs, and safety. The choice of route was examined using mixed logit models to obtain the marginal utilities associated with each attribute of the routes that consumers chose. These were used to estimate the individuals’ willingness to pay (WTP) to save walking time and to avoid pedestrian fatalities and injuries. We then used the results to obtain community-wide estimates of the value of a statistical life (VSL) saved, the value of an injury (VI) prevented, and the value per hour of walking time saved.Results: The estimate of the VSL was €699,434 and the estimate of VI was €20,077. These values are consistent, after adjusting for differences in incomes, with the median results of similar studies done for EU countries. Conclusions: The ratio of deaths to injuries is much higher for pedestrians than for road accidents, and this is completely consistent with the higher WTP to avoid a pedestrian accident than that to avoid a car accident. Moreover, the value of risk reduction (VRR) is perfectly rational for a given reduction in the probability of a fatality and an injury, which means it is an increasing function of the initial risk level. Practical Applications: Findings provide a set of information on the VRR that is useful in the ex ante appraisal of road projects for specific policy measures.
J17|Estimating the Value of Life and Injury for Pedestrians Using a Stated Preference Framework|Introduction: The incidence of pedestrian death over the period 2010 to 2014 per 1000,000 in North Cyprus is about 2.5 times that of the EU, with 10.5 times more pedestrian road injuries than deaths. With the prospect of North Cyprus entering the EU, many investments need to be undertaken to improve road safety in order to reach EU benchmarks. Method: We conducted a stated choice experiment to identify the preferences and tradeoffs of pedestrians in North Cyprus for improved walking times, pedestrian costs, and safety. The choice of route was examined using mixed logit models to obtain the marginal utilities associated with each attribute of the routes that consumers chose. These were used to estimate the individuals’ willingness to pay (WTP) to save walking time and to avoid pedestrian fatalities and injuries. We then used the results to obtain community-wide estimates of the value of a statistical life (VSL) saved, the value of an injury (VI) prevented, and the value per hour of walking time saved. Results: The estimate of the VSL was €699,434 and the estimate of VI was €20,077. These values are consistent, after adjusting for differences in incomes, with the median results of similar studies done for EU countries. Conclusions: The ratio of deaths to injuries is much higher for pedestrians than for road accidents, and this is completely consistent with the higher WTP to avoid a pedestrian accident than that to avoid a car accident. Moreover, the value of risk reduction (VRR) is perfectly rational for a given reduction in the probability of a fatality and an injury, which means it is an increasing function of the initial risk level. Practical Applications: Findings provide a set of information on the VRR that is useful in the ex ante appraisal of road projects for specific policy measures.
J17|The Genesis of the Golden Age: Accounting for the Rise in Health and Leisure|"We develop a life cycle model featuring an optimal retirement decision in the presence of physiological aging. In modeling the aging process we draw on recent advances within the fields of biology and medicine. In the model individuals decide on optimal consumption during life, the age of retirement, and (via health investments) the timing of their death. Accordingly, ""years in retirement"" is fully endogenously determined. Using the model we can account for the evolution of age of retirement and longevity across cohorts born between 1850 and 1940 in the US. Our analysis indicates that 2/3 of the observed increase in longevity can be accounted for by wage growth, whereas the driver behind the observed rising age of retirement appears to have been technological change in health care. Both technology and income contribute to the rise in years in retirement, but the contribution from income is slightly greater. (Copyright: Elsevier)"
J17|The Human Development Index In Canada: Ranking the Provinces and Territories Internationally, 2000-2015: An Update|Overall, our report highlights the diverse human development experiences of Canadians that are concealed by Canada’s overall HDI.
J17|The Contribution of Aboriginal People To Future Labour Force Growth In Canada|The objective of this report is to contribute to the debate on closing socio-economic gaps between Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal people by projecting the contribution of Aboriginal people to future labour force growth in Canada as a whole and by region under various scenarios over the 2011-2036 period.
J17|The Contribution of Métis To Future Labour Force Growth In Canada|This report contributes to the debate on the role of Aboriginal people in the Canadian long-term economic growth by projecting the contribution of Métis people to future labour force growth in Canada as a whole and across regions under various projection scenarios. Based on our projections for the Métis labour force over the period 2011-2036, we find that the contribution of Métis to the total Canadian labour force is significant given their 1.2 per cent share in the total working age population in Canada. In our baseline scenario, the Métis people is projected to account for 6.4 per cent of total labour force growth. The Métis contribution is especially large in the regions with which the Métis has historical ties: namely the Prairie provinces and the Northern region. The contribution in these jurisdictions ranges from 11.8 per cent to 17.0 per cent. We find that the role of ethnic mobility is especially important for the Métis population growth. If we assume no ethnic mobility, the Métis contribution is projected to be 1.9 per cent of the total labour force growth in Canada. Nevertheless, this is still greater than the Métis share in the Canadian working age population in 2011.
J17|Diagnosing unhappiness dynamics: Evidence from Poland and Russia|This paper studies the determinants of changes in unhappiness rate (low happiness, poverty of happiness, misery) over time. We focus on two post-socialist countries, Poland and Russia, which experienced radical social and economic transformations since the collapse of communism. Using data from the Polish Social Diagnosis project for 1991-2015 and data from the Russian Longitudinal Monitoring Survey for 1994-2014, we investigate the microeconomic determinants of spectacular declines in unhappiness rates observed in the studied periods in Poland (a 56% fall in unhappiness) and Russia (a drop in the range from 46 to 75% depending on the unhappiness threshold chosen). Using a nonlinear decomposition methodology, we split the overall decreases in unhappiness rates into characteristics effects (related to the changing distribution of unhappiness-affecting factors) and coefficients effects (due to changing returns to the unhappiness-affecting factors). Our results show that unhappiness reductions in both countries were mostly driven by coefficient effects, while characteristics played a smaller, but a non-negligible role. In both countries, income growth accounted for about 15% of the total unhappiness reduction. In Russia, this effect was doubled by growing return to income as unhappiness-protecting factor, while in Poland income has been losing protecting power and in overall income had an unhappiness-increasing effect. For Russia, another strong unhappiness-protecting factor was return to employment. In case of Poland, good self-rated health and having children explains additional 15-20% of the unhappiness reduction.
J17|Migration and social mobility within and between countries and its economic consequences in the period of globalization|Ethnic and international conflicts have turned into a real headache for the modern world. The confrontations that have begun between the nations have escalated into serious conflicts that take the lives of thousands of innocent children, women and old people every year. Such conflicts create significant problems not only at the social level, but also at the political and economic level. If a decisive measure to resolve such conflicts has not been taken in a timely manner, the damage may prove irreparable. Our Institute of Global Economic Problems, represented by Natig Shirinzade, Ph.D. and Masters in Economics, Founder and Head of the Institute of Global Economic Problems decided to address this issue in greater detail and highlight the problem of the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict. Being citizens of the Republic of Azerbaijan, we are well acquainted with all the problems caused by interethnic conflicts and the subsequent flow of refugees and temporarily resettled. And therefore, we consider it our duty to cover such topics and bring them to the public court. This is one of the reasons for creating this organization - to provide people with reliable and verified information in order to help them overcome the difficulties of the Epoch of Globalization.
J17|Longevity-induced vertical innovation and the tradeoff between life and growth|Abstract We analyze the economic growth effects of rising longevity in a framework of endogenous growth driven by quality-improving innovations. A rise in longevity increases savings and thereby places downward pressure on the market interest rate. Since the monopoly profits generated by a successful innovation are discounted by the endogenous market interest rate, this raises the net present value of innovations, which, in turn, fosters R&D investments. The associated increase in the employment of scientists leads to faster technological progress and a higher long-run economic growth rate. From a welfare perspective, the direct effect of an increase in life expectancy tends to be larger than the indirect effect of the induced higher consumption due to faster economic growth. Consequently, the debate on rising health care expenditures should not be predominantly based on the growth effects of health care.
J17|The impact of climate change on health expenditures|We study the effect of climate-induced health risks within a continuous time OLG economy with a realistic demography and endogenous mortality. Climate change impacts the economy through two channels. First, a degrading environmental quality increases mortality, affecting the demand for health care. Second, production losses are caused through deteriorating climate conditions and lead to reductions in income. We explore how individuals respond to these climate change impacts with respect to their life-cycle decisions and assess the overall effect on aggregate health care demand. We put special focus on age-specific vulnerabilities of climateinduced health risks and explore the response to climate change across age-groups. We solve the model numerically and show that health care demand is subject to two opposing forces. While climate-induced mortality increases demand for medical care, reduced income tends to lower health spending, particularly among the elderly. Moreover, we find that age-specific vulnerabilities to climate change considerably shape the effect on aggregate health care demand. Our analysis, thus, highlights the important role of a full life-cycle perspective in the estimation of climate-induced health costs.
J17|Medical Progress, Demand for Health Care, and Economic Performance|We study medical progress within an economy of overlapping generations subject to endogenous mortality. We characterize the individual optimum and the general equilibrium of the economy and study the impact of improvements in the effectiveness of health care. We find that general equilibrium effects dampen strongly the increase in health care usage following medical innovation and that an increase in savings offsets the negative impact on GDP per capita of a decline in the support ratio..
J17|Investors' favourite - A different look at valuing individual labour income|Human capital is a key economic factor in both macro- and microeconomics, and, at least for most people, by far their largest asset. We use the Substantial Gain-Loss-Ratio to calculate Good Deal bounds for securitizations of individual labour income one year ahead. Our procedure is applied to US data. We evaluate the attractiveness of hypothetical human capital contracts and can thereby identify investors' favourites.
J17|Household Finance and the Value of Life|We analyze life-cycle saving strategies with a recursive model that is designed to provide reasonable positive values for the value of a statistical life. With a positive value of life, risk aversion amplifies the impact of uncertain survival on the discount rate, and thus reduces savings. Our model also predicts that risk aversion lowers stock market participation and leads to choose more conservative portfolios.
J17|Medical progress, demand for health care, and economic performance|We study medical progress within an economy of overlapping generations subject to endogenous mortality. Individuals demand health care with a view to lowering mortality over their life-cycle. We characterise the individual optimum and the general equilibrium of the economy and study the impact of improvements in the effectiveness of health care. We find that general equilibrium effects dampen strongly the increase in health care usage following medical innovation. Moreover, an increase in savings offsets the negative impact on GDP per capita of a decline in the support ratio.
J17|Aspectos socieconómicos de la mortalidad en el Pacifico colombiano|Este trabajo examina la importancia de factores no económicos en el descenso histórico de la mortalidad y la transición epidemiológica, como lecciones que podrían aplicarse en las regiones menos desarrolladas de Colombia. Se usaron métodos demográficos para evaluar la carga de mortalidad. La evidencia sugiere que la mortalidad por causas externas reduce la esperanza de vida en el Pacífico. Las implicaciones económicas también fueron examinadas. Pese a las diferencias regionales en la disposición a pagar para eliminar los homicidios, otras causas muestran patrones similares. En efecto, suponiendo niveles de riqueza iguales, el riesgo de mortalidad por causas como la enfermedad cerebrovascular y enfermedad isquémica del corazón tendrían valores económicos similares en la región del Pacífico o en Bogotá. Puesto que realmente existen diferencias regionales en los ingresos, el mensaje en materia de salud pública es tomar acciones por igual en todas las regiones, sin tener en cuenta diferencias en el ingreso.
J17|The fatality and morbidity components of the value of statistical life|The fatality risk–money tradeoff that is the value of a statistical life (VSL) may vary with the nature of the fatality event. While all fatalities involve loss of future life expectancy, the morbidity effects and their duration may differ. This article analyzes fatality risks accompanied by morbidity effects of different duration to disentangle the mortality and morbidity components of VSL using data from the Census of Fatal Occupational Injuries (CFOI). The VSL is comprised of the sum of the value of the fatality risk and the value of the morbidity risk. Labor market valuations of morbidity risks are positive, even for fatalities that are caused by traumatic injuries. The value of the fatality risk is the dominant component of VSL, rather than the value of the morbidity risk.
J17|Dread and Risk Elimination Premium for the Value of a Statistical Life|The Value of a Statistical Life (VSL) is a widely used measure of the value of mortality risk reduction. Since VSL should reflect preferences and attitudes to risk, there are reasons to believe that it varies depending on the type of risk involved. It has been argued that cancer should be considered a “dread disease”, which supports the use of a “cancer premium”. The objective of this study is to elicit the existence and size of a cancer premium (for pancreatic cancer and multiple myeloma) in relation to road traffic accidents, sudden cardiac arrest and Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS). Data was collected from 500 individuals in the Swedish general population 50 -74 years old using a web-based questionnaire. Preferences were elicited using the Contingent Valuation method, and a split-sample design was applied to test for scale sensitivity. VSL differs significantly between contexts, being highest for ALS and lowest for road traffic accident. A premium (26-76 %) for cancer was found in relation to road traffic accidents, but not in relation to ALS and sudden cardiac arrest. The premium was higher for cancer with a shorter time from diagnosis to death. Eliminating risk was associated with a premium of around 17 %. Evidence of scale sensitivity was found when comparing WTP for all risks simultaneously. This study shows that there exist a dread premium and risk elimination premium. These factors should be considered when searching for an appropriate value for economic evaluation and health technology assessment.
J17|Measuring the end-of-life premium in cancer using individual ex ante willingness to pay|Abstract For the assessment of value of new therapies in healthcare, Health Technology Assessment (HTA) agencies often review the cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained. Some HTA agencies accept a higher cost per QALY gained when treatment is aimed at prolonging survival for patients with a short expected remaining lifetime, a so-called end-of-life (EoL) premium. The objective of this study is to elicit the existence and size of an EoL premium in cancer. Data was collected from 509 individuals in the Swedish general population 20–80 years old using a web-based questionnaire. Preferences were elicited using subjective risk estimation and the contingent valuation (CV) method. A split-sample design was applied to test for order bias. The mean value of a QALY was MSEK4.8 (€528,000), and there was an EoL premium of 4–10% at 6 months of expected remaining lifetime. Using subjective risk resulted in more robust and valid estimates of the value of a QALY. Order of scenarios did not have a significant impact on the WTP and the result showed scale sensitivity. Our result provides some support for the use of an EoL premium based on individual preferences when expected remaining lifetime is short and below 24 months. Furthermore, we find support for a value of a QALY that is above the current threshold of several HTA agencies.
J17|Value of a QALY and VSI Estimated with the Chained Approach|The value of a Quality-Adjusted Life-Year (QALY) and the Value of a Statistical Injury (VSI) are important measures within health economics and transport economics. Several studies have therefore estimated people’s WTP for these estimates, but most results show problems with scale insensitivity. The Chained Approach (CA) is a method developed to reduce this problem. The objective of this study was to estimate the value of a QALY and VSI in the context of non-fatal road traffic accidents using CA. Data was collected from a total of 800 individuals in the Swedish adult general population using two web-based questionnaires. The result showed evidence of scale sensitivity both within and between samples. The value of a QALY based on trimmed individual estimates where close to constant at €300,000 irrespective of the type and size of the QALY gain. The study shows promising results for using the original CA to estimate the value of a QALY and VSI. It also supports the use of a constant value of a QALY, but at a higher level than what is currently applied by HTA’s.
J17|Chained Approach vs Contingent Valuation for Estimating the Value of Risk Reduction|To decide how much resources to spend on reducing mortality risk, governmental agencies in several countries turn to the value of a statistical life (VSL). VSL has been shown to vary depending on the size of the risk reduction, which indicates that WTP does not increase near-proportional in relation to risk reduction as suggested by standard economic theory. Chained approach (CA) is a stated preference method that was designed to deal with this problem. The objective of this study was to compare CA to the more traditional approach contingent valuation (CV). Data was collected from 500 individuals in the Swedish adult general population using two web-based questionnaires, whereof one based on CA and the other on the CV method. Despite the two different ways of deriving the estimates, the methods showed similar results. The CV result showed scale insensitivity with respect to the size of the risk reduction and disease duration and resulted in more zero and protest response. The CA result did also vary depending on the procedure used, but not when chaining on individual estimates. The CA result was also found to be more sensitive to disease duration and severity. This study provides support for the validity of studies of the WTP for a risk reduction. It also shows that CA is associated with encouraging features for the valuation of non-fatal road traffic accidents, but the result does not support the use of one method over the other.
J17|An investigation into procedure (in)variance in the valuation of mortality risk reductions|This study seeks to investigate whether elicited preferences are affected by the presentation of mortality risks in a stated preference survey. A three-way split sample discrete choice experiment was conducted in which respondents were asked to express their willingness-to-pay for public risk reducing initiatives under different but outcome equivalent representation formats. Our results demonstrate that respondents exhibit much stronger preferences for public life saving interventions when these are framed in terms of avoided fatalities compared to corresponding mortality risk reductions. Furthermore, we find that less numerate respondents are more susceptible to the inclusion of the number of fatalities in the representation format. The same pattern is observed for respondents who express a higher degree of concern for a traffic accident. In conclusion our findings may justify presenting both type of risk information in valuation of mortality risk reductions in public settings.
J17|The Effect of Moving during Childhood on Long Run Income: Evidence from Swedish Register Data|In this paper I study the long-term effects of inter-municipal moving during childhood on income using Swedish register data. Due to the richness of the data I am able to control for important sources of selection into moving, such as parent separation, parents’ unemployment, education, long run income, and immigration background. I find that children’s long run incomes are significantly negatively affected by moving during childhood, and the effect is larger for those who move more often. For children who move once, I also estimate the effect of the timing and the quality of the move. I measure the quality of each neighborhood based on the adult outcomes for individuals who never move; the quality of a move follows as the difference in quality between the origin and the destination. Given that a family moves, I find that the negative effect of childhood moving on adult income is increasing in age at move. Children benefit economically from the quality of the region they move to only if they move before age 12 (sons) and age 16 (daughters).
J17|Essays on Intergenerational Income Mobility, Geographical Mobility, and Education|In Paper [I] we analyze the implications of social identity and self-categorization for optimal redistributive income taxation. A two-type model is supplemented by an assumption that individuals select themselves into social categories, in which norms are formed and education effort choices partly depend on these norms. The results show, among other things, that externality correction by a welfarist government leads to an element of tax progression that serves to reduce the discrepancy between the effort norm and the actual effort chosen by low-productivity individuals in the high-effort group. Furthermore, if the preference for social identity is sufficiently strong, increased wageinequality leads to higher social welfare through a relaxation of the selection constraint. It may thus be desirable to use publicly provided education to induce more wageinequality, even if higher wage-inequality increases the intrinsic utility of a potential mimicker. In Paper [II] I employ high quality register data to present new facts about income mobility in Sweden. The focus of the paper is regional differences in mobility, using a novel approach based on a multilevel model. This method is well-suited when regions differ greatly in population size as is the case in Sweden. The maximum likelihood estimates are substantially more precise than those obtained by running separate OLS regressions. I find small regional differences in income mobility when measured in relative terms. Regional differences are large when adopting an absolute measure and focusing on children with below-median parent income. On the national level I find that the association between parent and child income ranks has decreased over time, implying increased mobility. In Paper [III] I study the long term effects of inter-municipal moving during childhood on income using Swedish register data. Due to the richness of the data I am able to control for important sources of selection into moving, such as parent separation, parents' unemployment, education, long run income, and immigration background. I find that children's long run incomes are significantly negatively affected by moving during childhood, and the effect is larger for those who move more often. For children who move once, I also estimate the effect of the timing and the quality of the move. I measure the quality of each neighborhood based on the adult outcomes for individuals who never move. The quality of a move is defined as the difference in quality between the origin and the destination. Given that a family moves, I find that the negative effect of childhood moving on adult income is increasing in age at move. Children benefit economically from the quality of the region they move to only if they move before age 12 (sons) and age 16 (daughters). Applied research on the association between parent and child lifetime income is relying on income data that covers only part of the life cycle which may lead to misleading estimates of the intergenerational elasticity (IGE). In Paper [IV] I study the bias of IGE estimates for different missing-data scenarios based on simulated income processes. Using an income process from the income dynamics and risks literature to generate two linked generations' complete income histories, I use Monte Carlo methods to study the relationship between available data patterns and the bias of the IGE. I find that the traditional approach using the average of the typically available log income observations leads to IGE estimates that are around 40 percent too small. Moreover, I show that the attenuation bias is not reduced by averaging over many father income observations. Using just one income observation for each generation at the optimal age (as discussed in the paper) or using weighted instead of unweighted averages can reduce the bias. In addition, the rank-rank slope is found to be clearly less sensitive to missing data.
J17|The Impact of Income Inequality, Environmental Degradation and Globalization on Life Expectancy in Pakistan: An Empirical Analysis|Purpose: This study has investigated the impact of income inequality, globalization and environmental degradation on life expectancy in Pakistan. The study uses time series data for the period 1980-2015 for empirical analysis. Methodology: Augmented Dickey-Fuller (ADF) and Phillip and Perron (PP) unit root tests are employed for examining the order of integration of the variables. Auto-Regressive Distributed Lag (ARDL) approach is used for investigating the cointegration among the variables of the model. For examining the causal relationship Granger Causality test is used. Findings: The results of the study reveal that income inequality and environmental degradation have negative and significant impact on life expectancy in Pakistan. On the other hand globalization has positive and significant impact on life expectancy in Pakistan. The results of Granger causality show that there is unidirectional causality running from all independent variables to dependent variable. Recommendations: The study opens new insights for policy makers.
J17|The prodigal son: does the younger brother always care for his parentsin old age?| Studies have shown that the older sibling often chooses to live away from his elderly parents intending to free ride on the care provided by the younger child. In the presented model, we incorporate income effects and depict a different pattern frequently observed in Eastern countries; that is, the older sibling lives near his or her parents and takes care of them in old age. By generalizing the existing model, we show three cases of elderly parents being looked after by (i) the older sibling, (ii) the younger sibling, and (iii) both siblings, depending on the relative magnitude of the income effect and the strategic incentive for one sibling to free ride on the other. Our study also investigates the effect of changes in relative income on the level of total care received by parents.
J17|Dread and latency impacts on a VSL for cancer risk reductions|Abstract We propose a structural relationship between the value of preventing a statistical cancer fatality and the value of statistical life (VSL) for risks of an instantaneous road accident fatality. This relationship incorporates a context effect reflecting both the illness or ‘morbidity’ associated with cancer fatality and the ‘dread’ or horror associated with the prospect of eventual death from cancer, as well as a latency effect that captures the discounting likely to arise because the onset of the symptoms of cancer typically occurs after some delay. We use a Risk-Risk trade-off study to validate this model by directly estimating the influence of context and latency effects upon the relative size of the VSL for cancer and for road accidents, confirming that both effects are significant and estimating their size using regression analysis. We show that morbidity accounts for the majority of the context premium. We use the elicited coefficients to reconstruct VSL estimates for a range of cancers characterised by their latency and morbidity periods.
J17|Reducing risks in wartime through capital-labor substitution: Evidence from World War II|Abstract Our research uses data from multiple archival sources to examine substitution among armored (tank-intensive), infantry (troop-intensive), and airborne (also troop-intensive) military units, as well as mid-war reorganizations of each type, to estimate the marginal cost of reducing U.S. fatalities in World War II, holding constant mission effectiveness, usage intensity, and task difficulty. If the government acted as though it equated marginal benefits and costs, the marginal cost measures the implicit value placed on soldiers’ lives. Our preferred estimates indicate that infantrymen’s lives were valued in 2009 dollars between $0 and $0.5 million and armored troops’ lives were valued between $2 million and $6 million, versus the efficient $1 million to $2 million 1940s-era private value of life. Reorganizations of the armored and airborne divisions both increased efficiency, one by reducing costs with little increase in fatalities and the other by reducing fatalities with little increase in costs.
J17|Factors Affecting of Commuter Migrant Traders Income from Tanah Mas Village to Palembang City|This study aimed to analyze the factors that affect the income of migrant traders in the informal sector who do commuting of Tanah Mas village to the Palembang city. This research was done using descriptive quantitative primary data. This research was conducted at the Tanah Mas village. Populations of migrant populations who do commuting are 398 people. Proportional stratified random sampling is selected to determine of sample. Samples are 100 migrants’ commuter traders. Multiple regression analysis was used to measure the effect of independent variables (marital status, number of family, length of work, mode of transportation, type of merchandise, and motivation of commuter traders) on the dependent variable (commuter trader income ). The study found that marital status, number of family, length of work, mode of transportation, type of merchandise, and motivation commuter traders have significantly affect to migrant income the Tanah Mas village to Palembang city. Partially, the number of family, mode of transportation, and the type of merchandise have significantly affect to commuter traders income, whereas marital status, length of work, and motivation commuter trader have not significantly affect the commuter trader income.
J17|Multi-dimensional Living Standards: A Welfare Measure Based on Preferences|We compute a distribution-adjusted welfare measure that aggregates outcomes in three dimensions of well-being, namely income, employment and longevity. Aggregation weights reflect preferences of people on these dimensions. The welfare measure is calculated for 26 OECD countries and selected emerging economies, and covers about three decades. Relying on a single theoretical model of a hypothetical representative agent, we combine life satisfaction regressions to capture the full welfare losses of unemployment with a calibration approach to capture the value of longevity. We test for robustness of results over a series of datasets and specifications and find that the resulting estimated shadow prices of (one percentage point of) unemployment and one year of longevity average 2% and 6% of income respectively. While we assume an identical utility function for all individuals, shadow prices of unemployment and longevity vary both across countries and within countries across income groups. We find that economic growth differs significantly from the growth of our welfare measure. The latter grew faster than GDP thanks to the gains that countries experienced on longevity, but was also more volatile due to changes in unemployment. Rising income inequality exerts a negative effect on our welfare measure. Gains in longevity have almost the same impact on welfare as income growth, while the long-term impact of employment was smaller. Nous calculons une mesure de niveau de vie ajustée pour le degré d’inégalité et agrégeant le revenu, l’emploi et l’espérance de vie. Les poids associés à ces dimensions reflètent les préférences des populations. Cette mesure de niveau de vie qui couvre trois décennies est calculée pour 26 pays de l’OCDE et une sélection de pays émergeants. En nous basant sur un modèle théorique unique d’un agent représentatif hypothétique, nous combinons des régressions de satisfaction envers la vie pour capter le coût social du chômage avec une approche de calibration pour rendre compte de la valeur monétaire de la longévité. Nous testons la robustesse des résultats à l’aide d’un ensemble de bases de données et de spécifications différentes, et nous trouvons que les prix fictifs estimés d’un point de pourcentage de chômage et d’une année d’espérance de vie sont en moyenne respectivement égaux à 2% et 6% du revenu des ménages. Alors qu’une fonction d’utilité unique est utilisée pour tous les individus, les prix fictifs du chômage et de l’espérance de vie varient à la fois entre pays et entre groupes de revenu à l’intérieur des pays. Nous montrons que la croissance économique diffère significativement de la croissance de notre mesure de niveau de vie. Celle-ci a crû plus vite que le PIB en vertu des gains d’espérance de vie, mais a été également plus volatile à cause des variations du taux de chômage. L’augmentation des inégalités de revenu a exercé un effet négatif sur notre mesure de niveau de vie. Les gains d’espérance de vie ont eu pratiquement le même impact sur le niveau de vie que la croissance économique, alors que l’impact de long-terme de l’emploi a été plus faible.
J17|Islamic Tourism Development in Cirebon: The Study Heritage Tourism in Islamic Economic Perspective|Cirebon as a tourist town to face the problems related to the management of tourist attractions, hotel business development, renovation of buildings or cultural heritage, and the economic development of local communities in tourist locations. The needs of tourists and pilgrims is also a concern with fulfillment facilities that can give satisfaction and comfort. With the approach of explorative qualitative research, which explores the potential of tourism development or shari'a in Cirebon concluded that the tourism development of the Shari'ah requires management function in creative and innovative based on starategis planning, consistent implementation, and evaluation of the measured and constructive embody the values of Shariah in existing tourist attractions in Cirebon.
J17|Impact of Human Capital on Economic Growth: A Panel Study|Pakistan is in the race of economic development like other developing countries. The government of Pakistan, like that of other developing countries would invest in human capital at the expense of its economic growth. This issue is more sensitive in nature, which is going to explored through the relationship between human capital and economic growth in case of panel of eleven (11) countries. This investigation is accomplished by using the panel data during the period 1992-2014. The gross domestic product (GDP) as the economic indicator and the investment, net secondary school enrollment, health expenditures, total labor force and life expectancy at birth as the human capital indicator. The panel econometrics tools like Panel Augmented Dickey Fuller (ADF) unit root test, Pooled OLS test, fixed effect test, redundant variable f-test and Hausman test are applied to investigate such relationship. The results derived by applying these panel econometrics tools show that there is a long term relationship between the real gross domestic product (GDP) and human capital in fixed effect OLS test.
J17|Estimating the membership function of the fuzzy willingness-to-pay/accept for health via Bayesian modelling|Determining how to trade off individual criteria is often not obvious, especially when attributes of very different nature are juxtaposed, e.g. health and money. The difficulty stems both from the lack of adequate market experience and strong ethical component when valuing some goods, resulting in inherently imprecise preferences. Fuzzy sets can be used to model willingness-to-pay/accept (WTP/WTA), so as to quantify this imprecision and support the decision making process. The preferences need then to be estimated based on available data. In the paper I show how to estimate the membership function of fuzzy WTP/WTA, when decision makers’ preferences are collected via survey with Likert-based questions. I apply the proposed methodology to an exemplary data set on WTP/WTA for health. The mathematical model contains two elements: the parametric representation of the membership function and the mathematical model how it is translated into Likert options. The model parameters are estimated in a Bayesian approach using Markov-chain Monte Carlo. The results suggest a slight WTPWTA disparity and WTA being more fuzzy as WTP. The model is fragile to single respondents with lexicographic preferences, i.e. not willing to accept any trade-offs between health and money.
J17|“How powerful is demography? The serendipity theorem revisited” comment on De la Croix et al. (2012)|Abstract Samuelson’s (Int Econ Rev 16(3):531-538, 1975) serendipity theorem states that the “goldenest golden rule” steady-state equilibrium can be obtained by a competitive two-period overlapping generation economy with capital accumulation, provided that the optimal growth rate prevails. De la Croix et al. (J Popul Econ 25:899-922, 2012) extended the scope of the theorem by showing that it also holds for risky lifetime. With this note, we introduce medical expenditure as a determinant of the probability of surviving to old age to prove the theorem. The original as well as all extended versions of the serendipity theorem, however, fail to prove that second-order conditions are satisfied in general. Still, unlike De la Croix et al. (J Popul Econ 25:899-922, 2012), we can exclude the existence of corner solutions where the probability of reaching old age is zero or one. The zero survival probability case becomes irrelevant if the option to randomize between death and life utility is taken into account. Survival with certainty is ruled out if the marginal cost of survival is increasing. Hence, the optimal survival probability represents an interior solution. Furthermore, we show for the optimal survival probability that the value of a statistical life is positive and equal to its marginal cost.
J17|The demographic development of the Russia Arctic area’s cities|The issues of the development of the Arctic area of Russia that are linked with its importance for the economy of Russia provide the necessity to study its population. The Arctic area population is mostly an urban one, that’s why the special consideration to it should be taken. We examined the size, the age-sex structure and the natural movement of the urban population of the Russia’s Arctic area. As a result, the regions that belong to the Arctic area have the natural population increase, but its losses from the migratory movement are higher, so the population of the Russia’s Arctic area has been decreasing. At the conclusion different ways of the demographic development of the Russia’s Arctic area and some measures of the demographic policy encourage the population increase are discussed
J17|Preschool Child Care Costs In The Cost Structure For A Child: Theoretical Analysis|Under modern conditions in a view of the necessity of the efficient money spending and of the monitoring of the estimation of the demographic policy efficiency to create the costs structure for a child classification is highly up to date. The aim of the article is to investigate the cost for a child and to assign the place of the spendings for preschool child care and character building within the costs for a child classification framework. To achieve the aim, we identified the child care performers and their functions. Then we examined the existed cost for a child classifications for each performer. A family is the most important one, that’s why the special emphasis was focused on its spendings. We specified possible approaches for estimating the costs for a child while a special emphasis on the spendings for child care and character building was laid. As a result, a functional classification that allows to specificate such spendings was chosen. To manage social and economic processes better, to develop the preschool institutions system and to develop more effective fertility and labour policies the more active investigation of the spendings for child care and the classification of such spendings are needed. Also to consider child care as labour is very important because this will allow to increase its reputation and the quality of life for families with children.
J17|Medical care within an OLG economy with realistic demography|We study the role of health care within a continuous time economy of overlapping generations subject to endogenous mortality. The economy consists of two sectors: final goods production and a health care sector, selling medical services to individuals. Individuals demand health care with a view to lowering mortality over their life-cycle. We derive the age-specific individual demand for health care based on the value of life as well as the resulting aggregate demand for health care across the population. We then characterize the general equilibrium allocation of this economy, providing both an analytical and a numerical representation. We study the allocational impact of a medical innovation both in the presence and absence of anticipation; and a temporary baby boom. We place particular emphasis on disentangling general equilibrium from partial equilibrium impacts and identifying the relevant transmission channels.
J17|Folic acid advisories: a public health challenge?|Neural tube defects are neurological conditions affecting 1 in 1000 foetuses in France each year. If a foetus is affected there is a 90% chance of the pregnancy being terminated. Increasing folic acid intake over 400Î¼g per day two months before and two months after conception reduces prevalence rates by 80%. Two types of government interventions exist to increase intake and reduce prevalence rates: (1) fortification of staple food, which increases population intake indiscriminately; (2) social marketing seeking to increase intake of conceiving women through information provision. France opted for the latter and has implemented it since mid-2005. This paper sets up a quasi-experimental setting to measure the impact of the french social marketing campaign on consumption using a reduced form approach. I combine a detailed scanner data on grocery purchases with a dataset on macro- and micro- nutrients. Identification exploits the variation in the usefulness of folic acid information between households: households that are conceiving or want to conceive a child use it, while those that are not conceiving do not. Results suggest evidence of a positive impact of the information policy on folic acid household availability and preferences. A value per statistical life for children is found to be at least of e 17 millions.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J17|Medical Care within an OLG Economy with Realistic Demography|We study the role of health care within a continuous time economy of overlapping generations subject to endogenous mortality. The economy consists of two sectors: final goods production and a health care sector, selling medical services to individuals. Individuals demand health care with a view to lowering mortality over their life-cycle. We derive the age-specific individual demand for health care based on the value of life as well as the resulting aggregate demand for health care across the population. We then characterize the general equilibrium allocation of this economy, providing both an analytical and a numerical representation. We study the allocational impact of a medical innovation both in the presence and absence of anticipation; and a temporary baby boom. We place particular emphasis on disentangling general equilibrium from partial equilibrium impacts and identifying the relevant transmission channels.
J17|The gender gap in mortality: How much is explained by behavior?|In developed countries, women are expected to live about 4–5 years longer than men. In this paper, we develop a novel approach to gauge the extent to which gender differences in longevity can be attributed to gender-specific preferences and health behavior. We set up a physiologically founded model of health deficit accumulation and calibrate it using recent insights from gerontology. From fitting life cycle health expenditure and life expectancy, we obtain estimates of the gender-specific preference parameters. We then perform the counterfactual experiment of endowing women with the preferences of men. In our benchmark scenario, this reduces the gender gap in life expectancy from 4.6 to 1.4 years. When we add gender-specific preferences for unhealthy consumption, the model can motivate up to 89 percent of the gender gap. Our theory offers also an economic explanation for why the gender gap declines with rising income.
J17|Disentangling the Gender Gap in Longevity|In developed countries, women are expected to live about 4-5 years longer than men. In this paper we develop a novel approach in order to gauge to what extent gender health differences in longevity can be attributed to gender-specific preferences and health behavior. For that purpose we set up a physiologically founded model of health deficit accumulation and calibrate it using recent insights from gerontology. From fitting life cycle health expenditure and life expectancy we obtain estimates of the gender-specific preference parameters. We then perform the counterfactual experiment of endowing women with the preferences of men. In our benchmark scenario this reduces the gender gap in life expectancy from 4.6 to 2.1 years, suggesting that 54 percent of women's superior longevity can be attributed to preferences and health behavior. When we add gender-specific preferences for unhealthy consumption, the model can motivate up to 91 percent of the gender gap. Our theory explains also why the gender gap narrows with rising income.
J17|Going from bad to worse: Adaptation to poor health health spending, longevity, and the value of life|Unhealthy people adapt to their poor state of health and are usually happier than expected by healthy people. In this paper, we investigate how adapting to a deteriorating state of health affects health spending, life expectancy, and the value of life. We set up a life-cycle model in which individuals are subject to physiological aging, calibrate it with data from gerontology, and compare behavior and outcomes of adapting and non-adapting individuals. While adaptation generally increases lifetime utility (by about 2 percent), its impact on health behavior and longevity depends crucially on whether individuals are aware of their adaptive behavior, i.e. whether they adapt in a naive or sophisticated way. We also compute the QALY change implied by health shocks and discuss whether and how adaptation influences results and the desirability of positive health innovations.
J17|New Estimates of the Value of a Statistical Life Using Air Bag Regulations as a Quasi-experiment|Due to federal regulations, automobile air bag availability was a model-specific discontinuous function of model year for used vehicles in the 1990s and early 2000s. We use the discontinuities and the gradual increase in the supply of air bags to trace out the demand curve for air bags and the implied distribution of the Value of a Statistical Life (VSL) across consumers. Although imprecise, our preferred point estimates indicate that the median VSL is between $9 million and $11 million and that a sizable portion of consumers placed negative values on air bags, probably due to distrust of the technology. (JEL D12, J17, L51, L62)
J17|The Welfare Cost Of Antimicrobial Resistance - Tuberculosis As An Illustrative Example|The recent increase in antimicrobial resistance has received concern from the government and media. The twentieth century history of tuberculosis in England and Wales presented here shows that some of the more extreme apocalyptic scenarios are unlikely. The paper shows that preventive medicine can play a major role; that the threat should reduce the use of antimicrobials; and the scope for government to intervene with sound public health policies. The paper also estimates the value of twentieth century health gains associated with eliminating tuberculosis in England and Wales to be worth at least $127 billion, which provides a warning about the potential gains that could be lost without initiatives to prevent antimicrobial resistance.
J17|Le déficit de cycle de vie en France: une évaluation pour la période 1979-2011<BR>[The lifecycle deficit for France: an evaluation for 1979-2011]|This article presents the age profiles of consumption and labor incomes computed for France following the methodology of the National Transfer Accounts. The life-cycle deficit, which is obtained by the difference between the consumption and income profiles, permits to measure the contribution of active age classes to the financing of the consumption of dependent age classes. Labor income and consumption profiles are decomposed at both the individual and the aggregate levels and their evolution between 1979 and 2011 are presented. International comparisons are also proposed.
J17|Differences in height by education among 371,105 Dutch military conscripts|Adult height is associated with a variety of familial and socio-economic factors and large, well-defined populations are needed for a reliable assessment of their relative contributions. We therefore analyzed recorded heights from the military health examinations of 18-year conscripts in the Netherlands born between 1944 and 1947 and observed large differences by their attained education and by their father's occupation. The 5.1cm height gradient from lowest to highest education level was more than twice as large as the gradient between father's occupation levels. The education gradient was not explained by common determinants of height including paternal occupation as a measure of familial background, region of birth, family size, or religion.
J17|Willingness to pay for public health policies to treat illnesses|As the US pursues health care reform, it is important to understand the patterns in demand for, and opposition to, public provision of medical treatments. Using data from a nationally representative survey, we develop and estimate a utility-theoretic choice model to quantify demand for publicly provided medical treatment policies. We find diminishing marginal utility for increased recoveries and avoided premature deaths. We also show how the utility associated with different types of treatment policies varies with the socio-demographic group that would benefit (e.g. men, women, children, and seniors) and the program's duration and scope. Our model further permits utility, and hence willingness to pay, to vary with each respondent's own gender, age, race, income, community ethnic fractionalization and immigrant composition, as well as the respondent's expected private benefits from the policy and attitude toward government interventions and overall health care funding allocations. Self-interest is a prevailing finding.
J17|Subjective Truths|__Abstract__ On the one hand, economists heavily rely on hard numbers: GDP, growth rate, and exchange rates. On the other hand, their explanations often rely on soft factors: executive confidence in the economy, consumer sentiment, and investor expectations. The hard numbers are objective, but the soft factors are subjective and depend on each individual. Economists increasingly recognize the need to study subjective factors. The first part of the lecture illustrates the key role of subjective truths in modern economics. For instance, measures of subjective well-being are now being proposed to replace or at least complement GDP. Economic policies often rely on subjective forecasting by experts. The second part of the lecture will show that even though they are subjective, the soft factors can still be studied objectively. We will see how to incentivize people to reveal their expectations about future events but also their confidence in their expectations. Finally, I will show how to make people reveal truths that are completely unverifiable.
J17|The Effect of Farmer-Pastoralist Violence on Income: New Survey Evidence from Nigeria’s Middle Belt States|This study estimates the relationship between violent conflict and household income in four states of Nigeria’s Middle Belt region (Benue, Kaduna, Nasarawa, and Plateau) where farmers and pastoralists routinely clash over access to farmland, grazing areas, stock routes, and water points for animals and households. Although relatively low in intensity, this form of violence is widespread, persistent, and arguably increasing in its incidence. We obtained data on income and household-level violence exposure from an original household survey administered in September 2014. Employing a negative binomial instrumental variables model, we find an inverse relation between violence and household incomes. Incomes could be increased by between 64 to 210 percent of current levels if violence related to farmer-pastoralist conflict in the four study states were reduced to near-zero. Cumulatively, we find that forgone income represents 10.2 percent of the combined official state domestic product in the study area. This is high when compared to the costs of conflict measured in other studies, even as our study takes account only of microeconomic costs. After incorporating an estimate of the size of the informal economy, the microeconomic cost of farmer-pastoralist conflict to the total economy is approximately 2.9 percent.
J17|Quality, Quantity and Duration of Lives|The evaluation of development processes and of public policies often involves comparisons of social states that differ in income distributions, population sizes and life longevity. This may require social evaluation principles to be sensitive to the quality, the quantity and the duration of lives. This paper 1) reviews some of the normative issues at stake, 2) proposes and discusses some specific methods to address them in a generalized utilitarian framework, and 3) briefly illustrates the application of some of these methods to the global distribution of incomes, population sizes and longevity over the last century. Depending on the approach taken, it is found inter alia that global social welfare in 2010 can be deemed to be between 1.8 and 407 times that of 1910, the role given to the quantity of lives being particularly important in that assessment.
J17|Quality, Quantity and Duration of Lives|The evaluation of development processes and of public policies often involves comparisons of social states that differ in income distributions, population sizes and life longevity. This may require social evaluation principles to be sensitive to the quality, the quantity and the duration of lives. This paper 1) reviews some of the normative issues at stake, 2) proposes and discusses some specific methods to address them in a generalized utilitarian framework, and 3) briefly illustrates the application of some of these methods to the global distribution of incomes, population sizes and longevity over the last century. Depending on the approach taken, it is found inter alia that global social welfare in 2010 can be deemed to be between 1.8 and 407 times that of 1910, the role given to the quantity of lives being particularly important in that assessment.
J17|Socio-Economic Determinants of Child and Juvenile Sex Ratios in India: A Longitudinal Analysis with District-Level Data|The paper examines the determinants of the child and juvenile sex ratios in India in a multivariate framework, using district level data from the 1981, 1991, and 2001 Indian population censuses. The results strongly suggest that there are deep rooted cultural factors at play in the determination of the sex ratios at birth and at early ages, cultural factors that are not much responsive to the enhancement of women's agency or to economic development. However, the results also show that the behaviour of the juvenile sex ratio does respond to the enhancement of women's agency and to economic development. Policy implications of these findings are considered.
J17|Quality Management in Social Service Organizations|"Due to the changed political situation at the beginning of the nineties a Quality â€“ Boom started in Germany at all levels of the economy. Scientific research couldnâ€™t answer the question whether â€“ if so, how - the use of Quality Management changed the management of social services organizations. The present paper focuses on the following question: How does the use of quality management can improve the activity of social service organizations? To reduce the complexity of this issue, it seems obvious to select a particular perspective: the experience of executives, the oneswho play a central role in quality management matters. Overall, it seems this obvious, not to focus this paper on monetary effects. The practical relevance of article should therefore be formulated as a provisional working hypothesis: from the combination of the different perspectives should be proved that quality management - regardless of which system or what ""quality philosophy"" it operates â€“ must be seen as positive effects on this very important sectors of social service organizations."
J17|The impact of pharmaceutical innovation on premature cancer mortality in Canada, 2000–2011|The premature cancer mortality rate has been declining in Canada, but there has been considerable variation in the rate of decline across cancer sites. I analyze the effect that pharmaceutical innovation had on premature cancer mortality in Canada during the period 2000–2011, by investigating whether the cancer sites that experienced more pharmaceutical innovation had larger declines in the premature mortality rate, controlling for changes in the incidence rate. Premature mortality before age 75 is significantly inversely related to the cumulative number of drugs registered at least 10 years earlier. Since mean utilization of drugs that have been marketed for less than 10 years is only one-sixth as great as mean utilization of drugs that have been marketed for at least a decade, it is not surprising that premature mortality is strongly inversely related only to the cumulative number of drugs that had been registered at least ten years earlier. Premature mortality before age 65 and 55 is also strongly inversely related to the cumulative number of drugs that had been registered at least ten years earlier. None of the estimates of the effect of incidence on mortality are statistically significant. Controlling for the cumulative number of drugs, the cumulative number of chemical subgroups does not have a statistically significant effect on premature mortality. This suggests that drugs (chemical substances) within the same class (chemical subgroup) are not therapeutically equivalent. During the period 2000–2011, the premature (before age 75) cancer mortality rate declined by about 9 %. The estimates imply that, in the absence of pharmaceutical innovation during the period 1985–1996, the premature cancer mortality rate would have increased about 12 % during the period 2000–2011. A substantial decline in the “competing risk” of death from cardiovascular disease could account for this. The estimates imply that pharmaceutical innovation during the period 1985–1996 reduced the number of years of potential life lost to cancer before age 75 in 2011 by 105,366. The cost per life-year before age 75 gained from previous pharmaceutical innovation is estimated to have been 2730 USD. Most of the previously-registered drugs were off-patent by 2011, but evidence suggests that, even if these drugs had been sold at branded rather than generic prices, the cost per life-year gained would have been below 11,000 USD, a figure well below even the lowest estimates of the value of a life-year gained. The largest reductions in premature mortality occur at least a decade after drugs are registered, when their utilization increases significantly. This suggests that, if Canada is to obtain substantial additional reductions in premature cancer mortality in the future (a decade or more from now) at a modest cost, pharmaceutical innovation (registration of new drugs) is needed today. Copyright The Author(s) 2015
J17|Valuing gains in life expectancy: Clarifying some ambiguities|It is well-understood that a given gain in life expectancy can, in principle, be generated by any one of an infinite number of different types of perturbation in an individual’s survival function. Since it seems unlikely that the typical individual will be indifferent between these various types of perturbation, the idea that there exists a unique willingness to pay-based Value of a Statistical Life Year (VSLY), even for individuals within a given age-group, appears to be ill-founded. This paper examines the issue from a theoretical perspective. Within the context of a simple multi-period model it transpires that if gains in life expectancy are computed on an undiscounted basis then it will indeed be necessary to adjust the magnitude of the VSLY to accommodate the nature of the perturbation in the survival function, as well as the age of those affected. If, by contrast, gains in life expectancy are computed on an appropriately discounted basis then a unique VSLY will be applicable in all cases. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
J17|The value of a statistical life for transportation regulations: A test of the benefits transfer methodology|Policy applications of the value of a statistical life (VSL) often make a benefits transfer assumption that the VSL from one market context is broadly applicable to other contexts. The U.S. Department of Transportation’s estimate of $9.2 million is based on labor market estimates of VSL. This article examines whether there are any significant differences in labor market estimates of the VSL by the nature of the fatality, utilizing two different approaches that distinguish between fatalities resulting from transportation events and vehicle-related sources based on the Census of Fatal Occupational Injuries (CFOI) data. The labor market estimates of VSL generalize across transport and non-transport contexts so that it is appropriate to use labor market estimates of VSL to value the benefits of transport regulations. This result holds even after accounting for the level and composition of nonfatal job injuries. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
J17|Preferences for life-expectancy gains: Sooner or later?|We assess individuals’ preferences for time paths of reductions in mortality risk yielding a life-expectancy gain of about 1 month. In a survey of more than 1000 French residents, we find substantial coherence and heterogeneity. We elicit pairwise preferences between three perturbations of age- and gender-specific survival curves: transient (reduce hazard for next 10 years), additive (reduce hazard in all future years by subtracting a constant), and proportional (reduce hazard in all future years by a common fraction). The preference order implied by these pairwise responses is transitive for 85% of respondents. The most common preference orders, accounting for more than half the respondents, are strict indifference, proportional ≻ additive ≻ transient, and the inverse of that ranking. These are consistent with globally risk-neutral, risk-seeking, and risk-averse preferences toward longevity, respectively. Choices between one of these scenarios and a latent version that provides no risk reduction for the first 10 or 20 years are consistent with these risk postures. The mean and median consumption-discount rates are 12 and 5% per year, respectively, and the average coefficient of relative risk aversion with respect to financial gambles is about 0.5. Preferences toward the time path of mortality-risk reduction are not strongly associated with individual characteristics, although respondents who are older or exhibit higher consumption-discount rates tend to exhibit less longevity-risk aversion. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
J17|Marital bargaining in the demand for life insurance: evidence from the Health and Retirement Study|A vast literature explores life insurance from the perspective of a single individual. This paper considers an alternative approach by developing and testing a theoretical model for term life insurance demand by married households over age 50. Allowing for joint, cooperative decision making between spouses, empirical findings show that increasing the relative bargaining power of husbands results in reductions in the size of the insurance policies covering the lives of husbands in a manner consistent with theory. The intuition is that households reallocate resources to states of nature that husbands place greater weight by reducing the amount spent on purchasing insurance covering the lives of husbands. In contrast, marital bargaining power generally has a substantially smaller effect in the demand for life insurance covering the lives of wives. However, when bargaining power is shifted towards husbands, life insurance coverage increases among the subsample of wives who provide a large proportion of total household income and are more likely to require protection against lost future income in the event of death. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
J17|Technology and the Changing Family: A Unified Model of Marriage, Divorce, Educational Attainment, and Married Female Labor-Force Participation|Marriage has declined since 1960, with the drop being more significant for noncollege-educated individuals versus college-educated ones. Divorce has increased, more so for the noncollege-educated. Additionally, positive assortative mating has risen. Income inequality among households has also widened. A unified model of marriage, divorce, educational attainment, and married female labor-force participation is developed and estimated to fit the postwar US data. Two underlying driving forces are considered: technological progress in the household sector and shifts in the wage structure. The analysis emphasizes the joint role that educational attainment, married female labor-force participation, and marital structure play in determining income inequality. (JEL D13, D31, D83, I20, J12, J16, O33)
J17|Modeling and projecting mortality. A new model of heterogeneity and selection in survivorship|The demographic and epidemiological literature offers abundant examples of a range of shortcomings of statistical modeling to describe mortality by sex, age, time/cohort, and cause-of-death. Statistical modeling of mortality operating with implicitly homogenous sub-groupings exposed to mortality risk fails to consider latent biological heterogeneity at the level of individuals, and thereby important biological and social selection of survivorship. Defined on the state space of the simple life model, this study presents a proportional hazard model that makes up for such drawbacks as far as latent biological heterogeneity is concerned. The model describes heterogeneity and selection in individual survivorship by iterative stochastic micro simulation using cohort-based population mortality as an empirical benchmark. The model offers efficient linkage between past assorted mortality, on one hand, and informed anticipation of future heterogeneous survivorship, on the other hand. The combination of stochastic micro-simulation and log-linear modeling of the period effect or trend uncovered under the model makes the new Heterogeneity and Selection Model a powerful analytic and predictive tool of survivorship. Postulating a trend independent of age makes the popular Lee-Carter model (1992) unfit for professional demographic and actuarial use. Moreover, by sweeping latent biological heterogeneity under the rug, mortality analysis and projection based on central rates such as the Lee-Carter model (1992) underrates mortality in the mature and elderly ages. This is demonstrated by comparing current official mortality projections of Sweden, Denmark, and England & Wales to a set of alternative mortality projections under the Heterogeneity and Selection Model.
J17|Sind Rentner zufriedener? Eine Panelanalyse von Antizipations- und Adaptionseffekten|Für den Einzelnen wie aber auch für die Gesellschaft insgesamt ist die Frage nach der Lebensqualität und Lebenszufriedenheit im demographischen Wandel mit nun länger andauernder Phase nach dem Eintritt in den Ruhestand von besonderer Bedeutung. Die vorliegende Studie will zur Entwicklung der Lebenszufriedenheit einen empirisch fundierten Beitrag leisten und für Deutschland insbesondere die Lebenszufriedenheit vor und nach einem markanten Ereignis, dem Renteneintritt, quantifizieren und dafür Erklärungsmuster finden. Vor allem wird mit den individuellen Verlaufsdaten des Sozio-ökonomischen Panels und der entsprechenden mikroökonometrischen Panelanalyse analysiert, ob die individuelle Lebenszufriedenheit tatsächlich vor dem Renteneintritt absinkt, der Renteneintritt sie hochschnellen lässt und sie nach einer gewissen Zeit wieder auf das vorherige Niveau der Lebenszufriedenheit absinkt. Zu klären wird also zu sein, ob sich ein solches Muster herausschält und wie bedeutend Antizipation und Adaption – bekannt von anderen markanten Ereignissen - für die Lebenszufriedenheit vor und nach dem Renteneintritt in Deutschland sind.
J17|Diabetes and Diet: Behavioral Response and the Value of Health|Individuals with obesity often appear reluctant to undertake dietary changes. Evaluating the reasons for this reluctance, as well as appropriate policy responses, is hampered by a lack of data on behavioral response to dietary advice. I use household scanner data to estimate food purchase response to a diagnosis of diabetes, a common complication of obesity. I infer diabetes diagnosis within the scanner data from purchases of glucose testing products. Households engage in statistically significant but small calorie reductions following diagnosis. The changes are sufficient to lose 4 to 8 pounds in the first year, but are only about 10% of what would be suggested by a doctor. The scanner data allows detailed analysis of changes by food type. In the first month after diagnosis, healthy foods increase and unhealthy foods decrease. However, only the decreases in unhealthy food persist. Changes are most pronounced on large, unhealthy, food categories. Those individuals whose pre-diagnosis diet is concentrated in one or a few foods groups show bigger subsequent calorie reductions, with these reductions occurring primarily occurring in these largest food groups. I suggest the facts may be consistent with a psychological framework in which rule-based behavior change is more successful. I compare the results to a policy of taxes or subsidies.
J17|Happiness Inequality in China|Along with China becoming an upper-middle-income country from a lower-middle-income one after 2009, the happiness inequality in China has been enlarged. Based on the Chinese General Social Survey (CGSS) database (2003-2012), this paper investigates the determinants of the happiness inequality in China and explores what factors contribute to its enlargement after 2009. We find that a rise of income inequality as well as the population share of middle age cohorts can widen China’s happiness inequality, while an increase in income or education level has a reducing impact. Owning a house and being in employment also have happiness inequality reducing impacts. A decomposition analysis shows that the deterioration of China’s happiness inequality is mainly caused by coefficient effects, i.e., the relationships between happiness inequality and its influencing factors have changed, which reflects the dramatic change in the Chinese economy and society. Among the coefficient effects, regional heterogeneity plays an important role. Policies enhancing economic performance and education as well as reducing income inequality and regional inequality can help to reduce happiness inequality and improve social harmony in China.
J17|Estimating the Value of Life, Injury, and Travel Time Saved Using a Stated Preference Framework|The incidence of death and injury from automobile accidents in North Cyprus is 3.6 times greater than the average for the EU. With the prospect of North Cyprus entering the EU, many investments will need to be undertaken in order to reduce these figures and reach EU norms. A key task will be to select the investments that are justified on the basis of a cost–benefit or cost–effectiveness analysis and not to waste resources through poor project selection. The objective of this study is to provide local estimates of the value of a statistical life and injury along with the value of time savings. These are among the key parameters needed for the evaluation of the benefits of such projects. In this study we conducted a stated choice experiment to identify the preferences and trade-offs of automobile drivers in North Cyprus for improved travel times, travel costs and safety. The choice of route was examined using mixed logit models to obtain the marginal utilities associated with each attribute of the routes that consumers choose. These estimates were used to assess the individuals’ willingness to pay (WTP) to avoid fatalities and injuries and to save travel time. We then used the results to obtain community-wide estimates of the value of a statistical life (VSL) saved, the value of injury (VI) prevented, and the value per hour of travel time saved.
J17|Reflexive and experience-based trust and participatory research: Concept and methods to meet complexity and uncertainty in organisations|In the course of general changes in work, informal processes are becoming ever more important, and the question emerges how to understand and organise them. This is a great challenge for research. Quantitative research methods are confronted with the problem that complex processes cannot be investigated and understood by simple inquiry. Qualitative methods are more adequate but should be complemented by participatory research methods in order to really grasp the phenomena. This article demonstrates the potential of participatory research to meet this challenge, using the concept of reflexive experience-based trust as a regulation resource in enterprises. This leads to a discussion of basic questions of social research: the separation of researcher and “object of research” is called into question as well as the separation of means, ends and objects of research. A concrete research and design project is presented which exemplifies the potentials of participatory research and the notion of reflexive experience-based trust.
J17|Children, Dynastic Altruism and the Wealth of Nations|The effective life span, or quantity of life, of an altruistic parent extends beyond her own longevity. It is also determined by the number and longevity of her descendants. Using a calibrated version of the Barro-Becker model, I derive and estimate measures of effective quantity of life and of relative well-being for representative individuals of 116 countries between 1970 and 2005. I find that the gains in effective quantity of life arising from longevity improvements were on average more than offset by the losses due to fertility reductions. Effective quantity of life in the world fell by more than 7 percent during the period 1970-2005. Contrary to previous estimates, I find that the effective growth rate of well-being in the world, taking into account quantity and quality of life, was significantly below the growth rate of per-capita consumption. (Copyright: Elsevier)
J17|Values and model roles of modern Russian youth in the context of post-industrial sociality|"On the basis of the scientific literature post-industrial sociality key characteristics associated with the central role of an independent and purposeful person, the article reveals the degree of autonomy in the implementation of its own life strategy and focus on improving their ""Knowledge"" potential as well as the main tendencies of forming the system of life values of Russian students. Based on the comparative study it highlights the key differences in values and characteristics of young people of the last century and modern young people.The article is the theoretical and legal research of the social activity of youth in post-industrial society based on the example of Russian students. The method of this research is survey methodology. The tool of data collection was quantitative investigation (it was divided by 9 closed and 3 opened questions and 250 persons were chosen as population-based study)."
J17|Career, Private Life, and the Well-Being among College-educated West German Women|This paper describes to what extent college-educatedWest German women manage to reconcile a career and a private life. In addition, it explicitly investigates how the concurrence of career and cohabitation/family/motherhood is linked to women’s life satisfaction. I attempt to overcome the difficulties associated with estimating this relation using fixedeffects models. The results suggest that only a small fraction of woman-year observations is categorised as having a career and cohabitation/family/children simultaneously. Considering different birth cohorts and generations of West German women, there are no significant improvements in the reconciliation between career and family. Further, while there are life-satisfaction gains related to both “career” and “cohabitation/family” separately, their interaction terms throughout are negative.
J17|Retrospectives: The Cold-War Origins of the Value of Statistical Life|"This paper traces the history of the ""Value of Statistical Life"" (VSL), which today is used routinely in benefit-cost analysis of life-saving investments. The ""value of statistical life"" terminology was introduced by Thomas Schelling (1968) in his essay, ""The Life You Save May Be Your Own."" Schelling made the crucial move to think in terms of risk rather than individual lives, with the hope to dodge the moral thicket of valuing ""life."" But as recent policy debates have illustrated, his move only thickened it. Tellingly, interest in the subject can be traced back another twenty years before Schelling's essay to a controversy at RAND Corporation following its earliest application of operations research to defense planning. RAND wanted to avoid valuing pilot's lives but the Air Force insisted they confront the issue. Thus, the VSL is not only well acquainted with political controversy; it was born from it."
J17|Optimal Aging And Death: Understanding The Preston Curve| Does prosperity lead to greater longevity? If so, what is the strength of the income channel? To address these questions we develop a life cycle model in which households are subject to physiological aging. In modeling aging we draw on recent research in the fields of biology and medicine. The speed of the aging process, and thus the age of death, are endogenously determined by optimal health investments. A calibrated version of the model accounts well for the observed nonlinear cross-country link between longevity and income, also known as the Preston curve.
J17|The housing situation of residents of Greece in the time of crisis 2008-2012| This paper aims to describe trends in the housing of the Greek population (including immigrants) during the years of economic crisis, from the viewpoint of both the quality of housing and the potential for households to continue to maintain their residences. The population characteristics of the country are outlined, including immigration, and the structure of households as to the type of family to which they belong are catalogued. The paper then considers the housing situation of households relative to their income levels. According to the findings, many households have experienced a decline in the quality of their housing, while a significant number of households is under threat because of indebtedness, either because of the financial burden on privately-owned homes or because the ability to access social housing has declined.
J17|Randomized Safety Inspections And Risk Exposure On The Job: Quasi-Experimental Estimates Of The Value Of A Statistical Life|Compensating wages for workplace fatality and accident risks are used to infer the value of a statistical life (VSL), which in turn is used to assess the benefits of human health and safety regulations. The estimation of these wage differentials, however, has been plagued by measurement error and omitted variables. This paper employs the first quasi-experimental design within a labor market setting to overcome such limitations in the ex-tant literature. Specifically, randomly assigned, exogenous federal safety inspections are used to instrument for plant-level risks and combined with confidential U.S. Census data on manufacturing employment to estimate the VSL using a difference-in-differences framework. The VSL is estimated to be between $2 and $4 million ($2011), suggesting prior studies may substantially overstate the value workers place on safety, and therefore, the benefits of health and safety regulations.
J17|The Health State Our Most Precious Asset? A Short Review|When we have health problems, we become ”consumers” of resources (financial, material, affective and so on), and personal autonomy is losing ground to dependence on others (family, friends, doctors, health system, society in general), so that, our problem can become a problem of the society which, despite its good intentions may not be able to provide the necessary support”here and now”. In order to prevent, eliminate or at least improve the causes that gave rise to the various health problems, we first need to know them. Heredity, environment and education are factors often invoked in explaining the processes and phenomena underlying at our wellbeing, indisputable thing in fact, but which of them have a higher share in the evolution of our health state, and how do they do it ? Thus, the paper aims to highlight the possible determinants of the population’s health state in general, and of the individual’s especially from the medical/health geaography point of view.
J17|The economic consequences of accidents at work|This paper investigates the economic consequences of workplace accidents in the British labour market. For the empirical analysis, I use data on employment and earnings from the British Household Panel Survey and exploit fixed effects estimators to control for time-invariant unobserved workers’ characteristics. I provide evidence that accidents at work negatively affect both job opportunities and workers’ earnings. First, employment probabilities following a state of injury are significantly lower. This effect persists over time and is stronger in those regions where the macroeconomic conditions are worse. Second, a serious workplace accident also results in significant delayed wage penalties, which increase with the accident’s seriousness. The effect is lower in the public sector and unionized firms, where job and earnings protection is higher and physically demanding working conditions are not widespread, or if the worker moves to a new job which suits his/her post-injury abilities better.
J17|Heterogeneity in the Value of Life|We develop a numerical life-cycle model -- with choice over consumption and leisure, stochastic mortality and labor income processes, and calibrated to U.S. data -- to characterize willingness to pay (WTP) for mortality risk reduction. Our theoretical framework can explain many empirical findings in this literature, including an inverted-U life-cycle WTP and an order of magnitude difference in prime-aged adults WTP. By endogenizing leisure and employing multiple income measures, we reconcile the literature's large variation in estimated income elasticities. By accounting for gender- and race-specic stochastic mortality and income processes, we explain the literature's black-white and female-male differences.
J17|Health and Economic Growth|This chapter examines the relationship between health and economic growth. Across countries, income per capita is highly correlated with health, as measured by life expectancy or a number of other indicators. Within countries, there is also a correlation between people’s health and income. Finally, over time, the historical evolution of cross-country health differences has largely paralleled the evolution of income differences, with the exception that in the last half century the convergence of health has been much faster than the convergence of income. How are health and income related? Theoretically, there is good reason to believe that causality runs in both directions. Healthier individuals are more productive, learn more in school, and, because they live longer, face enhanced incentives to accumulate human capital. Similarly, higher income for individuals or countries improves health in a variety of ways, ranging from better nutrition to construction of public health infrastructure. Empirically, there is evidence for both of these causal channels being operative, but the magnitude of the effects is limited, at least as they apply to cross-sectional differences among countries or individuals. Apparently, other factors that simultaneously raise income and improve health outcomes, such as institutional quality (for countries) and human capital (for individuals), are responsible for a good deal of the observed health–income correlation. The final section of the chapter discusses measures of aggregate welfare that combine consumption and life expectancy.
J17|Publication selection and the income elasticity of the value of a statistical life|Estimates of the value of a statistical life (VSL) establish the price government agencies use to value fatality risks. Transferring these valuations to other populations often utilizes the income elasticity of the VSL, which typically draw on estimates from meta-analyses. Using a data set consisting of 101 estimates of the income elasticity of VSL from 14 previously reported meta-analyses, we find that after accounting for potential publication bias the income elasticity of value of a statistical life is clearly and robustly inelastic, with a value of approximately 0.25–0.63. There is also clear evidence of the importance of controlling for levels of risk, differential publication selection bias, and the greater income sensitivity of VSL from stated preference surveys.
J17|The welfare value of FDA's mercury-in-fish advisory: A dynamic reanalysis|Assessing the welfare impact of consumer health advisories is a thorny task. Recently, Shimshack and Ward (2010) studied how U.S. households responded to FDA's 2001 mercury-in-fish advisory. They found that the average at-risk household reduced fish consumption by 21%, resulting in a 17%-reduction in mercury exposure at the cost of a 21%-reduction in cardioprotective omega-3 fatty acids. Based on a static assessment of the health costs and benefits Shimshack and Ward concluded that the advisory policy resulted in an overall consumer welfare loss. In this note, we propose a dynamic assessment that links the long-term cardiovascular health effects of the advisory to life-cycle consumption. We find that under reasonable assumptions the welfare loss might be much larger than suggested. Our analysis highlights the importance of accounting for dynamic effects when evaluating persistent changes in exposure to environmental health risks.
J17|Education and its effects on income and mortality of men aged sixty-five and over in Great Britain|We explore the effects of income and, additionally education on the income, self-reported health and survival of men aged sixty-five and over in Great Britain . By so doing, we identify benefits of education which are omitted in the conventional analysis with its focus on labour income excluding employers' pension contributions. We find that income at age sixty-five is significantly influenced by educational attainment and has a significant effect on survival. Even after controlling for circumstances at age sixty-five or when first observed, we identify benefits discounted to age sixty-five of £115,000 for men with higher education qualifications as compared to those with minimal qualifications.
J17|U.S. war costs: Two parts temporary, one part permanent|Military spending, fatalities, and the destruction of capital, all of which are immediately felt and are often large, are the most overt costs of war. They are also relatively short-lived. But the costs of war borne by combatants and their caretakers, which includes families, communities, and the modern welfare state, tend instead to be lifelong. In this paper I show that a significant component of the budgetary costs associated with U.S. wars is long-lived. One third to one half of the total present value of historical war costs are benefits distributed over the remaining life spans of veterans and their dependents. Even thirty years after the end of hostilities, typically half of all benefits remain to be paid. Estimates of the costs of injuries and deaths suggest that the private burden of war borne by survivors, namely the uncompensated costs of service-related injuries, are also large and long-lived.
J17|Misperception of Consumption: Evidence from a Choice Experiment|"We investigate people's different conceptions of the economic term ""consumption"" when comparing with others. An Internet-based hypothetical discrete choice experiment was conducted with Japanese participants. As in other relative income comparison studies, we found that own consumption and own saving had a positive impact on utility, whereas the consumption and saving of a reference person had a negative impact on utility. However, the results show that the magnitudes of consumption and saving differ in size; saving could affect utility much more than consumption for the Japanese subjects. By using scope tests, we found that the impact of own consumption is not monotonic and so does not necessarily increase utility. This calls into question the conventional assumption of the monotonicity of ""the utility of consumption""; consumption could be perceived as a negative good. Our results, therefore, provide some evidence that, in reality, people understand and perceive the economic terms differently from what economists would expect. Furthermore, when considering the consumption of others as well as their own, the size of the discrepancy is even bigger."
J17|Estimating the Economic Value of Statistical Life in China: A Study of the Willingness to Pay for Cancer Prevention|This paper reports the results of a Contingent Valuation (CV) study on cancer prevention where Multiple-Bounded Dichotomous Choice (MBDC) questions are asked of rural residents in China about their willingness to pay (WTP) for a hypothetical cancer vaccine which is expected to be effective for one year. The WTP data are analyzed with region-, age- and gender-specific cancer morbidity and mortality risk statistics; an upper and lower bound of the Value of a Statistical Life (VSL) are then estimated. The estimated VSL is between 481 and 814 thousand yuan (or 58 and 98 thousand US dollars) at 2000 constant prices, which is compatible with the results of previous studies.
J17|Misperception of Consumption: Evidence from a Choice Experiment|" We investigate people's di erent conceptions of the economic term consump- tion when comparing with others. An Internet-based hypothetical discrete choice experiment was conducted with Japanese participants. As in other relative income comparison studies, we found that own consumption and own saving had a positive impact on utility, whereas the consumption and saving of a reference person had a negative impact on utility. However, the results show that the magnitudes of consumption and saving di er in size; saving could a ect utility much more than consumption for the Japanese subjects. By using scope tests, we found that the impact of own consumption is not monotonic and so does not necessarily increase utility. This calls into question the conventional assumption of the monotonicity of \the utility of consumption""; consumption could be perceived as a negative good. Our results, therefore, provide some evidence that, in reality, people understand and perceive the economic terms di erently from what economists would expect. Furthermore, when considering the consumption of others as well as their own, the size of the discrepancy is even bigger."
J17|The impact of eliminating a child benefit on birth timing and infant health|"We study the effects of the cancellation of a sizeable child benefit in Spain on birth timing and neonatal health. In May 2010, the government announced that a 2,500-euro universal ""baby bonus"" would stop being paid to babies born starting January 1, 2011. We use detailed micro data from birth certificates from 2000 to 2011, and find that more than 2,000 families were able to anticipate the date of birth of their babies from (early) January 2011 to (late) December 2010 (for a total of about 10,000 births a week nationally). This shifting took place in part via an increase as well as an anticipation of pre-programmed c-sections, seemingly mostly in private clinics. We find that this shifting of birthdates resulted in a significant increase in the number of borderline low birth weight babies, as well as a peak in neonatal mortality. The results suggest that announcement effects are important, and that families and health professionals may face effective trade-offs when deciding on the timing (and method) of birth."
J17|Equal pay legislation and the gender wage gap|Despite equal pay legislation dating back 50 years, American women still earn 22% less than their male counterparts. In the UK, with its Equal Pay Act of 1970, and France, which legislated in 1972, the gap is 21% and 17% respectively, and in Australia it remains around 17%. Thus, the gender pay gap continues to be an important policy issue.
J17|Willingness to accept equals willingness to pay for labor market estimates of the value of a statistical life|Our research clarifies the conceptual linkages among willingness to pay for additional safety, willingness to accept less safety, and the value of a statistical life (VSL). We present econometric estimates using panel data to analyze the VSL levels associated with job changes that may affect the worker’s exposure to fatal injury risks. Our baseline VSL estimates are $7.7 million and $8.3 million (Y$2001). There is no statistically significant divergence between willingness-to-accept VSL estimates associated with wage increases for greater risks and willingness-to-pay VSL estimates as reflected in wage changes for decreases in risk. Our focal result contrasts with the literature documenting a considerable asymmetry in tradeoff rates for increases and decreases in risk. An important implication for policy is that it is reasonable to use labor market estimates of VSL as a measure of the willingness to pay for additional safety. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014
J17|Social status differentiation of leisure activities variation over the weekend – Approaching the voraciousness thesis by a sequence complexity measure|Sullivan and Katz-Gerro (2007) as well as Katz-Gerro and Sullivan (2010) argues that engaging in a variety ofleisure activities with high frequency is a distinct feature of omnivorous cultural consumption. And like omniv-orousness it bears a status-distinctive characteristic. The authors reported, that high status social categories show a more voracious leisure time-use pattern, i.e. engage in a greater number of activities with higher frequency over the period of one week. In this paper we are examining the voraciousness thesis by utilizing a newly proposed measure of activities variety, namely the sequence complexity index, which is developed by Gabadinho et al., 2011. Using data from German Time Use Survey (2000/2001) we focus on cultural leisure activities reportedfor the weekend. Our results show that complexity as a measure of time-related variety captures significant social differentiation of leisure activities over the weekend. But our complexity-based findings do not support that, that voraciousness understood as high levels of time used for varied leisure activities is also significant at weekend. Beyond that the results support the assumption, that there is social structural framing of a Saturday, where gender, age and marital statues effects on leisure variation come into effect.
J17|Equilibrium Health Spending and Population Aging in a Model of Endogenous Growth: Will the GDP Share of Health Spending Keep Rising?|Existing forecasts of a continuously rising income share of health spending (SHS) take per capita income growth and population aging as given. We develop a human capital-based endogenous growth model treating these variables as endogenously determined. In this private-economy setting, SHS has equilibrium upper bounds due to rising shadow prices of life and health protection. Our calibrated simulations reproduce observed trends in fertility and life expectancy and account for advances in life protection and health maintenance technologies. The model identifies the major forces driving the dynamic path of SHS and uncovers a direct link between health investment at young age and the equilibrium rate of economic growth.
J17|Every Breath You Take—Every Dollar You’ll Make: The Long-Term Consequences of the Clean Air Act of 1970|This paper examines the long-term impacts of early childhood exposure to air pollution on adult outcomes using US administrative data. We exploit changes in air pollution driven by the 1970 Clean Air Act to analyze the difference in outcomes between cohorts born in counties before and after large improvements in air pollution relative to those same cohorts born in counties that had no improvements. We find a significant relationship between pollution exposure in the year of birth and later-life outcomes. A higher pollution level in the year of birth is associated with lower labor force participation and lower earnings at age 30.
J17|The Role of Publication Selection Bias in Estimates of the Value of a Statistical Life|Meta-regression estimates of the value of a statistical life (VSL) controlling for publication selection bias often yield bias-corrected estimates of VSL that are substantially below the mean VSL estimates. Labor market studies using the more recent Census of Fatal Occupational Injuries (CFOI) data are subject to less measurement error and also yield higher bias-corrected estimates than do studies based on earlier fatality rate measures. These results are borne out by the findings for a large sample of all VSL estimates based on labor market studies using CFOI data and for four meta-analysis data sets consisting of the authorsâ€™ best estimates of VSL. The confidence intervals of the publication bias-corrected estimates of VSL based on the CFOI data include the values that are currently used by government agencies, which are in line with the most precisely estimated values in the literature. Â© 2015 American Society of Health Economists and Massachusetts Institute of Technology
J17|The drivers of happiness inequality: suggestions for promoting social cohesion|This paper identifies and quantifies the contribution of a set of covariates in affecting levels and over time changes of happiness inequality. Using a decomposition method based on RIF regression, we analyse the increase in happiness inequality observed in Germany between 1992 and 2007, using the German Socio-Economic Panel (GSOEP) database, deriving the following findings. First, trends in happiness inequality are mainly driven by composition effects, while coefficient effects are negligible. Second, among composition effects, education has an inequality-reducing impact, while the increase in unemployment contributes to the rise in happiness inequality. Third, increase in average income is associated to a decrease in happiness inequality, while the rise in income inequality cannot be considered as a driver of happiness inequality trends. A clear-cut policy implication is that policies enhancing education and economic performance contribute to reduce happiness inequality and the potential social tensions arising from it.
J17|Approaching the economic costs assessment of occupational injuries and diseases: principles, concepts and structure|Occupational Health and Safety management is more and more strongly related to the costs of occupational injuries and illnesses, as a top priority in most companies. The present article presents a synthesis of authors’ attempts to identify the elements which should be taken into account in determining the cost of occupational injuries and diseases at the national level, with a focus on basic influence factors. Our aim is to help companies managers to emphasize the economic costs of not improving workplace safety and health – to employers, to workers and to society as a whole – and to inform decision-makers on further developments to be considered in the occupational risk management processes.
J17|Heterogeneity in the Value of Life|We develop a numerical life-cycle model - with choice over consumption and leisure, stochastic mortality and labor income processes, and calibrated to U.S. data - to characterize willingness to pay (WTP) for mortality risk reduction. Our theoretical framework can explain many empirical findings in this literature, including an inverted-U life-cycle WTP and an order of magnitude difference in prime-aged adults WTP. By endogenizing leisure and employing multiple income measures, we reconcile the literature's large variation in estimated income elasticities. By accounting for gender-and race-specific stochastic mortality and income processes,we explain the literature's black-white and female-male differences.
J17|Poczucie jakosci zycia w grupie kierownikow i specjalistow – test modelu MOA (Personality traits as a predictor of motivation and entrepreneurial effectiveness)|In this paper I have attempted to present issues resulting from the management and personality psychology, including their implications for company management practice and for their impact on managers wellbeing and a quality of life. My research, based on Ryan and Deci concept, concerns the psychological needs, adaptation (Rotter) and hierarchical values (Rokeach) of senior managers. I assumed that the sense of the quality of life would reveal a significant relationship with personality-related and axiological dimensions among senior managers. I hypothesized positive correlation between independent personality related variables distinguished in the personality and axiological model MOA for the sense of the quality of life such as the structure of needs (competence, autonomy, relatedness), adaptation and professional achievements. I also assumed a positive correlation between independent axiological variables: final and instrumental values. The determination rate was 0.49, that is it obtained 49% of variance of the variable of the sense of the quality of life being explained in the structural model MOA. Discussing the obtained results, we should emphasize the significance ascribed by senior managers to the following dimensions: adaptation, competence and relatedness for the sense of the quality of life.
J17|Predicting productivity based on EQ-5D: an explorative study|Overall, it appears possible to make reasonable productivity predictions based on EQ-5D data. Further exploration and validation of prediction algorithms remains necessary, however, especially for presenteeism. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014
J17|Why Are Women Less Democratic Than Men? Evidence from Sub-Saharan African Countries|A substantial literature has examined the determinants of support for democracy and although existing work has found a gender gap in democratic attitudes, there have been no attempts to explain it. In this paper we try to understand why females are less supportive of democracy than males in a number of countries. Using data for 20 Sub-Saharan African countries, we test whether the gap is due to individual differences previously ignored or to country-wide characteristics. We find that controlling for individual characteristics does not offset the gender gap, but our results indicate that the gap is eroded by high levels of human development and political rights.
J17|A Closed-form Solution for the Health Capital Model|This paper provides a closed-form solution for the health capital model of health demand. The results are exploited in order to prove analytically the comparative dynamics of the model. Results are derived for the so-called pure investment model, the pure consumption model and a combination of both types of models. Given the plausible assumptions that (i) health declines with age and that (ii) the health capital stock at death is lower than the health capital stock needed for eternal life, it is shown that the optimal solution implies eternal life.
J17|Valuing Reductions in Environmental Risks to Children’s Health|This article reviews the economics literature dealing with valuation of reduced environmental risks to children’s health. We describe conceptual models together with results from a number of empirical studies. The conceptual models analyze valuation issues from the perspective of parents; treat health risk as endogenously determined; and demonstrate that in equilibrium, marginal willingness to pay to reduce risk for the child relative to marginal willingness to pay to reduce risk for the parent should equal the ratio of marginal risk reduction costs. Empirical studies treat both mortality and morbidity associated with exposure to environmental health risks. These studies generally find that parents are willing to pay more for absolute risk reductions for their children than they are willing to pay for corresponding risk reductions for themselves. Possible reasons for this outcome along with suggestions for further research are discussed.
J17|Rebusque y mendicidad: Muestra de desigualdad y pobreza en Cúcuta, Norte de Santander, Colombia|El artículo es una aproximación teórico–reflexiva a la desigualdad y la pobreza en la ciudad de San José de Cúcuta, frontera entre Colombia y Venezuela. Muestra factores asociados al desempleo, analiza temas como la mendicidad, la limosna y el rebusque desde un entorno socioeconómico, recopila información mediante la aplicación de una encuesta semiestructurada (aleatoria) a una población específica: los agentes que determinan la práctica permanente de economía informal en la ciudad. Los resultados expresan una población proveniente, en su gran mayoría, de diferentes regiones del país, asociada a aspectos no solamente de índole económico, sino sociales como el desplazamiento forzado (conflicto interno armado y violencia), que han provocado la instauración de los mismos en la ciudad, generando problemas en salud, educación y seguridad, entre otros.
J17|Dependencia entre ingresos y tasas de ahorro en profesionales del sur del valle de Aburrá|El objetivo de este artículo es determinar si los profesionales del sur del Valle de Aburrá ahorran, y si existe alguna relación entre sus ingresos monetarios y la tasa de ahorro. Para contrastar las hipótesis se aplicaron 385 encuestas a hombres y mujeres con título universitario residentes en la subregión estudiada. La información recolectada fue tratada por medio de una prueba no paramétrica de chi-cuadrado y regresión logística para determinar el grado de independencia entre las variables analizadas. Los resultados que arrojaron los análisis estadísticos realizados expresan que no existe independencia entre la tasa de ahorro y el nivel de entradas. Se comprueba, además, que los profesionales que más ahorran son aquellos que reciben mayores ingresos mensuales.
J17|The Monetary Effect of Power: How Perception of Power Affects Monetary Value Judgments in China and US|Previous research has found a positive correlation between the perception of power and the perception of a number of social attributes (e.g., attractiveness, height, personality traits), but most of the studies were conducted in the US, and none has investigated the relationship between power perception and monetary value judgments. The current study found dramatic differences between Americans and Chinese on value estimations; the Chinese seem to perceive much higher monetary values for all items people found or lost, regardless of the power status of the protagonists than Americans, controlling for inflation and currency exchange rates. We also found interesting power by culture interactions that Chinese were more likely to judge the items found by powerful people to be more valuable than the ones found by less powerful people, while Americans were more likely to judge the items found by less powerful people to be more valuable than the powerful people. In addition, American participants were more likely to judge the items loss by powerful people to be more valuable than by less powerful people. These differences may be caused by culturally different attitudes toward power status. Implications for understanding the relationship between physical reality and psychological reality as well as the scope of cultural differences are discussed.
J17|The Emotional Timeline of Unemployment: Anticipation, Reaction, and Adaptation|Abstract Unemployment continues to be one of the major challenges in industrialized societies. Aside from its economic and societal repercussions, questions concerning the subjective experience of unemployment have recently attracted increasing attention. Although existing studies have documented the detrimental effects of unemployment for cognitive (life satisfaction) and affective well-being, studies directly comparing these two dimensions of subjective well-being and their temporal dynamics in anticipation of and response to unemployment are absent from the literature. Using longitudinal data of the German Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP) and applying fixed effects regressions, we investigate changes in cognitive and affective well-being prior to and after job loss. Extending previous studies, we use discrete emotion measures instead of affect balance indicators to assess affective well-being. Our results support existing findings that unemployment leads to decreases in life satisfaction and that the unemployed do not adapt towards previous levels of life satisfaction. We also find that individuals more often experience sadness and anxiety, and less often happiness when transitioning into unemployment. Importantly, changes in affective well-being are less enduring compared to the changes in life satisfaction.
J17|Exploring heterogeneity in the value of a statistical life: Cause of death v. risk perceptions|Most current environmental policy analyses use Value of a Statistical Life (VSL) figures inferred from workplace safety and traffic accident contexts to compute the benefits of environmental programs that avoid premature deaths. There is considerable debate about the appropriateness of this practice, in part because the effect of cause of death may be partly confounded with latency, initial risks, and competing risks. Preference for reducing risks can be also affected by individual-assessed risk attributes that are rarely controlled in valuation studies. This paper explores reasons for differences in preferences for mortality risk reductions (if any), and establishes the magnitude of the effects of such risk attributes as compared to other sources of VSL heterogeneity. In our conjoint choice experiments, cause of death, the size of the risk reduction, and latency, the “price” of the risk reduction and the mode of delivery of the risk reduction are explicit attributes of the alternatives to be examined by the respondent. Our statistical models also control for actual and perceived exposure to risks, initial risks, risk attributes such as dread, and sensitivity to and controllability of specific risks. We find that there is significant heterogeneity in the valuation of mortality risks and thus in the VSL. The VSL increases with dread, exposure to risk, and the respondents' assessments of the baseline risks. It is higher when the risk reduction is delivered by a public program, and increases with the effectiveness rating assigned by the respondent to the mode of the risk reduction. Even when we control explicitly for all of these factors, the cause of death per se accounts for a large portion of the VSL. All else the same, the fact that the cause of the death is “cancer” results in a VSL that is about one million euro above the amount predicted by dread, exposure and other risk perception variables. The VSL in the road safety context is about one million euro less than what is predicted by dread, exposure, or beliefs compared to VSL for the respiratory risk context. The effect of cause of death is thus as large as the effect of other sources of VSL heterogeneity. Our respondents do not seem to discount future risks.
J17|Does HIV increase the risk of spousal violence in sub-Saharan Africa?|Although a positive association is found between HIV prevalence and intimate partner violence, a causal interpretation is hard to establish due to the endogeneity of HIV prevalence. Using the distance from the origin of the virus as an instrument, I find that an exogenous increase in HIV prevalence in a cluster has a sizable positive effect on the risk of physical and sexual violence against women within marriage. The results of this study confirm a gender-specific negative externality of the disease and encourage policy efforts to incorporate services for violence against women into existing HIV programs.
J17|Does health insurance improve health?|From 2004 to 2006, a community-based health insurance (CBI) scheme was rolled out in Nouna District, Burkina Faso, with the objective of improving access to health services and population health. We explore the random timing of the insurance rollout generated by the stepped wedge cluster-randomized design to evaluate the welfare and health impact of the insurance program. Our results suggest that the insurance had limited effects on average out-of-pocket expenditures in the target areas, but substantially reduced the likelihood of catastrophic health expenditure. The introduction of the insurance scheme did not have any effect on health outcomes for children and young adults, but appears to have increased mortality among individuals aged 65 and older. The negative health effects of the program appear to be primarily driven by the adverse provider incentives generated by the scheme and the resulting decline in the quality of care received by patients.
J17|A mixed blessing of lifespan heterogeneity|Human mortality data reveal that life expectancy in industrialized countries has been converging to a common value. Yet, significant variations in the distributions of adult life-table ages at death among some developed countries have also been observed. This paper, largely motivated by Japan’s mortality data, presents a general equilibrium, overlapping-generations model that assesses the welfare effects of the mean-preserving declines in the variance of the distribution of adult ages at death. Our quantitative exercise reveals that for a given value of the economy-wide life expectancy, the individual welfare effects due to switching from high to low-variance steady states are length of life-dependent, quite sensitive to the average economy-wide retirement age, and strongly influenced by associated changes in the labor supply, factor prices, and lifetime earnings.
J17|The development of road and rail transport safety valuation in the United Kingdom|An extensive body of theoretical and empirical work has been undertaken in the UK since the middle of the last century on the estimation of values of safety for use in the appraisal of proposed transport projects, particularly road and rail. This research has focused largely on ‘willingness-to-pay’ based values in order to measure the strength of the travelling public's preference for marginal improvements in transport safety, relative to consumption of other goods and services. In terms of practical policy making, the research has resulted in a set of values for the prevention of statistical fatalities and non-fatal injuries that are applied not only in transport safety decision making, but also in other public sector contexts. This paper summarises the main findings of this research.
J17|Consistency in preferences for road safety: An analysis of precautionary and stated behavior|This study analyzes stated willingness to pay (WTP) for traffic safety, the use of traffic safety equipments, and the consistency between the two. Using data from a Swedish contingent valuation study we find that the estimated value of a statistical life (VSL) based on the respondents' rear-seatbelt usage is similar to the estimate found using the respondents' stated WTP. However, when estimating VSL based on the respondents' use of bicycle helmets we find a significantly higher VSL; the VSL from bicycle-helmet usage is 7 times higher than the estimate based on seatbelt usage. Moreover, we do not find any strong relationship between risk perception and usage, or individual stated WTP and usage. Hence, the main conclusion, based on our analysis, is that stated and observed WTP are not consistent.
J17|A study on the socio-economic determinants of suicide: Evidence from 13 European OECD countries|Suicide causes huge economic losses, and the study of suicide from a socio-economic perspective is indispensable. This paper examines the factors affecting suicide in 13 European Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries. We use the autoregressive distributed lag approach to cointegration as our estimation methodology. Our results reveal an increasing impact of divorce rates and a decreasing effect of per capita real gross domestic product on suicide rates in nine countries. However, evidence on the effects of fertility rates and per capita alcohol consumption is relatively less. For fertility rates, the results indicate that an increase leads to a decrease in suicide rates in four countries and a rise in one country. As for per capita alcohol consumption, we confirm evidence of a significant increasing effect on suicide rates in only three countries. In addition, the cumulative sum and cumulative sum of squares of recursive residuals tests results provide evidence of the stability of the estimated model.
J17|Do economic crises lead to health and nutrition behavior responses?: analysis using longitudinal data from Russia|Using longitudinal data on more than 2,000 Russian families spanning the period between 2007 and 2010, this paper estimates the impact of the 2009 global financial crisis on food expenditures, health care expenditures, and doctor visits in Russia. The primary estimation strategy adopted is the semi-parametric difference-in-difference with propensity score matching technique. The analysis finds that household health and nutritional behavior indicators do not vary statistically between households that were crisis-affected and households that were not affected by the crisis. However the analysis finds that crisis-affected poor families curtailed their out-of-pocket health expenditures during and after the crisis more than poor families that were not affected by the crisis did. In addition, crisis-affected vulnerable groups changed their health behavior. In particular, households with low educational attainment of household heads and households with more elderly people changed their health and nutrition behavior response when affected by the crisis. The results are invariant to the propensity score matching techniques and parametric fixed effects estimation models.
J17|The Value of Longevity in Mexico|This paper evaluates the gains in longevity based on individuals’ willingness to pay, and measures the social values of these gains. We apply the Murphy and Topel (2003, 2006) model for Mexico for the first time, which allows us to estimate the value of a life year and the value of remaining years of life at each age. We also apply the estimates to three cases to exemplify how these calculations can be used in decisions concerning public policy: value of gains in mortality rates, cost of deaths associated with obesity, and a cost-benefit analysis of lives saved through treatment for children with leukemia.
J17|Compensating Wages for Occupational Risks of Farm Workers in India|Farm workers incur various occupational related risks. The question is whether they are adequately compensated for facing these risks? This paper attempts to measure the wage premiums that farm workers in India receive for health risks associated with their jobs, using a primary survey data collected from 282 farm workers who are pesticide applicators and 100 agricultural laborers who do not handle pesticide from Kerala in 2009-10 and the hedonic wage approach. Results indicate that the farm workers in India receive approximately an additional wage premium of Rs. 20 per hour for facing occupational health risks. Interestingly, the use of protecting gadgets reduces the risk of health damages that emphasizes the necessity of ensuring their wages.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J17|Life Quantity, Life Quality and Longevity : an Intertemporal Social Evaluation framework|The evaluation of development processes and of public policies often involves comparisons of social states in which populations differ in size and longevity. This requires social evaluation principles to be sensitive to both the number and the length of lives. This paper explores the use of axiomatic and welfarist principles to assess social welfare in that framework. It attempts to overcome some of the limits of existing methods in the literature, in particular by avoiding a temporal repugnant conclusion, by neither penalizing nor favoring life fragmentation, and by satisfying critical-level temporal consistency. It does this by characterizing a critical-level lifetime utility function that values life periodically. To address some of the controversies on discounting utilities across time, two alternative versions of the function are developed, one with discounting and one without.
J17|Living Conditions Rural And Urban Communities In Central Desert State Of Coahuila Condiciones De Vida En Comunidades Rurales Y Urbanas En La Region Centro Desierto Del Estado De Coahuila|This paper presents the results of a comparative study on living conditions in rural communities and municipalities in the central desert of Coahuila Mexico. We aim to contribute to existing government support programs with a more holistic approach and corresponding to the realties found. The study is exploratory. Descriptive methods used correspond to qualitative and quantitative research. The results show matching elements in living conditions between urban and rural communities, as well as elements that make the difference in such living conditions.
J17|Risky Sports and the Value of Information|We develop a theoretical account of how athletes engaged in risky sports value riskreducing information and use stated-preference data from a sample of backcountry skiers to empirically challenge the predictions of our model. Risk taking in this specific context depends on the athlete’s personal attitudes toward risky activities and his strategies to control the risk. Usage of specific information is one strategy of risk control. We estimate the demand value for avalanche information. Caution is however warranted because unobserved factors may jointly affect the athlete’s perception of risk and his willingness-to-pay for obtaining the information. We use a recursive two stage estimation approach to account for endogeneity concerns. Our results indicate that the demand value of information increases with wealth and perceived risk and tends to decrease with better skills to control risk and more information about the prevailing field conditions. These results support our theoretical predictions and suggest that variation in athletes’ WTP can be explained by their beliefs about the usefulness of information.
J17|The Welfare Value of FDAâ€™s Mercury-in-Fish Advisory: A Dynamic Reanalysis|Assessing the welfare impact of consumer health advisories is a thorny task. Recently, Shimshack and Ward (2010) studied how U.S. households responded to FDAâ€™s 2001 mercury-in-fish advisory. They found that the average at-risk household reduced fish consumption by about 24%, resulting in a 21%-reduction in mercury exposure at the cost of a 28%-reduction in cardioprotective omega-3 fatty acids. A rough assessment of the health costs and benefits led Shimshack and Ward to conclude that the advisory policy resulted in an overall consumer welfare loss. In this note, we propose a more comprehensive assessment that links the long term cardiovascular health effects of the advisory policy to life cycle consumption. In addition to mortality risk, our model values the loss in health quality from non-fatal cardiovascular diseases. Using the same dose-response relationships as Shimshack and Ward, we find that the expected health and mortality loss to the average at-risk household is much larger than they suggested. The analysis highlights the importance of accounting for dynamic effects when evaluating persistent changes in exposure to environmental health risks.
J17|Life quantity, life quality and longevity: An intertemporal social evaluation framework|The evaluation of development processes and of public policies often involves comparisons of social states in which populations differ in size and longevity. This requires social evaluation principles to be sensitive to both the number and the length of lives. This paper explores the use of axiomatic and welfarist principles to assess social welfare in that framework. It attempts to overcome some of the limits of existing methods in the literature, in particular by avoiding a temporal repugnant conclusion, by neither penalizing nor favoring life fragmentation, and by satisfying critical-level temporal consistency. It does this by characterizing a critical-level lifetime utility function that values life periodically. To address some of the controversies on discounting utilities across time, two alternative versions of the function are developed, one with discounting and one without.
J17|The Long-term Effects of Early Lead Exposure: Evidence from a case of Environmental Negligence|This paper estimates the effect of early lead exposure on academic achievement and adult earnings. We analyze longitudinal information from individuals attending primary and secondary schools in the city of Arica (in northern Chile). Between 1984 and 1989, Arica received more than 20,000 tons of toxic chemicals containing high concentrations of lead. Initially, the chemical waste was located several kilometers from the city. However, Arica's rapid expansion, which included the construction of housing projects just meters away from the waste deposit, put a large number of families at risk. Our data include information on residential proximity to the polluted area, levels of lead exposure, comprehensive demographic information, nationally representative academic test scores and administrative data on adult earnings. We document a strong relationship between blood lead levels and student academic performance. We find that an increase of one microgram of lead per deciliter of blood reduces math and language scores by 0.15 and 0.21 standard deviations, respectively. For earnings, we estimate that for each extra microgram of lead, monthly earnings decrease by CLP 11,458 (or USD 22.92). This translates into a reduction of USD 6,000 in lifetime earnings per microgram of lead per deciliter of blood.
J17|Transportation choices and the value of statistical life|This paper exploits an unusual transportation setting to estimate the value of a statistical life (VSL). We estimate the trade-offs individuals are willing to make between mortality risk and cost as they travel to and from the international airport in Sierra Leone (which is separated from the capital Freetown by a body of water). Travelers choose from among multiple transport options – namely, ferry, helicopter, hovercraft, and water taxi. The setting and original dataset allow us to address some typical omitted variable concerns in order to generate some of the first revealed preference VSL estimates from Africa. The data also allows us to compare VSL estimates for travelers from 56 countries, including 20 African and 36 non-African countries, all facing the same choice situation. The average VSL estimate for African travelers in the sample is US$577,000 compared to US$924,000 for non-Africans. Individual characteristics, particularly job earnings, can largely account for the difference between Africans and non-Africans; Africans in the sample typically earn somewhat less. There is little evidence that individual VSL estimates are driven by a lack of information, predicted life expectancy, or cultural norms around risktaking or fatalism. The data implies an income elasticity of the VSL of 1.77. These revealed preference VSL estimates from a developing country fill an important gap in the existing literature, and can be used for a variety of public policy purposes, including in current debates within Sierra Leone regarding the desirability of constructing new transportation infrastructure.
J17|Russia’s Human Capital: What Is It Worth?|Part II. After discussing in the first part of the paper alternative approaches to measuring the value of the stocks of human capital its second part provides empirical estimates of Russia’s human capital based on the lifetime income approach. The results show that using an annual discount rate of 4 per cent and assuming annual growth in real earnings of 5.2 per cent, the market value of Russia’s human capital stock in 2010 was more than 600 trillion rubles, or nearly 40 trillion US$ by PPP. In 2002—2010 its stock doubled in real terms. Ratio of human capital to GDP was around 13 and its ratio to physical capital was more than five. In 2010, the average human capital stock per head of working age population amounted to 6 million rubles, or about 380,000 US$ by PPP.
J17|Russia’s Human Capital: What Is It Worth?|Part I The paper provides monetary estimates for Russia’s human capital. In its first part the two main methods for estimating the value of the stocks of human capital are discussed — cost based and income based, or the retrospective and prospective ones. Particular emphasis is placed upon the works by Jorgenson and Fraumeni (1989, 1992). Recently a lifetime income approach pioneered by Jorgenson and Fraumeni has been selected as the preferred methodology for the OECD Human Capital Project which made available monetary estimates of the stocks of human capital for 15 countries. A special section summarizes major findings of this Project and highlights its methodology which in the second part of the paper is used for estimating the value of human capital in Russia.
J17|Human Approach to Human Capital|"(On the Book by N. M. Pliskevich ""Human Capital in Transforming Russia "") The article analyzes the results of investigation of human capital. The validity of broad approach to assessment of human capital using qualitative methods is shown. In the framework of this approach it is necessary to take into account the influence that the results of revolutionary breaks of socio-cultural fabric of society produce on human capital as well as the impact of its inner institutional structure, first of all the system of ""power-ownership"" (or ""natural state"" according to D. North)."
J17|Historical And Socio-Political Aspects Of The Stratification In The Republic Of Moldova’S Society|This paper represents a collection of studies on the formation processes of new social structures, trends stratification of society in Moldova after two decades of independence, on assuming democratic values, on promoting economic, political, scientific and cultural freedom, as well as the human rights according to the EU programs. Socio-economic and political transformations have led to the formation of new social groups/ strata, new professional structures and have modified the social structure as a whole. The survey has proved that in the Republic of Moldova does not exist a clear relation between education, occupation, income, property, lifestyle etc, which facilitates the identification of social classes. New social groups/strata appear not on the base of classical principles of stratification, but have specific national features, related with the privatization process, formation of the economy and market relations.
J17|"Estimating Qalys In The Western Region Of Romania Â€"" The Case With Intervention"|Currently, we are in the process of experimenting a diversification and refinement of the consumerâ€(tm)s expectations, as well as a growing demand for innovative, quality products and customized services, exacerbated by rapid technological change affecting both them and the producers. It is also the case of health services that, with Romaniaâ€(tm)s accession to the EU, must align to the European requirements. In the context of limited public resources and growing healthcare needs, socio-economic criteria are necessary for substantiating allocation decisions. With the continuous increase in costs of medical interventions but also the expansion of the range of treatment options available, there is a need to develop and use a range of tools to help establish treatment adopted in the context of justifying the benefits resulting from its implementation. In health, the greatest difficulty for the documentation of investment projects is the main overall effect measurement and evaluation - improving quality of life. Although treated in the literature in terms of specialized clinical trials, there is not currently a methodology to address the economic evaluation of investment projects in health. In this sense, our studyâ€(tm)s objective is to develop and test a framework to estimate the most appropriate indicator that assesses improvements in quality of life due to healthcare investment projects. We have started with an extensive literature review that allowed us to identify the most recommended indicator in this sense - quality adjusted life years (QALYs) and also to develop and test a conceptual framework. We then realized a survey on 131 medical professionals form the Western Region of Romania, for the two main medical causes of decease, and based on the information collected we calculated the QALYs following a medical intervention. The values obtained reflect the impact of healthcare interventions in terms of quality of life improvements and have a high informational content being useful for those involved in policy making and building institutional capacity in terms of public resources allocation.
J17|Different Shades of Green: Comparative Study on Nature Relatedness and Ecologic Consciousness among South Korean, Swiss, and Czech Students|How concerned are today’s students about environmental issues? Do they sense urgency for change towards a more environmentally compatible life? Who should act and what impact does one’s individual action have? And last but not least, does ecological consciousness and action go together with a sense of nature relatedness? More than 1600 South Korean, Swiss, and Czech students have participated in this comparative survey. Nearly all of them affirm that ecological considerations influence their daily behavior. Whereas most of them see the main agent of change in themselves, the impact of one’s individual action, however, is seen differently along the East and West cultural divide. Also when it comes to one’s personal sense of closeness to nature, we can observe an East West cultural variation. On average the South Koreans reveal a greater closeness towards nature than Swiss and Czech students, this despite the fact that they have the largest percentage in urban background, and consequently reveal the least physical familiarity with the natural world. In our effort to interpret these results, we have included a discussion about the diverging cultural background of the three sample groups. While they all agree on the urgency of the issue and the necessity of a more pro-environmental change, depending on their culture their ideas about the right means to introduce a change in behavior differ.
J17|'Who are you?' – Constructing managerial identities in post-apartheid South Africa|This study focuses on the construction of identity concepts and values, in the process of developing managerial identities within a selected publically owned utility in South Africa. The methodology used is a multi-method case study approach which is conducted in the phenomenological, qualitative research paradigm. The findings show that managers define themselves in terms of “intra-personal” and “social identities” which are based on strong individual and socio-cultural value foundations. Data highlight that managerial identities are connected to the organisational identity. Seventeen years after the end of apartheid, managerial identities are no longer reduced and limited to fixed racial, cultural or professional identities founded on historic perspectives, but are rather viewed as a dynamic cross-cultural construct of interpersonal interactions. This article provides the reader with new insights into managerial identity constructions in a multicultural public utility setting in post-apartheid South Africa.
J17|Wage Compensation for Risk: The Case of Turkey|In this article, I estimate the premium associated with fatal and non-fatal risk within broad industry categories, using ofﬁcial ﬁgures provided by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security and wage data from the 2010 and 2011 Household Labor Force Surveys. The results show only positive and signiﬁcant fatal risk premiums in the manufacturing sector, whereas injury risk premiums exist in both the manufacturing and industry-wide samples. When wage heterogeneity is allowed, fatal risk compensation increases along the distribution, while that of injury risk follows an inverse-u pattern. Compared to similar country cases, the VSL and VSI estimates are relatively small and not signiﬁcant for low wage earners. Industry averages show that longer working hours are correlated with accidents rates which implies the importance of ﬁrm heterogeneity and institutional factors on the high level and variance, particularly for Turkey.
J17|The Value of a Statistical Injury: New Evidence from the Swiss Labor Market|We study the monetary compensation for non-fatal accident risk in Switzerland using the number of accidents within cells defined over industry x skill-level of the job and capitalizing on the partial panel structure of our data. Our results show that using accident risk at a lower level of aggregation, using narrower samples of workers, and using the wage component that is specific to the firm all yield higher (i.e. more positive) estimates of risk compensation. However, we only find a statistically significant positive compensation for non-fatal accident risk for workers in jobs with the lowest skill-level. Our preferred estimate for this group of workers yields an estimate of about 35,000 Swiss francs per prevented injury per year.
J17|The value of a statistical life in Chile|In this article, we estimated the value of a statistical life and the value of a statistical injury (VSI) for Chilean workers using a combination of data from the year 2006 from the Chilean National Socio-Economic Survey, which provides workers’ characteristics, and annual statistics from the Chilean Safety Association, which provide labor accident risk data. We estimated a hedonic log-wage equation taking into account of selection bias and endogeneity. The estimated value of a statistical life was US$4,625,958, which increased by almost a factor three after correcting for endogeneity (US$12,826,520). On the other hand, the estimated VSI was US$30,840. The uncorrected results were lower than the values reported by other authors for various developed countries, but greater than those estimated using indirect approaches for Chile. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2013
J17|The cost of uncertain life span|Much uncertainty surrounds the length of human life. The standard deviation in adult life span is about 15 years in the USA, and theory and evidence suggest that it is costly. I calibrate a utility-theoretic model that shows that 1 year in standard deviation is worth about half a life year. Differences in variance exacerbate health inequalities between and among rich and poor countries. Accounting for the cost of life-span variance appears to amplify recently discovered patterns of convergence in world average human well-being because the component of variance due to infant mortality has exhibited even more convergence than life expectancy. Copyright Springer-Verlag 2013
J17|Risky Sports and the Value of Information|We develop a theoretical account of how athletes engaged in risky sports value riskreducing information and use stated-preference data from a sample of backcountry skiers to empirically challenge the predictions of our model. Risk taking in this specific context depends on the athlete’s personal attitudes toward risky activities and his strategies to control the risk. Usage of specific information is one strategy of risk control. We estimate the demand value for avalanche information. Caution is however warranted because unobserved factors may jointly affect the athlete’s perception of risk and his willingness-to-pay for obtaining the information. We use a recursive two stage estimation approach to account for endogeneity concerns. Our results indicate that the demand value of information increases with wealth and perceived risk and tends to decrease with better skills to control risk and more information about the prevailing field conditions. These results support our theoretical predictions and suggest that variation in athletes’ WTP can be explained by their beliefs about the usefulness of information.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J17|Transportation Choices and the Value of Statistical Life|This paper exploits an unusual transportation setting to estimate the value of a statistical life (VSL). We estimate the trade-offs individuals are willing to make between mortality risk and cost as they travel to and from the international airport in Sierra Leone (which is separated from the capital Freetown by a body of water), and choose from among multiple transport options - namely, ferry, helicopter, hovercraft, and water taxi. The setting and original dataset allow us to address some typical omitted variable concerns, and to compare VSL estimates for travelers from different countries, all facing the same choice situation. The average VSL estimate for African travelers in the sample is US$577,000 compared to US$924,000 for non-African travelers. Individual job earnings can largely account for this difference: Africans in the sample typically earn less than non-Africans. The data implies an income elasticity of the VSL of 1.77. These revealed preference VSL estimates from a developing country fill an important gap in the existing literature, and can be used for public policy purposes, including in current debates within Sierra Leone regarding the desirability of constructing new transportation infrastructure.
J17|Roy Model Sorting And Nonrandom Selection In The Valuation Of A Statistical Life|Wage-hedonics is used to recover the value of a statistical life by exploiting the fact that workers choosing riskier occupations will be compensated with a higher wage. However, Roy (1951) suggests that observed wage distributions will be distorted if individuals select into jobs according to idiosyncratic returns. We illustrate how this type of sorting may bias wage-hedonic VSL estimates and describe two estimators that correct for it. Using data from the CPS, we recover VSL estimates that are three to four times larger than those based on the traditional techniques, statistically significant, and robust to a wide array of specifications.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J17|Optimal Aging with Uncertain Death|This note extends the theory of optimal aging and death (Dalgaard and Strulik, 2010) towards uncertain death. Specifically, it is assumed that at any age the probability to survive depends on the number of health deficits accumulated. It is shown that the results in Dalgaard and Strulik (2011) on the foundation of the Preston curve (the association between income and life-expectancy across countries) are robust against this extension. While results virtually coincide at high income levels, the stochastic version predicts somewhat more curvature of the Preston curve at low income levels. Taking uncertain death and a precautionary motive for health investment into account thus further improves a bit the anyway good fit of the Preston curve.
J17|Health and Education: Understanding the Gradient|This study presents a novel view on education and health behavior of individuals constrained by aging bodies. The aging process, i.e. the accumulation of health deficits over time, is built on recent insights from gerontology. The loss of body functionality, which eventually leads to death, can be accelerated by unhealthy behavior and delayed through health expenditure. The proposed theory rationalizes why better educated people optimally choose a healthier lifestyle, that is why they spend more on health and indulge less in unhealthy behavior. The model is calibrated for the average male US citizen. In the benchmark case a di erence of the return to education that motivates one year more of education motivates also about 8 percent less unhealthy behavior and 5 percent more health expenditure and thus explains half a year gain of longevity. Progress in medical technology explains why the education gradient gets larger over time.
J17|Risk Aversion and the Value of Risk to Life|This paper argues for an alternative methodology to estimate the value of risk to life. By relaxing the assumption of additive separability, we introduce risk aversion with respect to the length of life and show that the extended model better fits available data. This is crucial for the extrapolation stage that the evaluation of life-saving programs systematically requires. Current practice, we show, puts too little weight on the young. Our correction surpasses in magnitude that introduced by the switch from the notion of number of lives saved to the notion of years of life saved.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J17|Socio-kultúrny kontext spolužitia v európskom priestore - aktuálne výzvy a limity|Pod tlakom globalizačných trendov sa menia kontúry celosvetovej stratifikácie ľudskej spoločnosti do výrazne asymetrického rozdelenia na bohatú elitu, stagnujúce stredné vrstvy a skupiny výrazne ohrozené sociálnym vylúčením. Nová stratifikácia vyjadruje nerovnomernosť distribúcie bohatstva, rozdiely v stupni mobility ľudí v sociálnom priestore, v plynutí času i celkovej kvalite spolužitia. Štúdia sa zaoberá reflexiou týchto zmien vo verejnosti EÚ v oblasti formovania súdržnej spoločnosti a boja proti sociálnemu vylúčeniu, s pohľadom na špecifikum Slovenska.
J17|The discount rate and the value of remaining years of life|We back out an estimate of a personal discount rate of between 3 and 4 percent for a person with a life expectancy of 74 years who dies at age 30 or 40 and has a value of statistical life of $6.3 million. We employ the Makeham “model” of life expectancy and Murphy–Topel “values of life years” in our calculations.
J17|Evaluating human life using court decisions on damages for pain and suffering|This paper provides a framework to evaluate human life based on civil court decisions on damages for pain and suffering. Using judgements from Germany and Austria over the last 25 years, we calculate an average Value of Damages for Pain and Suffering (VDPS) of about EUR 1.79 millions, with a minimum (maximum) of around EUR 0.67 (4.62) millions. Our approach also allows to calculate the value of body parts and body functions, which might be of interest if information on the benefit of an individual's change in life quality is not (entirely) available.
J17|Suffer the little children: Measuring the effects of parenthood on well-being worldwide|This paper investigates the relationship between parenthood and well-being in a large sample of individuals from 94 countries worldwide. We find that having children is negatively related to well-being. Conditioning on economic and socio-demographic characteristics can only partially help to explain this finding. We show that the negative effect of parenthood on well-being is explained by a large adverse impact on financial satisfaction, that dominates the positive impact on non-financial satisfaction. The results are robust to the use of alternative empirical specifications and to the inclusion of the reported ideal number of children as a proxy variable to account for the endogeneity of parenthood decisions.
J17|HIV and sexual behavior change: Why not Africa?|Despite high rates of HIV in Sub-Saharan Africa, and the corresponding high mortality risk associated with risky sexual behavior, behavioral response has been limited. This paper explores three explanations for this: bias in OLS estimates, limited non-HIV life expectancy and limited knowledge. I find support for the first two. First, using a new instrumental variable strategy I find that OLS estimates of the relationship between risky sex and HIV are biased upwards, and IV estimates indicate reductions in risky behavior in response to the epidemic. Second, I find these reductions are larger for individuals who live in areas with higher life expectancy, suggesting high rates of non-HIV mortality suppress behavioral response; this is consistent with optimizing behavior. Using somewhat limited knowledge proxies, I find no evidence that areas with higher knowledge of the epidemic have greater behavior change.
J17|The value of life: Real risks and safety-related productivity in the Himalaya|This paper estimates the value of a statistical life from commercial Himalayan expeditions. Because deaths occur with a fair amount of regularity, fatality rates are calculated for each mountain trail and are, hence, disaggregated measures of risk. Also, since the marginal product of labor in the industry is (in part) the marginal product of safety, our revenue measures may account for unobserved safety-related productivity of guides. Guide safety is explicitly observed by market participants, and is reflected in higher wages for safer guides. Our VSL estimates are about $5M.
J17|Una mirada de largo plazo a la economía campesina en los Andes|El objetivo del estudio es mostrar cómo han evolucionado las economías en Pomacanchi y Yanamarca —denominadas originalmente por Daniel Cotlear como “tradicional” y “moderna”)— en las últimas dos décadas y qué rol ha tenido la política pública, tanto aquella que es común a ambas zonas —como el cambio de los precios relativos— como aquella que es particular a cada territorio.
J17|Estimated hedonic wage function and value of life in an African country|This paper reports the first study of compensating wage differentials for work-related fatalities in an African country. Using original data from the Tunisian Caisse nationale de la sécurité sociale, statistically significant compensating wage differentials are found. The implied value of statistical life is found between $553 320 and $682 080 (US $ 2000, or between $783 264 and $965 533, US $ 2013), smaller than the value estimated from developed countries. Policy makers interested to decrease occupational risk fatalities could use this outcome as a benchmark.
J17|Does Lone Motherhood Decrease Women’s Subjective Well-Being? Evidence from Qualitative and Quantitative Research| This paper contributes to the discussion on the effects of single motherhood on happiness. We use a mixed-method approach. First, based on in-depth interviews with mothers who gave birth while single, we explore mechanisms through which children may influence mothers’ subjective well-being. In a second step, we analyze panel survey data to quantify this influence. Our results leave no doubt that, while raising a child outside of marriage poses many challenges, parenthood has some positive influence on a lone mother’s life. Our qualitative evidence shows that children are a central point in an unmarried woman’s life, and that many life decisions are taken with consideration of the child’s welfare, including escaping from pathological relationships. Our quantitative evidence shows that, although the general level of happiness among unmarried women is lower than among their married counterparts, raising a child does not have a negative impact on their subjective well-being.
J17|Value of Time: Speeding Behavior and Gasoline Prices|Do drivers reduce speeds when gasoline prices are high? Previous research investigating this energy conservation hypothesis produced mixed results. We take a fresh look at the data and estimate a significant negative relationship between speeding and gasoline prices. This presents a new methodology of deriving the 'Value of Time' (VOT) based on the intensive margin (previous VOT studies compare across the extensive margin) which has important advantages to circumvent potential omitted variable problems. While our VOT is 50% of the gross wage rate, we show that previous stated preference estimates are likely downward, whereas previous revealed preference estimates are systematically upward biased. We discuss implications, as VOT today is a key parameter in economics and policy.
J17|Does the WTA/WTP ratio diminish as the severity of a health complaint is reduced? Testing for smoothness of the underlying utility of wealth function|The aim of the study reported in this paper is to test the hypothesis that individual utility of wealth functions may violate the assumption of smoothness that underpins the standard analysis of the Value of Statistical Life (VSL) and safety. In order to do so we examine the way in which the Willingness to Accept/Willingness to Pay (WTA/WTP) ratio varies as the severity of a health complaint is reduced. We find that as the severity of the health effect is reduced, the WTA/WTP ratio converges across the sample and tends to a level that does not significantly exceed unity. While we acknowledge that this does not constitute conclusive evidence of smoothness, it does suggest that the case in favour of the assumption that individual utility of wealth functions tend to display a kink at the current level of wealth is less than wholly persuasive. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2012
J17|Abortions and Inequality|In the last three decades over a million abortions were performed annually in the United States. Recent empirical studies assess the impact of legalization of abortions on living conditions of children and argue that legalization of abortions provides better living conditions and human capital endowments to surviving children. This paper takes seriously the hypothesis that legalized abortion can improve the living conditions of children and hence alter their future labor market outcomes. The main question of the paper is what are the implications of abortions for long-term income inequality. A model of marriage, fertility, human capital transmission, contraception and abortion decisions is built to answer this question quantitatively. Inequality will be higher in a world without abortions. The main reason for this is the higher and more unequally distributed number of children across households. Children also receive less human capital.
J17|Theoretical and Methodological Aspects of the ”Integration Process” Phenomenon (English version)|Following attentively on global changes, we are witnessing of rapid changes in geopolitics content. If in the past states and peoples were isolated, atomized, today they are under the conditions of mutual contacts, of interdependent relations. It appears the new integration groups, diversification of organizational forms, and evolution from simplistic models to more complex ones. As a result, the integration processes comprised virtually all regions and states, contributing thus to the formation of new international “matrix”. Taking into account all these aspects, we might mention that integration involves all economic and political processes, where there are created a common space of two or more states, based on the coincidence of principles, goals and national interests.
J17|Current Migration Tendencies of Moldova Population towards the European Area (English version)|The new economic and political realities faced by the Republic of Moldova, at the moment, generates the change of the forms and directions of migration flows. In this way, today, we can assert that Moldova has become one of the major states whose population migrates to work to Europe. Labor migration, certainly, is a direct consequence of the big differences in living conditions and remuneration between the Republic of Moldova and Western Europe. This often becomes a challenge to both regional security and the security of Europe as whole. In this article the couses, tendencies and effects of labor migrations from the Republic of Moldova are examined, and also the structural characteristics of the new migration wave, and the migrants’ major destination countries, with a particular emphasis on the European space.
J17|Armut, Reichtum und Humankapital Zu den Beziehungen zwischen Bildung, Lebenseinkommen, Besteuerung und staatlicher Umverteilung|The paper is based on an individual life-cycle model, which describes the purely economic components of human capital. The present value of human capital is determined by all future income flows, which at the same time constitute the individual as well as the total tax base of a nation. Therefore, the income of the productive population determines the total tax revenue, which is spent for public goods (including education) and transfers (for poverty reduction). The efficient design of the education system (by private and public education investments) determines the quality of the human capital stock as well as the future gross income flows. The costs of public goods and the transfer expenditures have to be financed from the total tax revenue, which also affects the individual tax burden via the specific tax bases and tax rates. Especially the redistribution of income is connected with serious disincentives, influencing the preferences for work and leisure as well as for consumption and saving.
J17|Education and its Effects on Survival, Income and Health of those aged Sixty-five and over in the United Kingdom|We explore the effects of income and, additionally education on the income, self-reported health and survival of people aged sixty-?ve and over in order to identify bene?ts resulting from education which are omitted in the conventional analysis with its focus on labour income excluding employer contributions. We ?nd, for men, that income after the age of sixty-?ve is signi?cantly in?uenced by educational attainment and has a signi?cant effect on survival. Even after controlling for circumstances at age sixty-?ve or when ?rst observed, we identify bene?ts discounted to age sixty-?ve of £170,000 for men with higher education quali?cations as compared to those with minimal quali?cations. However, similar effects are not observed for women.
J17|Aspects of Social Care Institutions for the Elderly in Romania|In Romania social welfare institutions for the elderly protects elderly people in need and is an alternative to home care. Although the institutionalization of people involves some costs, however it is needed when the elderly persons have no home and they require constant care, that can be achieved at home, but no one can administer, they have no legally binding or they cannot fulfill their duties because of health, economic situation or family services and have no income. An important role was played by the NGO’s that have been the model for social institutions due to the fact that they benefited from the Western states experience in social services for the elderly. Today, the NGO’s provide home services for the elderly.
J17|The Value of a Statistical Life: Evidence from Panel Data| We address long-standing concerns in the literature on compensating wage differentials: the econometric properties of the estimated value of statistical life (VSL) and the wide range of such estimates. We confront prominent econometric issues using panel data, a more accurate fatality risk measure, and systematic application of panel data estimators. Controlling for measurement error, endogeneity, latent individual heterogeneity possibly correlated with regressors, state dependence, and sample composition yields VSL estimates of $4 million to $10 million. The comparatively narrow range clarifies the cost-effectiveness of regulatory decisions. Most important econometrically is controlling for latent heterogeneity; less important is how one does it. © 2011 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
