J29|毎勤データ修正の生産性分析への影響|本稿は、「毎月勤労統計調査」（毎勤）データの修正が、企業レベルの生産性分析に及ぼす影響を定量的に検討する。その結果によると、第一に、平均的には計測される生産性への量的な影響はわずかだが、ごく少数ながら比較的大きな生産性の修正が生じる企業がある。第二に、労働時間修正前後のデータを併用して生産性上昇率を計測すると、一貫して修正前のデータだけを用いるよりも計測誤差が大きくなる傾向がある。第三に、企業特性と生産性の関係についての過去の実証研究の結論が、今般の毎勤データの修正によって定性的に覆る可能性はほとんどない。しかし、生産性向上が重要な政策課題となる中、エビデンスに基づく政策形成のため、2011年以前の毎勤データについても可能な限り再集計が行われることが期待される。
J29|毎勤データ修正の生産性分析への影響|本稿は、「毎月勤労統計調査」（毎勤）データの修正が、企業レベルの生産性分析に及ぼす影響を定量的に検討する。その結果によると、第一に、平均的には計測される生産性への量的な影響はわずかだが、ごく少数ながら比較的大きな生産性の修正が生じる企業がある。第二に、労働時間修正前後のデータを併用して生産性上昇率を計測すると、一貫して修正前のデータだけを用いるよりも計測誤差が大きくなる傾向がある。第三に、企業特性と生産性の関係についての過去の実証研究の結論が、今般の毎勤データの修正によって定性的に覆る可能性はほとんどない。しかし、生産性向上が重要な政策課題となる中、エビデンスに基づく政策形成のため、2011年以前の毎勤データについても可能な限り再集計が行われることが期待される。
J29|Labor Demand and the Elasticity of Job Opportunity: Evidence from Indonesia|Objective - Labor is one of the most important factors in production activities. Increased human effort in the production process will increase output, productivity and promote economic growth. This research aims to analyze the condition and potential of labor demand in Pontianak City, analyze job opportunities in Pontianak City and formulate a strategy of labor policy in Pontianak City. Methodology/Technique - The method used is descriptive with quantitative analysis which a qualitative interpretation. The data used is secondary data and related documents for data enrichment. Findings - The results show that: labor demand is showing an increasing trend year by year, increasing employment absorption from 233,788 in 2010 to 244,236 in 2014. The rate of absorption growth occurs primarily in the agriculture, building and transportation industries. Employment elasticity in Pontianak City is relatively low at only 0.02% which means the growth of labor absorption is smaller than the increase of economic growth. Novelty - This research shows that employment policy strategies in Pontianak City need to increase the role of Training Center (BLK), the enrichment of nutrition improvement and sustainability, encourage investment, increase competitiveness through increasing labor productivity and increase labor flexibility to the rules among other things.
J29|Female labor force participation and dowries in Pakistan|Dowries are prevalent in South Asian countries, despite legal bans. Theoretical studies suggest that increasing women's financial contribution to households is the key to effectively abolishing this practice. To empirically examine this proposition, we conducted a unique survey in rural Pakistan, and gathered contemporaneous information about the expected amount of dowry for unmarried daughters. The estimation results show a negative association between female labor force participation and the expected amount of dowry, whereas no negative association is observed with other marriage expenses. These findings suggest that the negative association derives from appreciation of working women rather than their stigmatization.
J29|Boosting productivity and preparing for the future of work in Germany|This paper reviews policies to strengthen Germany’s productivity growth and prepare for changes in labour markets brought about by new technologies. This paper also discusses how social protection and the bargaining framework should be reformed for the future of work. Germany enjoys a relatively high labour productivity level but productivity growth has been modest in recent years. There is room to boost productivity growth by accelerating the diffusion of new technologies throughout the economy. Vigorous entrepreneurship and innovation by small and medium enterprises are key for such technology diffusion while strong broadband and mobile networks widen the scope of data-intensive technologies that can be exploited to increase productivity. Widespread use of new technologies will bring about significant changes in skill demand and work arrangements. As in many countries, Germany saw a decline in the share of middle-skilled jobs in employment. A relatively high share of jobs is expected to be automated or undergo significant changes in task contents as a result of technological change. New technologies are also likely to increase individuals engaging in new forms of work, such as gig work intermediated by digital platforms. Such workers are less covered by public social safety nets such as unemployment insurance than regular employment.
J29|Align your Job with You: The Effects of a Job Crafting Intervention on Work Engagement|This study offered an experimental design in order to evaluate the effects of a practical hands-on intervention on job crafting. Additionally, we introduced three types of job crafting; crafting towards strengths, crafting towards interest, and developmental crafting. We hypothesized that participating in a job crafting intervention will lead to elevated levels of job crafting, which in turn will promote work engagement. Moreover, we state that the indirect effect of the intervention will be influenced by the workload of the employee. Results showed that all job crafting behaviors significantly enhanced work engagement. Furthermore, participating in the job crafting intervention increased interests crafting for workers with a high workload, which in turn lead to an increase in work engagement. Our findings suggest that the job crafting intervention can indeed be an effective tool for enhancing work engagement.
J29|Video games as cultural participation: understanding games playing in England using the Taking Part survey|This study addresses the important and recurring question of whether playing video games is detrimental to the socio-economic development of a person. It does this by using novel data from the Taking Part Survey in England to establish whether games playing is associated with particular socio-economic characteristics and/or other forms of cultural participation. The results do not indicate any obviously negative effects of video games playing: those who play are typically better educated and wealthier, and games players are also more likely than non-games players to participate in other forms of culture, especially through active participation. These findings are reinforced when comparing the characteristics of individuals who did and did not play video games when younger.
J29|Video Games is Cultural Participation: Understanding Games Playing In England Using The Taking Part Survey|This study addresses the important and recurring question of whether playing video games is detrimental to the socio-economic development of a person. It does this by using novel data from the Taking Part Survey in England to establish whether games playing is associated with particular socio-economic characteristics and/or other forms of cultural participation. The results do not indicate any obviously negative effects of video games playing: those who play are typically better educated and wealthier, and games players are also more likely than non-games players to participate in other forms of culture, especially through active participation. These findings are reinforced when comparing the characteristics of individuals who did and did not play video games when younger.
J29|Job Search Behavior among the Employed and Unemployed|This paper uses a new and exhaustive dataset on the labor market outcomes of roughly 1,400 household heads surveyed through the New York Fed's Survey of Consumer Expectations. We use the data to examine the job search behavior of both employed and nonâ€ employed individuals. The data have detailed information on several aspects of job search, including the duration and intensity of search, the offers received, the reservation wage of the jobseeker, and the relative values of various nonâ€ wage job benefits. The survey is unique in that it includes information on the job search outcomes of those employed and nonâ€ employed, including those who report not actively searching for work (e.g., we have information on job referrals and unsolicited offers). It is also unique in that it has the same information on the job search outcomes that led to the job of those currently employed. The data allow us to examine several aspects of job search. First, we study the relationship between job search effort and the realized outcomes of that effort, conditional on employment status. Second, we examine the role the reservation wage plays in job search effort and offer acceptance decisions, again, conditional on employment status. Third, we examine to what extent non-wage amenities are important to the job acceptance decision. Finally, we can quantify the role of alternative margins in the job search process, such as referrals and unsolicited job offers, and their effect on employment outcomes.
J29|Pathways to Retirement through Self-Employment|We examine the role of self-employment in retirement transitions using a panel of administrative tax data. We find that the hazard of self-employment increases at popular retirement ages associated with Social Security eligibility, particularly for those with greater retirement wealth. Late-career transitions to self-employment are associated with a larger drop in income than similar mid-career transitions. Data from the Health and Retirement Study suggest that hours worked also fall upon switching to self-employment. These results suggest that self-employment at older ages may serve as a “bridge job,” allowing workers to gradually reduce hours and earnings along the pathway to retirement.
J29|Information Value and Interregional Input-Output Structure|This paper establishes an economic theory of information value and volume that differs from Shannon’s mathematical theory of communication (Shannon, 1948). The economics of information should be recognized as an important frontier field of economics to explore the 4th industrial revolution including Internet of the things (IoT) and artificial intelligence (AI). However, we need to construct an fundamental way to analyse information flow and stock. Because of this, the value of information goods as a non-market or market good is measured as agents’ willingness to pay (WTP) for travel and telecommunication from the overall viewpoint of transportation and telecommunication economics. And we construct an economic model for analysing the information flow between head and branch offices. This firms’ total profit is maximized by optimally imputing the amount of time which employees devote to collecting and processing internal and external information. Here, factors of production are internal and external information flows and stock information. Finally we propose information inputoutput table explaining inter-regional information flow of the sample economic model.
J29|Evaluating forecasting models for unemployment rates by gender in selected european countries|The unemployment can be considered as one of the main economic problems. The aim of this article is to examine the differences in male and female unemployment rates in selected European countries and to predict their future trends by using different statistical forecasting models. Furthermore, the impact of adding a new data point on the selection of the most appropriate statistical forecasting model and on the overall forecasting errors values is also evaluated. Male and female unemployment rates are observed for twelve European countries in the period from 1991 to 2014. Four statistical forecasting models have been selected and applied and the most appropriate model is considered to be the one with the lowest overall forecasting errors values. The analysis has shown that in the period from 1991 to 2014 the decreasing trend of unemployment rates in the short-run is forecasted for more Eastern Balkan than the EU-28 countries. An additional data point for male and female unemployment rates in 2014 led to somewhat smaller forecasting errors in more than half of the observed countries. However, the additional data point does not necessarily improve forecasting performances of the used statistical forecasting models.
J29|Ñ - Niños trabajadores|Resumen de la situación de trabajo infantil en Bolivia, 2008 - 2012
J29|Labour Supply Effects of Winning a Lottery|Our article investigates how winning a substantial lottery prize affects labour supply. Analysing data from Dutch State Lottery winners, we find that winning a lottery prize reduces labour earnings in the year of the winning, as well as in the years after the winning. This suggests that winning a lottery prize makes one work fewer hours. The effects are small but statistically significant. We do not find a significant effect of lottery prizes on the probability of being employed.
J29|What’s happening to our universities?| In recent decades, many universities have been moving in the direction of a more hierarchical and centralised structure, with top-down planning and reduced local autonomy for departments. Yet, the management literature over this period has stressed the numerous benefits of flatter organisational structures, decentralisation and local autonomy for sections or departments. What might explain this paradox? And why have academics remained strangely quiet about this, meekly accepting their fate? This proposition paper critically examines the dangers of centralised top-down management, increasingly bureaucratic procedures, teaching to a prescribed formula, and research driven by assessment and performance targets, illustrating these with a number of specific examples. It discusses a number of possible forces driving these worrying developments, and concludes by asking whether academics may be in danger of suffering the fate of the boiled frog.
J29|Emotional Intelligence as Mediator between Leadership Styles and Leadership Effectiveness: A Theoretical Framework|The study intentionally focused on the relationship between leadership styles and leadership effectiveness where emotional intelligence is drawn on as mediator of the relationship. Until recently, there is little or no research related to the intended study. Hence, an initiative to conduct the study has been made to assess their relationships. The theoretical framework is built on the bases of literature. The study centers on an oil and gas multinational in Malaysia, which has extensively expanded with the increase of the volume of supply and demand in that particular market. Is there any significant relationship between the variables? Or, are there any other factors that are excluded that influence the relationship? These questions might be answered when actual study is to take place deploying the respective theoretical framework.
J29|Assessment of State Services Quality and Availability in the Socio-cultural Sphere|The relevance of the presented research is caused by distribution of independent tools to assess public administration of the socio-cultural sphere by public nongovernmental organizations and scientific institutes. The objective of the paper is to develop a technique to assess quality and availability of state services in the socio-cultural sphere as components of public administration. An institutional approach has become a leading one; it allows to consider state services quality and availability assessment in the socio-cultural sphere as a complex indicator of the content quality of a resulting effect and quality of services obtained; it is also connected with the comfort of service rendering and their availability for consumers. The elaborated technique of state services quality and availability assessment in the socio-cultural sphere includes the following criteria: The level of state services quality; the level of state services availability; the level of trust that consumers have in service providers. The technique is directed to identify effective measures to provide consumers with available and high-quality state services in the socio-cultural sphere rendered by state bodies and their departments according to the results of a calendar year.
J29|Improvement of Work with Personnel as a Factor of Increasing Business Efficiency|The article is devoted to issues on improving the system of managing personnel of the gas and oil company on the basis of the fuller use of scientific approaches and methods. In the article the basic emphasis is made on the need to implement principles of the system approach when improving work with the research most fully reveals the issues related to improving the corporate training subsystem that must be progressive and cover the practice of not only the best national gas and oil companies but also companies of the world level. Basic principles of forming approaches to corporate training are systemized. The system model offered anticipates focus on the program and target technologies for prospective strategic projects and advance trainings with the use of foresight technologies are stipulated. In order to study and implement international experience, the reasonability of implementing programs on cooperating with foreign core businesses on separate aspects of training is defined. Suggestions given in the article can help managers of various levels of managing the gas and oil company, and functional managers to take timely, stipulated and well-reasoned decisions in the area of managing personnel to achieve strategic goals of business.
J29|Valuing Alternative Work Arrangements|We employ a discrete choice experiment in the employment process for a national call center to estimate the willingness to pay distribution for alternative work arrangements relative to traditional office positions. Most workers are not willing to pay for scheduling flexibility, though a tail of workers with high valuations allows for sizable compensating differentials. The average worker is willing to give up 20 percent of wages to avoid a schedule set by an employer on short notice, and 8 percent for the option to work from home. We also document that many job-seekers are inattentive, and we account for this in estimation.
J29|Fighting youth unemployment in Germany, Austria and the UK|The issue of the rising number of unemployed young people affects numerous developed countries. The article seeks to discuss methods of addressing the problem of youth unemployment as well as the results of strategies applied in Germany, Austria and the United Kingdom. For Austria and Germany the key issue in combating youth unemployment was the emphasis on acquiring practical experience on early stage of education. In case of the UK however, it was a scheme of financial incentives for employers.
J29|Does reduced cash beneit worsen educational outcomes of refugee children?|In 2002 the Danish government reduced the size of cash transfers to new refugees. We exploit the reform to study the effect of lower transfers on educational outomces of refugee children. Surprisingly, the reduction in parental benefits has no negative effect on educational outcomes of the children, such as test scores, probability of completion of the 9th grade or probability of enrollment in upper-secondary education. Likewise, children of parents affected by the reform are not forced to earn more in youth. Refugee parents increase their labour supply and earn more to compensate for the loss in income, but on average the increase in earnings does not compensate for the decline in benefits.
J29|The Rise and Nature of Alternative Work Arrangements in the United States, 1995-2015|To monitor trends in alternative work arrangements, we conducted a version of the Contingent Worker Survey as part of the RAND American Life Panel in late 2015. The findings point to a significant rise in the incidence of alternative work arrangements in the U.S. economy from 2005 to 2015. The percentage of workers engaged in alternative work arrangements – defined as temporary help agency workers, on-call workers, contract workers, and independent contractors or freelancers – rose from 10.7 percent in February 2005 to 15.8 percent in late 2015. The percentage of workers hired out through contract companies showed the largest rise, increasing from 1.4 percent in 2005 to 3.1 percent in 2015. Workers who provide services through online intermediaries, such as Uber or Task Rabbit, accounted for 0.5 percent of all workers in 2015. About twice as many workers selling goods or services directly to customers reported finding customers through offline intermediaries than through online intermediaries.
J29|Predicting HR’s involvement and influence in strategic decision-making|While it has become increasingly common to envision the HR function having an expanded role in business, we know little about the determinants of its strategic involvement and influence. Drawing on strategic contingencies theory (SCT) and institutional theory, a model for both constructs was developed and tested. Structural equation modeling (SEM) was used to analyze web-survey data from 167 firms in the U.S. and Canada. As predicted, HR coping ability, firm size, and human-capital munificence were positively related to strategic involvement. Strategic influence, in turn, was directly related to HR centrality and the level of involvement. Moderated regression analysis failed to support either of the hypothesized country effects. Implications for future research and management practice are discussed at the end of the article.
J29|A long way home: How an intra-organizational innovation network overcomes its political boundaries|This article focuses on the still understudied link among political boundaries and innovation practices and its inherent boundary-crossing mechanisms in intra-organizational innovation networks. Our single case study at the sports company adidas derives two particular combinations of boundaries and boundary-crossing mechanisms to overcome political boundaries in intra-organizational innovation networks. These are the ‘open-closed (minded) boundaries’ and ‘everybody-is-an-innovator boundaries’. They have been addressed with distinct innovation practices that comprise the boundary-crossing mechanisms ‘reframe interests’ and ‘negotiate interests’. We find that these boundary-crossing mechanisms to be crucial in the process of managing the intra-organizational innovation network. Our findings have implications for the organizational anchoring of innovation practices given its importance as enabler or barrier to overcome political boundaries in intra-organizational innovation networks.
J29|Friend or foe? A conceptualisation of the effects of telework on the work environment|This paper discusses the conceptual effects of telework usage on the work environment. Discussions focus on three perspectives: those of teleworkers, their colleagues, and their employers. Telework, in this paper, is defined as work that is carried out using some type of information technology (IT) at a distance from the traditional workplace. This paper argues that telework can alter understandings of work because it reshapes conventional perceptions of work location, time, and perceived values in organisational settings. From the viewpoint of non-teleworking colleagues of teleworkers, telework modifies understandings of equity and perceptions of work carried out in teams, due to decreased face-to-face interaction. From an employer viewpoint, telework alters understandings of hierarchy and organisational cultural norms. This paper is limited to discussions based on the available literature and does not support generalisation, but rather suggests areas for further empirical investigation.
J29|Work-life balance in academia: Experiences of lecturers in Switzerland|This paper investigates the work-life balance experiences of 11 full-time academic lecturers in Switzerland using a case study approach. Open-ended questions in questionnaires were used to gain depth into academic employees? understandings of work-life balance, their experiences in the ?crossover? of work- and life-related obligations, and their perceptions of work-life conflict and time. Findings emphasised the importance of context, due to increased spatial flexibility when working. Findings also shed light on the effects of work-life balance on professional attributes and career-related factors, when evaluating experiences. Conceptually, findings revealed that perceptions of available time are stretched beyond reasonable boundaries. Further research into academic lecturers? experiences attempting to meet work- and non-work-related professional obligations from a larger sample using questionnaires, complemented by interviews, could bring further insight into effects of work-life balance experiences.
J29|It?s all about me: an exploration of generation Y?s perceptions of job choice, traits, values, and work relationships in the service sector|Generation Y refers to people born approximately between 1980 and 2000. This paper evaluates findings from in-depth interviews with seven generation Y employees in the hospitality sector. Participants in this study revealed that job choice can be associated with symbolic encounters. Generation Y-related traits, such as the need for immediacy and increased feedback, were confirmed in discussions. In addition, participants? value sets took precedence over those of their employers in some cases. Findings also revealed insight on participants? understanding of culture at work and gender roles. Conceptually, this paper sheds light on the benefits of investigating people?s identities through their experiences to better understand generational mind sets at work and to gain insight into the effects of generation Y employees on practice.
J29|Is Double-Degree Goal Equally Good for All Students? Moderating Impact of Interval Activity Style (Czy studia na drugim kierunku sluza wszystkim studentom? Modyfikuj¹cy efekt przedzialowego stylu aktywnosci )|Similarly as in the USA, more and more students in Poland decide to pursue multiple degrees in order to improve their chances of success on the job market. The aim of the study (N = 1070) was to investigate some differences between students who aim at double degree with those who study one major only. The role of the range of goal categories connected with interval vs. point activity style (Wieczorkowska & Burnstein 1999, 2004 a, b) was analyzed. Data confirmed that Intervalists are more likely to choose two majors and if they do that they feel better than if they do not (which shows the importance of Goal-Activity Style congruence). Limitations of the study and further research directions are discussed.
J29|Retiring intentions: the role of conflicts with the boss and health status as a moderator|This paper considers an employee's retirement intentions and its influencing factors. The role of conflicts that an employee experiences with his/her boss and the role of his/her health status are analyzed using Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP) data. Estimation results show that conflicts matter as well as an individual's health status when considering the probability of retirement. Having conflict with the boss rises the probability of retiring intentions significantly, even after accounting for a wide set of controls. Employees in good health have fewer intentions to retire. Split into subgroups, there appears to be a slight but notable moderating role of health status: Among healthy employees conflict with the boss raises retirement intentions even more. This suggests that healthy people (compared to unhealthy people) may well be able to continue working but not necessarily do so because social factors - namely conflict with the boss - become more important.
J29|Coming to work while sick: an economic theory of presenteeism with an application to German data|Presenteeism, i.e. attending work while sick, is widespread and associated with significant costs. Still, economic analyses of this phenomenon are rare. In a theoretical model, we show that presenteeism arises due to differences between workers in the disutility from workplace attendance. As these differences are unobservable by employers, they set wages that incentivize sick workers to attend work. Using a large representative German data set, we test several hypotheses derived from our model. In line with our predictions, we find that stressful working conditions and bad health status are positively related to presenteeism. Better dismissal protection, captured by higher tenure, is associated with slightly fewer presenteeism days, whereas the role of productivity and skills is inconclusive.
J29|Warum nicht fifty-fifty? Betriebliche Rahmenbedingungen der Aufteilung von Erwerbs- und Fürsorgearbeit in Paarfamilien|"Wie kann Vereinbarkeit von Beruf und Familie gelingen - und zwar sowohl bei Frauen als auch bei Männern? Ziel des Forschungsprojektes ""Betriebliche Gelingensbedingungen einer partnerschaftlichen Aufteilung von Erwerbs- und Familienarbeit"" war es herauszufinden, unter welchen Bedingungen sich Väter und Mütter Erwerbs- und Familienarbeit ausgewogen aufteilen. Unsere Auswertungen qualitativer und quantitativer Daten aus dem Jahr 2015 zeigen, dass sich in Deutschland Eltern kleiner Kinder - insbesondere Väter - eine egalitärere Aufteilung von Erwerbsarbeits- und Elternzeiten wünschen und die Aufteilung von Familien- und Erwerbsarbeit immer wieder neu überdenken und an veränderte Situationen anpassen möchten. Finanzielle Möglichkeiten und betriebliche Rahmenbedingungen beschränken jedoch oftmals die Umsetzung dieser Wünsche. Eine egalitäre Aufteilung von Familien- und Erwerbsarbeitszeiten ist dann eher möglich, wenn Eltern in Betrieben arbeiten, die Familienfreundlichkeit mit Gleichstellungszielen verbinden. Derzeit arbeitet rund ein Fünftel der Eltern kleiner Kinder in Deutschland in solchen Betrieben. Gute Vereinbarkeit lohnt sich auch aus unternehmerischer Sicht, denn sie geht seltener mit Zeitkonflikten, dafür mit höherer betrieblicher Verbundenheit und weniger Kündigungsabsichten einher."
J29|The Effects of Economic Growth on Earnings in Bolivia|This paper analyzes the effects of economic growth on labor earnings in Bolivia during 1999-2012. More precisely, we develop a labor market model to capture both cycle and trend effects of prices, and production on earnings, which is estimated econometrically using pseudo-panel data methods. The results show that labor earnings have had a pro-cyclical behavior. In particular, we find that, in the short run, an increase of 1% in prices or production explains an earnings rise of around 0.5%, while, in the long run, a production increase of 1% is associated with an earnings variation of 0.4%. Furthermore, we find that labor earnings growth by sector follows, to some extent, the economic performance of its corresponding sector, which responds to the sector segmentation characteristics in the Bolivian labor market.
J29|Can International Transfers Be Problematic? Honduran Remittances And Labor Supply Decisions|" type=""main"" xml:id=""coep12092-abs-0001""> Declining work force participation rates are a potentially important public policy issue for governments in countries with large capital inflows. Here we consider remittances as both a household and individual characteristic to estimate the impact of this nonwage transfer on labor supply decisions in Honduras. Although an initial view suggests moderate reductions across the working-age population, we find evidence of increased participation through a reallocation of labor time across work categories. Our inclusion of the individual nature of remittance reception suggests less emphasis on the unified household perspective is warranted . ( JEL O15, O12, J29)"
J29|Jovens no mercado de trabalho formal brasileiro: uma análise quantitativa|Resumo Na década de 1990, a alta taxa de desemprego era parte da realidade do mercado de trabalho brasileiro. Neste cenário, a mão de obra juvenil foi a mais penalizada ao ter as taxas mais baixas de emprego, com a maioria de ocupados no setor informal e a obtenção de rendimentos baixos. No entanto, durante a primeira década deste século, a dinâmica do mercado de trabalho nacional foi diferente da observada na última década, sobretudo desde 2004, com o aumento na criação de postos de trabalho formais. Portanto, o presente artigo tem como objetivo analisar o mercado de trabalho de menores e jovens (em idades entre 14 e 24 anos). O marco de tempo desta análise cobre nos anos 1992, 2002 e 2012; os dados correspondem à Informação Social Anual (RAIS), do Ministério de Trabalho e Emprego (MTE). Metodologicamente realizou-se uma revisão da literatura relacionada à inserção dos jovens nas atividades de trabalho, e calculou-se um indicador para a estimativa da participação dos jovens ocupados formalmente no Brasil. Os principais resultados mostram que entre 1990 e 2000 piorou a entrada dos jovens no mercado de trabalho brasileiro. Além do mais, encontrou-se que a formalização promovida durante a década do 2000, não atingiu à mão de obra formal de jovens.
J29|An Overview Of The Effects Of Job Stress On Employees Performance In Nigeria Tertiary Hospitals|This research work was carried out to appraise Job stress and performance of employee in an organization. One of the organizational outcomes that are affected by occupational stress is performance. Employees’ performance can be viewed as an activity in which an individual is able to accomplish the task assigned to his/her successfully, subject to the normal constraints of reasonable utilization of the available resources. The focus of this study is to appraise the cause of stress, the effect on employee performance, how workers identify those stress factors and react to the factors. The data of study was collected through the use of Primary and Secondary sources by administering questionnaires, personal interviews and information was extracted from relevant journals and statistical bulletins. The descriptive method was used to analyze the data with aid of frequency and percentage for the research objectives. >From the findings it was discovered that work overload, career development and work/family conflict are considered to likely cause a disruptive effect on performance of workers. The study reveals that workers performance were affected by the following factors; tiredness, worry, unhappiness, weakness, headache, and anger. Based on the findings of this study, the study concluded that job stress has significant effect on employees’ performance.
J29|Working hours, work identity and subjective wellbeing|Following theories of social and economic identity, we use representative data containing measures of personal identity to investigate the interplay of work identity and hours of work in determining subjective wellbeing (job satisfaction, job-related anxiety and depression, and life satisfaction). We find that for a given level of hours, having a stronger work identity is associated with higher wellbeing on most measures. Working long hours is associated with lower wellbeing and working part-time is associated with higher wellbeing, but for men hours mainly affect their job-related anxiety and depression rather than reported satisfaction. The relationships between hours and wellbeing are generally strengthened when controlling for identity implying that individuals sort into jobs with work hours that match their identities. Work identity partially mitigates the adverse effects of long hours working on job satisfaction and anxiety (for women) and on life satisfaction (for men). The effects of both work hours and identity are substantial relative to benchmark effects of health on wellbeing.
J29|Entrepreneurship Competence: An Overview of Existing Concepts, Policies and Initiatives â€“ In-depth case studies report|Entrepreneurship is recognized by the European Union as one of the eight key competences for lifelong learning, and thus necessary for all members of a knowledge-based society. It is also regarded as an enabler for economic recovery, growth, job creation, employment, inclusion, poverty reduction, and also innovation and productivity. As such, it has become a policy priority and measures have been taken to incorporate entrepreneurship into different policy fields, including education. Education and training systems across Europe are indeed taking entrepreneurship progressively into account. This report presents 10 case studies, which address how entrepreneurship as a key competence is taught and learnt in real settings across all levels of education (i.e. primary, secondary, tertiary) and learning contexts (i.e. formal, non-formal and informal) in Europe. The in-depth analysis of the 10 cases was carried out through several rounds of desk research, direct enquiries and face-to-face or telephone interviews, and expert consultation. This comparative analysis highlights similarities and differences in the development of entrepreneurship competence in terms of pedagogical approaches, assessment practices, evaluation strategies, impact, factors of transferability and sustainability. This report is an interim output of the JRC-IPTS funded study 'Entrepreneurship Competence: An overview of existing concepts, policies and initiatives (OvEnt)' conducted by CARSA. The OvEnt study is part of the wider research agenda of JRC-IPTS on 'ICT for Learning and Skills' that aims to provide evidence on how skills and key competences that our digital society needs are acquired, certified and recognised.
J29|Entrepreneurship Competence: An Overview of Existing Concepts, Policies and Initiatives â€“ Final report|This report presents the state of the art on the topic of entrepreneurship competence identifying and comparing different theoretical and practical approaches from the academic and entrepreneurial world. It draws on an extensive literature review, an inventory of selected initiatives and in-depth case studies. The report looks at different definitions, frameworks, components and other elements of entrepreneurship as a competence, and reflects upon entrepreneurship education, teaching and assessment methods used for entrepreneurial learning. This report is the final output of the JRC-IPTS funded study 'Entrepreneurship Competence: An overview of existing concepts, policies and initiatives (OvEnt)'; it is part of the wider research agenda of JRC-IPTS on 'ICT for Learning and Skills' that aims to provide evidence on how skills and key competences that our digital society needs are acquired, certified and recognised.
J29|Do the Unemployed Accept Jobs Too Quickly? A Comparison with Employed Job Seekers|This paper analyses differences between unemployed and employed job seekers in job finding rates and in the quality of the job found. Compared to the unemployed, employed job seekers have a smaller pool of job offers that they consider acceptable; this leads to lower job finding rates but better quality jobs. Differences in job quality are tiny when unobserved heterogeneity and selection into accepting a job are accounted for. Hence, differences are mostly due to behaviour of unemployed people rather than negative signaling or employer discrimination.
J29|Home Production and Retirement in Couples: A Panel Data Analysis|We analyse the effects of retirement of one partner on home production by both partners in a couple. Using longitudinal data from Germany on couples, we control for fixed household specific effects to address the concern that retirement decisions are correlated with unobserved characteristics that also affect home production. For males and females, we find that own retirement significantly increases the amounts of home production. There are negative cross-effects of retirement on home production done by the partner. The fall in household income at retirement of one of the partners is largely compensated by an increase in total household production.
J29|Video games playing: A substitute for cultural consumptions?|This article discusses some economic and cultural features of video games and posits that this medium belongs within the core of cultural economics. We further provide an applied investigation of video game usage. Using data for Spain, we estimate zero-inflated ordered probit models to control for an excess of zeros in our ordinal dependent variable. We find that the probability of game playing increases with the consumption of other cultural goods (e.g., listening to music or watching television) or active involvement in artistic activities (e.g., writing or visual arts production). Game playing is in general an urban phenomenon; it is positively associated with the ownership of home equipment and access to new technologies, but decreases with greater time restrictions of a person. The main differences to the traditional art formats is that game playing appeals particularly to younger, usually less educated cohorts. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
J29|Our Debts Heavy…|"(On the Monograph ""Debt as a Phenomenon of the XXI Century"") Lending capital, credit and debt financing have been around and used to fuel economic development since the time immemorial. There are innumerable studies by international and Russian scholars that look into the evolution of these notions and lending instruments employed. The collective monograph edited by A. Porokhovsky and published by the MSU in 2014 intends to provide an all-around political and economic as well as applied review of the current debt issues faced by the global economy, national economies of Russia, U.S.A. and countries of the European Union. It uses a variety of academic and methodological postulates that range from the reproduction approach to modern macroeconomic doctrines."
J29|The Modern Bulgarian Woman and the „Family-Work” Collision|The following study presents the “family-work” collision and in particular the role conflicts of the modern Bulgarian woman arising between family and work and how they affect her personal and professional development, social roles, choice of model of female personal realization. The analysis is based on data from an author's empirical research, conducted within the “Role conflicts of the modern Bulgarian woman: between family and career” thesis. The survey was conducted in July-August 2013. The analysis focuses on the following problem-thematic fields: The modern woman between family and work and the influences between the two areas; The model of a modern female personal and professional development, represented by value orientation, beliefs and attitudes of women regarding family and work; The balance between family and professional life, or to what extent modern Bulgarian women manage to achieve a balance between their roles in both areas. The main reasons (not) to achieve a harmonious reconciliation of family and professional roles; The generational affiliation as a factor for family and career realization – specificity for the young and mature generations of women. Positioning of family and work in the course of women’s life.
J29|Temporary Versus Permanent Employment: Does Health Matter?|Poor health may inhibit active participation in the labour market and restrict the types of employment available to an individual. This paper uses recent survey data from New Zealand and employs a bivariate probit approach (to address sample selection issues) for investigating the relationship between health status and employment type. We find that health issues (and in particular mental health) are negatively related to the likelihood of being employed; and entering full-time and / or permanent employment. The picture with respect to temporary work is a little more fuzzy, with mixed results, and only minimal evidence is found that poor health is positively related to being in temporary employment.
J29|Benchmarking Metis Economic and Social Development|This is a report on the socio-economic development of the Metis in Canada. The report identifies appropriate indicators to benchmark Metis socio-economic development against non-Aboriginal socio-economic development, while establishing a benchmark against which future progress can be gauged. Quite briefly, there have been strong gains in Metis socio-economic development, especially concerning income and education. In particular, Metis median income reached 86.7 per cent of non-Aboriginal median income in 2010, up from 72.9 per cent in 2000. In terms of education, the share of the Metis with a college, CEGEP or other non-university certificate or diploma as their highest degree actually surpassed the share of the non-Aboriginal population in similar areas by 2011. However, there are still a number of gaps that remain. For example, the Metis continue to have poorer indicators of health, especially concerning smoking. Furthermore, the Metis still have lower levels of suitable housing than the non-Aboriginal population. One of the most interesting findings of the report is the large gaps that exist within the Metis Nation between provinces. The report concludes that concerted efforts, determined cooperation, and substantial participation from Metis leaders and Metis organizations at both the provincial and national level will be required to close the remaining gaps between provinces within the Metis Nation and between the aggregate Metis and non-Aboriginal populations.
J29|Locus of Control and Job Search Strategies|Standard job search theory assumes that unemployed individuals have perfect information about the effect of their search effort on the job offer arrival rate. We present an alternative model that assumes that each individual has a subjective belief about the impact of her search effort on the job arrival. These beliefs depend in part on an individual's locus of control. We estimate the impact of locus of control on job search behavior using a data set of newly unemployed individuals in Germany. Consistent with our theoretical predictions, we find evidence that individuals with an internal locus of control search more and that individuals who believe that their future outcomes are determined by external factors have lower reservation wages. © 2015 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
J29|Teams and Tournaments in Relational Contracts|This paper analyses and compares optimal relational contracts between a principal/firm and a set of agents when (a) only aggregate output can be observed, and (b) individual outputs can be observed. We show that the optimal contract under (a) is a team incentive scheme where each agent is paid a maximal bonus for aggregate output above a threshold and a minimal (no) bonus otherwise. The team’s efficiency decreases with its size (number of agents) when outputs are non-negatively correlated, but may increase considerably with size if outputs are negatively correlated. In the case where individual output can be observed, we show that the optimal contract is a tournament scheme where the conditions for an agent to obtain the (single) bonus are stricter for negatively compared to positively correlated outputs. We finally show that if agents have bargaining power, firms may deliberately choose to organize production as a team where only aggregate output is observable. The team alternative is more likely to be superior under negatively correlated outputs.
J29|Immigration and internal mobility in Canada|Abstract We analyse the impact of temporary foreign workers (TFWs) and permanent immigrants on interprovincial mobility in Canada. Empirical results are analysed through the lens of a theoretical model that incorporates a job-matching framework in a migration model à la Harris and Todaro. The effect of the inflow of TFWs in interprovincial mobility is negative, substantial and significant. This is not the case for the inflow of permanent immigrants selected through the Canadian point system. The robustness of these empirical results to issues of endogeneity is assessed through a classical instrumentation approach as well as through a diff-in-diff analysis taking advantage of a pilot project facilitating the admission of TFWs in two Western provinces over the 2007–2010 period. Our paper suggests that, in general, the impact of immigration on labour market conditions depends critically on the way immigration policy is set.
J29|El seguro de capacitación y empleo. Interpretación teórica y resultados de su implementación en la ciudad de Mar del Plata, Argentina|En este artículo se pretende estudiar la implementación de una herramienta de protección contra el desempleo en Mar del Plata, Argentina. Se lo examina a través de una adaptación del marco liberal igualitario y, después, con base en la propuesta de Roemer, se analiza la significatividad estadística de los tipos definidos en relación a los logros educativos. Finalmente, mediante un modelo logit binomial, se calcula la probabilidad de conseguir trabajo. Los resultados demuestran la importancia de las circunstancias personales en la definición de los tipos, y que la probabilidad de trabajar es mayor para los varones y creciente respecto al tipo analizado. ***** This paper aims to study the implementation of a tool for protection against unemployment in Mar del Plata, Argentina. It examines through an adaptation of liberal egalitarian framework, and then, based on Roemer's proposal, we analyze the statistical significance of the types defined in relation to educational attainment. Finally, using a binomial logit model, we calculate the probability of finding work. The results demonstrate the importance of personal circumstances in defining the types, and that the probability of finding work is higher for males and growing over the type discussed.
J29|Transitory shocks and birth weights: Evidence from a blackout in Zanzibar|Do transitory economic shocks affect neonatal outcomes? I show that an unexpected, month-long blackout in Tanzania caused a sharp but temporary drop in work hours and earnings for workers in electricity-dependent jobs. Using records from a maternity ward, I document a reduction in birth weights for children exposed in utero to the blackout, and an increase in the probability of low birth weight. The reduction is correlated with measures of maternal exposure to the blackout. The blackout also increased fertility for teenage and first-time mothers, but selection into pregnancy cannot fully explain the drop in weights.
J29|The Effect of Rehabilitative Punishments on Juvenile Crime and Labor Market Outcomes|This paper estimates the effect of a rehabilitative punishment on the post-release outcomes of juvenile criminals using a unique Finnish data set on sentences and punishments merged with the longitudinal population census for 1990-2007. The rehabilitative program was aimed at improving the social skills and labor market attachment of young offenders aged 15 to 17. A variety of research designs are used to isolate the effect of the juvenile punishment and to control for observable characteristics of the young offenders. The juvenile punishment experiment was initially conducted in certain criminal courts only and was applicable for youths aged under 18, giving rise to a differences-in-differences and triple differences setup. The juvenile punishment reduced reoffending during the year immediately after sentencing, but had no long-term effect on reoffending nor on labor market outcomes.
J29|A hidden cost of war: the impact of mobilizing reserve troops on emergency response times|This paper analyzes a hidden cost of war: the effect of the mass mobilization of reserve troops on the response times of domestic emergency services to accidents. We provide a statistical examination of this linkage following the US invasion of Iraq in 2003 and find that mobilization significantly increases response times to accidents in the United States. These mobilization-related costs are exacerbated by both legal restrictions and issues of replacing highly specialized human capital. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014
J29|Income Insecurity, Job Insecurity and the Drift towards Self-employment in SSA|This study contributes to the explanation to growing informality by proposing and testing a simple framework that link income insecurity to the proliferation of informal enterprise through job insecurity in selected SSA countries. The study adopted a quantitative approach and used ANOVA analysis to analyze a uniform firm level data on informal enterprises in Ghana, Kenya and the DRC. The analyses suggested that income insecurity exist in the form of significant seasonal variations in sales returns. Enterprises that employ more than one worker, on the average, cut employment significantly during the slowest months as compared to employment in the busiest months. Thus a link is established between income insecurity and job insecurity which deters the informal enterprises from increasing permanent employment and hence remains small overtime. Instead firms resort to casual workers and unpaid workers to facilitate production. The insecurity in the informal sector paid employment drive paid employees into self-employment after learning the employer’s trade and hence multiply the number of enterprises in a locality which in turn keep returns fairly normal in the sector. The major recommendation of that study is that owners of informal enterprises must be regulated in their current jobs and assisted to build capacity to deal with sales variations and other employment uncertainty after which the demand for formality and growth in decent employment shall be a natural course of action to the firms.
J29|Stakeholder Analysis as a Tool for Systems Approach Research in HRD|The world is experiencing significant, largely economic and sociotechnical, induced change. These induced changes are meaningful with a function of people taking collective actions around common beliefs. These changes are more than jargon, cliché and hyperbole, and they are effecting major transformations. These transformations will impact on how human resources are developed and we need to be able to forecast its effects. In order to produce such forecasts, HRD needs to become more predictive - to develop the ability to understand how human capital systems and organizations will behave in future. Further development of systems models is required to allow such predictions to be made. Critical to the development of such models will be to understand that linear epistemology cannot be the dominant epistemology of practice and that dynamic complexity of challenges confronted by HRD professionals in their daily research and practice requires a nonlinear epistemology of practice, rather than reductive or linear thinking or processes of normal science. Although the adoption of a systems approach to research in HRD is not novel, methodologies and conceptual approaches underlying it use are not very well developed. In this paper, a stakeholder analysis methodology that was developed as a novel method in conducting systems approach research in human resource development, public policy and agricultural education is described.
J29|La disqualification sociale des éleveurs intégrés|[paper in French]This study explored whether subcontracted breeders are socially disqualified in their profession by their own views or by those they believe to be expressed by the traditional breeders. The elements of social disqualification include social fragility (how they are perceived by the majority of conventional producers) and economic dependency on integrators who provide the selected animals, food and even therapeutics in some cases. While subcontracting breeding is largely regarded as a more economical means to produce livestock or poultry, this study hypothesized the subcontractors are socially disqualified on the grounds of having minimal professional autonomy or knowledge on the actual breeding or management of livestock. Comprehensive interviews were conducted with subcontracting breeders of calf, pig and poultry. We show that social disqualification of subcontractors is based on their feeling of over-dependence on the farm integrator and the integrators lack of recognition for their quality of work.
J29|Is self-leadership the new silver bullet of leadership? An empirical test of the relationship between self-leadership and organizational commitment|Self-leadership is theoretically assumed to be the key management approach in modern knowledge work because it strengthens the employees’ commitment. This study examines the relationship between self-leadership and affective organizational commitment empirically. An underlying assumption in the self-leadership research, that employees are guided and committed by internal work ideals, is tested, and self-leadership is compared to motivational factors in traditional management theories. The results show that self-leadership positively affects organizational commitment, while the internal work ideals overall do not seem to have the expected effect. However, the effect of self-leadership on commitment disappears when the relationship is controlled for traditional motivational factors. The theoretical and practical implications of these results are discussed, and foci for future research are suggested.
J29|Appreciative leadership and employee well-being in everyday working life|This study examines the relationship between appreciative behavior and employee well-being on a daily basis. The theoretical rationale of our approach is based in leadership concepts emphasizing the relational aspect of leadership, and, more generally, in a framework that emphasizes the central role of threats, or boosts, to self-esteem (i.e., the concept of “Stress-as-Offense-to-Self” [SOS]). Qualitative and quantitative data of 139 employees working in different occupations were assessed during five consecutive workdays. First, based on event-sampling of appreciative situations, the nature of appreciative situations from the perspective of the employees, as it manifests itself in daily episodes, was examined. Simple praise and gratitude were the most frequent types of appreciative behavior reported. Besides leaders, customers and co-workers were frequent sources of appreciation as well. Second, the intra-individual effects of daily experiences of appreciation on employee well-being at the end of work were analyzed. Multi-level random coefficient modeling showed that daily appreciation by all sources significantly predicted serenity (i.e., a low-arousal / high pleasure type of well-being) at the end of work. As serenity is likely to affect recovery, which, in turn, may affect health and performance, our findings show that for leaders, but not only for leaders, displaying elementary appreciative behavior is a simple but important tool for enhancing employee health and well-being.
J29|The Effects Of Inward Fdi On Regional Employment In Europe|This paper explores whether and to what extent inward FDI is able to affect regional employment, a complex issue often discussed in policy debates but still scarcely explored in the scientific literature. The paper addresses the following research questions: i) Is regional (sub-national) employment significantly affected by FDI in the EU-27 context? ii) Are the results significantly different across different groups of regions (Eastern, Western, Northern and Southern EU regions)? iii) Is sectorial employment differently affected in the above groups of regions? We explore these issues empirically by using an unbalanced panel of 270 EU regions, seven manufacturing and services sectors, and three periods of time. Overall, we find that FDI inflows are employment-expanding in all economic sectors, with the exception of the construction industry. Positive effects on employment are detected, on average, in Northern and Western EU regions, but not in Central and Eastern European regions and in Southern ones.
J29|Exploring Hotel Employees? Individual and Work-Related Outcomes from the aspect of Customer Online Reviews: A Qualitative Approach|The purpose of this study is to determine hotel employees individual traits and work-related attitudes and behaviors based on customer e-reviews. Qualitative research methods were used to analyze the data gathered from 522 foreign customers e-comments in English for three resort hotels (high scored in top-3 on an international online commercial travel platform, dated to the year 2013) located in Antalya Region, southern coast of Turkey. Firstly, results indicated that customers have generally evaluated hotel all employees as highly friendly, helpful, hard-working, polite, lovely, amazing, smiling, efficient and attentive persons. Secondly, they evaluated individual traits of the only certain departments staff; Entertainment Staff as highly entertaining, hard-working, and friendly persons; Food and Beverage (service) Staff as highly friendly and smiling persons; Front-Office Staff as highly friendly and helpful persons, and Housekeeping Staff as neat, smiling and brilliant persons. Finally, customers evaluated employees work-related attitudes and behaviors as the aspect of interaction, relationship, service performance, extra-roles and service/customer orientation. A discussion of the findings, implications, and recommendations for future research were all presented.
J29|Labour Markets For Rural Population: Commuting And Migration Abroad| In the absence of a satisfactory level of jobs offered in rural areas, achieving of the supply-demand balance in the labour market can supported by labour migration, both internal and external. Paper discusses the labour market for rural population in terms of commuting and working abroad. Study showed that that the average labour market for the rural inhabitants is local and consists of cities located close to the place of residence. They generate demand for labour force and allow rural development through the transfer of knowledge and capital. Moreover, in 88.2% of surveyed villages the migrations abroad were reported. Next to Germany, UK and Ireland, an important direction of migration of the rural population were the Netherlands and Belgium, Italy and the Scandinavian countries.
J29|Time use in couples: differences between employed and self-employed workers|We study how employed and self-employed workers living as a couple differ in terms of allocation of their time. In particular, we focus on the division of domestic work between men and women. It emerges that the type of job strongly affects the allocation of time of men, whereas it is much less relevant for women. Unobservable characteristics, like preferences for work, rather than the type of job (employed vs. self-employed) seem to matter for the allocation of time of women. In general, Italian data confirm that self-employed workers work longer hours, in particular at nights and during the weekends. When we analyse together the allocation of time of both partners, we find that market and domestic work are more equally distributed within couples where the woman is self-employed. Conversely, when the man is self-employed and the woman is employed the allocation of time is distributed very unevenly. This suggests that the choice of the type of job is a channel through which the allocation of time spent on domestic work within couples is determined.
J29|Medición del capital humano de la empresa: el caso Efigas|Objetivo. El presente documento tiene dos objetivos: presentar un instrumento mediante el cual las organizaciones puedan medir su capital humano y proporcionar evidencia empírica sobre el capital humano en la empresa Efigas S.A. E.S.P, en el marco conceptual del capital intelectual. Metodología. Se trata de un estudio cuantitativo y descriptivo, de corte empírico-analítico, desarrollado bajo la metodología del estudio de caso, mediante el cual se identificó, midió y analizó el capital humano de Efigas en tres periodos anuales sucesivos. Resultados. Las organizaciones, como en el caso de Efigas, pueden medir cuantitativamente su capital humano y, por esta vía, comprender su dinámica, para optimizar la gestión de sus activos intangibles. En la empresa estudiada, el capital humano constituye una fortaleza, dado el alto nivel de experiencia, formación, satisfacción y competencias de su personal y su correcta utilización en pro del funcionamiento y los resultados del negocio.
J29|'Make-or-Buy' of Peripheral Services in Manufacturing: Evidence from Spanish Plant-Level Data|In this paper we empirically explore the 'make-or-buy' decisions of peripheral services in manufacturing plants using detailed information on a data set from a new plant-level survey from 926 plants distributed in all manufacturing industries in Spain. In particular, survey respondents are asked how their contracting practices of peripheral services had changed in the last three years. The answer to this question is informative of the changes in the importance of backward integration for each of the plants interviewed. Using other information provided in the survey, we relate reported changes in backward integration to changes in other relevant plant characteristics. We show that increases in outsourcing of services are positively correlated with increases in the plant's market share as well as increases in product market competition and product prices. These findings are robust to controlling for whether plants belong to single-plant or multi-plant firms. This result is consistent with the view that market size limits the degree of specialization at the plant level in the Spanish manufacturing industry.
J29|Heterogeneity in the Production of Human Capital|We derive a tractable nonlinear earnings function which we estimate separately for each individual in the NLSY79 data. These estimates yield five important parameters for each individual: three ability measures (two representing the ability to learn and one the ability to earn), a rate of skill depreciation, and a time discount rate. In addition, we obtain a population wide estimate of the rental rate of human capital. To illustrate heterogeneity in the production of human capital, we plot the distribution of these parameters along with NLSY79 reported AFQT scores. By utilizing these parameters, we are able to verify a number of heretofore untested theorems based on the life-cycle human capital model. In addition, we are able to show how these human capital production function parameters relate to cognitive ability, personality traits, and family background. Among our results, we find: Black-white differences in ability are smaller than those exhibited in standardized tests. Blacks have higher time discount and skill depreciation rates than whites. Individuals with higher time discount rates and greater rates of skill depreciation have fewer years of school. Individuals with both a high internal locus of control and self-esteem exhibit greater ability, lower skill depreciation, and smaller time discount rates. Individuals inclined towards depression have higher time discount rates. Agreeable, open, conscientious and extrovert individuals have a greater ability to learn but not necessarily a greater ability to earn. Neurotic individuals have a lower ability to learn. Higher parental education is associated with a greater ability to learn, lower skill depreciation, and a smaller time discount rate. Educational stimuli, such as growing up in a household that subscribed to magazines, are associated with higher ability. Conversely, growing up poor is associated with lower ability.
J29|Housing and labor decisions of households|In this paper, we analyze the relationship between the demand for housing and the family employment. To do so, we develop an economic model and use a sample of Spanish households to analyze the housing tenure choice (ownership or rental of the house) and the demand for housing in relation to family labor decisions. We have gone beyond previous studies by incorporating the discrete decisions of tenure choice and the participation of women in the labor market, proving that these decisions are interrelated and broadening the scope of our findings and conclusions. We obtained an important description of the effect of economic factors on housing and labor decisions and demonstrated that a change in a family’s employment decisions affects housing decisions and vice versa. In addition, we determined to what extent housing and labor decisions are affected by changes in the wife’s educational level and changes in family composition. Our findings show that the labor decisions have more sensitivity than housing decisions to these changes. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2013
J29|Reflections On The Experience Of Pension Systems Reform|The appearance of the new socio-economic system which is open to the world, , the triggering the process of join of efforts with the international community, the economic integration in the EU, the structural changes in population demographics require undoubtedly significant changes not only in form, but also in background, the national pension system. Obviously, an important role in developing and implementing effective pension system lies within the study practice accumulated over the world. In the article the authors reflect on what change occurred in pension systems in different regions of the world, pursuing their operation practice and come up with some proposals that would change the situation in the national pension system for the better, would accelerate its adaptation to the requirements of European Union social policy.
J29|The Role Of Social Infrastructure In The Formation And Development Of Rural Ukraine Labour Potential|The article analyzes the state of social infrastructure development and network and outlines their role in the formation and development of labor potential of rural Ukraine. It is suggested to introduce the innovations and connected with this the fixed investment accretion process, giving the opportunity to improve and increase the capacity of social infrastructure networks, which in turn stimulate the development of rural labor potential.
J29|State Earned Income Tax Credits and Participation in Regular and Informal Work|This paper examines how low-income single parents alter their regular and informal labor supply in response to the earned income tax credit (EITC). Variation in state EITCs from 1997–2005 identifies changes in informal and regular labor supply of unmarried low-income parents in response to tax credits. The informal-sector participation of single fathers declines by 7.3 percentage points, conditional on working in the regular sector, if a state EITC increases by 10 percent of the federal credit. Regular-sector hours worked per week increase by 4.5 hours and informal sector hours per week fall by 2.2 hours with no significant effect on total hours.
J29|Maternal Employment and the Care of School-Aged Children|Children’s participation in both formal and informal child care is often a necessity in families of school-aged children when parents are employed. This mixed methods paper describes links between maternal employment and use of different types of child care for school-aged children, incorporating findings from the Family and Work Decisions qualitative study, and analyses of survey data from the Longitudinal Study of Australian Children. The paper explores factors involved in mothers’ decision-making about employment as well as child care, with key concerns being related to the availability of different care providers, the flexibility of their own employment and children’s capacity for self-care. The data are also used to examine which families use particular care arrangements for school aged children, with a focus on how care arrangements vary for mothers working in different types of jobs. Informal care arrangements are examined as well as formal care arrangements.
J29|Exportaciones y Empleo en Bolivia|La investigación analiza el desempeño de las exportaciones en Bolivia a la luz de los empleos que genera, directos e indirectos, con los siguientes resultados destacables: i) la creación de fuentes laborales se ha concentrado en los bienes no tradicionales ya que son intensivos en este factor de producción; ii) el buen desempeño del volumen de ventas al exterior en 1999-2010 posibilitó el incremento de la mano de obra derivada, empero con tasas modestas; iii) Los socios de la Comunidad Andina de Naciones (CAN) ?Colombia, Ecuador y Perú? han sido los más importantes en términos de creación de empleos; mientras que el MERCOSUR, principalmente Brasil, se destaca con la mayor participación en las exportaciones; y iv) la caída de los empleos derivados de las menores exportaciones a Estados Unidos en los últimos años ha sido significativa, aunque parte de esta disminución habría sido compensada con las mayores ventas a Venezuela en el marco de los compromisos con Bolivia.
J29|In the Shadow of the Labour Market|Why do not people evade more taxes when their gain from evasion is higher than the expected penalties? Why does only a small minority evade when a large majority is willing to? These tax evasion puzzles are explained in a labour market framework where employees may combine reported work in firms with self-employed shadow work. On the margin, time spent on self-employed work reduces labour productivity in reported work. This creates an equilibrium where small, low-productive firms offer jobs with low wage rates but time for self-employed shadow work, while larger, more efficient firms offer jobs with higher reported wage rates but no time for shadow work. Improving the tax morale may not reduce evasion but only sort the honest people into jobs with no time for shadow work. Shadow work leads to an inefficient allocation of employees since it has the effect of a subsidy to low productive firms. Both lower taxes and minimum wages reduce evasion and improve labour allocation but harms low productive firms.
J29|Sick Leaves: Understanding Disparities Between French Departments|The purpose of this publication is to better understand disparities between the proportions of sick leaves granted among various departments in France. The Hygie database was used for this study. It was created by merging a number of administrative files of employees in the private sector in France in 2005. This database allows for the determination of «employer/employee» relations, the impact of the characteristics of firms on the health of their employees and the interactions between health and work. After briefly reviewing the various determinants for the effect of composition and the effect of context, as well as sick leaves and their importance for understanding geographic differences, we present a three-phase empirical analysis: a descriptive analysis to detect differences between departments, a multivariate analysis to highlight explanatory factors of probability of being on sick leave and, finally, an analysis of determinants of differences between departments. Our different models explain a significant portion of the disparities between departments. The effects of composition and effects of context account for approximately two-thirds of the mean squared error. The variables describing the medical supply (density of general practitioners), monitoring by National Health Insurance and patient age when the professional career began best explain the disparities between departments concerning sick leave. In contrast to other compositions or contexts included in our model, the percentage of sick leaves verified and the density of general practitioners are important factors with respect to health policies. Our research shows that they could be used as public policy instruments aimed at reducing geographic disparities.
J29|Reinterpreting the economics of extramarital affairs|The empirical results for the economic variables presented by Fair (J Political Econ 86(1):45–61, 1978 ) in his seminal study of extramarital affairs are puzzling within his household allocation of time framework. In particular, the theory is unable to accommodate readily the opposite signs for occupation (positive) and education (negative), assuming the wage rate is directly correlated with both variables. This paper provides a new interpretation of Fair’s estimates that accounts for the unexpected education result in terms of the association between schooling and the discount factor applied to expected future sanctions for sexual cheating. Three data sets from the United States, Germany and the United Kingdom are investigated to check the robustness of the partial correlations between infidelity and economic incentives. Taken together, the results across different countries and infidelity measures are substantially in agreement, especially for men. In a novel contribution, this study distinguishes between one off encounters, and irregular and regular forms of infidelity and finds that these are differentially related to occupation and education, consistent with theoretical predictions. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2012
J29|Policies and Mechanisms for Leadership Development at the Largest Companies Operating in Bulgaria|Corporate leadership is a field in which abundant scientific research has been carried out. However, the transition from scientific concepts to company policies and mechanisms, which would ensure the big industrial firms in Bulgaria a leadership development, is accompanied by serious difficulties, including those posed by a number of counteracting factors. This article makes an overview of the main pillars of company policy in the leadership area and outlines the attendant mechanisms for the creation and development of leaders in the organizational hierarchy. The analysis is supported by arguments from a pragmatic point of view.
J29|Short Term Gain, Long Term Pain|This paper examines the role of informal job search methods on the labour market outcomes of displaced workers. Informal job search methods could alleviate short-term labour market difficulties of displaced workers by providing information on job opportunities, allowing them to signal their productivity and may mitigate wage losses through better post-displacement job matching. However if displacement results from reductions in demand for specific sectors/skills, the use of informal job search methods may increase the risk of job instability. While informal job search methods are associated with lower wage losses, they lead to increased job instability and increased risk of subsequent job displacement. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2012
J29|Gender Differences in Subjective Well-Being In and Out of Management Positions|"This study used data from the German Socio-economic Panel to examine gender differences in the extent to which self-reported subjective well-being was associated with occupying a high-level managerial position in the labour market,compared with employment in nonleadership, non-high-level managerial positions, unemployment, and non-labour market participation. Our results indicated that a clear hierarchy exists for men in term of how status within the labour market was associated with subjective life satisfaction. Unemployed men were the least satisfied, followed by men who were not in the labour market, while men in leadership positions reported the highest level of subjective life satisfaction. For women, no statistically significant differences were observed among women in high-level managerial positions, women who worked in non-high-level positions, and women who specialized in household production, with no market work. Only women who were unemployed reported lower levels of life satisfaction, compared with women in other labour-market statuses. Our results lend evidence to the contention that men can ""have it all"", but women must still choose between career and family in Germany. We argue that interventions need to address how the non-pecuniary rewards associated with high-level managerial and leadership positions can be increased for women. Such policies would also likely serve to mitigate the ""pipeline"" problem concerning the number of women who are available to move into high positions in the private sector.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
J29|Mental and physical health: reconceptualising the relationship with employment propensity|While there has been significant research demonstrating the labour-market disadvantage experienced by people with mental health and physical disabilities, influential medical concepts of disability continue to shape explanations of such patterns. From this perspective, a higher rate of unemployment for people with health conditions is rational; they are impaired and are inherently less employable. The evidence from this paper challenges such conceptualisations of disability. It adopts a social model of disability and presents an empirical investigation into the impacts of mental and physical health on the propensity to be employed, yet recognises and addresses its distinct limitations in the case of mental health. Our results indicate that activity-limiting physical health and accomplishment-limiting mental health issues significantly affect the propensity to be employed. Further investigations reveal gender and ethnicity divides and that mental health is mostly exogenous to employment propensity. The empirical evidence provides quantitative and qualitative evidence that mental and physical health-related issues lead to economic exclusion.
J29|Modelling zero-inflated count data when exposure varies: with an application to sick leave|This paper is concerned with the analysis of zero-inflated count data when time of exposure varies. It proposes a new zero-inflated count data model that is based on two homogeneous Poisson processes and accounts for exposure time in a theory consistent way. The new model is used in an application to the effect of insurance generosity on the number of absent days.
J29|Employment propensity: The roles of mental and physical health|This paper presents an investigation into the impacts of mental and physical health on the propensity to be employed. Health status is parameterised using three physical and three mental health indicators. After controlling for various socioeconomic factors, the application of limited dependent variable regression techniques generates results which indicate that activity-limiting physical health and accomplishment-limiting mental health issues significantly affect the propensity to be employed. Further investigations reveal gender and ethnicity divides and that health is exogenous to employment status.
J29|Industry structure and labor market flexibility in the South African manufacturing sector: A time series and panel data approach|This paper presents a joint analysis of labor market flexibility and product market structure. Our investigation confirms earlier results of imperfect competition in South African manufacturing where we find an average mark-up of 50% for the period 1970 to 2004 that is without consistent trend over time. The contribution of the paper is to provide a theoretically grounded means of linking output market conduct to labor market flexibility. We infer the proportion of labor associated with rigidities in the labor market from the mark-up, and find that two thirds of total labor employed in South African manufacturing is associated with rigidities. We find that this proportion falls during the 1980s and rises during the 1990s, suggesting an increase in labor flexibility followed by a decrease.
J29|Towards a Transnational Analysis of the Political Economy of Care|The resurgence of the employment of domestic and care workers in private homes in many industrialised countries over the last two decades has been shaped by important social changes, most notable among this are the increased responsibilities and rights of women across the globe to be both earners and carers. This reflects graduated shifts from the ‘male breadwinner’ to ‘adult worker’ model taking place in many industrialised societies and unemployment and poverty in developing countries. As many of those who carry out this work are migrant women, this reveals the movement of women seeking opportunities created by the changing patterns of post-colonial migration to financially support their families. Such migrations are also structured by the policies developed by states in richer countries. The nature of care regimes in host countries clearly influence take up: where care provision is commodified and where care cultures favour home-based/ surrogate care, then reliance on the low paid end of the private market is more common (Ungerson and Yeandle, 2007; Williams and Gavanas, 2008). At the same time, migration rules construct the legal, social and civil rights of migrants in different ways, in tandem with employment policies that may serve to deregulate the economy and to increase the casualisation of labour. Superimposed on this universe of change is the ongoing reconstitution of social relations of gender, care and domestic service, of hierarchies of ethnicity and nationality, and of differentiated meanings of, and rights to, citizenship. This paper draws on earlier research into migration and home-based care in Europe as a basis for developing a transnational analysis of the political economy of care (Lister et al, 2007, chapter 5; Williams and Gavanas, 2008; Williams, 2007; 2008; Williams, Tobio and Gavanas, 2009; Williams, 2010).
J29|Arrêts maladie : comprendre les disparités départementales|L’objectif de cet article est de comprendre les disparités interdépartementales en termes d’arrêts maladie. Nous utilisons la base de données Hygie, construite à partir de la fusion de différents fihiers administratifs de salariés du secteur privé en France en 2005, qui permet de prendre en considération : les relations « employeurs/employés », l’impact des caractéristiques des entreprises sur la santé de leurs employés mais aussi les interactions entre la santé et le travail. Après avoir rappelé les différents déterminants, entre effet de composition et effet de contexte, des arrêts maladie et leur importance pour comprendre les différences géographiques, nous menons une analyse empirique en trois temps : une analyse descriptive pour mettre en évidence les différences interdépartementales, une analyse multivariée pour mettre en avant les facteurs explicatifs de la probabilité d’être en arrêt maladie et enfn une analyse des déterminants des différences entre les départements.Nos différentes modélisations explicitent une grande partie des disparités interdépartementales. Les effets de composition et les effets de contexte constituent approximativement la moitié de l’écart absolu et les deux tiers de l’erreur quadratique moyenne. Ce sont les variables décrivant l’offre médicale (densité d’omnipraticiens), les contrôles de l’Assurance maladie et l’âge d’entrée sur le marché du travail qui permettent le plus d’expliquer les disparités interdépartementales en matière d’arrêts maladie. Contrairement à d’autres variables de composition ou de contexte qui ont soit une inertie d’évolution temporelle certaine (par exemple : le taux de natalité, le secteur industriel,…), soit des variables pour lesquelles la politique publique de santé a peu d’effets (par exemple : politique de rémunération des entreprises, taux de chômage), le pourcentage d’arrêts de travail contrôlés et la densité d’omnipraticiens sont déjà des leviers importants des politiques de santé. Notre recherche montre qu’ils pourraient être utilisés comme des instruments d’une politique publique visant à la réduction des disparités géographiques.
J29|L'absentéisme au travail : une approche théorique qui intègre la survenance de la maladie comme un choc exogène|Les études économiques qui s?intéressent aux déterminants de l?absentéisme et qui cherchent à prendre en compte l'effet de la santé se contentent d?introduire comme variable explicative l?état de santé général des individus sans jamais chercher à introduire l?effet, plus global, de la survenance de la maladie à un moment donné, qu?elle soit liée ou non, d'ailleurs, à l'état de santé général de l'individu. Le peu d?intérêt manifesté pour la prise en compte de la survenance de la maladie dans les modèles théoriques économiques s?explique par le fait que l?absentéisme au travail y est abordé selon une approche dichotomique. Il y a, d?un côté, l?absentéisme volontaire, considéré comme le résultat d?un choix individuel motivé par la volonté de travailler moins, et de l?autre, l?absentéisme involontaire qui regroupe les décisions d?absence subies par l?individu et liées notamment à la survenance d?une maladie et à l?incapacité à travailler qu?elle génère. Notre objectif consiste à dépasser cette opposition traditionnelle entre absentéisme volontaire et involontaire. En plaçant la survenance de la maladie au c?ur du phénomène de l?absentéisme et en la considérant comme un choc exogène jouant le rôle de déclencheur du processus de décision pouvant conduire à une absence, nous proposons une approche théorique englobante qui cesse d?opposer l?absentéisme volontaire et l?absentéisme involontaire. Nous montrerons que l?enjeu de cette réconciliation ne consiste pas à réunir dans un même modèle deux types d?absentéisme différents (l?absentéisme volontaire et l?absentéisme involontaire), mais qu?il réside dans la nécessité de prendre en compte le fait que, souvent, la décision d?absence est le résultat de deux composantes agissant conjointement, l?une ayant un caractère volontaire et l?autre, involontaire. En d?autres termes, les qualificatifs volontaire et involontaire ne caractérisent pas deux types d?absentéisme différents mais sont deux dimensions d?un même phénomène, la première s?articulant à la seconde pour expliquer la décision d?absence.
J29|Managerial Valuation of Applicant Credentials and Personal Traits in Hiring Decisions|"We study how managers value applicant credentials and personal traits in hiring decisions. Using the ordered probit model, we confirm previous results – managers rank applicant traits higher than credentials. However, we also uncover patterns not previously observed – managerial valuations of some of these characteristics are dependent on managers' perception of the overall state of the economy, on firm and immediate workplace characteristics, and on managers' personal characteristics. Manager valuations of credentials vary with a large number of factors; this is not so for applicant personal traits. This is not surprising as most managers view the five traits considered ""as extremely important."""
J29|Employed and unemployed job seekers: are they substitutes?|The job search literature suggests that an increase in the proportion of job seekers who are employed reduces the probability of unemployed people finding a job. However, there is little evidence indicating that employed and unemployed job seekers have similar observed characteristics or that they apply for the same jobs. We use the British Labour Force Survey to compare employed and unemployed job seekers, and find differences in their individual characteristics, preferences over working hours, and job search strategies which do not vary with the business cycle. We conclude that unemployed people do not directly compete with employed job seekers.
J29|Explaining differences in job search outcomes between employed and unemployed job seekers|We use individual data for Great Britain over the period 1992-2009 to compare the probability that employed and unemployed job seekers find a job, and the quality of the job they find. The job finding rate of unemployed job seekers is 50 percent higher than that of employed job seekers, and this difference seems to be due to behavioural differences between employed and unemployed job seekers rather than differences in characteristics. Consistent with search theory, we find that employed job seekers are more selective in evaluating job offers; for example, they are less likely to accept low-wage and temporary jobs, or jobs that do not meet their working hour requirements.
J29|Improving Human Resources Recruitment in Maritime Domain|In order to improve maritime human resources recruitment, most crewing and shipping companies implement an internal procedure of recruitment and management of ship’s crew. Based on observations at several crewing companies, this paper presents an example of such procedure meant to ensure that qualified and competent personnel is recruited and all ships in the fleet have crew members understanding their roles, duties and responsibilities and capable of working effectively in teams
J29|Parents jobs in Australia: work hours polarisation and the consequences of job quality and gender equality| This paper documents the gendered polarisation of work hours between mothers and fathers in Australia. Drawing on a large Australian sample of employee parents, we investigate the links between job quality and employment contract. Our focus is on mothers and fathers of young children – families facing high care demands – and investigate whether shorter and longer hour jobs carry the same contract and quality costs. Using a truncated measure of job quality, we find for both mothers and fathers that moderate full time hour jobs were the jobs with optimal quality and stable employment contracts. Poor job quality and casual contracts were common in very short hour jobs, usually worked by mothers. At the other end of the work hour spectrum, the very long hour jobs predominantly worked by fathers also showed a dip in job quality. Our study suggests that the gendered polarisation of hours in the Australian labour market, supported by a one-and-a-half earner family strategy, undermines parents’, particularly mothers’, access to good quality jobs. It also reinforces gender inequality by making it harder for fathers to fully engage in parenting and mothers to fully participate in employment and earn a decent income, with consequent hardship in later life.
J29|Perceptions of work-family balance: how effective are family-friendly policies?| The increase in the proportion of mothers with young children returning to paid employment has generated considerable interest in how women juggle the demands of the workplace with the demands of family. Making workplaces more family-friendly has potential benefits for both employees and employers, but research findings are mixed about the take-up rate of such benefits and the outcomes for improving work-family balance. In this paper, we analyse data collected from 1688 women employed in the service sector in Queensland. We examine whether women’s perceptions of work-family balance are affected by access to and use of a range of family-friendly work entitlements including part-time employment, subsidized child care, various types of leave, control over rosters and variations in weekly employment hours. Our findings indicate that negative perceptions of work-family balance are linked to long work hours, having to work extra hours and unpredictable work hours. This suggests that what women need most is control over the length and scheduling of their working hours.
J29|Labour Market Engagement of Mature-Age Workers| Supporting those mature-age workers who wish to continue working is a key policy challenge arising from the Intergenerational Report 2010. As previous research indicates, there are many factors that influence labour market engagement of those approaching retirement. This paper examines those factors with a particular focus on the role of occupations and job characteristics. The analysis centres on the labour market transition of men and women aged between 55 and 64 years old over a time period of approximately one year. The data used for our analysis is drawn from the first 7 waves of the HILDA data and we utilise a multinomial logit (MNL) model to determine the characteristics associated with remaining in full-time employment, moving into full retirement and/or moving into partial retirement. Consistent with previous research, we find that certain household and financial factors such as the labour force status of a partner, wages and home ownership are associated with the retirement paths of mature-age people. Further the results indicate that certain occupations and job characteristics are significantly correlated with the employment engagement of mature-age workers.
J29|Job Search and Job Finding in a Period of Mass Unemployment: Evidence from High-Frequency Longitudinal Data|This paper presents findings from a survey of 6,025 unemployed workers who were interviewed every week for up to 24 weeks in the fall of 2009 and spring of 2010. Our main findings are: (1) the amount of time devoted to job search declines sharply over the spell of unemployment; (2) the self-reported reservation wage predicts whether a job offer is accepted or rejected; (3) the reservation wage is remarkably stable over the course of unemployment for most workers, with the notable exception of workers who are over age 50 and those who had nontrivial savings at the start of the study; (4) many workers who seek full-time work will accept a part-time job that offers a wage below their reservation wage; and (5) the amount of time devoted to job search and the reservation wage help predict early exits from Unemployment Insurance (UI).
J29|Job Search and Job Finding in a Period of Mass Unemployment: Evidence from High-Frequency Longitudinal Data|This paper presents findings from a survey of 6,025 unemployed workers who were interviewed every week for up to 24 weeks in the fall of 2009 and spring of 2010. Our main findings are: (1) the amount of time devoted to job search declines sharply over the spell of unemployment; (2) the self-reported reservation wage predicts whether a job offer is accepted or rejected; (3) the reservation wage is remarkably stable over the course of unemployment for most workers, with the notable exception of workers who are over age 50 and those who had nontrivial savings at the start of the study; (4) many workers who seek full-time work will accept a part-time job that offers a wage below their reservation wage; and (5) the amount of time devoted to job search and the reservation wage help predict early exits from Unemployment Insurance (UI).
J29|Lifestyles as Social Contracts between Workers and Organizations|A more individualized world of work reduces neither the relevance of social institutions for social actors nor minimizes the role of social structure in studies on work, employment, and organization. I seek to broaden the current individualistic concepts of employment contracts by stressing the relevance of milieu and lifestyle studies for understanding the relationship between workers and organizations. Examples from the “creative industries” are used to illustrate the role of lifestyle for the constitution of workers’ and organizations’ expectations for work arrangements and the use of labor. In conclusion, I conceptualize co-evolving patterns of workers’ preferences and organizations’ (human resource) management practices as social contracts between workers and organizations.
J29|Incentives and the Effects of Publication Lags on Life Cycle Research Productivity in Economics|We investigate how increases in publication delays have affected the life-cycle of publications of recent Ph.D. graduates in economics. We construct a panel dataset of 14,271 individuals who were awarded Ph.D.s between 1986 and 2000 in US and Canadian economics departments. For this population of scholars, we amass complete records of publications in peer reviewed journals listed in the JEL (a total of 368,672 observations). We find evidence of significantly diminished productivity in recent relative to earlier cohorts when productivity of an individual is measured by the number of AER equivalent publications. Diminished productivity is less evident when number of AER equivalent pages is used instead. Our findings are consistent with earlier empirical findings of increasing editorial delays, decreasing acceptance rates at journals, and a trend toward longer manuscripts. This decline in productivity is evident in both graduates of top thirty and non-top thirty ranked economics departments and may have important implications for what should constitute a tenurable record. We also find that the research rankings of the faculty do not line up with the research quality of their students in many cases.
J29|Ehrenamtliche Arbeit und Zivilgesellschaft|No abstract is available for this item.
J29|Demanda laboral de profesionales en ciencias económicas, administrativas e ingeniería en Cali 2009: ¿van de la mano el capital humano y la señalización?|En el presente estudio se analiza el comportamiento de la demanda laboral de profesionales en Cali en el año 2009, utilizando la información de una encuesta desarrollada por la Pontificia Universidad Javeriana Cali y la Universidad Autónoma de Occidente, en donde se les preguntó a los jefes de recursos humanos de 312 empresas del área metropolitana de Cali, por la demanda de profesionales de ciencias económicas y administrativas e Ingeniería de las diferentes universidades de la ciudad de Cali. La mayoría de los estudios coinciden en que los estudios de demanda laboral son el “patito feo” de las investigaciones en economía laboral, debido a la poca información existente, o al auge de las encuestas de hogares y censos que permiten el desarrollo de análisis por el lado de la oferta laboral. Por esta razón el estudio se realiza con información primaria, con el objetivo de tener información de la fuente generadora de empleo y de esta forma no quedarse solo en la estimación de las tres elasticidades que explican el comportamiento de la demanda frente a variables que la determinan: su precio (elasticidad empleo-salario), el precio de otros factores (elasticidad cruzada) y el nivel de producción (elasticidad empleo producto).
J29|Encuestas de hogares para dummies: como interpretar la transición de las Encuestas Continuas a la Gran Encuesta Integrada|Este documento presenta y discute los principales cambios introducidos a las encuestas de hogares en los últimos años, y relata los arreglos adoptados. A la luz de estos cambios y de los ajustes incorporados se desarrolla un análisis del comportamiento reciente del mercado laboral colombiano que tiene como punto de partida el estallido de la crisis financiera norteamericana. El análisis advierte acerca de la existencia de dos limitaciones: a) que hasta ahora el Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Estadística (DANE) ha empalmado sólo las series trimestrales de ocupados, desocupados y fuerza de trabajo, relativamente a los dominios geográficos de Total Nacional, Cabeceras, 13 áreas metropolitanas y resto rural, de manera tal que si se procede a elaborar estadísticas desagregadas de la fuerza de trabajo no se tiene la absoluta certeza de que ellas sean perfectamente comparables en el tiempo; b) que probablemente existe un error en las proyecciones de población de referencia de las encuestas de hogares.
J29|La creación de establecimientos y empleos en el sector de micro y pequeñas empresas (Mype) de México 1999-2003|El objetivo de esta investigación es doble: a) estimar el efecto de la producción y el nivelde empleo en el número de establecimientos de pequeñas empresas en las diferentesindustrias en México entre 1999 y 2003; y b) estimar el efecto de la producción y el númerode establecimientos de pequeñas empresas en el nivel de empleo en las industriasen México. Para lograr lo anterior, se estimó un modelo de panel de datos que incluye laindustria de la construcción, la manufactura, el comercio y los servicios. En el primer caso,los resultados sugieren que un aumento en el nivel de empleo favorece la creación demicro y pequeños establecimientos, mientras que lo contrario ocurre con la producciónindustrial. En el segundo caso, un aumento en la producción y el número de establecimientosse relaciona positivamente con la creación de empleos en el sector de micro ypequeñas empresas en México.
J29|Cultural Differences Between East and West Germany After 1991: Communist Values vs. Economic Performance?|Two decades after reunification substantial economic disparities between East and West Germany remain. With formal institutions being equalized, a typical explanation is that the partition of Germany created differences in economic values and attitudes that continue to feed differences in economic performance. Empirical work using values surveys to investigate the extent to which values differ between East and West has thus far produced mixed findings. We use individual-level panel data to assess East and West German value preferences by investigating how individuals from each group differentially transform situational factors into happiness. This novel method of assessing value differences shows that preferences indeed vary between East and West Germans. However, this variation is not in line with the differences associated with the gap in economic performance; if anything, Easterners appear to entertain values more conducive to economic growth. This suggests that the belief that economic differences between Eastern and Western Germany are a result of a Communist cultural legacy may be largely a myth.
J29|Introducing Ifrs In Introductory Financial Accounting Courses|With the possibility that International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)may replace or may change substantially the US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) standards currently in place within the next decade, there is a question for accounting educators about how much of the current accounting curriculum should be devoted to IFRS. This is especially critical in the first levels of accounting, where the fundamentals of accounting are learned. While the major accounting firms are positioning themselves to advise clients when a transition in accounting standards occurs, an understanding of current US GAAP and current and potential IFRS standards will be necessary for todayâ€™s students. This paper will examine strategies for incorporating IFRS into the introductory levels of the accounting curriculum. The paper will advocate that IFRS education should be incorporated into each introductory level course in accounting. A variety of approaches will be analyzed. The paper will demonstrate that a basic knowledge of IFRS is essential to the business vocabulary for both accounting and non-accounting majors, and therefore a valuable component of the introductory accounting curriculum.
J29|The Impact of Transitory Income on Birth Weights: Evidence from a Blackout in Zanzibar|Do transitory income shocks affect infant health? I find evidence that birth weights fell following a temporary income reduction caused by an unexpected, month-long blackout in Zanzibar. Relying on 350 household surveys collected during field work, I show that the 2008 blackout reduced labor supply of workers in electricity-dependent jobs by an average of 25%, with no effect on workers in other sectors. The income shock was temporary. Using over 20,000 birth records from a maternity ward, I document a reduction in the average birth weight of children exposed to the blackout while in utero, and an increase in the probability of low birth weight. Supporting a causal interpretation of these results, the reduction in weights is correlated with measures of maternal exposure to the blackout. In particular, reductions in birth weights were largest among children from wards with intermediate levels of employment in electrified sectors. The two causes that are most consistent with these results are a blackout-induced decline in maternal nutrition, and maternal stress. Alternative explanations are examined, including the possible effects of a temporary fertility shift. It is shown that the blackout increased births, but that selection into pregnancy cannot explain the drop in birth weights.
J29|The Impact of Financial Crises on Youth Unemployment Rate|"The impact of last financial crisis (2007-08) and subsequent global recession (2008-09) has been deeper on the weakest segments of the labour market. In this paper, we mainly focus on the extent and persistence of the impact of (past and last) financial crises on youth (15-24) unemployment rate. After a review of the existing (theoretical and empirical) literature on the determinants of youth unemployment rate in general and at the occurrence of economic crises, we present empirical estimations on the impact of past financial crises on young workers. We empirically investigate the relationship between financial crises and youth unemployment rate by employing fixed effects panel estimation on a large panel of countries (about 70) around the world for the period 1980-2005. Gender specific effect of crises on young workers is also investigated. To analyse the severity of financial crises for economies at different levels of economic development, we re-estimate our model for sub-samples of high income OECD countries and other economies in the sample. For further robustness check and sensitivity analysis, alternative definitions of crises are considered. The ""persistence"" of the impact of financial crises for young workers is also investigated. Finally we also estimate the Arellano-Bond dynamic panel, confirming the significance of the results. Young people are far more affected by the employment crises than the elder; long term unemployment for young workers can be harmful and may result in “discouraged workers” effects and social exclusion from labour market. Notwithstanding some peculiarities of the last crisis, our econometric investigations can be useful to better assess its impact on youth unemployment. At the end of the paper, before presenting some final considerations and policy implications, very recent data on youth labour market dynamics are analysed and discussed."
J29|Flexibilidade Alocativa Do Mercado De Trabalho Brasileiro: Uma Avaliação Empírica Dos Estados E Das Regiões Metropolitanas E Não-Metropolitanas<BR>[Allocative Flexibility Of The Brazilian Labor Market: An Empirical Evaluation Of The States And The Metropolitan And Non-Metropolitan Regions]|This article aims to analyze some evidences on allocative flexibility of the labor markets in the states and metropolitan areas and non-metropolitan areas of Brazil, in the period of 1992 to 2001 and 2002 to 2006. The flexibility degree of the regional labor market was estimated from the ratio of turbulence and mismatch indices. It was concluded that labor markets is flexible and it is led by the states of Northwest macroregion. The metropolitan areas has greater allocative flexibility than the inside states. In different economic scales the labor markets is flexible and does not have too much friction.
J29|Estimating the Employer Switching Costs and Wage Responses of Forward-Looking Engineers| This article estimates worker switching costs and how much the employer switching of experienced engineers responds to outside wage offers. I use data on engineers across Swedish private sector firms to estimate the relative importance of employer wage policies and switching costs in a dynamic programming, discrete choice model of employer choice. The differentiated firms are modeled in employer characteristic space, and each firm has its own age-wage profile. A majority of engineers have moderately high switching costs and a minority of experienced workers are responsive to outside wage offers. Younger workers are more sensitive to outside wage offers. (c) 2010 by The University of Chicago. All rights reserved.
J29|Short-run Projections of Patterns of Job Contraction in the EU|As the economic recession in the EU seems to be drawing to a close, there is inevitable interest in what the effects on employment in different sectors of activity and occupations have been, or are still likely to be once all the repercussions have materialized. Indeed, given the lags in both the collection of data and, more importantly, in the effect of a downturn in output on employment, it is likely to be only some time after the recession comes to an end and economic growth gets back close to its trend rate that the consequences for jobs will be apparent in the official statistics. Although any estimates, or predictions, of this kind are fraught with difficulty and highly uncertain, it is instructive to look back at previous episodes of economic downturn to see what can be learned from them, in particular about their differential effect on different parts of the economy and on different groups of worker. This is the concern of the present study. Specifically, the aim is to examine previous downturns in the EU economies and the different consequences they had, first, for sectors of activity because of the varying nature of the goods and services produced and, second, for the different types of job within sectors. The further aim is then to use the results of this examination as the basis for constructing projections of developments in employment over the period 2008-2010 given the present forecast of the overall change in GDP. From this, the subsequent step is to consider the implications for employment in different types of job. As part of this, the concern is also to identify the kinds of job which stand to be most affected by the current downturn and the characteristics of the people at present employed in them in different parts of the EU.
J29|The Dynamics of Collective Reputation|I present a stochastic version of Tirole's (1996) collective reputation model. In equilibrium, group behavior is persistent due to complementarity between the current incentives of group members and the group's reputation, which depends on its history. A group can maintain a strong reputation even as conditions become unfavorable, but an improvement in the environment may not help a group with a poor reputation. I also connect the model to the theory of statistical discrimination and show that the same mechanism can explain why discrimination might persist over time.
J29|Evaluación del impacto del SENA en el capital social de los egresados|Evaluamos la incidencia que tiene el Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje (SENA) sobre las personas que han asistido a cursos largos en variables indirectas y directas que capturan la acumulación de capital social. En líneas generales, la acción del SENA es benéﬁca. Las personas egresadas de cursos largos de la institución mejoran su probabilidad de estar empleados, su ingreso y su capital social. Estos resultados contrastan con aquellos de otros estudios que proponen debilitar el SENA, con el argumento de que su rentabilidad social es muy baja e, incluso, inferior a la de las instituciones públicas y privadas que realizan una actividad similar. En lugar de marchitar al SENA, la política pública debería contribuir a su fortalecimiento. Indudablemente, en este proceso el SENA debe mejorar su eﬁciencia.
J29|Long-term labour-market performance of whiplash claimants|A whiplash is a sudden acceleration-deceleration of the neck and head, typically associated with a rear-end car collision that may produce injuries in the soft tissue. Often there are no objective signs or symptoms of injury, and diagnosing lasting whiplash-associated disorders (WAD) is difficult, in particular for individuals with mild or moderate injuries. This leaves a scope for compensation-seeking behaviour. The medical literature disagrees on the importance of this explanation. In this paper we trace the long-term earnings of a group of Danish individuals with mild to moderate injuries claiming compensation for having permanently lost earnings capacity and investigate if they return to their full pre-whiplash earnings when the insurance claim has been assessed. We find that about half of the claimants, those not granted compensation, return to an earnings level comparable with their pre-whiplash earnings suggesting that these individuals do not have chronic WAD in the sense that their earnings capacity is reduced. The other half, those granted compensation, experience persistent reductions in earnings relative to the case where they had not been exposed to a whiplash, even when they have a strong financial incentive to not reduce earnings. This suggests that moderate injuries tend to be chronic, and that compensation-seeking behaviour is not the main explanation for this group. We find that claimants with chronic WADs used more health care in the year prior to the whiplash than claimants with non-chronic cases. This suggests that lower initial health capital increases the risk that a whiplash causes persistent WAD.
J29|Insan Kaynaklari Yonetiminde Performans Degerlendirme Icin Bir Bulanik Uzman Sistem Gerceklestirimi|Isletmeler icin insan kaynaklari yonetiminde performans degerlendirmesi, problemin belirsiz ve yetersiz bilgiyle olusturulmasi yuzunden karmasik ve zaman alici bir islemdir. Bu zorluklari ortadan kaldirmak icin yapay sinir aglari, uzman sistemler, bulanik mantik ve genetik algoritmalar gibi yapay zekâ teknikleri kullanilabilir. Bu calismada; bir isletmede calisanlarin yillik performanslarinin degerlendirilmesi icin bir bulanik uzman sistem gelistirilmis ve uygulanmistir. Elde edilen sonuclar, bulanik uzman sistem ile performans degerlendirmenin tutarli ve saglikli oldugunu gostermistir.
J29|An Empirical Research on The Relationship Between Job Insecurity and Employee Health & Safety|The purpose of this study is to investigate the relationship among the insecurity perception of employees, health symptoms and unsafe behaviours of employees. According to a limited number of empirical researches in this field, findings imply that job insecurity perceptions of employees may result both in physical and mental health symptoms and unsafe behaviours which may in return risk the job safety. Research is limited with an application to a large company in Turkey which is in downsizing process. Findings of this particular research have once again indicated both mental and physical health symptoms are related with job insecurity perceptions.
J29|Occupational Health and Safety in Canada, Regulatory Reform, and Employer Response: An Overview of Past, Present, and Future Concerns|From the perspective of what has been successful, this paper provides an overview of occupational health and safety regulatory reform in Canada. It begins with a review of the past enabling legislation and the employer response. Both workers? compensation and occupational health and safety are reviewed. It then examines for the present some current enforcement strategies and the case of GM Canada as an employer that has gone beyond such an administrative managerial approach to develop a culture of safety. From a soft law or incentive perspective the current controversy of experience rating is also critically assessed. With regards to the future the paper argues that globalization is eroding the socio-economic conditions that gave rise to this regulatory schema. Issues such as atypical work, the increase in white collar jobs, and the use of temporary foreign workers will require unique regulatory responses that are only beginning to be developed.
J29|Health Safety and Life Protection Coverage in The Social Economy Sector in Greece: Analysis of Empirical Findings|In the past decade, there has been a growing interest in reinforcing the role of social economy in Greece, due to significant changes in the labor market, the economic recession and the public sector failure to cover social needs. Given the fact that there is limited research literature on this topic, the aim of this paper is to determine the implications of the social economy sector in Greece on the current economic conditions. It will also discuss employees’ and volunteers’ status and their social insurance coverage in terms of their health safety and life protection. The findings of two studies carried out by the Department of Economics of the University of Thessaly are analysed and criticised. The population sample in both studies included farmers' organisations, cooperatives, non-profit associations, consumer organisations, environmental organisations, associations representing the family and persons with disabilities, non-governmental organisations, social enterprises and foundations. In addition, their main activities were health care, social care, culture, education, environment, entrepreneurial and education activities. According to the results of both studies, it seems that social sector contributes to an annual 10% creation of new posts of employment. 21.5% of the employees are fully covered by social insurance and are also eligible for occupational health and safety, while 9.9% work as part-timers and are also covered and eligible for health care, even though they face severe restrictions regarding their retirement rights. However, 68.6% of people involved in the third sector are volunteers who do not have a permanent job, they are not covered by social insurance and are not eligible for occupational health and safety. Also, there are no retirement rights for them. Consequently, it seems that social economy in Greece, does not promote a safe and healthy working environment by providing to volunteers occupational health and safety, including the avoidance of job related injuries and professional diseases. It is believed that if the reform already announced becomes active, numerous positive changes will occur in the performance of the third sector. New work places will be created, competitiveness of the public sector monopoly will be increased as well as social cohesion and social capital will be further reinforced. Moreover, the quality of employment by preventing occupational accidents, the expansion of social coverage to volunteers and the reinforcement of the volunteerism will be finally achieved. Further expected synergies will be the reduction of unemployment, economic growth and eventually the overcome of the economic crisis.
J29|World Economy Close to Leaving Recession|In 2009, the world economy crossed the strongest postwar economic crisis, affecting all the economic and social areas. The process of recovery after the global recession started at the end of 2009, but the level of investment and production will be slow in 2010. In 2009, the international trade and FDI flows showed significant decreases as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. Serious consequences of the current economic crisis occurred and affected the employment situation in most countries of the world.
J29|The Timing of Daily Demand for Goods and Services – Multivariate Probit Estimates and Microsimulation Results for an Aged Population with German Time Use Diary Data|Though consumption research provides a broad spectrum of theoretical and empirical founded results, studies based on a daily focus are missing. Knowledge about the individual timing of daily demand for goods and services, opens – beyond a genuine contribution to consumption research – interesting societal and macro economic as well as individual personal and firm perspectives: it is important for an efficient timely coordination of supply and demand in the timing perspective as well as for a targeted economic, social and societal policy for a better support of the every day coordination of life. Last not least, the individual daily public and private living situations will be visible, which are of particular importance for the social togetherness in family and society. Our study contributes to the timing of daily consumption for goods and services with an empirical founded microanalysis on the basis of more than 37.000 individual time use diaries of the nationwide Time Budget Survey of the German Federal Statistical Office 2001/02. We describe the individual timing of daily demand for goods and services for important socio-demographic groups like for women and men, the economic situation with income poverty and daily working hour arrangements. The multivariate microeconometric explanation of the daily demand for goods and services is based on a latent utility maximizing approach over a day. We estimate an eight equation Multivariate/Simultaneous Probit Model, which allows the decision for multiple consumption activities in more than one time period a day. The estimates quantify effects on the timing of daily demand by individual socio-economic variables, which encompasses, personal, household, regional characteristics as well as daily working hour arrangements within a flexible labour market. The question about individual effects of an aged society on the timing of daily demand for goods and services is analyzed with our microsimulation model ServSim and a population forecast for 2020 by the German Federal Statistical Office. Main result: There are significant differences in explaining the timing of daily demand for goods compared to services on the one hand and in particular for different daily time periods. The conclusion: without the timing aspects an important and significant dimension for understanding individual consumption behaviour and their impacts on other individual living conditions would be missing.
J29|Employee Involvement, Technology and Job Tasks|Using new job requirements data for Britain I show that there has been a rise in various forms of communication tasks: influencing and literacy tasks have grown especially fast, as have self-planning tasks. External communication tasks, and numerical tasks have also become more important, but physical tasks have largely remained unchanged. Although the classification of tasks as programmable or otherwise is found to be problematic, computer use accounts for much of the changed use of generic skills. Going beyond the technology, I investigate whether organisational changes requiring greater employee involvement explain some of the new skill requirements. Using either industry or occupation panel analyses, I find that employee involvement raises the sorts of generic skills that human resource management models predict, in particular three categories of communication skills and self-planning skills. These effects are found to be independent of the effect of computers on generic skills.
J29|Paid and Unpaid Work in Australian Households: Trends in the Gender Division of Labour, 1986-2005|Changes in labour force participation rates of men and women over the last three decades raise questions about how men and women manage the combined responsibilities of paid and unpaid work. In the majority of couple families both partners are now engaged in paid employment highlighting the necessity to consider both paid and unpaid work when examining household divisions of labour. In this study, we use data collected in three national Australian surveys in 1986, 1993 and 2005 to examine the combined paid and unpaid workloads of men and women in dual-earner families. We find that the gender gap in men’s and women’s combined workloads has narrowed with men and women having similar loads when both are employed full-time. But this pattern does not hold for households with dependent children. We conclude that parenthood is a constraint on equality in the division of labour within Australian households.
J29|The Timing of Daily Demand for Goods and Services – Multivariate Probit Estimates and Microsimulation Results for an Aged Population with German Time Use Diary Data|Though consumption research provides a broad spectrum of theoretical and empirical founded results, studies based on a daily focus are missing. Knowledge about the individual timing of daily demand for goods and services, opens – beyond a genuine contribution to consumption research – interesting societal and macro economic as well as individual personal and firm perspectives: it is important for an efficient timely coordination of supply and demand in the timing perspective as well as for a targeted economic, social and societal policy for a better support of the every day coordination of life. Last not least, the individual daily public and private living situations will be visible, which are of particular importance for the social togetherness in family and society. Our study contributes to the timing of daily consumption for goods and services with an empirical founded microanalysis on the basis of more than 37.000 individual time use diaries of the nationwide Time Budget Survey of the German Federal Statistical Office 2001/02. We describe the individual timing of daily demand for goods and services for important socio-demographic groups like for women and men, the economic situation with income poverty and daily working hour arrangements. The multivariate microeconometric explanation of the daily demand for goods and services is based on a latent utility maximizing approach over a day. We estimate an eight equation Multivariate/Simultaneous Probit Model, which allows the decision for multiple consumption activities in more than one time period a day. The estimates quantify effects on the timing of daily demand by individual socio-economic variables, which encompasses, personal, household, regional characteristics as well as daily working hour arrangements within a flexible labour market. The question about individual effects of an aged society on the timing of daily demand for goods and services is analyzed with our microsimulation model ServSim and a population forecast for 2020 by the German Federal Statistical Office. Main result: There are significant differences in explaining the timing of daily demand for goods compared to services on the one hand and in particular for different daily time periods. The conclusion: without the timing aspects an important and significant dimension for understanding individual consumption behaviour and their impacts on other individual living conditions would be missing.
J29|Recent Evidence on Residential Electricity Consumption Determinants: A Panel Two-Stage Least Squares Analysis, 2001-2005|This empirical study seeks to provide evidence identifying key factors that have influenced per residential customer electricity consumption in the U.S. during recent years. This empirical analysis takes the form of P2SLS (panel two-stage least squares) estimations. State-level data are adopted for the five-year period from 2001 through 2005. The P2SLS findings indicate that the annual consumption of electricity per residential customer is an increasing function of the annual number of cooling degree days, real per capita personal disposable income, and the real unit price of natural gas. Annual per residential customer electricity consumption is also found to be a decreasing function of the real unit price of electricity and the extent of usage of natural gas for residential heating, as well as the degree to which each state has pursued energy efficiency policies. Finally, said consumption is also found to be positively a function of a control variable measuring peak summer electricity generating capacity.
J29|The Deterrence Effect of Prison: Dynamic Theory and Evidence|Using administrative, longitudinal data on felony arrests in Florida, we exploit the discontinuous increase in the punitiveness of criminal sanctions at 18 to estimate the deterrence effect of incarceration. Our analysis suggests a 2 percent decline in the log-odds of offending at 18, with standard errors ruling out declines of 11 percent or more. We interpret these magnitudes using a stochastic dynamic extension of Becker?s (1968) model of criminal behavior. Calibrating the model to match key empirical moments, we conclude that deterrence elasticities with respect to sentence lengths are no more negative than -0.13 for young offenders.
J29|Rational Choice and Voter Turnout: Evidence from Union Representation Elections|"It is common observation that many individuals vote despite the fact that in elections with even a moderate number of voters, the probability their vote will be pivotal is quite small. The theoretical solutions of positing that individuals receive utility from the act of voting itself ""explains"" why individuals vote, but it leaves open the question of whether or not there is a significant margin of individuals who consider the effect of their vote on the outcome in deciding whether or not to vote. I develop a rational choice model of voting in union representation elections (government supervised secret ballot elections, generally held at the workplace, on the question of whether the workers would like to be represented by a union.) These elections provide a particularly good laboratory to study voter behavior because many of the elections have sufficiently few eligible voters that individuals can have a substantial probability of being pivotal. I implement this model empirically using data on over 75,000 of these elections held from 1972-2009. The results suggest that most individuals (over 80 percent) vote in these elections independent of consideration of the likehood that they will be pivotal. Among the reminder, it appears the 1) the likelihood of voting falls with election size, 2) the likelihood of voting increases with the expected closeness of the election outcome, and 3) the marginal effect of closeness on the likehood of voting increases in magnitude with election size. While the first two findings are consistant with the standard rational choice model, the third is not. The results suggest that, while these individuals consider first-order variation in the probability that they will be pivotal, they do not carry out a complete calculation of the probability of being pivotal."
J29|Manager Race and the Race of New Hires| Using personnel data from a large U.S. retail firm, we examine whether the race or ethnicity of the hiring manager affects the racial composition of new hires. We exploit manager turnover to estimate models with store fixed effects and store-specific trends. First, we find that all nonblack managers-that is, whites, Hispanics, and Asians-hire more whites and fewer blacks than do black managers. This is especially true in the South. Second, in locations with large Hispanic populations, Hispanic managers hire more Hispanics and fewer whites than do white managers. We also examine possible explanations for these differential hiring patterns. (c) 2009 by The University of Chicago. All rights reserved.
J29|Employee Involvement, Technology and Job Tasks|Using new job requirements data for Britain I show that there has been a rise in various forms of communication tasks: influencing and literacy tasks have grown especially fast, as have self-planning tasks. External communication tasks, and numerical tasks have also become more important, but physical tasks have largely remained unchanged. Although the classification of tasks as programmable or otherwise is found to be problematic, computer use accounts for much of the changed use of generic skills. Going beyond the technology, I investigate whether organisational changes requiring greater employee involvement explain some of the new skill requirements. Using either industry or occupation panel analyses, I find that employee involvement raises the sorts of generic skills that human resource management models predict, in particular three categories of communication skills and self-planning skills. These effects are found to be independent of the effect of computers on generic skills.
J29|Trabajando con mis padres: el efecto del mercado laboral adulto sobre el trabajo infantil en Colombia|El trabajo infantil puede ser una condición que atente contra la acumulación de capital humano, en la medida que impide el acceso efectivo a educación de calidad. Por otro lado, el trabajo infantil se puede dar como un mecanismo de suavización de ingresos frente a choques negativos a la oferta laboral del hogar, o como complemento de la oferta laboral adulta en el hogar. Este documento busca separar e identificar el efecto complementario y de sustitución entre el trabajo infantil y la oferta laboral adulta. Se encuentra que el trabajo infantil y el trabajo adulto son complementarios dentro del hogar, y que esta complementariedad es robusta ante distintas especificaciones. A su vez, esta complementariedad también se presenta cuando el trabajo de los niños no está directamente relacionado con los negocios del hogar.
J29|Costo de oportunidad social del tiempo de usuarios del Aeropuerto Internacional de la Ciudad de México|Most of the benefits of transportation infrastructure projects accrue in the form of time savings for users. In many cases, more than the half of the social benefits of investments in highways, streets or airports is attributable to time savings. This document presents estimations of the Social Value of the Time for Mexico. Utilizing the only available data from the INEGI on hours worked and remunerations paid in the manufacturing sector, we estimate the Social Value of the Time for 2006 to be 60.65 pesos an hour for general users of the Mexico City International Airport and of 110.54 an hour for its passengers. This estimate is consistent with other estimates using different methods proposed by two authorities. The estimates are also consistent with calculations carried out by the ILPES for Peru and by authors for North America.// La mayor parte de los beneficios de los proyectos de infraestructura de transporte -tanto sobre ruedas como aéreo- se materializan en ahorros de tiempo para los usuarios. En muchos casos, más de la mitad de los beneficios sociales de inversiones en carreteras, vialidades urbanas o aeropuertos son atribuibles a los ahorros de tiempo de viaje. Este documento presenta estimaciones del valor social del tiempo para México. Utilizando los únicos datos disponibles del INEGI de horas trabajadas y remuneraciones pagadas en el sector manufacturero, se estima que el valor social del tiempo para 2006 es de 60.65 pesos por hora para los usuarios en general del Aeropuerto Internacional de la Ciudad de México y de 110.54 pesos por hora para sus pasajeros. Esta estimación no es incongruente con evaluaciones que descansan sobre diferentes métodos propuestos por dos autoridades en este campo. Este rango de estimaciones también no es incongruente con cálculos hechos por el ILPES para Perú y por diversos autores para la América del Norte.
J29|Transitions from Casual Employment in Australia|A distinctive feature of the Australian labour market is a high incidence of casual employment. Almost 27 percent of Australian employees in 2006 were classified as employed on a casual basis, an alarmingly high proportion given the strong claims often made about the harmful effects that casual employment can have on future employment prospects. But are such claims justified? This paper uses longitudinal data from the HILDA Survey to examine the extent to which casual employees are able to access non-casual jobs in the future and to contrast the experiences of casual employees with that of other labour market participants. A dynamic MNL model of labour market states is estimated which reveals high annual rates of mobility from casual employment into non-casual employment. Further, among men, casual employees are found to be far more likely to make the transition into non-casual employment than otherwise comparable unemployed job seekers. For women, however, this is not the case.
J29|Firm size and productivity in Spain: a stochastic frontier analysis|No abstract is available for this item.
J29|Representative time use data and new harmonised calibration of the American Heritage Time Use Data (AHTUD) 1965-1999|Representative and reliable individual time use data, in connection with a proper set of socio-economic back-ground variables, are essential elements for the empirical foundation and evaluation of existing and new theories in general and in particular for time use analyses. Within the international project Assessing Time Use Survey Datasets several potentially useful individual US time use heritage datasets have been identified for use in de-veloping an historical series of non-market accounts. In order to evaluate the series of American Heritage Time Use Data (AHTUD) (1965, 1975, 1985, 1992-94, 1998-99) this paper analyses the representativeness of this data when using given weights and provides a new harmonised calibration of the AHTUD for sound time use analyses. Our calibration procedure with its ADJUST program package is theoretically founded on information theory, consistent with a simultaneous weighting including hierarchical data, ensures desired positive weights, and is well-suited and available for any time use data calibration of interest. We present the calibration approach and provide new harmonised weights for all AHTUD surveys based on a substantially driven calibration frame-work. To illustrate the various application possibilities of a calibration, we finally disentangle demographic vs. time use behavioural changes and developments by re-calibrating all five AHTUD surveys using 1965 popula-tion totals as a benchmark.
J29|Analysis of the Vocational and Residential Preferences of a Rural Population: Application of an Experimental Technique to Rural Slovenia| Abstract This study applies choice experiments to the analysis of the relative importance of both monetary and non-monetary determinants of vocational choice and spatial labour supply. It identifies the determinants of individuals’ choice of jobs and places of residence, and provides a better understanding of how rural labour adjustments might be managed in a country in transition. The results indicate that while wages are the most important factor influencing employment choice, other determinants affecting working conditions and residence do have a counterbalancing impact on choice. Results suggest that sample respondents do appear to be relatively immobile between sectors and also in terms of migration and commuting. However, our results do identify a range of non-wage determinants that might be used to stimulate mobility.
J29|How Do We Spend Our Time? Evidence from the American Time Use Survey|This book presents findings based on the American Time Use Survey. This new data set allows the contributors to determine how Americans spend their time, providing a better understanding of everyday life.
J29|The Dynamics of Unemployment, Temporary and Permanent Employment in Italy|This chapter assesses whether temporary jobs have been springboards to regular employment or to dead-end positions in Italy, using for the purpose the 2000, 2002, and 2004 waves of the Survey of Italian Households' Income and Wealth. The estimation of a bivariate dynamic unobserved effects probit model to predict the probability of having a permanent position given the lagged labour market state shows that, ceteris paribus, having a temporary contract today, rather than being unemployed, increases the probability of having a permanent job two years later by about 13.7-16.2 percentage points. This evidence suggests that, given observable and unobservable characteristics, temporary contracts in Italy are stepping-stones to permanent jobs. They enable individuals to leave unemployment by giving them the opportunity to acquire general (and possibly) specific skills so that they are permanent employable afterwards. The estimation of a dynamic discrete mixture and linear probability models assesses the robustness of the stepping-stone effect to the parametric assumptions about the individual heterogeneity. The average partial effects estimated using these two approaches, which were nonparametric in the specification of the unobserved heterogeneity, are in line with those obtained with dynamic nonlinear unobserved effects probit models.
J29|Education, Occupation and Career Expectations: Determinants of the Gender Pay Gap for UK Graduates|Despite anti‐discrimination policies, women are paid 20% less then men in the UK. A large proportion of this wage gap is usually left unexplained. In this paper, I investigate whether the unexplained component is due to mis‐specification. Using a sample of recent UK graduates, I examine the role of choice variables (subject of study and occupation) as well as career expectations and aspirations. The evidence indicates that women are more altruistic and less career‐oriented than men. Career break expectations, for example, explain 10% of the gender wage gap in the favoured model. By omitting attitudinal variables, most studies are likely to overestimate the unexplained component of the gender wage gap. Women with a more traditional view concerning childrearing are also found to have less intensive search behaviour. Since aspirations may reflect perceived discrimination or social pressure, current legislations are unlikely to reduce the gender wage gap.
J29|Flexibilité organisationnelle et utilisation des facteurs de production. Une comparaison européenne|This study compares the use of flexible working patterns in four European countries. In particular, working patterns that lead to a decoupling of working time and operating time are considered. The analysis is based on logistical regressions performed on individual data from the 2003 European Capital Operating Time and Work and Employment (EUCOWE) survey. The comparison covers France, Germany, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands. All other things being equal, the use of flexible working patterns differs greatly between countries. Germany and the United Kingdom appear to be more flexible than France and the Netherlands. In these latter countries, this may highlight the need to reduce rigidities in the labour market so as to make the decoupling of working time and operating time easier. JEL codes: D23, J29, L23.
J29|Environmental Volunteering: Motivations, Modes and Outcomes|Volunteers play a key role in natural resource management: their commitment, time and labour constitute a major contribution towards managing environments in Australia and throughout the world. From the point of view of environmental managers much interest has focussed on defining tasks suitable to volunteers. However, we argue that an improved understanding of what motivates volunteers is required to sustain volunteer commitments to environmental management in the long term. This is particularly important given that multiple government programs rely heavily on volunteers in Australia, a phenomenon also noted in the UK, Canada, and the USA. Whilst there is considerable research on volunteering in other sectors (e.g. health), there has been relatively little attention paid to understanding environmental volunteering. Drawing on the literature from other sectors and environmental volunteering where available, we present a set of six broad motivations underpinning environmental volunteers and five different modes that environmental volunteering is manifested. We developed and refined the sets of motivations and modes through a pilot study involving interviews with volunteers and their coordinators from environmental groups in Sydney and the Bass Coast. The pilot study data emphasise the importance of promoting community education as a major focus of environmental volunteer groups and demonstrate concerns over the fine line between supporting and abusing volunteers given their role in delivering environmental outcomes.
J29|Reducción de la jornada laboral en un contexto de producción en el hogar|Este trabajo se centra en analizar la reducción de la jornada laboral no sólo como una política de creación de empleo, sino como una política social que puede mejorar el bienestar de los individuos mediante una mejor conciliación de la vida familiar y laboral. Partiendo de un modelo de emparejamientos donde se introduce producción en el hogar, la reducción de jornada se vislumbra como una medida que destruye más empleo y que provoca una reducción salarial mayor de lo que se estaba considerando en los modelos anteriormente desarrollados. No obstante, reducir el tiempo destinado a actividades de mercado, puede permitir una mayor conciliación con la vida familiar, lo cual puede acarrear un incremento del nivel de utilidad del individuo que compensa la tradicional reducción vía empleo y salario.
J29|Erfolgreiche Arbeitssuche weiterhin meist über informelle Kontakte und Anzeigen|Die Informationskanäle, über die Arbeitnehmer eine Beschäftigung finden, haben sich seit Beginn der 90er Jahre kaum verändert. Freunde und Bekannte sind nach wie vor die wichtigste Informationsquelle für eine erfolgreiche Stellensuche. Auch Anzeigen sind von großer Bedeutung, wobei Inserate im Internet immer wichtiger werden. Die Arbeitsagenturen und Job-Center waren im Beobachtungszeitraum indes in geringerem Maße an einer Jobvermittlung beteiligt - auch bei Arbeitslosen. Das bestätigt, dass ein Umbau der Arbeitsverwaltung mit dem Ziel einer Effektivitätssteigerung erforderlich war. Vergleichsweise häufig finden Männer mit abgeschlossener Lehre - insbesondere im produzierenden Gewerbe - über die Arbeitsagenturen einen Job. Für Personen ohne Berufsausbildung sowie für Beschäftigte im privaten Dienstleistungsgewerbe waren dagegen informelle Kontakte von besonderer Bedeutung, das gilt auch für Personen mit Migrationshintergrund. Stellenanzeigen verhalfen hingegen Arbeitsuchenden in allen Gruppen etwa gleich häufig in einem Viertel der Fälle zu einer Stelle.
J29|"""I think I can, I think I can"": Overconfidence and entrepreneurial behavior"|"Many firms fail shortly after inception. Yet individuals continue starting businesses. Prewar economists such as Keynes invoked animal spirits and stressed psychological factors in their explanations of economic behavior. Using a large sample obtained from surveys conducted in 18 countries, we study what variables have a significant impact on an individual's decision to start a business. We find strong evidence that subjective, and often biased, perceptions have a crucial impact on new business creation across all countries in our sample. Our findings are consistent with the idea that individuals rely significantly on their perceptions rather than on objective probabilities, evaluate their businesses prospects by taking an overconfident ""inside view"" of their situation, and, as a result, overestimate their likelihood of success.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
J29|Poisson Models with Employer-Employee Unobserved Heterogeneity: An Application to Absence Data|We propose a parametric model based on the Poisson distribution that permits to take into account both unobserved worker and workplace heterogeneity as long as both effects are nested. By assuming that workplace and worker unobserved heterogeneity components follow a gamma and a Dirichlet distribution respectively, we obtain a closed form the unconditional density function. We estimate the model to obtain the determinants of absenteeism using linked employer-employee Canadian data from the Workplace and Employee Survey (2003). Coefficient estimates are interpreted in the framework of the typical labor-leisure model. We show that omitting unobserved heterogeneity on either side of the employment relationship leads to notable biases in the estimated coefficients. In particular, the impact of wages on absences is underestimated in simpler models.
J29|Estimating the Effect of a Change in Insurance Pricing Regime on Accidents with Endogenous Mobility|In this paper, we estimate the impact of introducing a bonus-malus system on the probability of having automobile accidents, taking into account contract duration or the client mobility between insurers. We show that the new incentive scheme reduces accident rates of all policyholders when contract duration is taken into account, but does not affect accident rates of movers that shirk the imposed incentive effects of the new insurance pricing scheme.
J29|Performance Pay, Sorting, and Outsourcing|Implementing performance pay requires that workers' output be measured. When measurement costs differ among firms, those with a measurement cost advantage choose to implement performance pay. They attract the best workers, and both the level and variability of compensation are higher at these firms than at salary firms. Workers may select firms with different compensation methods at different stages of their work life. Productive workers start at performance pay firms and switch to salary firms once their productivity is revealed. The magnitude of the resulting worker flows depends on the payoff from effort and is therefore related to the age profile of the wage differential between performance pay and salary firms. Advantages in measuring worker productivity constitute a plausible explanation for the emergence of specialized business related service (BRS) firms. Accordingly, BRS firms should make a much wider use of performance pay and employ better workers than diversified corporations. Data from the 1998 Swiss Wage Structure Survey confirm the model's predictions both for the economy at large and for BRS firms.
J29|Wann werden Serviceleistungen nachgefragt? – Ein Mikrosimulationsmodell alternativer Ladenöffnungszeiten mit Daten der Zeitbudgeterhebung ServSim|Ziel dieser Studie ist die empirisch fundierte Untersuchung der tageszeitlichen Nachfrage nach Serviceleistungen. Datengrundlage hierfür ist die Zeitbudgeterhebung 2001/2002 des Statistischen Bundesamtes. Den Rahmen für unsere Analyse bilden die neuen Regulierungen der Ladenschlusszeiten in Deutschland. Auf eine kurze Darstellung der historischen Entwicklung und der Diskussion über die Liberalisierung folgt eine deskriptive Analyse der vorgefundenen tageszeitliche Nachfragestruktur nach Serviceleistungen. Darauf aufbauend analysieren wir mit zwei alternativen Bevölkerungsszenarien des Statistischen Bundesamtes für die Jahre 2010 und 2020 das tageszeitliche Nachfrageverhalten für wichtige sozio-ökonomische Gruppen der Gesellschaft anhand unseres neuen Mikrosimulationsmodells ServSim. Für die multivariate Erklärung der tageszeitlichen Lage der Nachfrage nach Serviceleistungen ziehen wir insbesondere ein Rare-Events-Modell heran. Sowohl die deskriptiven Ergebnisse, die mikroökonometrischen Schätzergebnisse als auch die Ergebnisse der Simulationen liefern deutliche Unterschiede im tageszeitlichen Nachfrageverhalten besonders vor dem Hintergrund sozio-ökonomischer Differenzierungen der Gesellschaft.
J29|Poisson Models with Employer-Employee Unobserved Heterogeneity: An Application to Absence Data|We propose a parametric model based on the Poisson distribution that permits to take into account both unobserved worker and workplace heterogeneity as long as both effects are nested. By assuming that workplace and worker unobserved heterogeneity components follow a gamma and a Dirichlet distribution respectively, we obtain a closed form for the unconditional density function. We estimate the model to obtain the determinants of absenteeism using linked employer-employee Canadian data from the Workplace and Employee Survey (2003). Coefficient estimates are interpreted in the framework of the typical labor-leisure model. We show that omitting unobserved heterogeneity on either side of the employement relationship leads to notable biases in the estimated coefficients. In particular, the impact of wages on absences is underestimated in simpler models.
J29|Estimating the effect of a change in insurance pricing regime on accidents with endogenous mobility|In this paper, we estimate the impact of introducing a bonus-malus system on the probability of having automobile accidents, taking into account contract duration or the client mobility between insurers. We show that the new incentive scheme reduces accident rates of all policyholders when contract duration is taken into account, but does not affect accident rates of movers that shirk the imposed incentive effects of the new insurance pricing scheme.
J29|Predicting Employment Effects of Job Coaching|Providing employment-related services, including supported employment through job coaches, to individuals with developmental disabilities has been a priority in federal policy for the past twenty years starting with the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act in 1984. We take advantage of a unique panel data set of all clients served by the SC Department of Disabilities and Special Needs between 1999 and 2005 to investigate whether job coaching leads to stable employment in community settings. The data contain information on individual characteristics, such as IQ and the presence of emotional and behavioral problems, that are likely to affect both employment propensity and likelihood of receiving job coaching. We control for unobserved heterogeneity and endogeneity using fixed effects and instrumental variable models. Our results show that unobserved individual characteristics and endogeneity strongly bias naive estimates of the effects of job coaching. However, even after controlling for these, an economically and statistically significant effect remains. J
J29|Wann werden Serviceleistungen nachgefragt? Ein Mikrosimulationsmodell alternativer Ladenöffnungszeiten mit Daten der Zeitbudgeterhebung ServSim|The objective of this study is the empirical founded analysis of the daily demand for service activities, over the hours of the day. Our microdata base consists of time-diaries of the nation wide Time Use Survey 2001/2002 of the German Federal Statistical Office. The frame for this analysis are new shopping hours regulations in Germany. After an illustration of the historical development of shopping hours in Germany and after a short discussion of the liberalization of shopping hours we describe the daily structure of the demand for service activities. We analyze the demand structure for two alternative scenarios and for important socio-economic groups of the society on the basis of our new microsimulation model ServSim. Background of these two scenarios are population projections for the years 2010 and 2020 which were conducted by the Federal Statistical Office Germany. These projections were used to adjust (reweight) the data by a 'static-aging'-approach. The multivariate explanation of the demand for service activities inconducted. The descriptive results, the microeconometric estimation outcomes and the Microsimulation results show clear distinctions of the daily demand in particular against the background of socio-economic groups of the society.
J29|New Evidence on the Determinants of Absenteeism Using Linked Employer-Employee Data|This paper provides new evidence on the determinants of absenteeism. The authors extend the typical labor-leisure model used to analyze the decision to skip work to include firm-level policy variables relevant to the absenteeism decision and uncertainty about the cost of absenteeism. Estimates based on data from Statistics Canada's Workplace Employee Survey (1999â€“2002), with controls for observed and unobserved demographic, job, and firm characteristics (including workplace practices), indicate that work arrangements were important determinants of absence. For example, the authors find strong evidence that standard weekday work hours, work-at-home options, and reduced workweeks were associated with reduced absence, whereas shift work and compressed work weeks were associated with increased absence.
J29|The Effect of EmployerProvided General Training on Turnover: Examination of Tuition Reimbursement Programs|Tuition reimbursement programs provide financial assistance for direct costs of education and are a type of general skills training program commonly offered by employers in the United States. Standard human capital theory argues that investment in firm-specific skills reduces turnover, while investment in general skills training could result in increased turnover. However, firms cite increased retention as a motivation for offering tuition reimbursement programs. This rationale for offering these programs challenges the predictions of the standard human capital model. This paper tests empirically whether tuition reimbursement programs increase employee retention. The empirical analysis combines two data sources: a case study of a non-profit institution and the Survey of Employer-Provided Training, 1995 (SEPT95), which consists of training data collected from a cross section of establishments. From the case study analysis, this paper finds that participation in tuition reimbursement increases retention. Results from SEPT95 confirm this finding. These results are consistent with a theory in which investment in general human capital is used to complement investments in firm-specific human capital.
J29|Status, Relative Pay, and Wage Growth: Evidence from M&A|We use evidence from worker turnover following M&A events to show that workers’ choices to leave the firm depend on changes in workers’ relative standing, or status, in terms of wage and rank. Our results show that social, rather than pecuniary, preference drives these choices. We also show that social preference varies with reference group. When worker's expected status within a group of co-workers in the same occupation increases, workers are less likely to quit. In contrast, when workers’ expected status compared to all workers within the same firm increases, they are more likely to quit. Moreover, for workers who lose status during M&A, the loss of social rewards is compensated by faster wage growth, suggesting a market for status.
J29|Vergleich der Weiterbildungsaktivitäten von Arbeitslosen und Vollzeiterwerbstätigen|Die Analyse von Weiterbildungsaktivitäten nimmt in der empirischen Literatur breiten Raum ein. Die meisten Artikel betrachten dabei jedoch ausschließlich die Gruppe der Erwerbstätigen oder die Gruppe der Arbeitslosen. Direkte Vergleiche des Weiterbildungsvolumens der beiden Gruppen sind rar. Dort wiederum, wo sie vorgenommen werden, erfolgt der Vergleich nur sehr grob oder wird auf bestimmte Inhalte oder Formen der Weiterbildung beschränkt. Die vorliegende Arbeit schließt diese Lücke, indem auf der Basis der letzten Zeitbudgeterhebung des Statistischen Bundesamtes ein umfassender Vergleich des Volumens der Weiterbildungsaktivitäten von Arbeitslosen und Erwerbstätigen unter Einbeziehung aller Inhalte und Formen durchgeführt wird. Um sicherzustellen, dass dieser Vergleich nicht durch die unterschiedliche Zusammensetzung der beiden Gruppen verfälscht wird, wird mittels eines Matchingverfahrens aus den Erwerbstätigen eine Vergleichsgruppe konstruiert, die sich von den Arbeitslosen im Wesentlichen nur noch durch den Erwerbsstatus unterscheidet. Es zeigt sich, dass der Anteil derjenigen, die in irgendeiner Form Weiterbildung betreiben, unter den Arbeitslosen signifikant niedriger ist als er es bei hypothetischer Erwerbstätigkeit wäre. Hinsichtlich des Stundenumfangs ist durchschnittlich ein signifikant höherer Wert zu beobachten. Setzt man diesen allerdings ins Verhältnis zum für Weiterbildung zur Verfügung stehenden Zeitpotenzial, wird dieses bei Arbeitslosigkeit zu einem erheblich geringeren Anteil ausgeschöpft als bei Erwerbstätigkeit. Außerdem ist der höhere Stundenumfang ausschließlich bei allgemeiner Weiterbildung nachweisbar, während bei der beruflichen Weiterbildung außerhalb der Arbeitszeit keine signifikanten Unterschiede bestehen.
J29|Temporary Jobs and State Dependence in Italy|"A dynamic unobserved effects probit analysis has been carried out to test the hypothesis of state dependence of temporary jobs and to understand their determinants. The econometric analysis has been conducted using the 2000, 2002, and 2004 waves of the Survey of Italian Households' Income and Wealth. The results show that, firstly, jobless and unstable workers are more likely to end up in temporary contracts. Secondly, there is a significant true state dependence effect of temporary contracts that might be due to the fact that firms are systematically using temporary jobs to face demand uncertainty: loss of motivation and depreciation of human capital due to low firm-specific investments may make temporary workers less likely to jump on stabler job relationships. Moreover, the true state dependence could be related to the presence of a dual labour market, segmented into ""bad"" and ""good"" jobs. Thirdly, a significant feedback effect from past temporary jobs to recent unemployment spells has been detected. Therefore, jobless and unstable workers are more likely to end up into temporary relationship generating a loss of human capital, affecting the workers' allocation in the whole economy, and widening the gap between possibly segmented labour markets. The policy maker might be aware of these costs associated to the widespread of temporary jobs and design policies to target those workers suffering most from the trap of temporary positions."
J29|Propuesta Para El Diseño De Un Sistema De Protección Social Para Colombia|Pese a los esfuerzos realizados en los últimos años, en Colombia aún no se constituye un Sistema de Protección Social (SPS) que cumpla sus funciones primordiales: proveer asistencia social a los pobres, asegurar a la población contra choques y proteger a los pobres extremos de los efectos de las crisis económicas y los desastres naturales. Si bien existen mecanismos para cubrir algunos riesgos, parte de la población, en especial la del sector informal, continúa por fuera del Sistema. Esto en parte se debe a que el diseño actual copia formas de aseguramiento de los países desarrollados, donde la mayoría de los ocupados tienen un empleo formal. Por su parte, la función Robin Hood de la protección social no se está cumpliendo. En términos generales, hay una serie de programas con coberturas muy bajas, ineficiencia en la focalización, altos costos dministrativos, y posibilidades muy bajas de tener economías de escala. Además, a coordinación entre las diversas entidades y niveles gubernamentales es deficiente, en particular, la coordinación con los gobiernos locales. Por último, bajo el esquema actual, no existe un mecanismo para proteger a los más pobres de los efectos de choques covariados. Este estudio presenta una propuesta para constituir un SPS para Colombia que tiene en cuenta las características del mercado laboral colombiano, los problemas de incentivos y las fallas de mercado.
J29|Church organists: Analysing their willingness to play|There currently exists a scarcity of church organ players even though they have traditionally been well paid. This paper presents an empirical investigation into the factors that affect the church organ player’s willingness to play. Results suggest pay does not attract the organ player to the position but being paid in situ increases their willingness to play, as do larger choir sizes and a better instrument quality. We also identify that organ players should be taught when they are young, as the younger the church organ player started learning the instrument then the greater their willingness to play.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J29|Personal and Job Characteristics Associated with Underemployment|Using information collected by the 2001 Household, Income and Labour Dynamics in Australia (HILDA) survey, I investigate the factors associated with underemployment, defined as a situation where a part-time employed person would like to work more hours in order to increase income. Multinomial logit models are estimated of labour force status in which underemployment is distinguished from other part-time employment. Effects of a wide range of personal and neighbourhood characteristics are examined, including family background, employment history and local labour market conditions. Underemployment is found to have many predictors in common with unemployment, but also a number of differences. Additional models are estimated on employed persons only that investigate the job characteristics associated with underemployment. Relatively few job characteristics predict underemployment as distinct from other part-time employment, notable exceptions being occupation and industry of employment.
J29|Representative Time Use Data and Calibration of the American Time Use Studies 1965-1999|Valid and reliable individual time use data in connection with an appriate set of socio -economic background variables are essential elements of an empirical foundation and evaluation of existing time use theories and for the search of new empirical-based hypotheses about individual behavior. Within the Yale project of Assessing American Heritage Time Use Studies (1965, 1975, 19895, 1992-94 and 1998/99), supported by the Glaser Foundation, and working with these time use studies, it is necessary to be sure about comparable representative data. As it will become evident, there is a serious bias in all of these files concerning demographic characteristics, characteristics which are important for substantive time use research analyses. Our study and new calibration solution will circumvent these biases by delivering a comprehensive demographic adjustment for all incorporated U.S. time use surveys, which is theoretically funded (here by information theory and the minimum information loss principle with its ADJUST program package), is consistent by a simultaneous weighting including hierarchical data, considers substantial requirements for time use research analyses and is similar and thus comparable in the demographic adjustment characteristics for all U.S. time use files to support substantial analyses and allows to disentangle demographic vs. time use behavioral changes and developments.
J29|Selection Tournaments, Sabotage, and Participation|This paper studies sabotage in tournaments with at least three contestants, where the contestants know each other well. Every contestant has an incentive to direct sabotage specifically against his most dangerous rival. In equilibrium, contestants who choose a higher productive effort are sabotaged more heavily. This might explain findings from psychology, where victims of mobbing are sometimes found to be overachieving. Further, sabotage equalizes promotion chances. The effect is most pronounced if the production function is linear in sabotage, and the cost function depends only on the sum of all sabotage activities: in an interior equilibrium, who will win is a matter of chance, even when contestants differ a great deal in their abilities. This, in turn, has adverse consequences for who might want to participate in a tournament. Since better contestants anticipate that they will be sabotaged more strongly, it may happen that the most able stay out and the tournament selects one of the less able with probability one. I also study the case where some contestants are easy victims, i.e. easier to sabotage than others.
J29|Selection tournaments, sabotage, and participation<BR>[Auswahlturniere, Sabotage und Teilnahme]|This paper studies sabotage in tournaments with at least three contestants, where the contestants know each other well. Every contestant has an incentive to direct sabotage specifically against his most dangerous rival. In equilibrium, contestants who choose a higher productive effort are sabotaged more heavily. This might explain findings from psychology, where victims of mobbing are sometimes found to be overachieving. Further, sabotage equalizes promotion chances. The effect is most pronounced if the production function is linear in sabotage, and the cost function depends only on the sum of all sabotage activities: in an interior equilibrium, who will win is a matter of chance, even when contestants differ a great deal in their abilities. This, in turn, has adverse consequences for who might want to participate in a tournament. Since better contestants anticipate that they will be sabotaged more strongly, it may happen that the most able stay out and the tournament selects one of the less able with probability one. I also study the case where some contestants are easy victims, i. e. easier to sabotage than others.
J29|Early childhood behaviours, schooling and labour market outcomes: estimates from a sample of twins|This paper examines the links between childhood conduct disorder problems and schooling and labour market outcomes net of genetic and environmental effects. The results show that individuals who experienced conduct disorder problems are more likely to leave school early, have poorer employment prospects and lower earnings. These findings are shown to be due to the genetic and environmental influences that are generally not considered in studies of schooling and labour market outcomes.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J29|The Impact of Incarceration in State Prison on the Employment Prospects of Women|This paper uses a unique data set constructed from two sets of administrative records to examine the relationship between incarceration and employment rates for former female state prisoners from Illinois. Our analysis indicates that although prison is associated with declining employment rates during the quarters leading up to women's incarcerations, it does not appear to harm their employment prospects later on. In the short-term, we estimate that women's post-prison employment rates are about four percentage points above expected levels. However, these employment gains do not persist and gradually fall back to pre-prison levels. But for some groups of women, including those with four or more children, those who served longer prison spells, and those who served time for person-related or drug-related offenses, we find that modestly positive employment effects that are on the order of a few percentage points persist. These results indicate that time out of the work force or diminished skills are not costs associated with incarcerating women. Nor does a prison record appear to send an undesirable signal in the labor market that reduces former female inmates' employment chances. Although incarcerated women's subsequent employment rates are very low, they do not appear to be low because of their experience in prison.
J29|Happy Birthday! You are Insured - Differences in Work Ethics Between Female and Male Workers|In this paper information on individual birth dates is used as a natural experiment when estimating potential cheating behavior within the Swedish sickness insurance program. In the psychological literature there are theories why men and women react differently to ethical situations. Results in this paper are in line with these theories. The results indicate that only younger male workers cheated which supports the idea that men have lower work ethics. But additional findings also suggest that younger male workers do have some shame since they reported sick to a significant less extent the week before they had their birthday. In fact the net change in reporting sick is zero.
J29|The Impact of Incarceration in State Prison on the Employment Prospects of Women|This paper uses a unique data set constructed from two sets of administrative records to examine the relationship between incarceration and employment rates for former female state prisoners from Illinois. Our analysis indicates that although prison is associated with declining employment rates during the quarters leading up to women's incarcerations, it does not appear to harm their employment prospects later on. In the short-term, we estimate that women’s post-prison employment rates are about four percentage points above expected levels. However, these employment gains do not persist and gradually fall back to pre-prison levels. But for some groups of women, including those with four or more children, those who served longer prison spells, and those who served time for person-related or drug-related offenses, we find that modestly positive employment effects that are on the order of a few percentage points persist. These results indicate that time out of the work force or diminished skills are not costs associated with incarcerating women. Nor does a prison record appear to send an undesirable signal in the labor market that reduces former female inmates' employment chances. Although incarcerated women’s subsequent employment rates are very low, they do not appear to be low because of their experience in prison.
J29|Methodological issues in the estimation of parental time – Analysis of measures in a Canadian time-use survey|Extensive small scale studies have documented that when people assume the role of assisting a person with impairments or an older person, care activities account for a significant portion of their daily routines. Nevertheless, little research has investigated the problem of measuring the time that carers spend in care-related activities. This paper contrasts two different measures of care time – an estimated average weekly hours question in the 1998 Australian Survey of Disability, Ageing and Carers, and diary estimates from the 1997 national Australian Time Use Survey. This study finds that diaries provide information for a more robust estimate, but only after one models the time use patterns in the days of carers to identify care-related activities, which diarists do not necessarily record as care. Such a measure of care time reveals that even people who offer only occasional assistance to a person with impairments tend to spend the equivalent of more than 10 minutes a day providing care. Most caregivers undertake the equivalent of a part-time job to help a friend or family member. Summing the average caregiving time provided by all household members reveals that over a quarter of Australian households caring for an adult or child provide the equivalent of a full-time employee’s labour, and another quarter work between 20 and 39 total weekly hours to provide informal care.
J29|Causes of Overeducation in the Australian Labour Market| Overeducation is a form of labour underutilization which occurs when the formal education level of a worker exceeds that which is required for the job. In Australia close to 30 per cent of workers are overeducated and are underutilising their skills. Using data from the Negotiating the Life Course survey, this study determines the causes of overeducation in Australia. Four of the key theories that have been used to explain overeducation are tested: human capital, job competition, assignment and the career mobility theories. Tests show that the job competition model best explains the existence of overeducation in the Australian labour market.
J29|Industry Restructuring and Absenteeism. A Micoreconomteric Analysis Using Matched Employer-Employee Data| Sickness incidence and recovery are likely to be affected not only by characteristics of individual workers, but also by the conditions under which they work. Large register data bases have been available for researchers in several countries for some years now, allowing detailed research on how individual characteristics influence on sickness absenteeism. We add to this literature by the analysis of the workplace effect on sickness absenteeism, using merged individual-firm panel data for 220 000 individuals in the Norwegian manufacturing sector during 1992 to 2000. The data base contains firm-level information on size, profitability, productivity, size, job turnover, union membership, competitiveness, etc. In addition, based on individual information and firm indicators we are able to generate firm variables measuring the composition of the employees, like level and type of education, age and gender shares, etc. Our preliminary results indicate that there are significant effects of firm characteristics, and that industry restructuring adds to the explanation of the observed cyclical fluctuations in sickness absenteeism. The estimates partly depend on the estimation method, in particular the specification of unobserved heterogeneity on individual and firm level. Finally, policy implications of the different causes of absenteeism and their relative importance are discussed.
J29|A Phenomenological Exploration of Adaptation in a Polycontextual Work Environment|The rise of new ways of working through the use of information and communication technology brings about new phenomena that are powerful in the effects that they have on people. The potency of phenomenology lies in its philosophical simplicity and it provides the researcher with the ability to study the essence of an observable but scarcely understood phenomena: How do people perform effectively and efficiently in a geographically and temporally dispersed work environment? Collective action across multiple time zones continues to challenge both academics and practioners. This study provides a unique view of how globally dispersed participants achieve collective action. It throws light into how the creation of shared understanding is tempered by differences in time zones and how participants adapt through their choice of media, work practices and communication. Following an analysis of a case studied using phenomenology, this paper concludes with a model of adaptation in polycontextual work environments.
J29|Empirical Evidence on the Effects of Marginal Tax Rates on Income – The German Case|In 1990 the German personal income tax schedule underwent a major change. We interpret this reform as a ‘natural experiment´ and use a panel of individual income tax returns to analyze the response of income to changes in the individual tax rates. Our results suggest an average elasticity of taxable income with respect to the net-of-tax rate of around 0.4. Due to the detailed information the panel provides, we are not only able to distinguish between different levels of income but also between different types of income. We found very low elasticity estimates in the case of regular employment income, but values of up to 1.0 for business income and for high-income households.
J29|Motivation, expectations and the gender pay gap for UK graduates| Focussing on recent UK graduates, a gender wage gap of 12% is found as well as significant gender differences in the subject of graduation, sector of employment and feminisation of the job. Women also are more altruistic and less career oriented than men, character traits that are less rewarded by employers. Two third of women agree that they expect to take career breaks for family reasons and more than 1/3rd of men expect their partner to sacrifice her career for childrearing responsibilities. These conservative attitudes affect womenÕs wages even at an early stage of their career and are the single most important determinants of the gender wage gap.
J29|Fly Me to the Moon: The Determinants of Secondary Jobholding in Germany and the UK|This paper analyzes the determinants of secondary jobholding in Germany and the UK. Although differing in labor market regulations, moonlighting is a persistent phenomenon in both countries. Using panel data from the BHPS and the SOEP, reduced form participation equations are estimated for male and female workers separately. While the results vary across gender and countries, there is support for both main theoretical strands, i.e. the ‘hours-constraints’ motive as well as the ‘heterogeneous-jobs’ motive. In particular, there is evidence that particularly German workers who would like to work more hours are more likely to have a second job. On the other hand, the prospect of starting a new job is associated with moonlighting behavior of mainly British workers.
J29|Reporting sick: are sporting events contagious?| Moral hazard is easy to justify theoretically but difficult to detect empirically. Individuals may report sick due to illness as well as for moral hazard reasons. Potential abuse of the sickness insurance system in Sweden is estimated by comparing the change between the number of men and women who report sick during a popular sporting event and a preceding time period. Difference-in-differences estimates provide clear evidence that the number of men who reported sick increased in order to watch the sporting event on television. Copyright © 2004 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
J29|Long work hours and the wellbeing of fathers and their families|The average hours worked by full-time employees in Australia have increased since the late 1970s. This, combined with increases in female labour force participation, has led to concerns about the impact of long work hours on family life. This paper explores the relationship between fathers' work hours, their own wellbeing and that of their families using data from the HILDA survey. Overall, satisfaction with work hours decreases as the number of hours worked increases beyond the standard working week. However, long hours are not necessarily, or even on average associated with pervasively lower wellbeing. Work hours are negatively related to only two of the thirteen measures of wellbeing examined. For fathers working very long hours, their satisfaction with their work hours is found to be very important to the relationship between work hours and wellbeing.
J29|Formes de mise au travail hybridation et dynamique territoriale|To overtake the approaches based on the resolution of a productive problem, this text analyses territorial dynamics through labour. The notion of hybridisation, which enhances the entanglement of the labour forms and statutes, characterises the current phase of capitalism. Mobility and flexibility are the key-words. The recent evolution of the Italian industrial districts, analysed through such a perspective, is taken in order to stress the spatial consequences of the diversity of labour statutes. This task being uneasy, it appears that an approach in terms of solidarity economics would highlight the issue of territorial dynamics. Classification JEL?: J29, J60, R30.
J29|Explaining Differences in Job Search Outcomes Between Employed and Unemployed Job Seekers|We use individual data for Great Britain over the period 1992-2009 to compare the probability that employed and unemployed job seekers find a job and the quality of the job they find. The job finding rate of unemployed job seekers is 50 percent higher than that of employed job seekers, and this difference remains even when controlling for differences in observable worker characteristics and job search behaviour. We present evidence suggesting that these differences in the job finding probability is caused by behavioural differences between employed and unemployed job seekers rather than differences in characteristics. Consistent with search theory, we find that employed job seekers are more selective in evaluating job offers and are therefore less likely to find a job offer acceptable; for example, they are less likely to accept low-wage and temporary jobs, or jobs that do not meet their working hour requirements.
J29|The Effects of Unemployment on Property Crime: Evidence from a Period of Unusually Large Swings in the Business Cycle|This paper uses a panel of Swedish counties over the years 1988-99 to study the effects of unemployment on property crime rates. The period under study is characterized by great turbulence in the labor market - the variation in the unemployment rates is unprecedented in the second half of the century. The data hence provides a unique opportunity to investigate unemployment effects. According to the theory of economics of crime, increased unemployment rates lead to higher property crime rates. A fixed effects model is estimated to investigate this hypothesis. The model includes time- and county-specific effects and a number of economic and socio-demographic variables in order to control for unobservables and covariates. In addition the model is estimated with linear and quadratic time trends to control for county-specific unobserved trends. The result gives strong evidence that unemployment has a positive and significant effect on burglary, car theft and bike theft.
J29|Working Hour Arrangements and Working Hours – A Microeconometric Analysis Based on German Time Use Diary Data|The labour market providing individual resources and economic well-being is an actual topic in the economic and social policy discussion. In the course of time the traditional full-time work is diminishing, new labour arrangements are discussed ( keyword: flexible labour markets). This study will contribute to the discussion of working hour arrangements by quantifying patterns of explanation of ‘who is working when within a workday’. In particular we want to disentangle certain working hour patterns and the final hours of work according to those different patterns allowing for market and non-market influences. The daily working hour patterns are analysed by two dimensions: the fragmentation of a working day (by the number of working episodes) and the timing of work time by location of those episodes within the day’s period. Based on an extended microeconomic labour supply/household production our microeconometric estimates use a multinomial logit (MNL) model to explain the working hour arrangement probability and a MNL selectivity bias corrected hours estimation for arrangement specific working hours with correct asymptotic covariances. Our study is the first German study of this kind which could analyse the actual available German Time Use Survey 1991/92 from the Federal Statistical Office with ca. 32.000 time diaries.
J29|Training and Career Experiences of Women Part-time Workers in a Finance Sector Organisation: Persistent Remnant of the ‘Reserve Army’?|Presenting findings of case study research on employees in a finance sector organisation, this paper explores the linkages between dependant care responsibilities, part-time work and the implications for training and career progression. The study finds that while overtly equitable training and career progression policies exist, the experiences of part-time employees with caring responsibilities are a persistent remnant of the ‘reserve army’ mentality; i.e. women part-time workers are seen as peripheral to the core business and deterred from critical training essential to career progression within the organisation.
J29|Introduction|This paper introduces the papers based on a series of lectures held by the Centre for Economic Policy Research at the Australian National University in 2001 to commemorate the wide-ranging economic contribution of the late Professor F.H. (“Fred”) Gruen. The theme of the lectures was ‘Welfare and the Labour Market: the New Frontier for Reform?’ This topic is of great contemporary policy interest as, for some time now, successive Australian governments have been attempting to build a constituency for welfare reforms that will fundamentally influence the nature of Australia’s welfare system and the values upon which it is built. Specifically, there is sustained emphasis on moving away from income support towards facilitating economic independence of welfare recipients by market work. The papers which comprise this special issue of the Australian Journal of Labour Economics set the scene for an informed, objective and comprehensive Australian work to welfare debate.
J29|Welfare Reform and jobless households in Australia|The author of this paper was one of the members of the Reference Group that produced the McClure Report that recommended a simplified income support system as well as improved work incentives, as well as increased economic and social participation requirements on welfare recipients, and enhanced employment services. In this paper he provides an outline how welfare reform could reduce unemployment and joblessness, through this combination of policies. He also argues that it is important to link welfare reform to reforming the operation of the wages system.
J29|Why an Earned income tax credit program is a mistake for Australia|This paper examines the distributional and efficiency effects of an Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) program of the kind being strongly advocated for Australia by a number of economists. The paper presents an empirical analysis of the Family Tax Credit proposed by the Australian Labor Party at the time of the 1998 election, as a case study. The results show that, due to the structure of effective tax rates implied by the program, introducing such a system would lead to a large shift in the overall burden of taxation to low and median wage two earner families. Drawing on the findings of empirical research on behavioural responses to taxes, the paper goes on to explain why the program can also be expected to lead to a fall in labour supply and household saving. Thus there is reason to be critical of the impact of the policy both on economic growth and on equity of the income distribution.
J29|Family illness, work absence and gender|Combining family and work demands has become a tough challenge for many workers in modern societies. Using data from a random sample of Spanish employees, this paper investigates the effects of attending to family health needs on work absence decisions of working individuals. The estimates reveal that men and women respond in a different way to several forces influencing work absence due to family illness. The analysis also shows that workers declaring to have used working time to attend to ill relatives are more prone to report sickness absence episodes. Estimates from bivariate probit equations shows that controlling for endogeneity removes this relationship for men, but the effect of absence due to family illness on sickness absence reporting remains positive and significant for women, leaving room for causal explanations.
J29|Entry Restrictions, Corruption and Extortion in the Context of Transition|This paper argues that even temporary barriers to entry present at the very beginning of transition may lead to permanent extortion development. Entry restrictions, if binding, lead to excess profits, which create an incentive to extort. The emergence of extortionists reduces the expected profit from production, making producers expect extortion in the future. If, after this adaptation of expectations, the government removes the barriers to entry, only a few new firms will enter the market. Hence, the total number of firms on the market is lower than it would have been with no barriers to entry. The low number of firms on the market allows each producer to earn relatively high pre-extortion profits, which reinforces the desire of racketeers to take part of their wealth. Consequently, part of the population is permanently diverted from production to rent-seeking activities, which may slow down economic growth, even in the long run.
J29|The Determinants of Church Attendance and Religious Human Capital in Germany: Evidence from Panel Data|This paper explores determinants of church attendance and the formation of 'religious human capital' in Germany within a Becker-style allocation-of-time framework. The analysis is based on data derived from the German Socio-Economic Panel (GSOEP). Taking advantage of the longitudinal structure of the data, we are able to control for unobservable heterogeneity by applying a random-effects ordered probit model to estimate separate attendance equations as well as 'faith intensity' equations for males and females. The results suggest support for previous findings based on British and North American data that age is a strong predictor for church attendance. Economic variables only weakly account for some of the variation inasmuch as high non-labour income releases time that can be devoted to religious activities. Results for differences in partnership status point to the complementary character of religious experience, whereas the findings for spouses with different religions are more ambiguous. Having at hand a presumably unique situation in the regional structure of religious traditions, we find, not too surprisingly, that strength of belief is much lower in the formerly atheistic East Germany. It is however not clear-cut that North-South or Protestant-Catholic divides exist in religious participation.
J29|Pratiques de Differenciation des donnees dans les systemes de controle de gestion|"L'interet croissant accorde par la litterature a la transformation des systemes de mesure de la performance, ainsi que le faible nombre d'etude empiriques portant sur ce theme, nous conduisent dans cet article a analyser les pratiques de 81 entreprises industrielles du "" Grand Est"" francais."
J29|Public or private job matching for immigrant workers – an outline of a Swedish social experiment|Evaluations of labour market programs and other related measures typically make use of observational data. This paper presents an outline for producing experimental data in the interest of testing a proposed measure targeted to un-employed immigrant workers. The idea is to offer them placement services provided by a private recruitment company as well as by public employment offices. The assignment of unemployed immigrants to the two providers will be random and the operating conditions kept as similar as possible.
J29|Entry Restrictions, Corruption and Extortion in the Context of Transition|This paper argues that even temporary barriers to entry present at the very beginning of transition may lead to permanent extortion development. Entry restrictions, if binding, lead to excess profits, which create an incentive to extort. The emergence of extortionists reduces the expected profit from production, making producers expect extortion in the future. If, after this adaptation of expectations, the government removes the barriers to entry, only a few new firms will enter the market. Hence, the total number of firms on the market is lower than it would have been with no barriers to entry. The low number of firms on the market allows each producer to earn relatively high pre- extortion profits, which reinforces the desire of racketeers to take part of their wealth. Consequently, part of the population is permanently diverted from production to rent-seeking activities, which may slow down economic growth, even in the long run.
J29|Perception Of Justice And Fairness In Allocation Of Organizational Resources: Examining Cultural Differences|The study proposed to examine perceived norms (need, equality, merit) of resource distribution and fairness using student samples representing the same religion (i.e., Islam) but different cultural backgrounds (Malays and Internationals). The design also included gender and type of resource (money and favor) as variables. The data were collected using vignettes that described an allocation scenario involving an allocator and two recipients - one needy and the other meritorious. Overall, the results indicated that International students endorsed need, whereas Malays considered equality and merit. The fairness ratings yielded significant main effects of culture in two conditions, one each involving money and favor. In one resource condition involving money, both Malay and International students emphasized equality, yet the former considered it less fair than the latter. In another resource condition involving favor, International students gave higher rating to need but viewed it less fair compared to Malay students.
J29|From Bismarck to Maastricht: The March to European Union and the Labor Compact|This paper considers the likely impact that European Union (EU) will have on the labor compact. It is argued that, despite increased economic integration in Europe, countries will still be able to maintain distinct labor practices if they are willing to bear the cost of those practices. The incidence of many social protections probably already falls on workers. In addition, it is argued that imperfect mobility of capital, labor, goods and services will limit the pressure that integration will place on the labor compact. Evidence is presented suggesting that labor mobility among EU countries has not increased after the elimination of remaining restrictions on intra-EU labor mobility in 1993. Moreover, immigration from non-EU countries, which is much larger than intra-EU migration, has declined since 1993. Evidence is also reviewed suggesting that the demand for social protection rises when countries are more open, and therefore subject to more severe external shocks. This finding suggests that increased economic integration and European Monetary Union could lead to greater demand for social protection. The U.S. experience with state workers' compensation insurance programs is offered as an example of enduring differences in labor market protections in highly integrated regional economies with a common currency.
J29|Spell durations and the impact of censoring|A grouped hazard approach for analysing multiple-spell durations subject to censoring is applied to spells of absence from the workplace. We follow Barmby, Orme and Treble's (1991) procedure for dealing with unobserved heterogeneity, but argue that their treatment of the observed discrete data, and the inherent censoring, is inappropriate and could lead to significant overestimation of duration dependence.
J29|An Evaluation of Paid Leave: Participation and Labor Market Tightness|This paper analyzes a labor market program which enables workers to leave employment temporarily with a compensation financed by the taxpayers. The main aim of the program was to increase the chances of the unemployed finding a job. However, the empirical analysis reveals a clear negative relationship between the unemployment rate and transition rates from employment into the paid leave scheme. Program participation is low, precisely in those labor market states, where the scheme has a potential to perform as a remedy by increasing the transition rate from unemployment to employment. Several possible explanations are discussed.
J29|An Evaluation of Paid Leave: Participation and Labor Market Tightness|This paper analyzes a labor market program which enables workers to leave employment temporarily with a compensation financed by the taxpayers. The main aim of the program was to increase the chances of the unemployed finding a job. However, the empirical analysis reveals a clear negative relationship between the unemployment rate and transition rates from employment into the paid leave scheme. Program participation is low, precisely in those labor market states, where the scheme has a potential to perform as a remedy by increasing the transition rate from unemployment to employment. Several possible explanations are discussed
J29|Have Employment Reductions Become Good News for Shareholders? The Effect of Job Loss Announcements on Stock Prices, 1970-97|We study the reaction of stock prices to announcements of reductions in force (RIFs) using a sample of nearly 3878 such announcements in 1176 large firms during the 1970-97 period collected from the Wall Street Journal Index. We note that, although there has been a dramatic secular increase in news stories related to job loss, the total number of actual announcements for the firms in our sample follows the business cycle quite closely. We then examine changes over time in standard summary statistics (means, medians, fraction negative) of the distribution of stock market reactions as well as changes over time in kernel density estimates of this distribution. We find clear evidence that the distribution of stock market reactions has shifted to the right (became less negative) over time. One possible explanation for this change is that, over the last three decades, RIFs designed to improve efficiency have become more common relative to RIFs designed to cope with reductions in product demand. We find that, although this explanation shows some promise, most of the decline in the negative average stock price reaction remains unexplained.
J29|The Microeconomic Analysis of the External Costs of Road Accidents| A disaggregated model of the marginal external costs of road accidents imposed by different road users is developed. The model explicitly specifies the adjustment of road users to increases in accident risks imposed by additional road use and is used to estimate the marginal external costs of road accidents. The results, under certain assumptions, are up to 50 percent less than those obtained using the methods of previous studies. However, the adjustment to the increased risks of accidents leads to other costs, such as congestion and reduced pedestrian mobility. These costs should be included in a comprehensive analysis. Copyright 1998 by The London School of Economics and Political Science
J29|La reduction du temps de travail et l'emploi: l'experience des syndicats de la confederation des syndicats nationaux|Depuis le debut des annees 90, la reduction du temps de travail est revenue a l'avant-scene des preoccupations chez les differents acteurs du marche du travail. Au Quebec, les organisations syndicales ont largemetn contribue a relancer cette question dans le cadre de leurs propositions plus generales relativement a l'emploi. Du cote des politiques gouvernementales, l'on a vu aussi certaines innovations visant a soutenir les pratiques en matiere de reduction du temps de travail. Ce document de recherche vise essentiellement a rendre compte, de maniere synthetique, de l'experience recente de syndicats de la Confederation des syndicats nationaux quant a la mise en application de mesures diversifiees visant la reduction du temps de travail et le soutien a l'emploi.
J29|Unemployment, Labour-Market Reform and Monetary Union|The paper analyses various mechanism through which monetary union in Euroep may affect unemployment. The focus is on the political incentives for labour-market reform. There will be more reform outside than inside the EMU to the extent that a national inflation bias can be reduced. But if there is a precautionary motive for low average unemployment in order to reduce the utility cost of macroeconomic variability, there could be more reform in a monetary union.
J29|Macroeconomic Policy, Wage Setting, and Employment--What Difference Does the EMU Make?| The likely impact of the EMU on the variability and level of employment is analysed. The major conclusions are as follows. (i) Although an inflation-target regime will constrain monetary policy of a non-participant in the EMU, it still leaves considerable scope for exchange-rate changes in the case of country-specific demand shocks, provided that there is some nominal price and wage flexibility. (ii) Variations in payroll taxes can be used as a substitute for exchange-rate changes in the EMU, but it will be an imperfect substitute. (iii) Money-wage flexibility is likely to be larger inside than outside the EMU, but probably not by much. (iv) There are various mechanisms through which the EMU may affect the incentives for labour-market reform to reduce equilibrium unemployment, but the net impact is highly uncertain. Copyright 1998 by Oxford University Press.
J29|Monetary Union and Precautionary Labour-Market Reform|The paper demonstrates that policy makers have a precautionary motive to undertake more labour-market reform - and hence attain lower equilibrium unemployment - inside a monetary union than outside. The reason is a desire to reduce the utility cost of variations in employment when asymmetric shocks can no longer be stabilised through domestic monetary policy.
J29|Unemployment, Labour-Market Reform and Monetary Union|The paper analyses various mechanism through which monetary union in Europe may affect unemployment. The focus is on the political incentives for labour-market reform. There will be more reform outside than inside the EMU to the extent that a national inflation bias can be reduced. But if there is a precautionary motive for low average unemployment in order to reduce the utility cost of macroeconomic variability, there could be more reform in a monetary union. Labour-market reform to increase wage flexibility as a substitute for domestic monetary policy and transition costs of reform are also analysed. The net effect of monetary union on unemployment is ambiguous.
J29|Monetary Union and Precautionary Labour-Market Reform|The paper demonstrates that policy makers may have a precautionary motive to undertake more labour-market reform -and hence attain lower equilibrium unemployment- inside a monetary union than outside. The reason is a desire to reduce utility cost of variations in employment when asymmetric shocks can no longer be stabilised through domestic monetary policy.
J29|Perception par les D.R.H. des liaisons entre quelques pratiques de gestion de la qualite et des indicateurs de mobilisation des ressources humaines|L'auteur demontre que le developpement des pratiques de gestion de la qualite est negativement asssocie a l'evaluation par les D.R.H., du niveau de mobilisation des ressources humaines. Ainsi le lien entre le developpement de certaines pratiques de gestion de la qualite et la perception qu'ont les D.R.H. du niveau des indicateurs de mobilisation des GRH donne des resultats inattendus.
J29|Trade with Emerging Countries and the Labour Market: The French Case|No abstract is available for this item.
