J32|“Sustainable and Affordable”? Actuarially Fair Contribution Rates for the USS Pension Scheme|We compute actuarially fair contribution rates (aggregating both employers’ and employees’ contributions) for the USS pension scheme, using UK life tables and market yield curves. The fair rate is sensitive to life expectancy and the level of real yields, neither of which appears stationary. So any scheme predicated on a constant contribution rate is inherently unstable. We therefore argue that, to survive, defined benefit schemes such as USS must explicitly incorporate time variation in contribution rates, ideally along with some dependence on individual characteristics. Our formulae in principle provide an objective, verifiable and implementable methodology to calculate such fair contribution rates.
J32|Accounting for Federal Retirement and Veterans' Benefits: Cash and Accrual Measures|Programs that provide benefits to retired federal civilian workers, retired military personnel, and veterans have long-term effects on the federal budget. The governmentâ€™s cash payments for those benefits are reported in the budget as outlays when they are madeâ€”which means that the long-term costs of current decisions about those benefits are not reflected in the current budget deficit.
J32|The Effect of the Employer Match and Defaults on Federal Workersâ€™ Savings Behavior in the Thrift Savings Plan: Working Paper 2019-06|Policymakers are weighing options that would change the retirement system for federal workers by shifting more of their deferred compensation from the defined benefit plan toward the defined contribution plan, called the Thrift Savings Plan (TSP). We use administrative longitudinal data on federal workersâ€™ demographics, compensation, and TSP behavior to estimate the effects of an employer match and plan default options on workersâ€™ TSP savings behavior and the cost of employer contributions. We rely primarily on two sources of exogenous variation stemming from policy changes
J32|Why Unions: Understanding How Unions Overcome the Free-Rider Problem|This paper provides evidence for why individuals join unions instead of free-riding. I model membership as legal insurance. To test the model, I use the incidence of news stories concerning allegations against teachers in the UK as a plausibly exogenous shock to demand for such insurance. I find that, for every five stories occurring in a region, teachers are 2.2 percentage points more likely to be members in the subsequent year. These effects are larger when teachers share characteristics with the news story and can explain 45 percent of the growth in teacher union membership between 1992 and 2010.
J32|Willing to Pay for Security: A Discrete Choice Experiment to Analyse Labour Supply Preferences|This paper investigates the extent to which labour supply preferences are responsible for the marked rise in atypical work arrangements in the UK and US. By employing vignettes in a discrete job choice experiment in a representative survey, I estimate the distribution for preferences and willingness-to-pay over various job attributes. The list of attributes includes key distinguishing factors of typical and atypical work arrangements, such as security, work-related benefits, flexibility, autonomy and taxation implications. The results are indicative that the majority of the population prefer characteristics associated with traditional employee-employer relationships, and this preference holds even when analysing just the sub-sample of those in atypical work arrangements. Additionally, preferences across the UK and US are very similar, despite differences in labour market regulations. Rather than suggesting that labour supply preferences have contributed to the increase in atypical work arrangements, I find that the changing nature of work is likely to have significant negative welfare implications for many workers.
J32|Dual Labour Markets Revisited|This paper provides an overview of recent research on dual labour markets. Theoretical and empirical contributions on the labour-market effects of dual employment protection legislation are revisited, as well as factors behind its resilience and policies geared towards correcting its negative economic and social consequences. The topics covered include the stepping-stone or dead-end nature of temporary contracts, their effects on employment, unemployment, churn, training, productivity growth, wages, and labour market inflows and outflows. The paper reviews both theoretical advances and relevant policy discussions on a very relevant topic in many European countries, in particular in several that had a very poor employment performance during the recent global economic and financial crisis.
J32|Inconsistent time preferences and on-the-job search - when it pays to be naive|We study optimal employment contracts for present-biased employees who can conduct on-the-job search. Presuming that firms cannot offer long-term contracts, we find that individuals who are naive about their present bias will actually be better off than sophisticated or time-consistent individuals. Moreover, they search more, which partially counteracts the inefficiencies caused by their present bias.
J32|Escenarios de ajuste al sistema pensional colombiano|Este documento expone un diagnóstico de los principales problemas en el diseño del sistema pensional colombiano y presenta una comparación de tres escenarios de ajuste posibles: (1) hacer ajustes paramétricos al sistema actual; (2) adoptar un sistema de pilares, con el primer pilar administrado por Colpensiones; y (3) hacer una reforma que cierre el acceso al régimen de prima media (RPM), vinculando a todos los nuevos afiliados al régimen de ahorro individual con solidaridad y garantía de pensión mínima (RAIS). Nuestras simulaciones al 2075 indican que, en valor presente neto, la reforma de cierre del acceso al RPM para nuevos afiliados es muy superior a las otras dos propuestas de reforma y que esta reforma complementada con incrementos en la edad de jubilación, incremento de dos puntos en la tasa de cotización y logrando una mayor formalización del mercado laboral, disminuye el déficit público de pensiones asociado a Colpensiones de 57,2% del PIB en 2075 a 23,2% del PIB. Adicionalmente, esta simulación permite incrementar el ahorro privado institucional en más de 10 puntos del PIB. Finalmente, dados estos resultados se hace una propuesta del escenario deseable de ajuste al sistema pensional colombiano.
J32|Shaping individual preferences for social protection: the case of platform workers|Workers who perform their occupations through platforms are becoming an increasing share of the labour force. The debate is polarized between those arguing for platforms as an instrument to increase flexibility and labor force participation, and those who see it as a further mechanism to increase Non Standard Work (NSW). This debate is policy relevant because in either case, platform participation is associated to a difference in terms of willingness to contribute to the social security system. Nevertheless, the evidence is scant because we lack reliable data sources. In this contribution, we use a dedicated survey to estimate Willingness to Pay (WTP) for social security and estimate the causal impact of platform participation using a selection on observable strategy. We found that platform workers are less disposed to contribute to social security, although perception of accessibility and adequacy are not affected. Results are robust to specifications and multiple hypotheses testing.
J32|Corporate Pension Plan Funding Levels and Pension Assumptions|We use a difference-in-differences approach to examine the causal impact of the funding ratios of U.S. corporate defined benefit (DB) pension plans on the assumption of expected return on pension assets (EROA). To make the causal case, we use the 2008 global financial crisis as an exogenous shock to the funding ratio of DB pension plans, and the simultaneous implementation of the Pension Protection Act, which emphasized the accountability of underfunded pension plans. We find that DB pension plans making the transition from fully funded to underfunded status over this period significantly revise their EROA assumption upward. The upward revisions in EROA are economically significant and generate obligation-reducing outcomes for corporate plans sponsors: a switch from fully funded to underfunded status generates at least a 40 (and up to a 80) basis point increase in EROA, which, in turn, corresponds to an average annual reduction in pension contributions of $6 (to $11) million.
J32|The Detrimental Effect of Job Protection on Employment: Evidence from France|According to French law, employers have to pay at least six months salary to employees whose seniority exceeds two years in case of unfair dismissal. We show, relying on data, that this regulation entails a hike in severance payments at two-year seniority which induces a significant rise in the job separation rate before the two-year threshold and a drop just after. The layoff costs and its procedural component are evaluated thanks to the estimation of a search and matching model which reproduces the shape of the job separation rate. We find that total layoff costs increase with seniority and are about four times higher than the expected severance payments at two years of seniority. Counterfactual exercises show that the fragility of low-seniority jobs implies that layoff costs reduce the average job duration and increase unemployment for a wide set of empirically relevant parameters.
J32|Motivating employees through career paths|Firms have discretion over task allocations, which may dampen employees' career prospects, and, hence, motivation. Task assignments and worker motivation interact through the extent of labor market competition; that is, the possibility of moving to another firm. More competition enhances motivation but decreases firms' incentives to assign workers to informative tasks. One consequence is that competitive firms sometimes choose strategies that lead to intermediate competition. When the employee pool is heterogeneous, firms might choose different human resources practices that attract different kinds of workers, and differentiate themselves through the career opportunities within and beyond the firms that they offer.
J32|Fair Pensions|This paper examines the allocation of market risk in a general class of collective pension arrangements: Collective Defined Contribution (CDC) schemes. In a CDC scheme participants collectively share funding risk through benefit level adjustments. There is a concern that, if not well designed, CDC schemes are unfair and will lead to an unintended redistribution of wealth between participants and, in particular, between generations. We define a pension scheme as fair if all participants receive an arbitrage-free return on the market risk they bear. The fact that the participants' claim on the CDC schemes' collective assets is expressed in terms of a stochastic future benefit, makes the arbitrage-free allocation of market risk non-trivial. It depends crucially on the specification of the discount rate process in combination with the benefit adjustment process. We show that fair CDC schemes may use a default-free market interest rate in combination with a specific horizon-dependent benefit adjustment process. Alternative discount rates are also permissible, but require additional correction terms in the benefit adjustment process.
J32|Redistributive Consequences of Abolishing Uniform Contribution Policies in Pension Funds|Abstract In a pension system with uniform policies for contribution and accrual, each participant has the same contribution rate and accrual rate independent of the age at the time of payment. This is not actuarially fair because the investment horizon of young participants is longer than the investment horizon of the elderly. This paper shows the presumably unintended redistributive effects of a uniform contribution system and the consequences of switching from uniform policies to an actuarially fair system. We first analyze a stylized model with three overlapping generations to show the intuition behind these effects. Then, we quantify these effects in a more detailed model with multiple overlapping generations, realistic parameters and more detailed information on the income distribution, calibrated on the Dutch funded pension system. We first use this model to show that there is a substantial transfer of income from poor to wealthy participants under a pension scheme with uniform policies: about 10 billion euros are transferred from poor to wealthy participants under the current uniform contribution policies in the Netherlands. We then calculate the gross aggregate transition effect of abolishing the uniform policy pension for an actuarially fair system to be about 37 billion euros (or about 5% of the Dutch GDP). For each cohort, the redistributive effects are less than 5% of their total pension.
J32|Gender and family: conceptual overview|This paper starts from the fact that women receive lower pensions than men on average, and considers policies to address that fact. Women typically have lower wages than men, a greater likelihood of part-time work and more career breaks, and thus generally a less complete contribution record. In addition, pension age may be lower for women and annuities may be priced using separate life tables for women. The paper looks at three strategic ameliorative policy directions: policies intended to increase the size and duration of women’s earnings and hence improve their contribution records; policies to redirect resources within the pension system, including for survivors and after divorce; and ways of boosting women’s pensions with resources from outside the pension system.
J32|Retirement Plan Wealth Inequality: Measurement and Trends| Using Health and Retirement Study data linked to summary plan descriptions and W-2s, this study reports trends in retirement wealth inequality of older employees 1992-2010. The study identifies and corrects methodological flaws in past research. Retirement wealth is highly unequally distributed; the top lifetime earnings quintile holds half of all retirement wealth, the bottom quintile, only 1 percent. The top earnings quintile fared better in 2010 than in 1992, whereas bottom-quintile earners fared worse. But retirement wealth inequality mainly reflects inequality within earnings quintiles, resulting from inadequate savings, not outsize accumulations. Systemic flaws reduce median retirement wealth by 84 percent.
J32|Lifecycle Patterns of Saving and Wealth Accumulation|Empirical analysis of U.S. income, saving and wealth dynamics is constrained by a lack of high-quality and comprehensive household-level panel data. This paper uses a pseudo-panel approach, tracking types of agents by birth cohort and across time through a series of cross-section snapshots synthesized with macro aggregates. The key micro source data is the Survey of Consumer Finances (SCF), which captures the top of the wealth distribution by sampling from administrative records. The SCF has the detailed balance sheet components, incomes, and interfamily transfers needed to use both sides of the intertemporal budget constraint and thus solve for saving and consumption. The results here are consistent with recent papers based on individual panel data from countries with administrative registries, and highlights the different roles of saving, capital gains, and interfamily transfers in wealth change over the lifecycle and across permanent income groups.
J32|Employer and Employee Preferences for Worker Benefits: Evidence from a Matched Survey on the Bangladesh Informal Sector|Informality is ubiquitous in the labor markets of developing countries, and requiring that firms formally register, pay taxes, and provide employee benefits stipulated in labor regulations to reduce such informality is challenging. However, a matched survey on employer-employee preferences suggests that mutually beneficial job benefits exist, and that encouraging their adoption might be feasible. Carefully designed discrete choice experiments on combinations of benefits related to compensation, leave and termination policies, working conditions, and accident insurance, along with incentives for employers, reveal the relative values that workers and employers attach to each benefit. The results show that workers tend to value advance notice for job termination and accident insurance, and that employers are not averse to providing these benefits. In contrast, workers find long working hours without overtime compensation to be highly undesirable, whereas many employers are generally unwilling to provide shorter hours or overtime pay unless they face the threat of fines or are offered substantial incentives for doing so. Our findings therefore suggest that encouraging the provision of termination notice and accident insurance may be relatively easy, but that increasing compliance with legal limits on working hours and overtime compensation is likely to require increased enforcement or substantial incentives.
J32|Labor-Market Concentration and Labor Compensation|This paper estimates the effect of labor-market concentration on labor compensation across the U.S. private sector since 2000. We distinguish between concentration in local labor markets versus local product markets, guarding against bias from confounded product-market concentration. Analysis extends beyond wages to rates of employment-based health insurance coverage. Estimates suggest negative effects of labor-market concentration on labor compensation. This comes through both reducing the human-capital level of those in the market and reducing pay conditional on human-capital level. Higher product-market concentration exacerbates and higher unionization rates mitigates these effects.
J32|What Aspects of Formality Do Workers Value? Evidence from a Choice Experiment in Bangladesh|In this study, we use a choice experiment to elicit workers' willingness to pay (WTP) for specific job benefits typically associated with formal employment (contracts, termination notice, paid leave, preferred working hours, and access to a retirement account). We find that workers most value job stability: the average worker would be willing to give up 19 percent of monthly income for a 6-month contract, 27 percent for a 1-year contract and 44 percent for a permanent contract (relative to no contract). Thirty days' of termination notice would also be valued at about 12 percent of monthly income. Using a latent class model, we explore preference heterogeneity and find that government workers are more likely to place a higher value on long-term contracts than private sector employees, while casual workers are more likely to have a particularly strong preference for higher salary, and a relatively low WTP for various benefits. This heterogeneity may be driven by sorting or loss aversion. Our work also lends support to the use of choice experiments to overcome the challenges associated with estimating WTP for specific job benefits from hedonic wage regressions or from observed job durations.
J32|Financial Literacy and Preparation for Retirement|The economic and financial landscape facing individuals as they move through their life-cycle is becoming increasing complex. Internationally, declines in the coverage and generosity of public programmes mean that individuals now need to assume responsibility for a greater share of their future retirement saving and health and long-term care costs. Financial literacy, defined as knowledge of fundamental financial concepts and the ability to do simple financial calculations, is a key skill required to ensure adequate financial protection in older age. In this paper, we investigate the extent to which financial literacy is an important determinant of financial protection in the older pre-retirement population in Ireland. Using data from the Irish Longitudinal Study on Ageing (TILDA), we find significantly higher levels of financial literacy among men, those with higher levels of education and cognition, and the self-employed. Financial literacy is in turn associated with higher total household wealth, lower financial stress and higher expected retirement income. We find little evidence that those with higher levels of financial literacy are more likely to have various forms of supplementary pension cover however, which may reflect a limited role for financial literacy over and above other important determinants such as income and education.
J32|The Determinants of Retirement Planning within Couples in Ireland|Financial literacy is higher for men than for women and high financial literacy has been linked to higher wealth and better retirement planning. However, relatively little is known about the decision making process for retirement savings within couples and about how the gap or interaction between the financial literacy of members of a couple influences their preparation for retirement. This paper investigates the relationship between the financial literacy of members of pre-retirement couples and their level of wealth and financial stress using TILDA data for Ireland. We find that joint financial literacy is more highly correlated with household wealth, particularly real estate, than the financial literacy of individual members of the couple but that, where individual level financial literacy is associated with wealth, it is the financial literacy of the man in the couple which plays the most important role.
J32|Language Premium Myth or Fact: Evidence from Migrant Workers of Guangdong, China|"Using unique matched employer-employee data from China, we discover that migrant workers in the manufacturing industry who are proficient in the local dialect earn lower wages than those who are not. We also find that workers with better dialect skills are more likely to settle for lower wages in exchange for social insurance. We hypothesize that they are doing so in the hope of obtaining permanent residency and household registration status (hukou) in the host city where they work. Further tests show that the phenomenon of ""exchanging wages for social insurance participation"" is more pronounced among workers employed in smaller enterprises. Moreover, migrant workers with better language skills have a stronger desire to stay in the host city. Our conclusions are robust to different specifications, even after addressing the endogeneity issue for language acquisition. The present study provides a new perspective on the impact of language fluency on social integration among migrants, one of the most disadvantaged groups in developing countries."
J32|Voluntary Job Separations and Traditional versus Flexible Workplace Saving Plans: Evidence from Canada|"This paper provides new insights into the longstanding empirical issue of whether the type of workplace saving plan (a ""traditional"" registered pension plan or RPP, a ""flexible"" group registered retirement savings plan or group RRSP, and a ""hybrid"" arrangement of the two) affects employee voluntary job separations. We use a Canadian employerÃ¢â‚¬â€œemployee matched dataset that provides information on both job transitions and the types of workplace saving plans being held by employees and offered by employers. This dataset allows us to control for employee self-selection and firm fixed effects. The standard prediction from implicit contract theory suggests that traditional pensions reduce quit rates but flexible plans have little effect due to their portability. The results are partially consistent with this prediction. Implications of these findings for current public policy are discussed."
J32|Opting out of Workers' Compensation: Non-Subscription in Texas and Its Effects|Texas is the only state that does not mandate that employers carry workers' compensation insurance (WC) coverage. We employ a quasi-experimental design paired with a novel machine learning approach to examine the effects of switching from traditional workers' compensation to a so-called non-subscription program in Texas. Specifically, we compare before and after effects of switching to non-subscription for employees in Texas to contemporaneously measured before and after differences for non-Texas-based employees. Importantly, we study large self-insured companies operating the same business in multiple states in the US; hence the non-Texas operations represent the control sites for the Texas treatment sites. The resulting difference-in-differences estimation technique allows us to control for any companywide factors that might be confounded with switching to non-subscription. Our empirical approach also controls for injury characteristics, employment characteristics, industry, and individual characteristics such as gender, age, number of dependents, and marital status. Outcomes include number of claims reported, medical expenditures, indemnity payments, time to return to work, likelihood of having permanent disability, likelihood of claim denial, and likelihood of litigation. The data include 25 switcher companies between the years 2004 and 2016, yielding 846,376 injury incidents. Regression findings suggest that indemnity, medical payments, and work-loss fall substantially. Claim denials increase and litigation falls.
J32|Do Employee Share Owners Face Too Much Financial Risk?|A major theoretical objection against employee ownership is that workers become inadequately diversified and exposed to excessive financial risk. Recent theory concludes that 10-15% of a worker's wealth portfolio can be prudently invested in employer stock provided the rest of the portfolio is properly diversified. This paper analyzes employee share ownership in U.S. family financial portfolios using data from the 2004-2016 Survey of Consumer Finances. We find that 15.3% of families with private-sector employees had employer stock in their portfolio, with a median value of $6,000 and a median percent of family net worth of 3.1%. About one in five (19.2%) of the families with employer stock exceed the 15% threshold. This may be overstated given that the 15% threshold pertains to purchased stock and not to stock granted with no sacrifice by the employee. A higher percentage of families exceed the threshold for stock bought directly than for stock in pension plans. The analysis shows that employee ownership appears to generally add to, rather than substitute for, other wealth, which lessens the financial risk. We also find that families with employer stock are found to express more tolerance of financial risk, have higher self-rated knowledge of personal finances, and are more likely to understand the value of diversification. While financial risk does not appear to represent a substantial problem in practice for most employee share owners, a small minority may face excessive risk. We conclude with approaches to address excessive financial risk in company stock when it appears.
J32|The Effects of Work-Life Benefits on Employment Outcomes in Canada: A Multivariate Analysis|Using the longitudinal Workplace and Employee Survey of Canada, we examine the association between the provision of work-life benefits and various employment outcomes in the Canadian labour market. Whilst the theory of compensating wage differentials hypothesizes an inevitable trade-off between higher wages and non-wage benefits, the efficiency wage theory suggests otherwise. The empirical evidence broadly supports the efficiency wage theory, thus rejecting the compensating wage differentials theory. If bundled appropriately, it appears that work-life benefits are positively associated with increased wages, in addition to a greater number of promotions, enhanced employee morale in the form of job satisfaction, and improved employee retention. The study concludes that organizations and employees can both profit when work-life benefits are offered.
J32|The Detrimental Effect of Job Protection on Employment: Evidence from France|According to French law, employers have to pay at least six months salary to employees whose seniority exceeds two years in case of unfair dismissal. We show, relying on data, that this regulation entails a hike in severance payments at two-year seniority which induces a significant rise in the job separation rate before the two-year threshold and a drop just after. The layoff costs and its procedural component are evaluated thanks to the estimation of a search and matching model which reproduces the shape of the job separation rate. We find that total layoff costs increase with seniority and are about four times higher than the expected severance payments at two years of seniority. Counterfactual exercises show that the fragility of low-seniority jobs implies that layoff costs reduce the average job duration and increase unemployment for a wide set of empirically relevant parameters.
J32|Who is a Passive Saver Under Opt-In and Auto-Enrollment?|Defaults have been shown to have a powerful effect on retirement saving behavior yet there is limited research on who is most affected by defaults and whether this varies based on features of the choice environment. Using administrative data on employer-sponsored retirement accounts linked to survey data, we estimate the relationship between retirement saving choices and individual characteristics – long-term discounting, present bias, financial literacy, and exponential-growth bias – under two distinct choice environments: an opt-in regime and an auto-enrollment regime. Consistent with our conceptual model, we find that the determinants of following the default and contribution behavior are regime-specific. Under the opt-in regime, financial literacy plays an important role in predicting total contributions, active saving choices, and maxing out contributions in the tax-preferred account. In contrast, under the auto-enrollment regime, present bias is the most significant behavioral predictor of contribution behavior. A causal interpretation of the estimates suggests that auto-enrollment increases saving primarily among those with low financial literacy.
J32|Inconsistent Time Preferences and On-the-job Search - When it Pays to be Naive|We study optimal employment contracts for present-biased employees who can conduct on-the-job search. Presuming that firms cannot offer long-term contracts, we find that individuals who are naive about their present bias will actually be better off than sophisticated or time-consistent individuals. Moreover, they search more, which partially counteracts the inefficiencies caused by their present bias.
J32|Assets and Job Choice: Student Debt, Wages and Amenities|If consumption and non-wage amenities of work enter utility, holding few assets may induce a trade-off between wages and amenities when searching for a job. We establish this in a model of search with asset accumulation, extended to accommodate amenities. We then provide empirical evidence of this trade-off in the context of student debt, finding that higher debt causes graduates to accept jobs with higher wages and lower job satisfaction. In a representative sample of college graduates, we infer causality by exploiting within-college, across cohort changes in financial aid. A quantitative extension of our theoretical framework that explicitly models student debt accounts well for our empirical results. Identifying the utility value of amenities through observed search behavior, we find that high satisfaction jobs are valued at 6 percent of lifetime consumption relative to low satisfaction jobs. This trade-off is economically significant; a policy maker using only wage data to assess the welfare effects of with an income-based repayment policy would mistakenly conclude that graduates prefer a fixed repayment policy.
J32|Who Is a Passive Saver under Opt-In and Auto-Enrollment?|Defaults have been shown to have a powerful effect on retirement saving behavior yet there is limited research on who is most affected by defaults and whether this varies based on features of the choice environment. Using administrative data on employer-sponsored retirement accounts linked to survey data, we estimate the relationship between retirement saving choices and individual characteristics – long-term discounting, present bias, financial literacy, and exponential growth bias – under two distinct choice environments: an opt-in regime and an auto-enrollment regime. Consistent with our conceptual model, we find that the determinants of following the default and contribution behavior are regime-specific. Under the opt-in regime, financial literacy plays an important role in predicting total contributions, active saving choices, and maxing out contributions in the tax-preferred account. In contrast, under the auto-enrollment regime, present bias is the most significant behavioral predictor of contribution behavior. A causal interpretation of the estimates suggests that auto-enrollment increases saving primarily among those with low financial literacy.
J32|Defined benefit pensions and homeownership in the post-Great Recession era|While housing equity accounts for a large portion of many retiree’s savings portfolios, they are not using their equity to increase consumption in retirement as suggested by the Life-Cycle Hypothesis. Defined benefit plans provide a guaranteed source of income in retirement where the household bears no risk, whereas households with a defined contribution plan are subject to potential risk depending on their asset allocation. This paper examines whether having a defined benefit plan mitigated some of the effects of the Great Recession. Using a difference-in-difference analysis, I examine the impact of the Great Recession on homeownership between households with a defined benefit plan compared to those with a defined contribution plan. I find that households with a defined contribution plan were 2.1-2.9 percent less likely to own a home after the Great Recession compared to households with a defined contribution plan. It is possible that households with defined contribution plans were willing to forgo homeownership to offset some of the losses experienced from the Great Recession. Future retirees face a potentially riskier housing market and are less likely to have a defined benefit plan. As a result, future retirees may be more willing to use their housing equity to increase consumption in retirement than was observed in past generations.
J32|Private Benefits, Fiscal Costs, and Economic Resource Costs of the Private Defined Contribution Pension Systems in Turkey|This study addresses economic issues associated with the private defined benefit pension system in Turkey. The institutional arrangements in Turkey for administering the government securities held in such pensions are compared with two private defined contribution pension schemes in Canada. In Canada, pension participants can hold the insured securities of banks instead of government securities. In turn banks charge no management fees on pension accounts that hold such securities. In the Turkish private pension system, more than 20% of the total value of the pension investments in government bonds are lost through administration costs. In addition, there is a net fiscal cost to the Treasury of Turkey. Although the net return received by pension holders is approximately the same as in the Turkish system, taxes are fully collected in Canada on either the proceeds of the pensions or on the taxable income used to finance the private pension assets.
J32|Family-Oriented Job Benefits and the Returns to Graduate Education|We investigate how the choice of flexible working schedules and family-friendly benefits interacts with the education investment decisions and career trajectories of young professionals. We show that workers in white-collar professional occupations are less likely to choose family-friendly jobs when they have invested more in graduate business education. Our results indicate further that family-friendly employment is costly for all men in the sample, while for women the wage penalty is pronounced among MBA graduates. We also show evidence that self-employment is one channel through which workers attain balance between career and family demands.
J32|Shaping Individual Preferences for Social Protection: The Case of Platform Workers|Workers who perform their occupations through platforms are becoming an increasing share of the labour force. The debate is polarized between those arguing for platforms as an instrument to increase flexibility and labor force participation, and those who see it as a further mechanism to increase Non Standard Work (NSW). This debate is policy relevant because in either case, platform participation is associated to a difference in terms of willingness to contribute to the social security system. Nevertheless, the evidence is scant because we lack reliable data sources. In this contribution, we use a dedicated survey to estimate Willingness to Pay (WTP) for social security and estimate the causal impact of platform participation using a selection on observable strategy. We found that platform workers are less disposed to contribute to social security, although perception of accessibility and adequacy are not affected. Results are robust to specifications and multiple hypotheses testing. *** Los trabajadores que realizan sus ocupaciones a través de plataformas se están convirtiendo en una parte cada vez mayor de la fuerza laboral. El debate está polarizado entre los que abogan por las plataformas como instrumento para aumentar la flexibilidad y la participación de la fuerza laboral, y los que las ven como un mecanismo más para aumentar el trabajo no estándar. Este debate es relevante para la política porque, en cualquier caso, la participación en la plataforma está asociada a una diferencia en términos de voluntad de contribuir al sistema de seguridad social. Sin embargo, las pruebas son escasas porque carecemos de fuentes de datos fiables. En esta contribución, utilizamos una encuesta dedicada para estimar la Disposición de Pago de la seguridad social y estimamos el impacto causal de la participación en la plataforma utilizando una estrategia de selección por variables observables. Encontramos que los trabajadores de las plataformas están menos dispuestos a contribuir a la seguridad social, aunque la percepción de accesibilidad y adecuación no se ve afectada. Los resultados son robustos a las especificaciones y a las pruebas de hipótesis múltiples.
J32|Multidimensional poverty in South Africa in 2001-2016|This study uses the Census 2001 and 2011 as well as Community Survey 2007 and 2016 data to derive a multidimensional poverty index (MPI) in South Africa for each year, before assessing the changes in non-money-metric, multidimensional poverty over time. Both the incidence and intensity of multidimensional poverty decreased continuously, and these declines were more rapid than that of money-metric poverty. The decrease of multidimensional poverty between 2001 and 2016 was most rapid for female Africans residing in rural areas in Eastern Cape and KwaZulu-Natal provinces. Multidimensional poverty was most serious in numerous district councils (DCs) in these two provinces, despite the fact that poverty decline was also most rapid in these DCs. The results of the MPI decomposition indicated that Africans contributed more than 95% to multidimensional poverty, while unemployment, years of schooling and disability were the three indicators contributing most to poverty.
J32|Pension Fund Restoration Policy In General Equilibrium|When the financial positions of pension funds worsen, regulations prescribe that pension funds reduce the gap between their assets (invested contributions) and their liabilities (accumulated pension promises). This paper quantifies the business cycle effects and distributional implications of various types of restoration policies. We extend a canonical New-Keynesian model with a tractable demographic structure and, as a novelty, a flexible pension fund framework. Fund participants accumulate real or nominal benefits and funding adequacy is restored by revaluing previously accumulated pension wealth (Defined Contribution) or changing the pension fund contribution rate on labour income (Defined Benefit). Generally, economies with Defined Contribution pension funds respond similarly to adverse capital quality shocks as economies without pension funds. Defined Benefit pension funds, however, distort labour supply decisions and exacerbate economic fluctuations. Retirees prefer Defined Benefit over Defined Contribution funds in case they face deficits, while the current and future working population prefers the opposite.
J32|Labor Market Effects of US Sick Pay Mandates|This paper exploits temporal and spatial variation in the implementation of US sick pay mandates to assess their labor market consequences. We use the Synthetic Control Group Method (SCGM) and the Quarterly Census of Employment and Wages (QCEW) to estimate the causal effect of mandated sick leave on employment and wages. Our findings do not provide much evidence that employment or wages were significantly affected by the mandates which typically allow employees to earn one hour of paid sick leave per work week, up to seven days per year. Joint tests for all treatment regions let us exclude, with 90% statistical probability, that wages decreased by more than 1% as a result of the mandates. With 92% probability, we can exclude that employment decreased by more than 1%.
J32|The propagation of business sentiment within the European Union|This paper empirically investigates the propagation of business sentiment within the European Union (EU) and adds to the literature on shock absorption via a common market's real economy. To this end, we combine EU-wide official business sentiment indicators with world input-output (IO) data and information on indirect wage costs. Econometrically, we model interdependencies in economic activities via IO-linkages and apply space-time models. The resulting evidence provides indication for the existence of substantial spillovers in business sentiment formation. Accordingly, and highlighted by the estimated impacts of changes in indirect labor costs, policy reforms aiming at increasing the resilience of the European single market need to take these spillovers into account in order to increase its effectiveness.
J32|The propagation of business sentiment within the European Union|This paper empirically investigates the propagation of business sentiment within the European Union (EU) and adds to the literature on shock absorption via a common market's real economy. To this end, we combine EU-wide official business sentiment indicators with world input-output (IO) data and information on indirect wage costs. Econometrically, we model interdependencies in economic activities via IO-linkages and apply space-time models. The resulting evidence provides indication for the existence of substantial spillovers in business sentiment formation. Accordingly, and highlighted by the estimated impacts of changes in indirect labor costs, policy reforms aiming at increasing the resilience of the European single market need to take these spillovers into account in order to increase its effectiveness.
J32|The Propagation of Business Sentiment within the European Union?|This paper empirically investigates the propagation of business sentiment within the EU and adds to the literature on shock absorption via a common market's real economy. To this end, we combine EU-wide official business sentiment indicators with world input-output data and information on indirect wage costs. Econometrically, we model interdependencies in economic activities via input-output linkages and apply space-time models. The resulting evidence provides indication for the existence of substantial spillovers in business sentiment formation. Accordingly, and highlighted by the estimated impacts of changes in indirect labour costs, policy reforms aiming at increasing the resilience of the European single market need to take these spillovers into account in order to increase its effectiveness.
J32|A nudge to quit? The effect of a change in pension information on annuitization, labor supply and retirement choices among older workers|Nudge is about affecting behavior in a certain way through small changes to the choice architecture. However, a nudge may also affect behaviors that the architect did not intend. We show that such spillover effects exist in a highly policy relevant context where the use of nudge is widespread; retirement. Specifically, we find that an exogenous application form change in the Swedish pension system that highlighted a five-year payout on the expense of a life annuity not only increased the demand for the nudged payout (as expected), but also induced individuals to retire earlier. We attribute the effects to decision-framing.
J32|A Head-to-Head Comparison of Augmented Wealth in Germany and the United States|We provide levels of, compositions of, and inequalities in household augmented wealth – defined as the sum of net worth and pension wealth – for two countries: the United States and Germany. Pension wealth makes up a considerable portion of household wealth: about 48% in the United States and 61% in Germany. The higher share in Germany narrows the wealth gap between the two countries: While average net worth in the United States (US$337,000 in 2013) is about 1.8 times higher than in Germany, augmented wealth (US$651,000) is only 1.4 times higher. Further, the inclusion of pension wealth in household wealth reduces the Gini coefficient from 0.892 to 0.701 in the United States and from 0.765 to 0.511 in Germany.
J32|The illusion of patient capital: evidence from pension investment policy in the Netherlands|This paper takes issue with the popular idea that the involvement of labor unions within occupational pension funds would hinder short-term profit-maximizing strategies that instead characterizes private pension schemes in Anglo-Saxon countries. The aim is to contribute to demystifying this myth by looking at private pension institutions under the assumption that deregulated financial markets are not neutral and engender a network of power relationships which goes beyond direct market participants. The thesis of this paper is that the high profitability generated by speculative investments leads to a new political compromise between firms and organized labor, insofar as the buying and selling of easily liquidated assets by occupational pension funds guarantees high net-salary levels and generous pensions, without undermining the competitiveness of the firm – at least in the short run. On the other hand, however, it dramatically increases the intrinsic risk of a pension system that, in fact, depends on the state of health of global finance. Finally, we test our hypothesis by examining the investment strategies in the Netherlands, where occupational pension funds have been historically embedded within the structure of neo-corporative interest mediation.
J32|Non-base wage components as a source of wage adaptability to shocks: evidence from European firms, 2010–2013|Abstract This paper provides evidence on the role of non-base wage components as a channel for firms to adjust labour costs in the event of adverse shocks. It uses data from a firm-level survey for 25 European countries that covers the period 2010–2013. We find that firms subject to nominal wage rigidities, which prevent them from adjusting base wages, are more likely to cut non-base wage components when they are hit by negative shocks. Firms thus use non-base wage components as a strategic margin to overcome base wage rigidity. We also show that while non-base wage components exhibit some degree of downward rigidity this is smaller than that observed for base wages.
J32|Will Robots Automate Your Job Away? Full Employment, Basic Income, and Economic Democracy|Will the internet, robotics and artificial intelligence mean a 'jobless future'? A recent narrative says tomorrow's technology will fundamentally differ from cotton mills, steam engines, or washing machines. Automation will be less like post-WW2 demobilisation for soldiers, and more like the car for horses. Driverless vehicles will oust truckers and taxi drivers. Hyper-intelligent clouds will oust financial advisers, doctors, and journalists. We face more 'natural' or 'technological' unemployment than ever. Government, it is said, must enact a basic income, because so many jobs will vanish. Also, maybe robots should become 'electronic persons', the subjects of rights and duties, so they can be taxed. This narrative is endorsed by prominent tech-billionaires, but it is flawed. Everything depends on social policy. Instead of mass unemployment and a basic income, the law can achieve full employment and fair incomes. This article explains three views of the causes of unemployment: as 'natural', as stemming from irrationality or technology, or as caused by laws that let people restrict the supply of capital to the job market. Only the third view has any credible evidence to support it. After WW2, 42% of UK jobs were redundant (actually, not hypothetically) but social policy maintained full employment, and it can be done again. Unemployment is driven by inequality of wealth and of votes in the economy. Democratic governments should reprogramme the law: for full employment and universal fair incomes. The owners of the robots will not automate your job away, if we defend economic democracy.
J32|Pension shocks and wages|How do wages respond to firm-level idiosyncratic cost shocks? We create a unique dataset that links longitudinal data on workers’ compensation to the unexpected costs that UK firms have been forced to pay to plug large deficits in their legacy defined benefit pension plans. We show that firms are able to share the burden of such costs when a significant share of their workers are current or former members of the plan. We also investigate how compensation responds to the closure of defined benefit plans to future benefit accrual. We find that firms are able to use such closures to effectively reduce total compensation of workers who are plan members. These results point to significant frictions in the labour market, which we show are a direct result of the pension arrangement that workers have. Closing schemes has an implicit cost for firms since it reduces the frictions that workers face.
J32|Un modelo para evaluar el sistema pensional colombiano|Este documento presenta el Modelo Pensional de Asofondos (MPA) y sus principales resultados. Inicialmente, se hace una revisión de las variables demográficas, macroeconómicas y del sistema pensional que utiliza el modelo y cada uno de los supuestos que se hacen sobre estas. Posteriormente, se explica en detalle cada una de las fases que componen el modelo, para terminar con las simulaciones de las variables más relevantes del sistema pensional colombiano en caso de no cambiar la normativa vigente. Con esto se encuentra que, dada la actual normatividad y regulación, solo el 27% de la población en edad de jubilación tendrá una pensión en 2055. De ese porcentaje el 85% correspondería a pensiones por el Régimen de Ahorro Individual con Solidaridad (RAIS), incluyendo las obtenidas por Fondo de Garantía de Pensión Mínima (FGPM), y el 15% restante correspondería al Régimen de Prima Media (RPM). Sería deseable que otras instituciones, públicas y privadas, documenten sus modelos de evaluación y predicción de las políticas de protección social en el país.
J32|Effects of Future Pension Benefits on Pre-retirement Labor Supply: Evidence from Chile|In this paper, I estimate the effect of future pension benefits on pre-retirement labor supply for a representative sample of Chilean workers. Using non-linear patterns in pension benefit formulas and a reform that changed non-contributory pensions, I estimate the effect of pension accrual and expected pension wealth on labor force and contributory-sector participation, labor earnings, and hours worked. I find that the effect is related to the impact of pension accrual on the probability to contribute to the pension system. The effect is heterogeneous, and is concentrated among middle-age workers, low-skilled workers, workers with no savings, and workers with higher financial literacy.
J32|Una nota sobre el salario por hora y las contribuciones a la seguridad social|En este trabajo se realiza una discusión acerca de algunas consideraciones normativas acerca de pasar de pagar un salario mensual a un salario por hora, de manera que las contribuciones a la seguridad social puedan incrementarse sin subir sus tasas contributivas para la financiación de estas.
J32|Elementos para una reforma al Sistema de Protección Económica a la Vejez en Colombia|Presentación de la propuesta sobre una reforma pensional en Colombia de Fedesarrollo, en el XI Congreso de Asofondos, realizado en Cartagena el día 12 de abril, 2018.
J32|Payroll Taxes, Social Security and Informality. The 2012 Tax Reform in Colombia|I evaluate how the drastic reduction in payroll taxes in 2012 reduced informality in Colombia. By the end of 2012 the Colombian government implemented a tax reform that, among other things, substantially reduced payroll taxes. I evaluate the effect of this reform on informality both theoretically and empirically. Theoretically, I develop a labor market model incorporating the changes introduced by the reform. As the reduction in payroll taxes was accompanied by a change in social trans-fers' funding, which led to uncertain changes in profits and social benefits, straightforward predictions on informality are not possible. Empirically, I obtain difference-in-difference (DID) estimates from two household surveys- one composed by many repeated cross sections across many years and the other a much shorter panel dataset. Estimates from the repeated cross sections data indicate small, short-term effects and large long-term effects. Industry was the first sector to enjoy a reduction in informality, followed by services and agriculture. For workers earning around one minimum wage, I find large point estimates. Estimates from the household survey panel data are in line with these results.
J32|The Value of Working Conditions in the United States and Implications for the Structure of Wages|This paper documents variation in working conditions among workers in the United States, presents new estimates of how workers value these conditions, and assesses the impact of working conditions on estimates of the wage structure and inequality. We use evidence from a series of stated- preference experiments to estimate workers' willingness-to-pay for a broad set of job characteristics, which we validate with actual job choices. We find that working conditions vary substantially across workers, play a significant role in job choice decisions, and are central components of the compensation received by workers. Preferences vary by demographic groups and throughout the wage distribution. We find that accounting for differences in preferences for working conditions often exacerbates wage differentials by race, age, and education, and intensifies measures of wage inequality.
J32|Unemployment insurance take-up rates in an equilibrium search model|From 1989 to 2012, on average, 23% of those eligible for unemployment insurance (UI) benefits in the US did not collect them. To understand the implications of these “unclaimed” benefits, we develop a directed search model with an endogenous UI take-up rate. In equilibrium, UI collectors have longer unemployment durations relative to non-collectors. The difference results from two forces, a consumption effect and a private information effect, as UI collection histories are unobservable. We characterize both effects analytically and quantitatively. With an endogenous take-up rate, the unemployment rate and average duration of unemployment respond significantly slower to changes in the UI benefit level, relative to the standard model with a 100% take-up rate. The private information effect on non-collector job finding rates plays an important role in this result.
J32|Eligibility, Experience Rating, and Unemployment Insurance Take-up|"In this paper we investigate the causes and consequences of ""unclaimed"" unemployment insurance (UI) benefits. A search model is developed where the costs to collecting UI benefits include both a traditional ""fixed"" administrative cost and an endogenous cost arising from worker and firm interactions. Experience rated taxes give firms an incentive to challenge a worker's UI claim, and these challenges are costly for the worker. Exploiting data on improper denials of UI benefits across states in the U.S. system, a two-way fixed e ects analysis shows a statistically significant negative relationship between the improper denials and the UI take-up rate, providing empirical support for our model. We calibrate the model to elasticities implied by the two-way fixed e ects regression to quantify the relative size of these UI collection costs. The results imply that on average the costs associated with firm challenges of UI claims account for 42% of the total costs of collecting, with improper denials accounting for 6% of the total cost. The endogenous collection costs imply the unemployment rate responds much slower to changes in UI benefits relative to a model with fixed collection costs. Finally, removing all eligibility requirements and allowing workers to collect UI benefits without cost increases welfare by almost 5% with minimal impact on the unemployment rate."
J32|The Impact of Lowering the Payroll Tax on Informality in Colombia|In 2012, the Colombian Government reduced employer payroll contributions from 29.5 to 16.0 percent. Two years later, the informality rate had diminished by about 4.0 percentage points. This paper attempts to estimate how much of this reduction was due to the tax reform, isolating the impact of other macroeconomic variables. A natural approach to performing this task is to apply a difference-in-differences methodology using a household survey panel. Since the Colombian survey does not have a panel structure, we simulated one using a matching difference-in-differences methodology. According to the results, the tax reform is associated with a 4.8-percentage-point decrease in the informality of workers affected by the reform in the thirteen main metropolitan areas. This represents approximately half the reduction of the relevant informality rate during that period, affecting mostly salaried men and workers in general with low levels of education.
J32|Optimal risk-sharing in pension funds when stock and labor markets are co-integrated|A well established believe in the pension industry is that collective pension funds should take more stock market risk (compared to individual retirement accounts) since risk may be shared with future generations. We extend the OLG model of Gollier (2008) by adding labor income risk in the spirit of Benzoni, Collin-Dufresne, and Goldstein (2007) and show that this idea may be misguided. For the empirical range of parameter values reported by Benzoni et. al., we find that optimal risk-sharing actually implies that collective pension funds should take less stock market risk, not more. If labor income and dividend income are co-integrated, efficient risk-sharing policies should transfer risk from future generations to current generations instead of the other way around. Furthermore, we find that the potential welfare gains from intergenerational risk-sharing are significantly lowered.
J32|The economics of sharing macro-longevity risk|Pension funds face macro-longevity risk or uncertainty about future mortality rates. We analyze macro-longevity risk sharing between cohorts in a pension fund as a risk management tool. We show that both the optimal risk-sharing rule and the welfare gains from risk sharing depend on the retirement age policy. Welfare gains from sharing macro-longevity risk measured on a 10-year horizon in case of a fixed retirement age are between 0.2 and 0.3 percent of certainty equivalent consumption after retirement. Cohorts experience a similar impact of macro-longevity risk on post retirement consumption and it is not optimal for young cohorts to absorb risk of older cohorts. However, in case the retirement age is fully linked to changes in life expectancy, the welfare gains are substantially higher. The risk bearing capacity of workers is larger when they use their labor supply as a hedge against macro-longevity risk. As a result, workers absorb risk from retirees in the optimal risk-sharing rule, thereby increasing the welfare gain up to 2.7 percent.
J32|Pension Shocks and Wages|How do wages respond to firm-level idiosyncratic cost shocks? We create a unique dataset that links longitudinal data on workers' compensation to the unexpected costs that UK firms have been forced to pay to plug large deficits in their legacy defined benefit pension plans. We show that firms are able to share the burden of such costs when a significant share of their workers are current or former members of the plan. We also investigate how compensation responds to the closure of defined benefit plans to future benefit accrual. We find that firms are able to use such closures to effectively reduce total compensation of workers who are plan members. These results point to significant frictions in the labour market, which we show are a direct result of the pension arrangement that workers have. Closing schemes has an implicit cost for firms since it reduces the frictions that workers face.
J32|New Evidence on the Effect of Economic Shocks on Retirement Plan Withdrawals| Using data from the Survey for Income and Program Participation (SIPP), this study investigates the relationship between withdrawals from 401(k) and IRA accounts and household level economic shocks such as job-loss, job change, divorce, and the onset of poor health. Workers in low-wage households are more likely to withdraw from their accounts than those in middle and high income households, in part because they experience more shocks, and are more likely to withdraw, conditional on experiencing a shock. The above shocks are associated with about a fifth of all retirement account withdrawals and exacerbate pre-existing inequalities in financial preparation for retirement.
J32|New Challenges of Globalization in Pension Systems|After many years in which the social problems have been treated as an attribute of each state’s internal politics, the beginning of the third millennium marks the onset of a concentrated effort to reform the social security systems in most of the world’s states. For pension systems, the greatest common challenge is the attenuation of the demographic pressure, whose effect – on medium and long period of time – consists in the depreciation of financial sustainability of public systems and in accentuating the discrepancy between the benefits received from the public system and retired workers necessary of financial resources. In the context of European Union’s state members, the legislation on the people’s liberty and mobility domain implies the creation of a social security basic (minimal) system, which also regards aspects of pension benefits extraterritoriality. Meanwhile, the free circulation of services principle generates new problems regarding state border supervision. The last economical-financial crisis proved that, although the diversity principle allows each state member to decide on the pension system most agreeable, a certain series of common guidelines cannot be eluded, like the ones regarding investment regulation, the risk-based approach of supervising or the coordination of tax systems.
J32|How Do Firms Respond to Hiring Difficulties? Evidence from the Federal Reserve Banks' Small Business Credit Survey|Using data from the Federal Reserve Banks' 2017 Small Business Credit Survey (SBCS), this paper investigates the various ways in which different types of firms with less than 500 employees experience and address hiring difficulties, including when they decide to increase compensation. {{p}} The authors find significant variation in hiring difficulties by type of firm, and a firm's response appears to depend on the nature of the problem. The most common response is to increase compensation, with firms that experience competition from other employers being the most likely to do so. Other common responses were to engage in nonproduction activities—like training and job restructuring—that may boost longer-run productivity. {{p}} The results provide insight for policymakers trying to understand the linkage between compensation, labor market tightness, and productivity. Further, the variation in hiring difficulties across firm industry, education requirement, and geographic location informs economic and workforce development practitioners and policymakers working to develop targeted interventions.
J32|Optimizing the allocation of private pension funds in Romania (2nd Pillar)|Recent phenomena on the aging of the population due to the improvement of the quality of life, the decrease of the population, the decrease in the fertility rate and the development of the capital markets have led to the encouragement of private pension funds. The private pension system is essential to any modern and prosperous economy; the competitive allocation of capital under this scheme ensures the maintenance / increase of the purchasing power of future earnings from pensions, as well as the most appropriate way to finance national economic development.Basedon extensive literature on the optimization of financial investment portfolios and efficient management of private pension funds, our main objective is to optimize portfolios of private pension funds in relation to the degree of risk assumed by the managers of these funds. In concrete terms, we report optimal weights for the allocation of pension funds in five asset categories (shares, corporate bonds, participation funds, government securities and bank deposits) by using three optimal portfolios models: equipping, minimizing standard deviation and risk minimization.The database includes the monthly profitability of the five asset fund categories of pension funds, as well as the VUAN evolution of pension funds and the profitability of pension fund managersfor the period from August 2013 to July 2018 (5 years). The results obtained will constitute recommendations for private pension fund managers both in choosing the portfolio optimization model and as choices for choosing the optimal combination of assets at a discounted profitability of the portfolio in relation to the assumed degree of risk by each administrator.
J32|Minimum Wage and the Labor Market: What Can We Learn from the French Experience?|Since it was introduced in 1950, and even more since it was reformed in 1970, the statutory minimum wage has been playing a key role in the French labor market. It has very specific fixing mechanisms, and, from the eighties, it has been one of the highest among the OECD countries – both in relative and absolute terms. After presenting the specific features of the minimum wage setting regime in France as well as the minimum wage policies implemented since the 1950s, we provide a comprehensive survey of existing empirical evidence on the impacts of the minimum wage on the French labor market. We use a meta-analysis to draw the lessons from the empirical studies on its effects on employment. We also survey the other potential effects, such as the impact on wage bargaining and other wages, on inequalities, on profit and prices, on working conditions.
J32|Can Women Have Children and a Career? IV Evidence from IVF Treatments|This paper introduces a new IV strategy based on IVF (in vitro fertilization) induced fertility variation among childless women to estimate the causal effect of having children on their career. For this purpose, we use administrative data on IVF treated women in Denmark. Because observed chances of IVF success do not depend on labor market histories, IVF treatment success provides a plausible instrument for childbearing. Our IV estimates indicate that fertility effects on earnings are: (i) negative, large, and long-lasting; (ii) driven by fertility effects on hourly earnings and not so much on labor supply; and (iii) much stronger at the extensive margin than at the intensive margin.
J32|Increasing competitiveness at any price?|"Dustmann/ Fitzenberger/ Schönberg/ Spitz-Oener (2014) praise the flexibility of German labour market institutions for the German turn-around from ""Sick Man of Europe to Economic Superstar"": The more decentralized, firm-specific wage-setting process since the mid-1990s increased wage inequality and reduced pay increases. According to the authors' novel calculations for unit labour costs of the ""end product"" the German export-oriented manufacturing sector experienced a very high decrease in unit labour costs between the mid-1990s and 2007. The authors claim that this increase in price competitiveness is behind exporting success and (implicitly) the turn-around in economic growth.While we value the authors' efforts to incorporate inputs from other sectors into the calculation of unit labour costs of the manufacturing sector through an input-output approach, we show that the calculation is unconvincing in several regards and overstates the costs reduction. Besides this, we also show that the link from unit labour costs to exports is weaker than implicitly assumed by the authors. We also criticize the implicit assumption that export success based on low wage growth furthers GDP growth, as the positive effect of low wages on exports has to be balanced against the negative effect on domestic demand. Overall, our findings suggest, the policy conclusions from the authors -real wage cuts were necessary to improve German competitiveness for turning around the economy - overstate the role of unit labour costs for GDP growth."
J32|New Evidence on Cyclical Variation in Labor Costs in the U.S|Employer-provided nonwage benefit expenditures now account for one-third of U.S. firms' labor costs. We show that a broad measure of real labor costs including such benefit expenditures has become countercyclical during 1982-2014, contrary to the conventional view that labor costs are procyclical. Using BLS establishment-job data, we find that even real wages, the main focus of prior literature, have become countercyclical. Benefit expenditures are less rigid than nominal wages, although both components of labor costs have become more rigid. These rigidities, along with the rising relative importance of aggregate demand shocks (including the financial crisis), help explain countercyclical labor costs.
J32|Less Is Not More: Information Presentation Complexity and 401(k) Planning Choices|This paper presents the results of an experiment that is designed to examine how information presentation and complexity impact retirement-savings behavior. The experiment is performed twice, using both a Qualtrics panel of new employees and a sample of business school students. In this experiment, participants first were provided with either a long or short description of a hypothetical employer-sponsored 401(k) plan. Then they were asked whether they would enroll in the hypothetical plan and, if so, what percentage of their salary they would contribute. If they chose to contribute, they were asked how they would like to allocate their contribution between stocks and bonds. Participants were offered the option to stick with pre-assigned default options such as a 4% contribution and a 50-50 stocks and bonds split. The hypothesis is that providing concise information with helpful recommendations would improve choices over providing lengthy and detailed information. However, controlling for demographic and other factors, this hypothesis was not supported by the data, for either the new employees or the business school students. Thus, the data suggest that simplifying the presentation of retirement-plan information to employees is unlikely to result in vastly improved retirement-planning choices.
J32|State Substitution for the Trade Union Good: The Case of Paid Holiday Entitlements|The literature on the union wage premium is among the most extensive in labour economics but unions' effects on other aspects of the wage-effort bargain have received much less attention. We contribute to the literature through a study of the union premium in paid holiday entitlements, using large-scale survey data for the UK. We find that the union premium on paid holidays is substantially larger than the union premium on wages. However, the premium fell with the introduction of a statutory minimum entitlement to paid leave. This is indicative of the difficulties that unions have faced in protecting the most vulnerable employees, and symptomatic of their decreasing regulatory role in the UK labour market.
J32|Unequal Use of Social Insurance Benefits: The Role of Employers|California's Disability Insurance (DI) and Paid Family Leave (PFL) programs have become important sources of social insurance, with benefit payments now exceeding those of the state's Unemployment Insurance program. However, there is considerable inequality in program take-up. While existing research shows that firm-specific factors explain a significant part of the growing earnings inequality in the U.S., little is known about the role of firms in determining the use of public leave-taking benefits. Using administrative data from California, we find strong evidence that DI and PFL program take-up is substantially higher in firms with high earnings premiums. A one standard deviation increase in the firm premium is associated with a 57 percent higher claim rate incidence. Our results suggest that changes in firm behavior have the potential to impact social insurance use and thus reduce an important dimension of inequality in America.
J32|New Evidence on Cyclical Variation in Labor Costs in the U.S|Employer-provided nonwage benefit expenditures now account for one-third of U.S. firms' labor costs. We show that a broad measure of real labor costs including such benefit expenditures has become countercyclical during 1982-2014, contrary to the conventional view that labor costs are procyclical. Using BLS establishment-job data, we find that even real wages, the main focus of prior literature, have become countercyclical. Benefit expenditures are less rigid than nominal wages, although both components of labor costs have become more rigid. These rigidities, along with the rising relative importance of aggregate demand shocks (including the financial crisis), help explain countercyclical labor costs.
J32|The Retirement-Consumption Puzzle: New Evidence from Personal Finances|This paper uses a detailed panel of individual spending, income, account balances, and credit limits from a personal finance management software provider to investigate how expenditures, liquid savings, and consumer debt change around retirement. The longitudinal nature of our data allows us to estimate individual fixed-effects regressions and thereby control for all selection on time-invariant (un)observables. We provide new evidence on the retirement-consumption puzzle and on whether individuals save adequately for retirement. We find that, upon retirement, individuals reduce their spending in both work-related and leisure categories. However, we feel that it is difficult to tell conclusively whether expenses are work related or not, even with the best data. We thus look at household finances and find that individuals delever upon retirement by reducing consumer debt and increasing liquid savings. We argue that these findings are difficult to rationalize via, for example, work-related expenses. A rational agent would save before retirement because of the expected fall in income, and dissave after retirement, rather than the exact opposite
J32|The Minimum Wage, Fringe Benefits, and Worker Welfare|This paper explores the relationship between the minimum wage, the structure of employee compensation, and worker welfare. We advance a conceptual framework that describes the conditions under which a minimum wage increase will alter the provision of fringe benefits, alter employment outcomes, and either increase or decrease worker welfare. Using American Community Survey data from 2011-2016, we find robust evidence that state-level minimum wage changes decreased the likelihood that individuals report having employer-sponsored health insurance. Effects are largest among workers in very low-paying occupations, for whom coverage declines offset 9 percent of the wage gains associated with minimum wage hikes. We find evidence that both insurance coverage and wage effects exhibit spillovers into occupations moderately higher up the wage distribution. For these groups, reductions in coverage offset a more substantial share of the wage gains we estimate.
J32|Transitions from Career Employment among Public- and Private-Sector Workers|Do the retirement patterns of public-sector workers differ from those in the private sector? Most private-sector workers today face a do-it-yourself retirement income landscape characterized by an exposure to market forces through defined-contribution pension plans and private saving, and the risk of financial insecurity later in life. Public-sector workers, in contrast, are typically covered by defined-benefit pension plans that both encourage retirement at relatively young ages and offer financial security at older ages. As a result, the consequences of private- and public-sector workers’ retirement decisions could differ in important ways. For workers generally, and for private-sector workers in particular, a focus among researchers and policymakers has been the importance of continued work later in life for improving financial security at older ages. Such concerns might be of less consequence for public-sector workers due to the prevalence of defined-benefit pensions. Public-sector workers’ departures from the labor force might also differ from those in the private sector, all else equal, because of the age-specific incentives within their defined-benefit plans. Despite these important differences, the private-public distinction has received relatively little attention in the retirement literature. Our paper examines how private- and public-sector workers transition from career employment to complete labor force withdrawal, with a focus on the role of bridge employment, phased retirement, and re-entry. We identify the prevalence and determinants of each pathway to retirement using longitudinal data on four cohorts of private- and public-sector career older workers from the Health and Retirement Study (HRS). Our findings suggest that the prevalence of work after leaving career employment among public-sector workers resembles that of private-sector workers, although with a higher prevalence of part-time bridge employment, a result that has important implications f<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J32|The Right Stuff? Personality and Entrepreneurship|We construct a structural model of entry into self-employment to evaluate the impact of policies supporting entrepreneurship. Previous work has recognized that workers may opt for self-employment due to the non-pecuniary benefits of running a business and not necessarily because they are good at it. Other literature has examined how socio-emotional skills, such as personality traits, affect selection into self-employment. We link these two lines of inquiry. The model we estimate captures three factors that affect selection into self-employment: credit constraints, relative earnings and preferences. We incorporate personality traits by allowing them to affect sector-specific earnings as well as preferences. The estimated model reveals that the personality traits that make entrepreneurship profitable are not always the same traits driving people to open a business. This has important consequences for entrepreneurship policies. For example, subsidies for small businesses do not attract talented-but-reluctant entrepreneurs, but instead attract individuals with personality traits associated with strong preferences for running a business and low-quality business ideas.
J32|Happiness at Different Ages: The Social Context Matters|This paper uses a variety of individual-level survey data from several countries to test for interactions between subjective well-being at different ages and variables measuring the nature and quality of the social context at work, at home, and in the community. While earlier studies have found important age patterns (often U-shaped) and social context effects, these two sets of variables have generally been treated as mutually independent. We test for and find several large and highly significant interactions. Results are presented for life evaluations and (in some surveys) for happiness yesterday, in models with and without other control variables. The U-shape in age is found to be significantly flatter, and well-being in the middle of the age range higher, for those who are in workplaces with partner-like superiors, for those living as couples, and for those who have lived for longer in their communities. A strong sense of community belonging is associated with greater life satisfaction at all ages, but especially so at ages 60 and above, in some samples deepening the U-shape in age by increasing the size of the life satisfaction gains following the mid-life low.
J32|Capital Structure and a Firm’s Workforce|While businesses require funding to start and grow, they also rely on human capital, which affects how they raise funds. Labor market frictions make financing labor different than financing capital. Unlike capital, labor cannot be owned and can act strategically. Workers face unemployment costs, can negotiate for higher wages, are protected by employment regulations, and face retirement risk. I propose using these frictions as a framework for understanding the unique impact of a firm’s workforce on its capital structure. For instance, high leverage often makes managing labor more difficult by undermining employees’ job security and increasing the need for costly workforce reductions. But firms can also use leverage to their advantage, such as in labor negotiations and defined benefit pensions. This research can help firms account for the needs and management of their workforce when making financing decisions.
J32|Unequal Use of Social Insurance Benefits: The Role of Employers|California's Disability Insurance (DI) and Paid Family Leave (PFL) programs have become important sources of social insurance, with benefit payments now exceeding those of the state's Unemployment Insurance program. However, there is considerable inequality in program take-up. While existing research shows that firm-specific factors explain a significant part of the growing earnings inequality in the U.S., little is known about the role of firms in determining the use of public leave-taking benefits. Using administrative data from California, we find strong evidence that DI and PFL program take-up is substantially higher in firms with high earnings premiums. A one standard deviation increase in the firm premium is associated with a 57 percent higher claim rate incidence. Our results suggest that changes in firm behavior have the potential to impact social insurance use and thus reduce an important dimension of inequality in America.
J32|The Value of Working Conditions in the United States and Implications for the Structure of Wages|This paper documents variation in working conditions among workers in the United States, presents new estimates of how workers value these conditions, and assesses the impact of working conditions on estimates of the wage structure and inequality. We use evidence from a series of stated-preference experiments to estimate workers’ willingness-to-pay for a broad set of job characteristics, which we validate with actual job choices. We find that working conditions vary substantially across workers, play a significant role in job choice decisions, and are central components of the compensation received by workers. Preferences vary by demographic groups and throughout the wage distribution. We find that accounting for differences in preferences for working conditions often exacerbates wage differentials by race, age, and education, and intensifies measures of wage inequality.
J32|A Lifetime of Changes: State Pensions and Work Incentives at Older Ages in the UK, 1948–2018|We describe the history of state pension policy in the UK since 1948 and calculate summary measures of the generosity of the system over time and the degree to which the it created implicit taxes on, or subsidies to, work at older ages. The time series of these measures, calculated separately for ’example-type’ individuals of different birth cohorts, education and sexes, are then related to the time-series of employment rates at older ages for the equivalent types of individual. The generosity of the system rose over the period as whole but has fallen in recent years, and in contrast to many countries there were generally never large implicit taxes on work arising from the state pension system. What implicit subsidies there were in the years immediately before the State Pension Age have been gradually eliminated and the system is now broadly neutral with regard to work incentives. Exploiting variation in pension wealth and work incentives across different cohort-education-sex groups, created by the timing and phasing of pension reforms, we show that both pension wealth and the implicit work disincentives in the pension system are correlated with employment outcomes for men, with the expected negative sign.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J32|Gender in the Labor Market: The Role of Equal Opportunity and Family-Friendly Policies|Although the gender wage gap in the U.S. has narrowed, women’s career trajectories diverge from men’s after the birth of children, suggesting a potential role for family-friendly policies. We provide new evidence on employer provision of these policies. Using the American Time Use Survey, we find that women are less likely than men to have access to any employer-provided paid leave and this differential is entirely explained by part-time status. Using the NLSY97, we find that young women are more likely to have access to specifically designated paid parental leave, even in part-time jobs. Both datasets show insignificant gender differentials in access to employer-subsidized child care and access to scheduling flexibility. We conclude with a discussion of policy implications
J32|Increasing social insurance coverage in Viet Nam’s SMEs|Viet Nam has made significant progress in expanding social insurance coverage in recent years. However, coverage amongst small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) remains very low and very few workers in this sector are expected to receive a pension in retirement. Drawing on two datasets for SMEs in Viet Nam, this paper seeks to explain this phenomenon by examining the characteristics of enterprises that are enrolled and those that opt out, and it identifies possible barriers to enrolment, such as high contribution rates. It also examines how enforcement mechanisms and formalisation policies might deter enterprises from enrolling. Drawing on lessons from international experience, the paper recommends a series of policy responses that seek both to address these barriers and to protect the livelihoods of those workers who are not yet covered.
J32|Structural policies to boost productivity and inclusion in Costa Rica|Owing to past structural reforms, Costa Rica has enjoyed robust GDP growth and productivity levels are gradually converging towards the OECD average. However, large GDP per capita and productivity gaps persist. In addition, not everyone has benefited from this growth. Inequality has increased and labour market conditions are a concern. Costa Rica has a lower share of employed workers in the population than almost all OECD countries, unemployment remains well above its pre-global-financial-crisis level, labour market participation has decreased and the share of informal jobs is high. Recognising these challenges, Costa Rica has accelerated its structural reform momentum recently, with policy reforms underway or planned in several areas that present win-win opportunities to boost both productivity and inclusion. These include efforts to tackle labour market informality, simplify the minimum wage structure, increase competition and reduce regulatory burdens. In addition to further reforms in these priority areas, structural policy improvements are also needed to increase outcomes and reduce inequalities in education and address significant transport infrastructure gaps.
J32|Making Employment More Inclusive in the Netherlands|The Dutch labour market has recovered and the unemployment rate has been converging towards pre-crisis levels. Non-standard forms of work have expanded with a strong trend towards self-employment and an increased reliance on temporary contracts. These developments may reflect a preference of some individuals for a more flexible working relationship, but they could also lower job security and job quality for others. Policies need to protect vulnerable groups in the more dynamic working environment without creating barriers to labour mobility and flexibility of the overall labour market. To improve the fairness of the tax system, policies should ensure a more level playing field between workers on different types of contracts. Regulatory policies should aim at raising labour market mobility to improve the matching of skills to jobs by easing the protection on permanent employment contracts and through a more targeted approach to activation policies for disadvantaged groups. Finally, measures should improve the skills of individuals in vulnerable groups to enhance their opportunities to find better jobs.This Working Paper relates to the 2018 OECD Economic Survey of the Netherlands 2018(www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/economic-survey-the netherlands.htm).
J32|Equilibrium Labor Market Search and Health Insurance Reform, Third Version|We present and empirically implement an equilibrium labor market search model where risk averse workers facing medical expenditure shocks are matched with ï¬ rms making health insurance coverage decisions. Our model delivers a rich set of predictions that can account for a wide variety of phenomenon observed in the data including the correlations among ï¬ rm sizes, wages, employer-sponsored health insurance oï¬€ering rates, turnover rates and workersâ€™ health compositions. We estimate our model by Generalized Method of Moments using a combination of micro datasets including the Survey of Income and Program Participation, the Medical Expenditure Panel Survey and the Kaiser Family Employer Health Insurance Beneï¬ ts Survey. We use our estimated model to evaluate the equilibrium impact of the 2010 Aï¬€ordable Care Act (ACA) and compare it with other health care reform proposals. We also use the estimates of the early impact of the ACA as a model validation. We ï¬ nd that the full implementation of the ACA would reduce the uninsured rate among the workers in our estimation sample from about 21.3% in the pre-ACA benchmark economy to 6.6%. We also ï¬ nd that income-based premium subsidies for health insurance purchases from the exchange play an important role for the sustainability of the ACA; without the premium subsidies, the uninsured rate would be around 15.8%. In contrast, as long as premium subsidies and health insurance exchanges with community ratings stay intact, ACA without the individual mandate, or without the employer mandate, or without both mandates, could still succeed in reducing the uninsured rates to 11.4%, 7.5% and 12.9% respectively.
J32|Why is the relative preference for government jobs on the rise in Bangladesh? Evidence from labour force surveys|This article examines the underlying factors contributing to the changing scenario concerning relative attractiveness of public sector jobs in Bangladesh vis-à-vis private sector jobs. The article quantifies wage differentials between the public and the private sector, and examines the changes as regards earnings inequalities between group (public versus private) and within group (within private sector employees), in response to the new pay scale introduced for public sector employees in Bangladesh. The analysis reveals that following salary scale revision of particularly 2015, public sector jobs in the country have become more attractive for job seekers looking for salaried employment. Whilst there has been a shift favouring the entire range of wage distribution curve, it is more evident for jobs at the entry level. Although the higher-paid private sector employees appear to have been able to adjust their salaries in response to government pay scale revision, the relatively low-paid ones in the private sector have not been able to. Additionally, public sector jobs have the added advantage of non-wage benefits of larger coverage compared to the private sector. All these factors have combined to bring a shift in preference in favour of public sector jobs in Bangladesh. The article has argued that the recent ‘quota movement’ in Bangladesh, with the demand to revise the existing quota system in the country, reflects this shifting preference on the part of those entering the job market in recent times.
J32|The future of social protection in Latin America in a context of accelerated changes|This article discusses the future of social protection in Latin America and the challenges the region faces in the three key performance areas: coverage, sufficiency and sustainability. In particular, the article analyses how coverage is strongly determined by the structure of employment; the limits to expand it given the inability to generate sufficient fiscal space; the consequences of widespread economic and labour informality; the governance deficits; and the acceleration of population aging. It also discusses the increasing need of an adequate combination of contributory and non-contributory social protection provision, as well as the need for a better articulation of social protection systems with the sustainable development framework and its three main spheres: economic, social and environmental. Finally, it is addressed the future of social protection in a context of a growing employment in the services sector, technological change and automation of production and employment; and the relevance of an adequate social protection response to the consequences of climate change and the effects of natural disasters.
J32|Short-Run Health Consequences of Retirement and Pension Benefits: Evidence from China|This paper examines the impact of the New Rural Pension Scheme (NRPS) in China. Exploiting the staggered implementation of an NRPS policy expansion that began in 2009, we use a difference-in-difference approach to study the effects of the introduction of pension benefits on the health status, health behaviors, and healthcare utilization of rural Chinese adults age 60 and above. The results point to three main conclusions. First, in addition to improvements in self-reported health, older adults with access to the pension program experienced significant improvements in several important measures of health, including mobility, self-care, usual activities, and vision. Second, regarding the functional domains of mobility and self-care, we found that the females in the study group led in improvements over their male counterparts. Third, in our search for the mechanisms that drive positive retirement program results, we find evidence that changes in individual health behaviors, such as a reduction in drinking and smoking, and improved sleep habits, play an important role. Our findings point to the potential benefits of retirement programs resulting from social spillover effects. In addition, these programs may lessen the morbidity burden among the retired population.
J32|Recent Research on the Minimum Wage: Implications for Missouri|I discuss the sources of the policy disputes surrounding the mini-mum wage, both theoretical and empirical. I focus on recent research, particularly on margins other than the level of employment, and ex-amine the distributional implications of minimum wage increases. I consider the impacts of recent proposals to increase the minimum wage in the state of Missouri.
J32|Did recent reforms facilitate EU labour market adjustment? Firm level evidence|The paper analyses the effectiveness of the labour market reforms implemented in a number of EU countries during the recent crisis using qualitative data from a firm-level survey conducted in 2014-2015 in 25 EU countries. This data set contains information on firms’ perceptions on the easiness to adjust labour input and wages in 2013 compared to the prereform period together with firms’ and workers’ characteristics and information on the economic and institutional environment in which firms operate. We find that firms in countries that undertook wider labour markets reforms found it easier to adjust employment and wages, and they largely attribute this to the reforms in labour legislation. Consistent with the efficiency wage theory, we find that firms employing a higher share of skilled employees were less likely than those with relatively more unskilled workers to find it easier to adjust wages and lay off employees. Furthermore, firms applying firm-level agreements found it easier to adjust wages in 2013 than in 2010 suggesting that they benefited from the increased flexibility provided by these agreements.
J32|Non-base wage components as a source of wage adaptability to shocks: Evidence from European firms, 2010–2013|This paper provides evidence on the role of non-base wage components as a channel for firms to adjust labour costs in the event of adverse shocks. It uses data from a firm-level survey for 25 European countries that covers the period 2010–2013. We find that firms subject to nominal wage rigidities, which prevent them from adjusting base wages, are more likely to cut non-base wage components in order to adjust labour costs when needed. Firms thus use non-base wage components as a buffer to overcome base wage rigidity. We further show that while non-base wage components exhibit some degree of downward rigidity, they do so to a lesser extent than base wages.
J32|Optimal Default Policies in Defined Contribution Pension Plans when Employees are Biased| This paper analyses a model in which employees are biased in their perception of their optimal contribution rates or asset allocations in defined contribution pension plans. The optimal default is characterised as a function of the parameters. It is shown that, for some values of the parameters, forcing employees to actively decide is the optimal default policy. The total loss in the population at the optimal default policy can be nonmonotone in the parameters in counterintuitive ways.
J32|Does a Discount Rate Rule Ensure a Pension Plan Can Pay Promised Benefits without Excessive Asset Accumulation?|The choice of discount rate makes a substantial difference to the magnitude of the assets required to ensure a pension plan is fully funded. Finance theory suggests that the discount rate should equal the default-free rate, but pension plan administrators argue for a rate equal to the long run return on plan assets. We evaluate the ability of a fully funded pension plan to meet its promised benefit payments when the plan's liabilities are determined using different discount rate-setting rules. To account for the uncertainty of the return to plan assets and future benefit payments, we employ Monte Carlo techniques and estimates using U.S. data. Due to the volatility of pension fund asset returns and payouts, to generate a high probability of meeting promised pension payments, a plan must use a discount rate that leads, on average, to the accumulation of significant assets in excess of those required to cover promised benefits. The better performing rules are a function of economic variables, such as the return on government bonds or the inflation rate. Two rules that yield a relatively high probability that pension obligations can be met, combined with the relatively low accumulation of excess assets, set the discount rate equal to a proxy for the corporate bond yield or an inflation forecast plus 3 percent. These rates are greater than the default free rate, but lower than the return on the plan portfolio.
J32|The Political Economics of Growth, Labor Control and Coercion: Evidence from a Suffrage Reform|In this paper, we analyze how a suffrage reform in 1862/63 that shifted the de jure distribution of political power from landowners to industrialists affected Sweden’s industrialization and economic and social development from the 1860s to the 1910s. Using a newly constructed, comprehensive historical data set of the universe of approximately 2,400 Swedish local governments, we document that the change in suffrage affected a very large number of development and social outcomes at the local level, such as labor coercion, factor price manipulation in the form of entry barriers including investments in local public goods (i.e., schooling) and transportation (i.e., local railways), the real wage structure, technology adoption in both agriculture and industry, labor productivity in both agriculture and industry, changes in the composition of employment and the structure of production, demographic transition, organized labor, and persistence in dysfunctional local political institutions. Our findings are consistent with the idea that political institutions are a key determinant of long-run development and growth. Specifically, our results suggest that politically powerful landowners can block economic development using labor coercion and factor price manipulation, i.e., using entry barriers and other distortionary policies.
J32|Social Security Contributions and the Business Cycle|This paper examines magnitudes and business cycle dynamics of social security contributions (SSC). In most OECD countries studied, we document a negative covariation of payroll tax burdens with GDP and GDP growth at business cycle and lower frequencies. We assess the overall magnitude of the distortion following Barro and Redlick (2011). For most countries, average marginal SSC tax rates exceed average rates, but the latter tracks the former tightly. Changes in average payroll tax burdens are mostly accounted for by changes in tax schedules rather than shifts in the earnings distribution over time. For many countries, SSC rates behave like estimated values of the “labor wedge” (Chari et al. 2007, Brinca et al., 2016).
J32|Impact Of A Program That Encourages Teaching Performance In The Business Administration Degree Of The Faculty Of Accounting And Administration Of The University “Universidad Veracruzana”, Xalapa Region, Impacto De Programas De Estimulo Al Desempeno A Docentes: Evidencias De Una Institucion De Educacion Superior En Veracruz Mexico|Higher Education policy that the Mexican government implemented toward public universities in the past three decades have included different incentive programs for full-time teachers and researchers. Through these programs we seek to improve comprehensive dynamic improvement in universities and reward performance and encourage faculty productivity. This productivity is linked to motivation by a process of openness to change and renewal. Renewal being reflective of the results obtained in the classroom. The present study analyzes the performance of teachers at the Universidad Veracruzana. Specifically, we examine teaching in the School of Accounting and Administration campus Xalapa
J32|Pension Rules and Labour Market Mobility|This paper makes use of a natural experiment to examine effects of potential capital losses and general attractiveness of pension schemes on employees' propensity to change jobs. On January 1st 2004, the two largest pension funds in the Netherlands, for civil servants and for the health care sector, changed their pension scheme from a final salary to an average salary. This industry-leve change excludes the possibility that a negative correlation between having a job with an attractive pension scheme and the number of labour market transitions is driven by self-selection of workers into jobs with an attractive pension arrangement. Using individual data covering the entire Dutch population, we estimate discrete choice models for job-to-job transitions. The results show that the number of job transitions of civil servants significantly increased at the onset of the new pension rules. The changing pension rules affected the propensity to change jobs for individuals working in the health care sector only to a smaller extent.
J32|Working from home and the willingness to accept a longer commute|Abstract It is generally found that workers are more inclined to accept a job that is located farther away from home if they have the ability to work from home one day a week or more (telecommuting). Such findings inform us about the effectiveness of telecommuting policies that try to alleviate congestion and transport-related emissions, but they also stress that the geography of labour markets is changing due to information technology. We argue that estimates of the effect of working from home on commuting time may be biased because of sorting based on residential- and commuting preferences. In this paper we investigate the relationship between telecommuting and commuting time, controlling for preference-based sorting. We use 7 waves of data from the Dutch Labour Supply Panel and show that on average telecommuters have higher marginal cost of one-way commuting time, compared to non-telecommuters. We estimate the effect of telecommuting on commuting time using a fixed effects approach, and we show that preference-based sorting biases cross-sectional results upwards. This suggests that the bias due to sorting based on residential preferences is strongest. Working from home allows people to accept 5% longer commuting times on average, and every additional 8 h of working from home are associated with 3.5% longer commuting times.
J32|The Role of the Housing Market in Workers' Resilience to Job Displacement after Firm Bankruptcy|We examine the role of the housing market in workers' adjustment to job displacement. Dutch administrative data were used and analysed with a quasi-experimental design involving job displacement. The empirical design eliminates the potential of endogenous selection into labour turnover. The estimates show that displaced workers experience, in addition to substantial losses in employment and wage, an increase in the commuting distance and a decrease in the probability of moving home. These patterns change over the worker's post-displacement period – the negative displacement effect on wages becomes more pronounced, whereas the increase in the commuting distance diminishes. Also, we examine the role of workers' housing tenure in the displacement effects. Compared with displaced tenants and outright owners, we find that more leveraged displaced owners are more rapidly re-employed and experience a smaller increase in the commuting distance, but experience also a higher loss in wage.
J32|Voluntary Employer-Provided Severance Pay|Employer-provided severance pay in the U.S. emerged among salaried workers during the Great Depression as an alternative to modest advance notice and expanded in the late 1950s and 1960s, especially among union (hourly) workers. A variety of sources are employed to estimate variations in severance coverage and design over the remainder of the 20th Century. The Bureau of Labor Statistics provided coverage estimates from 1980 to 2000, but these offered little information on severance plan structures, forcing reliance on surveys by private, for-profit management consulting firms. Although the studies differ in sample and survey instrument design, they broadly reveal a standard benefit form –essentially scheduled wage insurance, similar to severance plans mandated internationally. Coverage is another matter, with voluntary coverage narrowly focused on firms/workers vulnerable to large job displacement wage losses, while mandated coverage is quite broad. Labor market events of the new century highlight the limits of standard benefit schedules as wage insurance, whether voluntary or mandated.
J32|Employer-Provided Severance Pay: The Emergence of Job Displacement Insurance, 1930–1954|"Employer-provided severance pay plans became common during the Great Depression, a reaction to (i) large-scale layoffs of long-service workers, and (ii) the growing formalism of the employment relationship. Reasonably consistent series are constructed for severance plan coverage and structure by broad occupational group (office or factory workers) over the next two decades based on an ambitious series of surveys conducted by the National Industrial Conference Board. By 1953/54, approximately one-third of surveyed companies reported having a formal severance plan for nonexempt salary workers and one-sixth for hourly workers. Over much of the period, modal long-service plans offered benefits of a week's pay for each year of service, although many firms, especially those outside the manufacturing sector, offered flat-rate ""notice"" payments of only a week or two. Surprisingly, coverage levels were only modest higher in 1954 than in the late 1930s. The stability of plan coverage and design in the face of large changes in economic conditions and labor relations remains a puzzle."
J32|The Effect of Ideological Positions on Job Market Interaction|Reporters and editors may not have the same ideology. When an editor wants to employ a new reporter with a different ideology, they have to negotiate the price of moving from their own to the other's ideology. We focus on the job market for reporters, where the agents negotiate over the ideological position to be reported and wage. We adopt a spatial model in which each agent suffers a utility loss as the agreed-upon position moves away from his/her favored one. Equilibrium determines a threshold ideological gap for a match to be formed. Our analysis generates a natural separation between extreme, mildly extreme and moderate ideologies. Furthermore, we find that agents that hold extreme ideologies compromise less than moderates. This formulation may be applied to other situations in which agents involve monetary and non-monetary considerations, especially a preference for similarity.
J32|Does Sick Pay Affect Workplace Absence?|Higher replacement rates often imply higher levels of absenteeism, yet even in generous welfare economies, private sick pay is provided in addition to the public sick pay. Why? Using comparative workplace data for the UK and Norway we show that the higher level of absenteeism in Norway compared to UK is related to the threshold in the Norwegian public sick pay legislation. This threshold's importance is confirmed in a Regression Kinked Design (RKD) analysis on the Norwegian micro-data. Private sick pay is provided as an employer-provided non-wage benefit and when training costs are high.
J32|Fiscal devaluation and economic activity in the EU|In the aftermath of the global financial crisis, a fiscal devaluation (hereafter: FD), understood as a shift in taxation from labor to consumption, has been debated as a possible tool of restoring competitiveness in peripheral countries of the Euro area. We contribute to this debate. Based on a set of panel and spatial panel models for the EU 27 over the period 1995 – 2014, we find that FD increases value added in exports, improves net exports, accelerates GDP and employment growth, and decelerates labour costs growth. These effects are nonlinear: stronger in the members of the Euro area and weaker in countries with either more coordinated or more centralised wage bargaining process, or more generous unemployment benefits. Most importantly, FD turns out not to be a beggar thy neighbour policy, at least in the EU. In our sample ‘cooperative effect’ of unilateral FD, which is beneficial for neighbouring countries, dominates by far ‘competitive effect’, which goes at the expense of other countries’ competitiveness. Admittedly, FD implemented in one country can benefit other countries, provided that they are strongly integrated in global value chains. These findings are robust to changes in the estimation methods, the sample composition, the set of explanatory variables and the selection of a spatial weight matrix.
J32|Insights in the Economics of Aging|No abstract is available for this item.
J32|Optimal social security claiming behavior under lump sum incentives: Theory and evidence|People who delay claiming Social Security receive higher lifelong benefits upon retirement. We survey individuals on their willingness to delay claiming later, if they could receive a lump sum in lieu of a higher annuity payment. Using a moment-matching approach, we calibrate a lifecycle model tracking observed claiming patterns under current rules and predict optimal claiming outcomes under the lump sum approach. Our model correctly predicts that early claimers under current rules would delay claiming most when offered actuarially fair lump sums, and for lump sums worth 87% as much, claiming ages would still be higher than at present.
J32|A Head-to-Head Comparison of Augmented Wealth in Germany and the United States|We provide levels of, compositions of, and inequalities in household augmented wealth – defined as the sum of net worth and pension wealth – for two countries: the United States and Germany. Pension wealth makes up a considerable portion of household wealth: about 48% in the United States and 61% in Germany. The higher share in Germany narrows the wealth gap between the two countries: While average net worth in the United States (US$337,000 in 2013) is about 1.8 times higher than in Germany, augmented wealth (US$651,000) is only 1.4 times higher. Further, the inclusion of pension wealth in household wealth reduces the Gini coefficient from 0.892 to 0.701 in the United States and from 0.765 to 0.511 in Germany.
J32|Planning for Retirement? The Importance of Time Preferences|Ensuring retirement income security is a priority for individuals, employers, and policymakers. Using merged administrative and survey data for public sector workers in North Carolina, we explore how workers’ characteristics and preferences are associated with planning and saving for retirement. We then assess the “quality” of a retirement plan and whether retirement behavior is consistent with these plans. The findings indicate that the way that individuals discount future consumption is associated with the extent of their retirement planning and preparedness. We find that individuals who engage in retirement planning are better prepared to meet their retirement goals upon leaving their career jobs.
J32|Nudging Retirement Savings: A Field Experiment on Supplemental Plans|Although supplemental saving plans can be an important part of an individual's financial security in retirement, contribution rates remain low, particularly among those with lower salaries and less education. We report findings from a field experiment that distributed an informational nudge containing information on key aspects of the employer-provided supplemental saving plans of older public employees in North Carolina. Among workers participating in a supplemental plan, individuals who received an informational nudge increased their contributions in the months following the intervention relative to the control group. Moreover, those that received the nudge reported in a subsequent survey that they were more likely to have developed a retirement plan and report more confidence in their retirement preparedness. In contrast, individuals who were not enrolled in a retirement saving plan were not moved to begin contributing to a supplemental plan.
J32|Ranking Firms Using Revealed Preference|This article estimates workers’ preferences for firms by studying the structure of employer-to-employer transitions in U.S. administrative data. The article uses a tool from numerical linear algebra to measure the central tendency of worker flows, which is closely related to the ranking of firms revealed by workers’ choices. There is evidence for compensating differentials when workers systematically move to lower-paying firms in a way that cannot be accounted for by layoffs or differences in recruiting intensity. The estimates suggest that compensating differentials account for over half of the firm component of the variance of earnings.
J32|Raising living standards and supporting investment by boosting skills in Slovenia|Higher living standards and well-being, as well as convergence with more advanced economies, will depend on achieving higher productivity, which in turn would be boosted by more investment in capital. In particular, investment in knowledge-based capital and greater inward FDI can help Slovenia develop its economy and improve global integration. Complementing such investments requires a workforce that is given the opportunities and incentives to continuously engage in upskilling and seek employment where they are most productive, in the process raising their incomes. Reskilling can be improved by boosting the links between educational institutions and local and foreign firms, helping Slovenia to overcome its problems of long-term unemployment and low employment rates of older workers. Improving life-long learning will allow workers to adapt to a changing economic environment and thereby contribute to their own well-being. Adjusting wage determination and broadening labour market activation measures can smooth these adjustments. This Working Paper relates to the 2017 OECD Economic Survey of Slovenia (www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/economic-survey-slovenia.htm).
J32|Education as Protection? The Effect of Schooling on Non-Wage Compensation in a Developing Country|This is the first paper identifying the causal effect of schooling on non-wage compensation using data from Vietnam. The paper takes an advantage of the establishment of the compulsory primary schooling reform that was introduced in Vietnam in 1991 to instrument for exogenous variations in years of schooling to surmount the endogeneity problem as a primary threat to idenfication facing the causal effect estimation. The paper finds that education is positively associated with non-wage benefits. In particular, the baseline 2SLS estimates indicates that one additional year of schooling is causally linked to a 6 percentage point increase in the likelihood of receiving monetary payments for public holidays, a 4.6 percentage point increase in the likelihood of receiving monetary employee benefits, a 7.3 percentage point increase in the likelihood of having annual paid leave and a 6.8 percentage point increase in the likelihood of having firm-provided social insurance. The baseline estimates are strongly robust to the estimates from some robustness checks. The paper also inspects that the causal associations between schooling and formal employment, skilled occupation and employee-friendly firm are three potential mechanisms through which schooling causally affects non-wage compensation.
J32|Labour market institutions in small Pacific island countries: Main guidelines for labour market reforms|This report consists of a comprehensive overview of labour market institutions in the small Pacific island countries in order to propose recommendations to improve the performance of their labour markets. We pay particular attention to three countries: Fiji, Palau and Papua New Guinea. We focus on the main pillars of labour market institutions, as employment protection legislation, minimum wage, and labour organization. The analysis considers the possibilities for institutional change in the next future. The main guidelines for eventual reforms are discussed, for the region as a whole and for the above three countries.
J32|Does Sick Pay Affect Workplace Absence?|Higher replacement rates often imply higher levels of absenteeism, yet even in generous welfare economies, private sick pay is provided in addition to the public sick pay. Why? Using comparative workplace data for the UK and Norway we show that the higher level of absenteeism in Norway compared to UK is related to the threshold in the Norwegian public sick pay legislation. This threshold's importance is confirmed in a Regression Kinked Design (RKD) analysis on the Norwegian micro-data. Private sick pay is provided as an employer-provided non-wage benefit and when training costs are high.
J32|Transitions between informal and formal employment: results from a worker survey in Bangladesh|Abstract We study transitions between different types of formal and informal employment using retrospective job histories from a new survey in Bangladesh. Workers transitioning between jobs are most likely to remain in the same type of employment, although there is still substantial churn across employment types. Private wage employees have higher probability of transitioning to a new job, and changes in earnings and benefits suggest evidence of upward mobility. Nevertheless, there is also non-trivial risk of downward mobility, especially for those transitioning into casual employment, which has the lowest level of earnings and benefits and the highest levels of exposure to workplace hazards and violence. Overall, the informal sector appears to include subpopulations consistent with both the traditional view that it is a segmented portion of the labor market with few prospects of upward mobility, and with the alternative view that it is a dynamic, entrepreneurial alternative to wage employment.
J32|Pension Schemes, Taxation and Stakeholder Wealth: The USS Rule Changes|Although tax relief on pensions is a controversial area of government expenditure, this is the first study of the tax effects of a real world defined benefit pension scheme - the Universities Superannuation Scheme (USS). First, we estimate the tax and national insurance contribution (NIC) effects of the rule changes in 2011 on the gross and net wealth of the sponsor, government, and 16 age cohorts of members, deferred pensioners and pensioners. Second, we measure the size of the twelve income tax and NIC payments and reliefs for members and the sponsor, both before and after the rule changes. We find the total subsidy split is roughly: 40% income tax subsidy; 30% member' NIC subsidy; and 30% sponsor NIC subsidy. However government proposals for reform have concentrated exclusively on the income tax relief, neglecting the substantially larger NIC relief, possibly because they have overestimated the size of the income tax relief.
J32|Employment and the Cyclical Cost of Worker Benefits|Both aggregate and micro-level data show that the firm-paid quasi-fixed cost of an employee's benefits fluctuates with labor market conditions. It declines when the labor market deteriorates and rises when the labor market improves. This paper develops an RBC model to study the impact of this cyclical quasi-fixed labor cost on firms' employment decisions. I find that the cost increases employment volatility and delays employment adjustments when productivity shocks are small. The model reflects the sluggish employment recoveries of the post-1990 period, but not before that. It also generates data-matching volatility for employment and other business cycle variables. (Copyright: Elsevier)
J32|Life After Debt: Postgraduation Consequences Of Federal Student Loans|We estimate the causal effect of student loans on postgraduation labor market outcomes exploiting a kink in the formula determining eligibility for need‐based student loans. Using a representative sample of students graduating with a bachelor's degree in 1993, we find that student debt has nonnegative effects on earnings. This result holds with differing levels of statistical significance across a battery of different empirical designs: (1) ordinary least squares, (2) partially linear, and (3) regression kink. We find similar results for the 2008 graduating cohort. (JEL I22, I26, J32, J33)
J32|Social harmonization in the eyes of Polish stakeholders – in search of consensus|Aspects of labor mobility and discrepancies in social benefits schemes in Member States became an urgent matter to address. Revision of the Posting of Workers Directive, the European Pillar of Social Rights and the European Mobility Package were aimed at introducing more harmonization within the EU countries. However, the EU propositions faced a strong resistance from some groups of stakeholders and Member States. Moreover, the debate has been evolving quickly given recent events such as the economic and migration crises and Brexit. CASE held a forum with various Polish stakeholders, where CASE experts gathered views on the future of social situation in the EU. They are all summarized in this Policy Brief. Main policy recommendations emphasize that proposed legislation is important for Poland, however it still needs more debate, since under current form certain policies might be harmful for many EU Member States.
J32|Social harmonization and labor market performance in Europe|The paper aims to assess the impact of selected elements of social harmonization on labor market performance in the European Union among two groups of workers—the total working population and the elderly. The aim is to examine whether upward changes in labor taxes affect employment, unemployment, and inactivity rates in the European Union.
J32|Second Pension Pillar Participants? Behavior Over Life Cycle: Lithuanian Case|Defined contribution pension pillars often requires participants to take an active role in selecting pension fund during the whole accumulation period. It is expected that pension fund participant will select appropriate investment strategy and investment risk during different stages of the accumulation phase and years left till the retirement. In this paper, we have analyzed the behavior of second pillar pension funds? participants in Lithuania from the beginning of second pension pillar establishment (2004) till the 2016 Q3. The aim of the study is to evaluate how rational second pension pillar participants in decisions on selecting accumulation rate, appropriate pension fund (investment strategy and investment risk) and changing the pension fund over accumulation period and during different stages of development (peaks and bottoms) in the financial markets. The results show, that second pension pillar participants are rational on selecting participation rates. However, it also highlighted problems in second pension pillar. Majority of pension funds participants have selected inappropriate pension fund (investment strategy and investment risk) evaluating the accumulation period, which have left till the retirement. Participants are passive and tend not to change pension fund during accumulation period. Pension fund participants, which have changed pension fund, made irrational decisions and have chosen inappropriate pension fund (investment strategy and investment risk): in case of peak period in stock markets, majority of second pension pillar participant have changed pension funds, by switching from the fund which have lower proportion of equities to the fund which has higher proportion of equities or have change pension fund to the fund in the same investment risk category. Moreover, in case of bottom period in stock markets the majority of participants did vice versus ? switched from funds with higher proportion of equities to pension fund with lower proportion of equities.
J32|How Costly is Social Screening? Evidence from the Banking Industry|Social banks screen loan applicants by using both social and financial criteria, and social screening implies an extra workload. To check the costs involved in this type of screening we use balance-sheet information on European banks, and compare the operating costs of social banks with those of other banks. Surprisingly, our first results suggest that social banks' costs are not significantly higher than those of their mainstream counterparts. Next, we uncover that the extra costs of social screening are offset by a cheaper workforce. Despite their need for specific screening, social banks are financially sustainable in a market dominated by for-profit institutions.
J32|Pension Rules and Labour Market Mobility|This paper makes use of a natural experiment to examine effects of potential capital losses and general attractiveness of pension schemes on employees' propensity to change jobs. On January 1st 2004, the two largest pension funds in the Netherlands, for civil servants and for the health care sector, changed their pension scheme from a final salary to an average salary. This industry-level change excludes the possibility that a negative correlation between having a job with an attractive pension scheme and the number of labour market transitions is driven by self-selection of workers into jobs with an attractive pension arrangement. Using individual data covering the entire Dutch population, we estimate discrete choice models for job-to-job transitions. The results show that the number of job transitions of civil servants significantly increased at the onset of the new pension rules. The changing pension rules affected the propensity to change jobs for individuals working in the health care sector only to a smaller extent.
J32|Redistributive Consequences of Abolishing Uniform Contribution Policies in Pension Funds|Abstract In a pension system with uniform policies for contribution and accrual, each participant has the same contribution rate and accrual rate independent of the age at the time of payment. This is not actuarially fair because the investment horizon of young participants is longer than the investment horizon of the elderly. This paper shows the presumably unintended redistributive effects of a uniform contribution system and the consequences of switching from uniform policies to an actuarially fair system. We first analyze a stylized model with three overlapping generations to show the intuition behind these effects. Then, we quantify these effects in a more detailed model with multiple overlapping generations, realistic parameters and more detailed information on the income distribution, calibrated on the Dutch funded pension system. We first use this model to show that there is a substantial transfer of income from poor to wealthy participants under a pension scheme with uniform policies: about 10 billion euros are transferred from poor to wealthy participants under the current uniform contribution policies in the Netherlands. We then calculate the gross aggregate transition effect of abolishing the uniform policy pension for an actuarially fair system to be about 37 billion euros (or about 5% of the Dutch GDP). We discuss the four main drivers of this estimate of the transition effect. For each cohort, the redistributive effects are less than 5% of their total pension.
J32|The Effects of Differential Income Replacement and Mortality on U.S. Social Security Redistribution|We study redistribution via the United States Social Security retirement system for cohorts of men born during the second half of the 20th century. Our focus is on redistribution across race and education groups. The cohorts we study are younger than cohorts studied in previous, similar research and thus more exposed to recent increases in earnings inequality. All else equal, this should increase the degree of progressivity of Social Security redistribution due to the structure of the benefit formula. However, we find that redistribution is only modestly progressive for individuals born as late as 1980. Differential mortality rates across race and education groups are the primary explanation. While black-white mortality gaps have narrowed some in recent years, they remain large and dull progressivity. Mortality gaps by education level are also large and unlike the gaps by race, they are widening, which puts additional regressive pressure on Social Security redistribution.
J32|Does Increased Access to Health Insurance Impact Claims for Workers' Compensation? Evidence from Massachusetts Health Care Reform|We study over 20 million emergency room (ER) discharges in Massachusetts and three comparison states to estimate the impact of Massachusetts health care reform on claims for Workers’ Compensation (WC). Prior evidence on the relationship between health insurance and WC claiming behavior is mixed. We find that the reform caused a significant decrease in the number of per-capita ER discharges billed to WC. This result is driven by larger decreases in WC discharges for conditions for which there is greater scope to change the payer or the location of care. Conversely, we estimate smaller impacts for weekend versus weekday admissions and for wounds compared to musculoskeletal injuries. Our findings are consistent with the reform lowering WC medical costs for employers/insurers, primarily by inducing injured workers to seek care at less costly sites. The results suggest much smaller impacts on the propensity to bill WC for a given injury.
J32|"Are Teacher Pensions ""Hazardous"" for Schools?"|I use a detailed panel of data and a unique modeling specification to explore how public schoolteachers respond to the incentives embedded in North Carolina’s retirement system. Like most public-sector retirement plans, North Carolina’s teacher pension implicitly encourages teachers to continue working until they are eligible for their pension benefits, and then leave soon afterward. I find that teachers with higher levels of quality, as measured by a teacher’s value-added to her students’ achievement test scores, are more responsive to the “pull” of teacher pensions. Younger teachers, those with higher salaries, and nonwhite teachers are also more likely to stay during the pension “pull.” All teachers show a strong response to the pension “push,” with about a quarter of teachers leaving every year once they become eligible for their pension. I depart from other models of teacher retirement by using a Cox proportional hazard model. Given that salaries are generally fixed by the state, I find that the number of years a teacher must work before she is eligible for her full pension benefit is the major driver of variation in pension wealth. This specification has the benefit of a flexible baseline hazard that can easily capture the sharp incentives driving a teacher’s retirement decision that are dependent on her proximity to retirement eligibility, and can flexibly account for differences driven by local labor market conditions. These analyses highlight important unintended effects that inform education policies going forward to ensure the retention of high-quality teachers in all types of schools.
J32|Quantile treatment effects of Riester participation on wealth|In numerous industrialized countries the demographic change erodes the financial basis of traditional pay-as-you-go pension systems. To compensate for decreasing statutory pensions, many governments incentivize private saving by means of subsidized retirement plans. In this context, Germany introduced the so-called Riester pension plans. To assess its effectiveness, this paper analyzes the effects of participation in Riester plans on wealth at different points of the distribution. We employ an instrumental quantile regression approach using Riester eligibility as instrument for Riester participation. The analysis is based on microeconomic survey data from the German Socio-Economic Panel of wave 2012. Results suggest substantial heterogeneity in the effect of Riester participation on wealth. While Riester participation increases total net wealth in the lower tail of the conditional distribution, it does not have a significant effect on households in the middle part of the distribution. In the upper tail of the conditional asset distribution, we find negative treatment effects providing weak evidence in favor of a mere reallocation of households' asset portfolios.
J32|Simplifying choices in defined contribution retirement plan design: a case study|The growth and popularity of defined contribution pensions, along with the government's increasing attention to retirement plan costs and investment choices provided, make it important to understand how people select their retirement plan investments. This paper shows how employees in a large firm altered their fund allocations when the employer streamlined its pension fund menu and deleted nearly half of the offered funds. Using administrative data, we examine the changes in plan participant investment choices that resulted from the streamlining and how these changes might affect participants' eventual retirement wellbeing. We show that streamlined participants' new allocations exhibited significantly lower within-fund turnover rates and expense ratios, and we estimate this could lead to aggregate savings for these participants over a 20-year period of $20.2M, or in excess of $9,400 per participant. Moreover, after the reform, streamlined participants' portfolios held significantly less equity and exhibited significantly lower risks by way of reduced exposures to most systematic risk factors, compared to their non-streamlined counterparts.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J32|Labour market institutions in small Pacific island countries: Main guidelines for labour market reforms|This report consists of a comprehensive overview of labour market institutions in the small Pacific island countries in order to propose recommendations to improve the performance of their labour markets. We pay particular attention to three countries: Fiji, Palau and Papua New Guinea. We focus on the main pillars of labour market institutions, as employment protection legislation, minimum wage, and labour organization. The analysis considers the possibilities for institutional change in the next future. The main guidelines for eventual reforms are discussed, for the region as a whole and for the above three countries.
J32|The Effect of Ideological Positions on Job Market Interaction|Reporters and editors may not have the same ideology. When an editor wants to employ a new reporter with a different ideology, they have to negotiate the price of moving from their own to the other's ideology. We focus on the job market for reporters, where the agents negotiate over the ideological position to be reported and wage. We adopt a spatial model in which each agent suffers a utility loss as the agreed-upon position moves away from his/her favored one. Equilibrium determines a threshold ideological gap for a match to be formed. Our analysis generates a natural separation between extreme, mildly extreme and moderate ideologies. Furthermore, we find that agents that hold extreme ideologies compromise less than moderates. This formulation may be applied to other situations in which agents involve monetary and non-monetary considerations, especially a preference for similarity.
J32|Firm Size and Union Threat Effects across Genders: Evidence from NLSY79|It is evident that both male and female workers in medium/larger establishments receive not only higher wages but also have a higher probability of participating in benefit programs than those in smaller establishments. This reinforces the well-documented ‘size’ effect. Further, the firm size wage effects are much larger for men than women. The union wage effect decreases with establishment size for both genders. This supports the argument that large nonunion firms pay higher wages to discourage the entrance of unions (i.e., the ‘threat’ effect argument). In addition, the union wage premium is higher for males across firm sizes relative to females. This implies that unions in the large establishments may have a role to play in achieving a narrowing of the gender union wage gap. Further, given the presence of noticeable gender differences in estimated union effects on the different components of the compensation structure, unions should not treat both genders similarly with respect to wages and benefits.
J32|Die betriebliche Altersvorsorge zur Zeit der Bonner Republik|Corporate Retirement Plans during the Bonn Republic: Alleviating the consequences of the war were at the center of social policy during the early years of the young republic. Yet up to 1956 pensions rose only slowly and irregularly so that old-age poverty remained widespread. The transition to a dynamic pension system based on gross earnings with the 1957 Pension Reform was the major step from a social state battling need and poverty to the caregiving welfare state. The minimum pension – abolished in 1957 – was reintroduced with the 1972 Pension Reform, paving the way to the early retirement society. This paper investigates the development of corporate pension plans up to the end of 1970s. Using Volkswagen and Merck as case studies, it shows that companies reacted to changes in the economic situation earlier than did the legislature and adjusted their social benefits systems accordingly. Parallel to the transition to the dynamic pension system based on gross earnings during the late 1950s, corporate retirement plans experienced an expansion, that is to say, following the 1957 Pension Reform, private benefits were not yet replaced by public benefits. This did not change until the expansion of the social state during the 1970s. The objective of including the Works Councils in the corporate pension discussion was to curb corporate social benefits.
J32|The fair surrender value of a tontine|A tontine provides a mortality driven, age-increasing payout structure through the pooling of mortality. Because a tontine does not entail any guarantees, the payout structure of a tontine is determined by the pooling of individual characteristics of tontinists. Therefore, the surrender decision of single tontinists directly affects the remaining members' payouts. Nevertheless, the opportunity to surrender is crucial to the success of a tontine from a regulatory as well as a policyholder perspective. Therefore, this paper derives the fair surrender value of a tontine, first on the basis of expected values, and then incorporates the increasing payout volatility to determine an equitable surrender value. Results show that the surrender decision requires a discount on the fair surrender value as security for the remaining members. The discount intensifies in decreasing tontine size and increasing risk aversion. However, tontinists are less willing to surrender for decreasing tontine size and increasing risk aversion, creating a natural protection against tontine runs stemming from short-term liquidity shocks. Furthermore we argue that a surrender decision based on private information requires a discount on the fair surrender value as well.
J32|Search Cost and Search Duration for New Hires|Fixed search costs, i.e. costs that don’t vary with search duration, can amplify the cyclical volatility on the labor market. To assess the size of fixed costs, we analyse the relation of search costs and search duration with data from Germany. We find that fixed search costs are about one half of total search costs, but this is not enough to solve the labor market volatility puzzle completely.
J32|Optimal Social Security Claiming Behavior under Lump Sum Incentives: Theory and Evidence|People who delay claiming Social Security receive higher lifelong benefits upon retirement. We survey individuals on their willingness to delay claiming later, if they could receive a lump sum in lieu of a higher annuity payment. Using a moment-matching approach, we calibrate a lifecycle model tracking observed claiming patterns under current rules and predict optimal claiming outcomes under the lump sum approach. Our model correctly predicts that early claimers under current rules would delay claiming most when offered actuarially fair lump sums, and for lump sums worth 87% as much, claiming ages would still be higher than at present.
J32|Social Security Contributions and the Business Cycle|"This paper examines magnitudes and business cycle dynamics of social security contributions (SSC). In most OECD countries studied, we document a negative covariation of payroll tax burdens with GDP and GDP growth at business cycle and lower frequencies. We assess the overall magnitude of the distortion following Barro and Redlick (2011). For most countries, average marginal SSC tax rates exceed average rates, but the latter tracks the former tightly. Changes in average payroll tax burdens are mostly accounted for by changes in tax schedules rather than shifts in the earnings distribution over time. For many countries, SSC rates behave like estimated values of the ""labor wedge"" (Chari et al. 2007, Brinca et al., 2016)."
J32|Subsidising mature age employment or throwing coins Into a wishing well: a quasi-experimental analysis|This paper evaluates the effect that subsidies to employment maintenance have on the probability of mature age workers staying in the firm. Implementing a quasi-experimental design provided by changes in Spanish labour market regulations, we are able to estimate that subsidy removal had a small though significant impact on the workers’ firm attachment rate. Our results show that a 1 pp increase in the worker’s cost translates into a 0.11 pp increase in the cumulative probability of the worker separating from the firm in the next five months. This effect was mainly driven by workers with relatively less seniority in the firm, who present lower dismissal costs, and by workers in low-skill jobs, for which the wageproductivity gap seems to negatively evolve with age. In terms of cost-benefit analysis, we document that the previous higher rate of job maintenance was achieved at a disproportionate cost, and therefore the elimination of the subsidy resulted in Social Security efficiency gains.
J32|The Effect of Ideological Positions on Job Market Interaction|Reporters and editors may not have the same ideology. When an editor wants to employ a new reporter with a different ideology, they have to negotiate the price of moving from their own to the other's ideology. We focus on the job market for reporters, where the agents negotiate over the ideological position to be reported and wage. We adopt a spatial model in which each agent suffers a utility loss as the agreed-upon position moves away from his/her favored one. Equilibrium determines a threshold ideological gap for a match to be formed. Our analysis generates a natural separation between extreme, mildly extreme and moderate ideologies. Furthermore, we find that agents that hold extreme ideologies compromise less than moderates. This formulation may be applied to other situations in which agents involve monetary and non-monetary considerations, especially a preference for similarity.
J32|Options for Changing the Retirement System for Federal Civilian Workers|In 2016, the federal government paid about $13 billion for the defined benefit pensions under the Federal Employee Retirement System (FERS) and $70 billion for pensions under the Civil Service Retirement System, the predecessor to FERS; those expenditures were partially offset by $3 billion in revenues from employeesâ€™ contributions. In addition, the government contributed an estimated $8 billion to the Thrift Savings Plan, a defined contribution plan similar to a 401(k).
J32|Measuring the Adequacy of Retirement Income: A Primer|Over the next 30 years, the share of the U.S. population age 65 and older will increase from about 15 percent to almost 22 percent, spurring growing interest in understanding whether people will have adequate income in retirement. Current measures of the adequacy of retirement income offer diverse answers about the state of retirement income security in the United States. This report explains the various measures and approaches, providing a framework for further analysis.
J32|Modeling the Costs of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporationâ€™s Multiemployer Program: Working Paper 2017-04|The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC), a government-owned corporation, insures the pension benefits of more than 10 million participants in multiemployer defined benefit pension plans. Multiemployer plans are typically offered, as part of collective bargaining agreements, by multiple unrelated employers that are jointly responsible for funding the plan. In recent years, many multiemployer plans have experienced underfunding, and some plans now face insolvency. Many beneficiaries of insolvent plans are likely to receive less than their insured benefits, because
J32|Call my Rep! How Unions Overcame the Free-Rider Problem|This paper proposes an explanation of why union membership has been increasing in some occupations, despite the opportunity to freeride on traditional union benefits. I model membership as legal insurance whose demand increases with the perceived risk of allegations. Using media reports on allegations against teachers as shocks to perceived risk, I find for every five reports occurring in a region, teachers are 2.5 percentage points more likely to be members in the subsequent year. These effects are larger when teachers share characteristics with the news story and explain 45 percent of the growth in teacher union membership since 1992.
J32|Pension Incentives and Formal-Sector Labor Supply: Evidence from Colombia|This paper describes how future pension benefits affect labor supply in economies that have an informal sector. From the perspective of the worker, a formal-sector job offers long-run gains, as it increases his likelihood of gaining pension benefits in the future. If workers take those gains into account when they search for formal-sector jobs, the pension system affects formal-sector labor supply. I estimate the causal link between pension incentives and formal-sector labor supply using a cohort-based reform undertaken in Colombia. I demonstrate that a change in future pension benefits generates a large shift between the formal-sector and informal-sector labor supply, and that this change does not affect labor force participation. The average effect of pension incentives on formal-sector labor supply is heterogeneous, and is consistent with the predictions of a theoretical model combining a pension system and informal job opportunities. The effect is concentrated among workers for whom the minimum qualifying conditions are binding, and among workers with higher expected pension wealth. The results presented here suggest that pension reforms have the potential to create large efficiency costs, an effect that should be taken into account when designing pension programs.
J32|La inviabilidad de los regímenes de pensiones de reparto en países que aún gozan del dividendo poblacional: el caso de Colombia|Este artículo argumenta que, en países emergentes, como Colombia, la combinación de la transición demográfica con una alta informalidad del mercado laboral hace inviable la existencia de un régimen de pensiones de reparto. En teoría, un país como Colombia tiene aún una población joven y está, por lo tanto, “gozando” del llamado Bono o Dividendo Demográfico. En estas condiciones, cuenta con una relación entre la población económicamente activa y los adultos en edad de retiro relativamente elevada, lo que debería permitir que los trabajadores activos puedan durante algún tiempo más financiar con sus cotizaciones las pensiones de los adultos mayores. En Colombia, dicha relación es de casi siete trabajadores activos por cada adulto mayor de 65 años. Esta elevada relación es lo que permite la llamada “solidaridad intergeneracional”. Pero en la realidad, debido a la informalidad, solo hay dos trabajadores formales que cotizan a la seguridad social en pensiones por cada adulto mayor. En esas condiciones, aún si se adoptasen a la brevedad todas las medidas necesarias para incrementar radicalmente la formalidad laboral, cuando dichas medidas tuviesen efecto alguno en Colombia, la relación entre activos y adultos mayores habrá caído significativamente y, muy seguramente, Colombia habrá ya perdido su dividendo demográfico. Como consecuencia, los jóvenes, que hoy son solidarios con los mayores, no tendrán quiénes sean solidarios con ellos al llegar al retiro laboral.
J32|Alternativas para extender la cobertura del sistema de protección económica a la vejez en Colombia|Desde el momento de su creación hasta el día de hoy, el sistema pensional colombiano ha presentado problemas estructurales y de diseño que han generado un alto costo económico y social para el país. Estos problemas no le han permitido al sistema reducir las inequidades que lo caracterizan y aumentar su cobertura, que en la actualidad es del orden de 23% de la población adulta mayor, muy baja en términos comparativos con la región latinoamericana y con países de niveles similares de desarrollo en otras partes del mundo. Peor aún, las proyecciones indican que dicha cobertura se reducirá aún más en el mediano y largo plazo, al mismo tiempo que se registran problemas de sostenibilidad financiera y regresividad, dado que el Estado tiene que girar anualmente cerca del 3.8% del PIB a un esquema cuyas prestaciones están concentradas en la población de mayores ingresos . Esto implica que el sistema pensional representa, al mismo tiempo, la política social más costosa para el Estado y la que tiene un impacto más negativo sobre la distribución del ingreso. Estas razones resaltan la urgencia de situar la reforma al sistema pensional como uno de los primeros puntos en la agenda de debate de políticas públicas en Colombia. La presente investigación se divide en cinco capítulos, sin contar esta introducción. En el primer capítulo se analizan experiencias internacionales relevantes en cuanto a reformas a los sistemas de protección económica a los adultos mayores; el segundo capítulo presenta estimativos de largo plazo de los costos sociales y económicos que surgirían de mantener las bajas tasas de cobertura pensional asociadas al régimen pensional actual en Colombia; el capítulo tercero muestra los criterios a tener en cuenta en el diseño de un Beneficio Universal, y la estimación del costo de su introducción; el cuarto capítulo discute diferentes mecanismos de interacción entre los pilares Contributivo y No Contributivo, con los cuales podrían minimizarse los posibles incentivos perversos a la informalidad que típicamente surgen ante la existencia de beneficios económicos provistos por el Estado; en el quinto capítulo se exploran alternativas de financiamiento para el sistema integral de protección económica para la vejez, incluyendo la posibilidad de que todo o parte de ese sistema sea financiado con impuestos generales en lugar de contribuciones de ahorro pensional. En ese mismo capítulo se estiman los efectos macroeconómicos y distributivos de cambios en ese esquema de financiamiento, usando para ello un modelo de Equilibrio General. Finalmente, en el sexto capítulo se concluye con las recomendaciones de política.
J32|Los salarios y la fatiga acumulada: una revisión de la teoría de la oferta de trabajo|Resumen: La introducción de la sicología y la economía del comportamiento por parte del economista Richard Thaler, fueron reconocidos con el premio Nobel en las ciencias económicas. Los individuos no se comportan de forma racional, de forma sistemática. Y en decisiones de consumo, pero también de trabajo, se espera que no logren decidir niveles óptimos. Este documento de trabajo busca retomar parte de estas contribuciones en este sentido, para explorar y replantear lo que hace muchos años se considera como la teoría de la oferta del trabajo desde una perspectiva microeconómica, y plantear una posible línea de investigación a futuro en este sentido. Los individuos podrían no considerar de forma dinámica su esfuerzo en el trabajo y estarían tomando mal su decisión de cantidad de oferta de trabajo, generando pérdidas sistemáticas en su nivel de bienestar, así como afectaciones en su productividad del trabajando reduciendo también los beneficios de las compañías. / Abstract : The introduction of psychology and behavioral economics by the economist Richard Thaler, were recognized with the Nobel prize in economic science. Individuals do not behave rationally, in a systematic way. Our main hypothesis is that not only in consumption, but also in job supply decisions. It is expected that they fail to decide optimum levels. This working paper seeks to resume part of these contributions, to explore and rethink what for many years is considered as the job supply theory from a microeconomic perspective, and contemplate a possible investigation line. Individuals could not be dynamically considering its work effort and they would be wrong taking its decision of job supply’s quantity and quality, generating systematic losses in their level of well-being, as well as effects on working productivity and companies’ profits.
J32|Desigualdad en México bajo el enfoque de una Economía de Mercado Jerárquica (EMJ)|No abstract is available for this item.
J32|Killer Incentives: Status Competition and Pilot Performance during World War II|A growing theoretical and empirical literature shows that public recognition can lead employees to exert greater effort. However, status competition is also associated with excessive expenditure on status goods, greater likelihood of bankruptcy, and more risk taking by money managers. This paper examines the effects of recognition and status competition jointly. In particular, we focus on the spillover effects of public recognition on the performance and risk taking of peers. Using newly collected data on monthly “victory” scores of more than 5,000 German pilots during World War II, we find that status competition had important effects: After the German armed forces bulletin mentioned the accomplishments of a particular fighter pilot, his former peers performed considerably better. This outperformance varied across skill groups. When a former squadron peer was mentioned, the best pilots tried harder, scored more, and died no more frequently; in contrast, average pilots won only a few additional victories but died at a significantly higher rate. Hence our results show that the overall efficiency effect of nonfinancial rewards can be ambiguous in settings where both risk and output affect aggregate performance.
J32|Social Security Contributions and the Business Cycle|This paper examines magnitudes and business cycle dynamics of social security contributions (SSC). In most OECD countries studied, we document a negative covariation of payroll tax burdens with GDP and GDP growth at business cycle frequencies and lower. Changes in average payroll tax burdens are mostly accounted for by tax schedule changes, and not to changes in the earnings distribution over time. SSC rates behave similarly to estimated values of the “labor wedge” (Chari et al. 2007, 2016).
J32|Quantile Treatment Effects of Riester Participation on Wealth|In numerous industrialized countries the demographic change erodes the financial basis of traditional pay-as-you-go pension systems. To compensate for decreasing statutory pensions, many governments incentivize private saving by meansof subsidized retirement plans. In this context, Germany introduced the so-called Riester pension plans. To assess its effectiveness, this paper analyzes the effects of participation in Riester plans on wealth at different points of the distribution. We employ an instrumental quantile regression approach using Riester eligibility as instrument for Riester participation. The analysis is based on microeconomic survey data from the German Socio-Economic Panel of waves 2002 and 2012. Results suggest substantial heterogeneity in the effect of Riester participation on wealth. While Riester participation increases total net wealth in the lower tail of the conditional distribution, it does not have a significant effect on households in the middle part of the distribution. In the upper tail of the conditional asset distribution, we find negative treatment effects providing weak evidence in favor of a mere reallocation of households’ asset portfolios.
J32|Informal sector under saving: A positive analysis of labour market policies|A number of authors have utilised theoretical models to analyse informality in the labour market. While such analyses have produced valuable insights they all share a common shortcoming; their theoretical models do not take into account the impact of savings on worker's decision to participate in the informal sector. The objective of this paper is to fill this important gap in the literature. To this end, I explore the impact of social security and severance payment policies on levels of informality in the labour market using a search and match model. The novelty of my model is that it allows workers to save. I find that high levels of social security payments, while protecting workers from being liquidity constrained, do increase levels of informality. However, I also find that other social security programs, such as severance payments, can reduce levels of informality while producing gains in efficiency. Severance payments increase the incentives for workers to become employed in the formal sector, reducing thus the size of the informal sector
J32|Earnings volatility and 401(k) contributions| Using longitudinal Survey of Income and Program Participation data linked to Social Security Administration administrative records from 2009 and 2012, we find negative economic shocks cause 401(k) contribution behavior to react in ways consistent with reactions to fear and past trauma. If employees participating in 401(k) plans did not experience real earnings declines or unemployment spells between 2009 and 2012, then their contribution rates would have been 5% higher and each person would have contributed US $193 more toward their defined contribution plan accounts. We conclude that previous studies may have swung too far in emphasizing inertia as a primary behavior trait explaining workers’ 401(k) plan engagement. Reactive behavior to protect living standards by reducing retirement savings is also important.
J32|Relative Wages in Aging America: Defined Contribution Wealth Inequality: Role of Earnings Shocks, Portfolio Choice, and Employer Contributions| In the two years after the Great Recession of 2007Ð2009, 64 percent of workers at the top of the earnings distribution, compared to 56 percent of those at the bottom, experienced increases in defined contribution (DC) retirement wealth. We condition DC wealth accumulation on workersÕ position in the earnings distribution using a unique 2-year panel (2009-2011) from the Survey of Income and Program Participation (SIPP). Earnings losses of 10 percent or more in a personÕs career; non-employment spells; lower employer contributions; and having less diversified portfolios barely affect earners in the top 10 percent of the earnings distribution, but are associated with less DC wealth accumulation for those at the bottom. These differences may contribute to a growing retirement wealth gap.
J32|Defined Contribution Wealth Inequality: Role of Earnings Shocks, Portfolio Choice, and Employer Contributions| Defined contribution retirement wealth for workers in the bottom 90 percent of the earnings distribution is affected more by earnings shocks, portfolio choice, and employer contributions than that of the top 10 percent. The asymmetry of impact and exposure by position in the earnings distribution may contribute to retirement wealth inequality
J32|Earnings Volatility and 401(k) Contributions| This paper finds that negative economic shocks cause 401(k) contribution behavior to react in ways consistent with reactions to fear and past trauma. If employees participating in 401(k) plans did not experience real earnings declines or unemployment spells between 2009 and 2012, then their contribution rates would have been 5% higher and each person would have contributed US $193 more toward their defined contribution plan accounts.
J32|Pension Reforms and Adverse Demographics: The Case of the Czech Republic|Unsustainability of pension systems particularly in developed economies looms large on the horizon due to increasing life expectancy and continuous drop in fertility. In spite of a broad awareness of the issues, there is no consensus on appropriate remedy and little action. In this paper, I present a comprehensive OLG model tailored for simulation of pension reforms and calibrated on real-world data that accounts not only for optimising agents but also for productivity shocks and financial market frictions. The model is used for assessment of alternative pension reforms in the Czech Republic, yet many of the conclusions apply to other countries as well. The estimates show that retirement age will need to increase constantly in the next decades in order to maintain the current levels of replacement rates in the existing PAY-GO scheme and that this result is virtually independent of the level of economic growth. On the other hand, a transition towards a fully funded scheme would be extremely costly and while it would improve system's resistance to demographic changes, it would also substantially redistribute wealth in the society and expose pensions to financial markets risks. The best option overall may then be a well designed multipillar pension scheme, which can provide an optimal balance of performance indicators without leading to excessive costs of transition.
J32|Incidence and Behavioural Response to Social Security Contributions: An Analysis of Kink Points in France|Abstract We study the incidence of social security contributions (SSCs) in France relying on the strategy developed by Alvaredo et al. (De Econ, 2017. doi: 10.1007/s10645-017-9294-7 ). This strategy infers the incidence of SSCSs from the discontinuities in earnings distributions created by kink points in the SSC schedule. Using administrative data on earnings for the period 1976–2010, we study approximately 200 such kink points and do not find that they systematically induce a discontinuity in the distribution of gross earnings. This allows us to reject the hypothesis that SSCs are incident on workers, at least locally around kinks. Additionally, we exploit the large variations in SSC rates across kinks and years to estimate the local incidence of both employer and employee SSCs around these thresholds. We find that employer SSCs are shifted to employers while employee SSCs are shifted to employees. These findings are consistent with the economic incidence of SSCs being aligned with their statutory incidence, locally around kink points.
J32|The causal effect of workload on the labour supply of older employees|Several policies aim to keep older workers in the labour force, but little is known about their effects. We investigate the effects of a particular programme in Norway that reduces the workload of teachers at age 55 but maintains the same wage. Evaluation of this programme is well suited to a differencein-difference analysis, where the control group is teachers slightly too young to be eligible for the workload reduction. Using full population register data for the period 2005–2013, we analyse the effects of the programme on sickness absence, contracted hours, mental health, and musculoskeletal problems. We find that the programme reduces sickness absence and mental health problems for men, but not for women, and there is no effect on contracted hours. The results are robust to a number of checks.
J32|Do seniority rules protect older workers? Age composition effects of the last-in-first-out principle|Employment protection legislation is often motivated by the need to increase security for older workers. Sweden has even implemented a last-in-first-out principle (LIFO), stipulating that the last hired employee should be dismissed first in the case of lay-offs. A reform in 2001 made it possible for firms with fewer than 11 employees to exclude two workers from the LIFO principle. If the LIFO regulation is serving its purpose, the reform should lead to a weakened labor market position for older workers. This study analyzes the effect of the reform on labor market flows for different age groups – with a special focus on the effects for older workers – using a difference-in-difference regression model. The results show that firms with 7-9 employees increased their recruitment from unemployment and from outside the workforce due to the reform, while the reform had no effect on separations. The increased hires came mostly from workers younger than 25 who were previously not in the workforce or were unemployed, meaning that the reform lowered youth unemployment. There is some indication of workers aged 55-64 moving to another workplace but not leaving the workforce or becoming unemployed, suggesting that the reform did not weaken the labor market position of older workers.
J32|Paid Parental Leave Laws in the United States: Does Short-Duration Leave Affect Women's Labor-Force Attachment?|I analyze the effects of short-duration paid parental leave on maternal labor supply. Using monthly longitudinal data from the Survey of Income and Program Participation, my event-study research design estimates impacts of paid leave laws in California and New Jersey on women's labor-force outcomes around childbirth. I find that paid leave laws are associated with a substantial increase in labor-force attachment in the months directly around birth. While US-style short-duration leave is unlikely to change prolonged exits from the labor force, my findings imply that paid leave laws induce some women stay more attached to jobs, particularly low-skill women.
J32|Do Employer Pension Contributions Reflect Employee Preferences? Evidence from a Retirement Savings Reform in Denmark|This paper studies how firms set contributions to employer provided 401(k)-type pension plans. Using a reform that decreased the subsidy to contributions to capital pension accounts for Danish workers in the top income tax bracket, we provide strong evidence that employers' contributions are based on their employees' savings preferences. We find an immediate decrease in employer contributions to capital accounts, whose magnitude increased in the share of employees directly affected by the reform. This response was large relative to average employee responses within private IRA-type plans and was accompanied by a similar magnitude shift of employer contributions to annuity accounts.
J32|Beyond the austerity dispute: new priorities for fiscal policy|The workshop aimed at moving forward the fiscal policy debate, which in the crisis years was unavoidably focused on how to regain fiscal credibility and to implement sizable and fast consolidation plans. Four main themes have been proposed for the debate during the workshop. First, the two-way link between fiscal consolidation and inequality, with the idea that consolidation efforts cannot be successful in the long run if they entail a socially unsustainable increase in inequality. Second, the importance of preserving, even in contexts in which the fiscal policy stance is necessarily restrictive, growth-enhancing public investments. Third, the challenges posed to fiscal management by a low inflation context, taking into account that a subdued price dynamics not only makes the real burden of debt heavier, but it also has subtle effects, at least in the short term, on several budgetary items. Finally, the need for a simpler and more appropriate set of rules for the governance of the EMU. The latter topic was also the object of the high-level panel at the end of the workshop. While differences in emphasis emerged among the panellists, they agreed that the current framework could be streamlined, and – more importantly – that no set of rules can work if trust and a sense of sharing a common objective is not rebuilt among the Member States.
J32|Moonlighting Politicians: Motivation Matters!|In this paper we study optimal choices of self-selection into politics and commitment once in office of citizens with heterogeneous ability and heterogeneous motivation. Politicians can moonlight, i.e., they can work in the market sector while appointed in parliament. Our theoretical framework shows that high-ability citizens might enter politics. Yet while high-ability non-motivated (market-fit) politicians are likely to shirk, high-ability motivated (public-fit) ones are more committed to the parliamentary activity. We test our predictions by using a unique database of Italian parliamentarians for the period 1996-2006. We show that both market-fit and public-fit parliamentarians are positively selected from the Italian population. We also find that commitment of the market-fit parliamentarians in terms of voting attendance is negatively affected by income opportunities, whilst this is not the case for public-fit ones.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J32|The Structure of Hiring Costs in Germany: Evidence from Firm-Level Data|This paper analyzes the structure of hiring costs of skilled workers in Germany. Using detailed and representative firm-level data on recruitment and adaptation costs of new hires, we find that average hiring costs amount to more than 8 weeks of wage payments (4,700 Euros). The structure of hiring costs is convex, as an increase in the number of hires by 1% increases hiring costs by 1.3%. We find moderate effects of labor market institutions on the magnitude but none on the structure of hiring costs. Furthermore, we provide evidence in favor of monopsony power in the German labor market.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J32|Social Security and Divorce|This paper studies how the likelihood and timing of divorce are influenced by Social Security’s 10-year rule, which provides spousal benefits to divorced people if their marriages lasted at least 10 years. Bunching analysis indicates that approximately 2 % of divorces occurring in the 6 months after 10-year anniversaries would have occurred earlier if not for Social Security’s 10-year rule. For older couples, who are likely more focused on retirement and have greater earning disparities, divorces are approximately 9 % higher in the 2 years after 10-year anniversaries than would be predicted without the abrupt change in Social Security benefits. The increase in divorces after 10 years of marriage appears to come from couples with disparate earning records.
J32|Does Pension Privatization Increase Economic Growth? Evidence from Latin America and Eastern Europe|Analyses of pension funding effects on economic growth need to differentiate between ‘carve-out’ pension privatization in Latin America and Eastern Europe and typical ‘add-on’ pension funding in Western Europe and North America. We find no evidence that pension privatization in Latin America and Eastern Europe was associated with higher economic growth. The result is robust across both continents and several alternative econometric specifications. Positive growth effects are particularly unlikely in countries resorting to debt-financed privatization. Furthermore, we note the lack of positive pension privatization effects on savings in Eastern Europe, with limited evidence of positive savings effects in Latin America. These findings suggest that cost-containment parametric reforms should be given priority over carve-out pension privatization when considering options for restoring financial sustainability of public Pay-As-You-Go systems.
J32|Analyse de la rentabilité économique des scénarios de réforme du RRQ proposés en 2016|Nous utilisons des méthodes de simulation et un simulateur fiscal détaillé pour analyser les effets des plus récentes propositions de réforme du Régime de rentes du Québec (RRQ). Les deux propositions analysées sont celles mises de l’avant en juin 2016 par le gouvernement du Canada, et qui a reçu l’appui d’une majorité de provinces ; et par le gouvernement du Québec, ce dernier n’ayant à ce jour pas appuyé la proposition soumise par le fédéral. Nous analysons les effets en termes de taux de rendement interne (TRI), pour 78 types d’individus ; nous prenons en considération l’inégalité d’espérance de vie selon le niveau de scolarité, la variabilité des revenus de travail au fil de la carrière et les interactions avec la fiscalité et le système de revenu à la retraite au Québec – tels qu’ils existent et selon les modifications proposées. Nos résultats indiquent que les TRI des nouvelles cotisations sont comparables au taux de rendement d’autres produits financiers et qu’ils sont similaires, sous les deux réformes proposées, pour les individus gagnant plus de 25 000$ en moyenne (en $ de 2015), mais que la proposition du gouvernement fédéral génère des taux de remplacement du revenu plus élevés et est plus attrayante – en termes de TRI – pour les individus gagnant un revenu moyen de travail se situant au bas de la distribution. Cette dernière différence avec la proposition québécoise est due à la bonification proposée par le fédéral de sa prestation fiscale pour revenu de travail, qui vient contrer l’effet de la hausse des cotisations au RRQ.
J32|The Joint Distribution of Net Worth and Pension Wealth in Germany|Research on wealth inequality usually focuses on real and financial assets, while pension wealth – the present value of future pension entitlements from public and company pension schemes – receives little attention. This is astonishing, given that pension plans play an important role for material security and well‐being for an overwhelming part of the population and, thus, should be accounted for in peoples’ wealth portfolios. Using novel data from the Socio Economic Panel (SOEP), we show the incidence, relevance, and distribution of individual pension wealth, net worth, and augmented wealth (the sum of the two) in Germany. Further, we investigate age‐wealth‐profiles and differences between East and West Germany.
J32|The Influence of Personality Traits on Private Retirement Savings in Germany|This paper analyzes private retirement savings, the amount for German individuals and how these savings are influenced by personality traits. With the 2002 to 2009 cross section of the Socio-Economic Panel for Germany (SOEP), it is investigated how the Big-Five and the Locus of Control influence the decision to have private retirement savings, and the estimated amount of these savings. Results indicate a positive effect for Extraversion and a negative effect for Agreeableness on the probability to have such savings. Extraversion also positively effects the size of retirement related savings as does having an more internal Locus of Control. Similar to the probability to have retirement savings Agreeableness also reduces the expected amount of such savings. Personality traits only seem to influence the retirement savings if the individual has scores further away from the average of the specific trait. Additionally regressions are implemented that include the personality measures as dummies to allow for non-linear effects. Furthermore, other types of wealth accumulation such as house related savings are investigated to study how the effects might differ for different types of wealth accumulation.
J32|Analyzing Fast Food Consumption among Iranian Urban Households|Fast foods are of different effects on households’ health and budget. This research aims to explain fast food consumption pattern among the Iranian urban households. It uses a consumer utility function and constrained optimization method to describe factors affecting fast food consumption with emphasis on social classes. The expenditure on fast food, incomes, and price indexes were extracted from Households Income and Expenditure Survey by the Statistical Center of Iran over the 2008-2013 period. Using panel data models, we indicate that the relative expenditure on fast foods and snacks is significantly linked with non-wage incomes, total income, and relative food prices. One percent increase in per capita income increases the per capita fast foods expenditure by 1.14%. This study may direct food industry planners and governmental policy-makers to account for health and economic consequences of fast foods. The socialization and imitation effects of fast foods consumption are considered
J32|Anadolu Üniversitesi Akademik Personelinin Bireysel Emeklilik Sistemine Bakýþý|Sosyal güvenlik, kiþilere çeþitli mesleki, fizyolojik ve sosyo-ekonomik riskler karþýsýnda gelir garantisi ve saðlýk hizmetleri saðlayan kurum ve kurumlar topluluðudur. Bir ülkedeki sosyal güvenlik sisteminin yapýsý, o ülkenin ekonomik ve sosyal koþullarý ile doðrudan iliþkilidir. Bireysel emeklilik de, bireylerin düzenli olarak tasarrufta bulunmalarý, birikim yapmalarý ve emeklilikte ek gelir elde etmeleri üzerine kurulmuþ bir özel emeklilik sistemidir. Devlet katkýsý teþviki gibi yeni düzenlemelerle deðiþen ve geliþen sistem, uzun vadeli fonlarýn ülke ekonomisine kazandýrýlmasý ve iç tasarruf oranlarýnýn artýrýlmasý bakýmýndan önem arz etmektedir. Çalýþmada Anadolu Üniversitesi akademik personelinin bireysel emeklilik sistemine bakýþý deðerlendirilmiþtir. Bu amaçla Ýktisadi ve Ýdari Bilimler Fakültesi’nde görev yapan akademik personele bireysel emeklilik sisteminin deðerlendirmesiyle ilgili anket daðýtýlmýþtýr. Elde edilen veriler çoklu uygunluk analizi ile incelenmiþ ve iliþkili deðiþken ve düzeyleri yorumlanmýþtýr
J32|How do firms respond to minimum wage regulation in China? Evidence from Chinese private firms|To study how firms respond to minimum wage regulation in China, this paper empirically explores a number of dimensions along which firms adjust in response to minimum wage differences, using three waves of a national survey of Chinese private firms. Consistent with the predictions of economic theory, we find that private firms in China respond to minimum wage increases by cutting various fringe benefits such as pension and insurance, and by laying off low-skilled workers and short-term workers. Despite these adjustments, firms cannot fully mitigate the detrimental effects on firm profitability when faced with adverse demand shocks because of the wage rigidity introduced by minimum wage regulation. These findings highlight the unintended consequences of minimum wage regulation on the private sector in China.
J32|The effects of import competition on worker health|Occupational health is an important determinant of workers' welfare. Existing mechanisms and evidence from the international trade and occupational safety literatures combine to predict that import competition impacts work place injuries, especially at small firms that are most affected by foreign imports. We examine this prediction with novel data on injuries at US manufacturers using Chinese import growth in 1996–2007 as a shock to competition. The data show that injury rates in the competing US industries increase over the short to medium run, particularly at smaller establishments. Back-of-the-envelope calculations show that injury risk increases by 13% at the smallest establishments, the equivalent of a 1% to 2% reduction in workers' wages.
J32|Pension scheme redesign and wealth redistribution between the members and sponsor: The USS rule change in October 2011|The redesign of defined benefit pension schemes usually results in a substantial redistribution of wealth between age cohorts of members, pensioners, and the sponsor. This is the first study to quantify the redistributive effects of a rule change by a real world scheme (the Universities Superannuation Scheme, USS) where the sponsor underwrites the pension promise. In October 2011 USS closed its final salary scheme to new members, opened a career average revalued earnings (CARE) section, and moved to ‘cap and share’ contribution rates. We find that the pre-October 2011 scheme was not viable in the long run, while the post-October 2011 scheme is probably viable in the long run, but faces medium term problems. In October 2011 future members of USS lost 65% of their pension wealth (or roughly £100,000 per head), equivalent to a reduction of roughly 11% in their total compensation, while those aged over 57 years lost almost nothing. The riskiness of the pension wealth of future members increased by a third, while the riskiness of the present value of the sponsor’s future contributions reduced by 10%. Finally, the sponsor’s wealth increased by about £32.5 billion, equivalent to a reduction of 26% in their pension costs.
J32|Accounting and actuarial smoothing of retirement payouts in participating life annuities|Life insurers use accounting and actuarial techniques to smooth reporting of firm assets and liabilities, seeking to transfer surpluses in good years to cover benefit payouts in bad years. Yet these techniques have been criticized as they make it difficult to assess insurers’ true financial status. We develop stylized and realistically-calibrated models of a participating life annuity, an insurance product that pays retirees guaranteed lifelong benefits along with variable non-guaranteed surplus. Our goal is to illustrate how accounting and actuarial techniques for this type of financial contract shape policyholder wellbeing, along with insurer profitability and stability. Smoothing adds value to both the annuitant and the insurer, so curtailing smoothing could undermine the market for long-term retirement payout products.
J32|Optimal inside debt compensation and the value of equity and debt|We use firm and chief executive officer (CEO) characteristics motivated by optimal contracting theory to estimate optimal CEO relative debt-equity incentive ratios. Equity values rise as firms adjust CEO incentive ratios toward their predicted optimums, whether that increases or decreases the relative incentive ratio. Debt values rise as firms adjust ratios upward and do not fall as they adjust them downward. Our predicted optimums explain changes in equity and debt values better than a model in which firms simply match CEO inside debt-equity ratios to firm debt-equity ratios. The results suggest important cross-sectional differences in firms’ optimal inside debt policies.
J32|Wealth effects on job preferences|Preferences over jobs depend on wages and non-wage aspects. Variation in wealth may change the importance of income as a motivation for working. Higher wealth levels may make good non-wage characteristics relatively more important. This hypothesis is tested empirically using a reduced form search model in which differential job leaving rates identify willingness to pay for non-wage aspects of jobs. Marginal willingness to pay for non-wage aspects (measured by “job satisfaction for work in itself”) is found to increase significantly after large windfall wealth gains in British panel data. Thus, wealth influences more than just the hours worked.
J32|Wealth effects on job preferences|Preferences over jobs depend on wages and non-wage aspects. Variation in wealth may change the importance of income as a motivation for working. Higher wealth levels may make good non-wage characteristics relatively more important. This hypothesis is tested empirically using a reduced form search model in which differential job leaving rates identify willingness to pay for non-wage aspects of jobs. Marginal willingness to pay for non-wage aspects (measured by “job satisfaction for work in itself”) is found to increase significantly after large windfall wealth gains in British panel data. Thus, wealth influences more than just the hours worked.
J32|Health insurance as a productive factor|In this paper, we present a less-explored channel through which health insurance impacts productivity: by offering health insurance, employers reduce the expected time workers spend out of work in sick days. Using data from the Medical Expenditure Panel Survey (MEPS), we show that a worker with health coverage misses on average 76.54% fewer workdays than uninsured workers, after controlling for endogeneity. We develop a model that embodies this impact of health coverage in productivity. In our model, health insurance reduces the probability that a healthy worker gets sick, missing workdays, and it increases the probability that a sick worker recovers and returns to work. In our model, firms that offer health insurance are larger and pay higher wages in equilibrium, a pattern observed in the data. We calibrated the model using US data for 2004 and show the impact of increases in health costs, as well as of changes in tax benefits of health insurance expenses, on labor force health coverage and productivity.
J32|Externalidades del capital humano en México|This paper estimates human capital externalities in Mexico using the traditional approaches in the literature. We control the potential endogenenity of individual and average schooling with instrumental variables techniques. We use as instruments, the educational reform of 1993 of compulsory secondary education and the proportion of graduates from upper secondary and higher education and the structure of the population of the states in a previous period. The results show that there is a strong positive and statistically significant relationship between experience, individual education and average education with individual wages. Also we confirmed by the implementation of the various approaches through the coincidence of the results that there are significant human capital externalities at state level in Mexico for the period 2000-2010.// El presente trabajo estima las externalidades del capital humano en México empleando los enfoques más utilizados en la literatura. Con el propósito de reducir el potencial sesgo de endogenedidad de la escolaridad individual y promedio realizamos estimaciones con variables instrumentales. Para lo cual empleamos como instrumento de la primera la reforma educativa de 1993 que promulgó la obligatoriedad de la educación secundaria. Para la segunda utilizamos la proporción de egresados de educación media superior y superior y la estructura de la población de los estados en un periodo previo. Los resultados muestran que existe una fuerte relación positiva y estadísticamente significativa entre experiencia, educación individual y educación promedio estatal con los salarios individuales. Asimismo, confirmamos por medio de la aplicación de los diversos enfoques a través de la coincidencia en los resultados encontrados que existen externalidades significativas del capital humano a nivel estatal en México para el periodo 2000-2010.
J32|A Comprehensive Plan to Confront the Retirement Savings Crisis| The plan proposes a simple, immediately effective solution to address the fundamental flaws in today’s broken retirement system. It details a single, sustainable framework - Guaranteed Retirement Accounts (GRAs) - to allow Americans to save consistently, generate the returns necessary, and retire with guaranteed lifelong income. And by repurposing lopsided subsidies and strategically using existing government infrastructure, this plan can be implemented with no new taxes, bureaucracy or increase of the federal deficit.
J32|Are Philadelphians Ready for Retirement?| Workers across the country face a retirement crisis. However, workers in Philadelphia are faring worse than average. First, workers in Philadelphia are less likely than workers nationally to have access to an employersponsored retirement account. Second, the retirement plan participation rate among workers with access to a plan at work is lower than the national average. The report was prepared on behalf of the City Council of Philadelphia.
J32|Household Economic Shocks Increase Retirement Wealth Inequality|Economic shocks, such as job-loss, have a particularly adverse effect on the retirement savings of workers in low-income households, exacerbating retirement savings inequality. Low income households are more likely than moderate- and upper-income households to experience economic shocks. Workers in low-income households are also more likely to withdraw from their retirement account after a shock. This study shows that these shocks have significant effects on the finances of low-income households, causing up to a third of all withdrawals, and possibly more.
J32|401(k) Plans: A Failed Experiment|The first birth cohort exposed to the 401(k) system for most of their working lives is now approaching retirement. 401(k) participants in this cohort have accumulated only about a third of the savings they need to maintain their standard of living in retirement. The 401(k) system fails even those who use it as instructed. High earners are as ill-prepared for retirement as low-and moderate earners. Inadequate wealth accumulations reflect well-known design flaws in the 401(k) system – patchy coverage, high fees, opportunities to take pre-retirement withdrawals, and the lack of a default pathway for converting accumulated wealth into retirement income.
J32|Policy Options for Cutting Retirement Plan Leakages|Financial necessity is an important reason low-wage households are more likely to make pre-retirement withdrawals from their 401(k) plans. However, an increase in the tax penalty on early withdrawals may increase rather than discourage withdrawals, and a prohibition on withdrawals may decrease contributions. To ensure that all households both contribute to retirement plans and remain invested, retirement policy should both mandate contributions and prohibit pre-retirement withdrawals. Finally, if households are prohibited from using retirement savings to buffer pre-retirement shocks, policy interventions will be required to increase the financial resilience of working-age households.
J32|The States of Reform|The recent proliferation of state level retirement reform proposals indicates a broad recognition of the looming retirement crisis, and suggests that the political will for reform is present. In this paper, we detail the proximate causes of American workers’ shortage of retirement savings, evaluate the variety of state level programs that are emerging in response to the crisis, and draw some conclusions about what effective reform should look like.
J32|Still Working Hard: An Update on the Share of Older Workers in Physically Demanding Jobs|A recurring theme in debates over Social Security policy is that workers should be encouraged to work later into their lives by raising the age at which they can get full benefits. Implicit in this argument is that most workers are in a situation where they would be able to work to an older age; however, many older workers stop working because they can no longer meet the physical demands of their job. In 2010, CEPR did an analysis that examined the percentage of older workers (ages 58 and over) who either worked in physically demanding jobs or in difficult work conditions. This paper is an update of that earlier study and is based on data from 2014. Using data from the Current Population Survey (CPS) and Occupational Information Network (O*NET) it finds that in 2014, 8.0 million workers ages 58 and older (34.5 percent) had physically demanding jobs, while 5.1 million workers ages 58 and older (22.1 percent) had jobs with difficult working conditions. About 10.2 million workers ages 58 and older (43.8 percent) were employed either in physically demanding jobs or jobs with difficult working conditions. The workers who were most likely to be in these jobs were Latinos, the least educated (less than a high school diploma), immigrants, and the lowest wage earners. Physically demanding jobs include general physical activities, handling and moving objects, spending significant time standing, walking or running, making repetitive motions, or having any highly physically demanding work. Highly physically demanding jobs require dynamic, explosive, static, or trunk strength, bending or twisting of the body, stamina, maintaining balance, or kneeling or crouching. Difficult working conditions include working in a cramped workspace, labor outdoors, or exposure to abnormal temperatures, contaminants, hazardous equipment, whole body vibration, or distracting or uncomfortable noise.
J32|Distributional Effects of Means Testing Social Security: Income Versus Wealth|This paper compares Social Security means tests that would reduce benefits for recipients who fall in the top quarter of the income distribution with means tests aimed at those in the top quarter of the wealth distribution. Both means tests would reduce the average benefits for the affected groups by about $5,000. The analysis is based on data from the Health and Retirement Study and covers individuals aged 69 to 79 in 2010. About 14.5 percent of retirees in this age group are both in the top quarter of income recipients and in the top quarter of wealth holders. Another 10.5 percent are top quarter income recipients, but not top quarter wealth holders; with an additional 10.5 percent top quarter wealth holders, but not top quarter income recipients. We find that a means test of Social Security based on income has substantially different distributional effects from a means test based on wealth. Moreover, there are substantial differences when a Social Security means test based on income is evaluated in terms of its effects on individuals arrayed by their wealth rather than their income. Similarly, a means test based on wealth will be evaluated quite differently by policy makers who believe that income is the appropriate basis for a means test than by those who believe that means tests should be based on wealth.
J32|Working Paper 12-16 - De bevolking met een risico op armoede of sociale uitsluiting in België - Projectie tot 2030<BR>[Working Paper 12-16 - La population à risque de pauvreté ou d’exclusion sociale en Belgique - Projection jusqu’en 2030]|This Working Paper presents, on the basis of information available until July 2016, a projection at unchanged policy until 2030 of the population at risk of poverty or social exclusion in Belgium, as defined in the framework of the Europe 2020 Strategy. This population should amount to 2.232 million people in 2018, or 418 000 more than the Europe 2020 target. By 2030, its share should shrink to 16.1%, still 5.6 percentage points higher than the goal resulting from the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
J32|The Influence of Personality Traits on Private Retirement Savings in Germany|This paper analyzes private retirement savings, the amount for German individuals and how these savings are influenced by personality traits. With the 2002 to 2009 cross section of the Socio-Economic Panel for Germany (SOEP), it is investigated how the Big-Five and the Locus of Control influence the decision to have private retirement savings, and the estimated amount of these savings. Results indicate a positive effect for Extraversion and a negative effect for Agreeableness on the probability to have such savings. Extraversion also positively effects the size of retirement related savings as does having an more internal Locus of Control. Similar to the probability to have retirement savings Agreeableness also reduces the expected amount of such savings. Personality traits only seem to influence the retirement savings if the individual has scores further away from the average of the specific trait. Additionally regressions are implemented that include the personality measures as dummies to allow for non-linear effects. Furthermore, other types of wealth accumulation such as house related savings are investigated to study how the effects might differ for different types of wealth accumulation.
J32|Seniority rules, worker mobility and wages: Evidence from multi-country linked employer-employee data|We construct multi-country employer-employee data to examine the consequences of last-in, first-out rules. We identify the effects by comparing worker exit rates between different units of the same firms operating in Sweden and Finland, two countries that have different seniority rules. We observe a relatively lower exit rate for more senior workers in Sweden in the shrinking firms and among the low-wage workers. These empirical patterns are consistent with last-in, first-out rules in Sweden providing protection from dismissals for the more senior workers among the worker groups to whom the rules are most relevant. Similarly, we observe a steeper seniority-wage profile in Sweden, suggesting that last-in, first-out rules may also be beneficial for more senior workers in terms of compensation.
J32|Paid Vacation Use - The Role of Works Councils|We investigate the relationship between co-determination at the plant level and paid vacation in Germany. From a legal perspective, works councils have no impact on vacation entitlements, but they can affect their use. Employing data from the German Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP), we find that male employees who work in an establishment, in which a works council exists, take almost two additional days of paid vacation annually, relative to employees in an establishment without institution. The effect for females is much smaller, if discernible at all. The data suggests that this gender gap might bue due to the fact that women exploit vacation entitlements more comprehensively than men already in the absence of a works council.
J32|Dynamics in health and employment: Evidence from Indonesia|This paper identifies for the first time, the separate causal impacts of both onsets of, and recoveries from, physical disability on both employment status and hours worked. Using panel data from Indonesia we find that more than half of working age adults in our sample experience a physical disability at least once in four waves over 16 years. Changes in physical functioning have no effect on hours worked among the employed. However, onsets of physical limitations lead to an increase in the probability of leaving employment, while recoveries increase the probability of returning to work. A larger effect is found among self-employed workers compared to salaried workers. Given the rising prevalence of physical limitations with age, physical disability may be a significant barrier to employment for older working age adults in Indonesia. These results overall point towards a need in Indonesia for policies that support maintaining work or returning to work for persons with physical disability.
J32|The Ant or the Grasshopper? The Long-term Consequences of Unilateral Divorce Laws on Savings of European Households|By allowing people to obtain divorce without the consent of their spouse, Unilateral Divorce Laws (UDLs) increase the risk of divorce. Using the staggered introduction of UDLs across European countries, we show that households exposed to UDLs for longer time accumulate more savings. This effect holds for both financial and total wealth and is stronger at higher quantiles of the wealth distribution. Longer exposure to UDLs also increases female labour market participation and financial literacy, contributing to uncover the mechanisms through which the risk of divorce may affect savings. Our results are consistent with a precautionary motive for saving.
