J41|The Gender Promotion Gap: Evidence from Central Banking|We examine gender differences in career progression and promotions in central banking, a stereotypical male-dominated occupation, using confidential anonymized personnel data from the European Central Bank (ECB) during the period 2003-2017. A wage gap emerges between men and women within a few years of hiring, despite broadly similar entry conditions in terms of salary levels and other observables. We also find that women are less likely to be promoted to a higher salary band up until 2010 when the ECB issued a public statement supporting diversity and took several measures to support gender balance. Following this change, the promotion gap disappears. The gender promotion gap prior to this policy change is partly driven by the presence of children. Using 2012-2017 data on promotion applications and decisions, we explore the promotion process in depth, and confirm that during this most recent period women are as likely to be promoted as men. This results from a lower probability of women to apply for promotion, combined with a higher probability of women to be selected conditional on having applied. Following promotion, women perform better in terms of salary progression, suggesting that the higher probability to be selected is based on merit, not positive discrimination.
J41|“Getting out of the starting gate on the right foot: employment effects of investment in human capital”|The technological progress and the globalisation process reshape the nature of jobs inducing a substantial drop in the incidence of permanent employment occupations. This paper estimates whether employers could be less reluctant to hire workers on a permanent basis in presence of a human capital investment which they partly finance. We find that the permanent employment rate of cohorts affected by law no. 92/2012 at the age threshold of 30 years increased by about 1% when compared to the permanent employment rate of similar untreated cohorts. This difference in discontinuity impact can be generated by the vocational apprenticeship labour contract only. After 36 months from the baseline, this positive effect persists and increases to about 5%. We interpret our results as evidence that a labour contract that invests in human capital serves as a stepping stone into permanent employment.
J41|Employee referral, social proximity and worker discipline: theory and suggestive evidence from India|We propose a new theory to explain why employers mobilize workplace insiders for the hiring of new staff. In settings with incomplete contracts, we show how workplace insiders can help employers tackle recruit discipline challenges at a lower cost. A key idea is that the employer can use sanctions against the referee to keep the new hire in line. Our model predicts that employers will use existing staff of stature and with accumulated goodwill within the firm as referees, since such staff have a personal stake in their choice of recruit. The model also predicts a strong social tie between the referee and the recruit to ensure that the recruit internalizes the costs to the referee of own misbehavior or underperformance. We use a small, in-depth dataset from India to scrutinize how well the predictions of our theory and of the main rival explanations for referral align with hiring patterns, wage and labor turnover observations. We find suggestive support for our theory and argue that these findings are hard to reconcile with rival referral explanations.
J41|Getting out of the starting gate on the right foot: employment effects of investment in human capital|The technological progress and the globalisation process reshape the nature of jobs inducing a substantial drop in the incidence of permanent employment occupations. This paper estimates whether employers could be less reluctant to hire workers on a permanent basis in presence of a human capital investment which they partly finance. We find that the permanent employment rate of cohorts affected by law no. 92/2012 at the age threshold of 30 years increased by about 1% when compared to the permanent employment rate of similar untreated cohorts. This difference in discontinuity impact can be generated by the vocational apprenticeship labour contract only. After 36 months from the baseline, this positive effect persists and increases to about 5%. We interpret our results as evidence that a labour contract that invests in human capital serves as a stepping stone into permanent employment.
J41|CEO turnover and volatility under long-term employment contracts|We study the role of the contractual time horizon of CEOs for CEO turnover and corporate policies. Using hand-collected data on 3,954 fixed-term CEO contracts, we show that remaining time under contract predicts CEO turnover. When contracts are close to expiration, turnover is more likely and is more sensitive to performance. We also show a positive within-CEO relation between remaining time under contract and firm risk. Our results are similar across short and long contracts and are driven neither by firm or CEO survival, nor technological cycles. They are consistent with incentives to take long-term projects with interim volatility.
J41|Do Greasy Wheels Curb Inequality?|I document a disparity in the cyclicality of the allocative wage-the labor costs considered when deciding to form or dissolve an employment relationship-across levels of educational attainment. Specifically, workers with a bachelors degree or more exhibit an allocative wage that is highly pro-cyclical while high school dropouts exhibit no statistically discernible cyclical pattern. I also assess the response to monetary policy shocks of both employment and allocative wages across education groups. The less educated respond to monetary policy shocks on the employment margin while the more educated respond on the wage margin. An important takeaway is that conventional monetary policy easing reduces employment inequality but increases wage inequality. I embed these findings in a New Keynesian framework that includes price and heterogeneous wage rigidity and show that heterogeneity results in welfare losses due to fluctuations that exceed those of the output-gap and p rice-level equivalent representative agent economy. The excess welfare loss is borne by the least educated.
J41|Firm Wages in a Frictional Labor Market|This paper studies a labor market with search frictions and directed search, where firms employ multiple workers and follow a firm-wage policy: a firm pays all its (equally productive) workers the same. The policy introduces a tension into the static firm problem, between setting a high wage to attract more new workers versus a low one to economize on labor costs on existing ones. The policy also introduces a time-inconsistency into the dynamic firm problem that affects equilibrium allocations. A firm with commitment plans on higher wages in the future than in the short run, where the firm takes advantage of its existing workers with a low wage. I study labor market outcomes when firms cannot commit to future wages, and show that one can, despite the time-inconsistency, analyze Markov-perfect equilibria using a standard Euler equation approach. The model generates endogenous real wage rigidity as firms raising wages to increase hiring in an expansion must raise them for all workers instead of only new hires. The commitment problem also gives a motive for firms to adjust wages only infrequently, as observed. An equilibrium where firms adjust wages infrequently can be better for welfare, especially that of workers.
J41|Los efectos desprotectores de la protección del empleo: El impacto de la reforma del contrato laboral de 2001|Estima los efectos de la reforma laboral de 2001 sobre variables asociadas al bienestar de los trabajadores.
J41|¿Son los contratos temporales un peldaño hacia un contrato por tiempo indeterminado?|Durante las últimas décadas, el uso de los contratos a plazo fijo ha crecido alrededor del mundo, fenómeno que ha ido de la mano con reducciones en la probabilidad de obtener un contrato por tiempo indeterminado. Los contratos a plazo fijo podrían ser utilizados como un medio para evaluar las habilidades de los nuevos trabajadores antes de que sean contratados por tiempo indefinido. En este marco, el estudio aborda dos tareas. La primera es evaluar en qué medida los contratos temporales están funcionando como un peldaño hacia un empleo con contrato por tiempo indeterminado (conversión). La segunda es poner a prueba la hipótesis de que el uso de contratos temporales está asociado a una evaluación de la productividad del trabajador por parte del empleador (screening). Para ello, se recurrió a una base de datos longitudinal de los trabajadores y las empresas en las que ellos laboran: esta base se refiere al Perú para la primera mitad de la presente década. Los hallazgos muestran que los contratos a plazo fijo no están funcionando como un peldaño que conduzca a contratos por tiempo indeterminado. Asimismo, cerca de la mitad de las conversiones de contratos están asociadas a un proceso de screening directo del trabajador. Finalmente, los patrones relacionados con el momento en que se producen las conversiones y las características de los trabajadores que las reciben sugieren que las empresas que las realizan actúan guiadas por una racionalidad asociada a evitar los altos costos de despido.
J41|Implementación de programas de inclusión social en territorios con población vulnerable: ¿cómo está cambiando Beca 18 la vida de los y las jóvenes del valle de los ríos Apurímac, Ene y Mantaro (VRAEM)?|Actualmente, Beca 18 es el programa de formación de capital humano más importante del Perú. Este estudio cualitativo, que analiza la implementación del programa en el valle de los ríos Apurímac, Ene y Mantaro (VRAEM), busca conocer las oportunidades de acceso a la educación superior de los y las jóvenes de la zona; asimismo, indaga sobre la influencia de Beca 18 en sus vidas, tanto en sus trayectorias educativas y/o laborales como en sus aspiraciones. Es preciso señalar, además, que los y las jóvenes que participaron en esta investigación forman parte del estudio longitudinal Niños del Milenio. El estudio encuentra que Beca 18 es un programa muy valorado por la población del VRAEM; sin embargo, señala que aún hay aspectos que deben mejorarse en su diseño e implementación. Por otra parte, el análisis longitudinal muestra que Beca 18 favorece el acceso de los y las jóvenes a la educación superior, pero también les ofrece la oportunidad de concluir sus estudios, lo que reduce el riesgo de deserción. Específicamente, Beca 18 mejora sus aspiraciones educativas y laborales, y los aleja de las amenazas que aquejan a la población juvenil del VRAEM, tales como el narcotráfico, el alcoholismo, el embarazo temprano, entre otras.
J41|Contratos laborales en el Perú: dinámica y determinantes|Más allá del binomio formalidad/informalidad comúnmente explorado, este estudio contribuye a comprender la dualidad del mercado laboral formal en el Perú, determinada por el tipo de contrato utilizado. Se encuentra que el 70% de los trabajos formales iniciados entre el 2012 y el 2016 involucró un contrato temporal; el 19%, uno por tiempo indeterminado; y el resto, otras modalidades. Asimismo, el estudio halla que las empresas con una mayor proporción de trabajadores cualificados, ejecutivos y más experimentados tienen una mayor probabilidad de usar contratos por tiempo indeterminado. Por otra parte, se evidencia que, solo por haber sido contratado después del 2000, un trabajador tienen una probabilidad de obtener un contrato por tiempo indefinido de 31 puntos porcentuales menos que si hubiera empezado antes de dicho año, y de 63 puntos porcentuales menos si fue contratado a partir del 2010. Además, los empleos temporales presentan elevadas tasas de rotación, consistentes con una menor duración del empleo y las transiciones hacia contratos por tiempo indefinido son bastante limitadas.
J41|Fixed-Wage Contracts and Monetary Non-neutrality|We study the importance of wage rigidities for the monetary policy transmission mechanism. Using uniquely rich micro data on Swedish wage negotiations, we isolate periods when the labor market is covered by fixed-wage contracts. Importantly, negotiations are coordinated in time but their seasonal patterns are far from deterministic. Using a two-regime VAR model, we document that monetary policy shocks have a larger impact on production during fixed-wage episodes as compared to the average response. The results do not seem to be driven by the periodic structure, nor the seasonality, of the renegotiation episodes.
J41|Exuberant Proclivity Towards Non-Standard Employment:Evidence from Linked Employer-Employee Data|In most industrialized countries temporary andnon-standard forms of employment (NSFE)have become a pervasive featureof the labor market. However, at the firm level, the diffusion of NSFE is less uniform than expected: while some firms exhibit high propensity to use NSFE, others make no use of it.Most conventional explanationsof NSFE use (market uncertainty, production regimes, competitive pressure)fail to account for such heterogeneity. In this article the authors develop an alternative explanationthat links the use of NSFE to firm-specific availability of managerial resources: whenever the latter are relatively scarce, firms make larger use of NSFE to reduce coordination and operating costs. Using a linked employer-employeepanel of manufacturing firms from the Emilia-Romagna region (Italy), the authors provide empirical support for this hypothesis. The result is robust to different estimation strategies and controlling for alternative drivers of NSFE use. This novel finding suggests that, the use of NSFE has strong managerial roots: it allows firms to compensate for firm-specific managerial weaknesses.
J41|A Real Options Approach to Multi-Year Contracts in Professional Sports|This study utilized a number of useful innovations to estimate marginal revenue product’s for Major League Baseball free agents.Two robust results emerged from our empirical results. Free agents that are paid a salary below the MLB average tend to be underpaid, while those paid a salary above the MLB average tend to be overpaid. In addition, free agents on single-year contracts tend to be underpaid, while those on multi-year contracts tend to be overpaid. These results are not consistent with the standard monopsony talent market assumption, unless one resorts to arguing that the talent market is segmented. We develop a simple model of real options to demonstrate how a player can be overpaid or underpaid depending upon the length of the contract, the available opportunities for the player to move during the contract period and the player’s expected performance. We believe that a real options approach to player contracting is an important addition to the market-based approaches relied upon in the past.
J41|Employment protection regimes in worker co-operatives: dismissal of worker members and distributive fairness|This paper discusses the possibility of strong employment protection in co-operatives (exclusion of dismissal) and of the imposition of a minimum wage equal for all worker members in worker co-operatives. It maintains that the worker co-operative has unique features in its ability to reach employment stabilization. It shows, both theoretically and with reference to existing empirical evidence, why and how worker co-operatives are able to overcome the lay-off of workers, strongly reducing employment fluctuation when compared to other organizational forms. The development of more thorough and radical regimes of employment protection and distributive justice fulfil satisfaction of basic needs, workers’ right to work and to keep the job position. While stricter constraints on layoffs can cause inefficiencies (e.g. make it more difficult to dismiss under-performing workers), they also serve an insurance function against unemployment, favor the accumulation of firm-specific human, relational and social capital, and can increase performance in the medium to long run. Voluntary resignation, not involuntary layoff would the dominant mechanism allowing allocation of labor resources to the most productive occupations.
J41|Do old and new labour market risks overlap? Automation, offshorability, and non-standard employment|This article analyses whether automation and offshorability risks overlap with non-standard employment. The research uses data from Spain, as this is a country with one of the highest temporary employment rates across the world since the 1990s. In general, the analysis shows that automation risks affect slightly more to those with non-standard work arrangements. However, higher educational level is crucial to be much less exposed to automation risks, irrespective of the type of contract or the working time. The offshorability risk also has a small overlap with non-standard employment, but has the opposite relationship with the educational level. The results suggest that specific training policies attending to those with lower educational levels in non-standard employment would be advisable to protect some workers against automation risks, but not against offshorability.
J41|The dynamics of working hours and wages under implicit contracts|In this paper, we explore the out-of-equilibrium dynamics of working hours and wages in a model economy where workers and firms have agreed upon an implicit contract that smooths long-run consumption. Specifically, we analyse a deterministic and a stochastic framework in which a firm inter-temporally sets its level of labour utilization by considering that workers' earnings tend to adjust in the direction of a fixed level that seeks to stabilize their consumption. Without any uncertainty in labour effectiveness, this theoretical setting may have one, two or no stationary solution. The dynamics of the deterministic economy, however, can be assessed only in the two-solution case and it reveals that wages move counter-cyclically towards the allocation preferred by the firm. Adding uncertainty in labour effectiveness does not overturn the counter-cyclical pattern of wages but is helpful in explaining the wage stickiness observed at the macro level.
J41|"Are ""fair"" wages quantitatively important for business cycle fluctuations in Bulgaria?"|"We introduce ""fair"" wages in a general-equilibrium model where worker's effort is unobservable and investigate whether such a mechanism can quantitatively account for the degree of real wage rigidity in the Bulgarian labor markets, as documented in Lozev, Vladova, and Paskaleva (2011) and Paskaleva (2016). In contrast to Danthine and Kurmann (2004), here we internalize the effect that past wages have on current effort level. We calibrate the model to Bulgarian data (1999-2016), and quantify the effect of technological shocks on hours and wages in the theoretical setup. Overall, the calibrated model with ""fair"" wages performs poorly when it comes to the relative volatilities of labor market variables. This is because aggregate labor market conditions, as proxied by the employment rate and past aggregate wages, turn out not to be quantitatively important for business cycles in Bulgaria."
J41|A tale of two tracks| We provide a simple framework that helps explore the need for contingent (teaching) jobs in academia alongside the usual tenured-professorship positions. It also explains the coexistence of these two types of jobs in research universities as an equilibrium phenomenon. Imprecisions in the academic editorial process, combined with the increasing difficulty of producing academic research, is suggested as a possible explanation for the recent increasing trend in the share of non-tenure-track teaching jobs in academia as well as the widening wage gap between tenured-professors and teaching faculty. Alternative interpretations are explored.
J41|Exuberant proclivity towards non-standard employment: evidence from linked employer-employee data|In most industrialized countries temporary and non-standard forms of employment (NSFE) have become a pervasive feature of the labor market. However, at the firm level, the diffusion of NSFE is less uniform than expected: while some firms exhibit high propensity to use NSFE, others make no use of it. Most conventional explanations of NSFE use (market uncertainty, production regimes, competitive pressure) fail to account for such heterogeneity. In this article the authors develop an alternative explanation that links the use of NSFE to firm-specific availability of managerial resources: whenever the latter are relatively scarce, firms make larger use of NSFE to reduce coordination and operating costs. Using a linked employer-employee panel of manufacturing firms from the Emilia-Romagna region (Italy), the authors provide empirical support for this hypothesis. The result is robust to different estimation strategies and controlling for alternative drivers of NSFE use. This novel finding suggests that, the use of NSFE has strong managerial roots: it allows firms to compensate for firm-specific managerial weaknesses.
J41|Job duration and inequality|As suggested by recent empirical evidence, one of the causes behind the widespread rise of inequality experienced by OECD countries in the last few decades may have been the increased flexibility of labor markets. The authors explore this hypothesis through the analysis of a stock-flow consistent agent-based macroeconomic model able to reproduce with good statistical precision several empirical regularities. To this scope they employ three different sensitivity analysis techniques, which indicate that increasing job contract duration (i.e. decreasing flexibility) has the effect of reducing income and wealth inequality. However, the authors also find that this effect is diminished by tight monetary policy and low credit supply. This result suggests that the final outcome of structural reforms aimed at changing labor flexibility can depend on the macroeconomic environment in which these are implemented.
J41|History dependence in wages and cyclical selection: Evidence from Germany|Using administrative employer-employee data from Germany, we investigate the relationship between wages and past and present labor market conditions. Furthermore, we revisit recent findings of greater wage cyclicality of new hires. Overall, we find strong evidence for history dependent wages, manifested in both hiring and retention premiums - which is consistent with a variety of contract models. Taking into account composition effects as well as cyclical variation in unobserved match quality, we find that wages of new hires from unemployment are no more cyclical, but those of job changers are more cyclical than those of existing workers. We argue that much of the excess wage cyclicality of new hires discussed by the literature can be explained by cyclical job ladder movements in match quality of new hires from employment. In a novel empirical approach, where we further take into account occupational selection, we show that if job ladder movements accompany a simultaneous change of employers and occupations, the resulting wages are particularly cyclical sensitive.
J41|Size and persistence matter: Wage and employment insurance at the micro level|Firms provide substantial insurance against wage fl uctuations and job loss. This paper studies how the interaction between shock size and persistence affects the firm's ability to insure workers against idiosyncratic firm-level shocks. Using linked employer-employee data from Germany, I find that wages respond largely symmetrically to positive and negative permanent shocks. Whereas transitory shocks lead to upward wage rigidity. Individual layoff probabilities only increase in response to negative permanent shocks. Interestingly, wage cuts and job loss after negative shocks are limited to blue-collar workers. Whereas white-collar workers are fully insured against negative shocks both in terms of wages and employment.
J41|Distributional effects of minimum wages: Can unions expect a double dividend? A theoretical exercise from a supply-side view|In this short communication, it is recalled that unions traditionally follow a policy of pushing higher average wages and at the same time propose a compression of the structure of wages and salaries, which follows the theory of some sort of equity. Considering a steep downfall of union density in many, if not all, OECD countries, the actual good condition for minimum wage policy comes as no surprise. Despite the fact that unions do not like the intervention of labor market policy at the cost of tariff autonomy, it can be shown that minimum wages are capable of serving both the above-discussed objectives of unions, but only the average wage rate cannot be increased. In addition, the distribution of wages will decrease, ceteris paribus. However, it is not clear whether minimum wages will be able to increase the overall wage quota in the economy. Here, this fact is theoretically explored in depth.
J41|Restrictions of fixed term employment contracts: Evidence from a German reform|This paper examines the impact of legal restrictions on fixed-term contracts on employment, wages and the careers of labour market entrants. Specifically, I analyse a 2001 German reform that made it more difficult for establishments that are not subject to employment protection to hire workers on fixed-term contracts. Using a Difference-in-Differences approach, which compares establishments subject to employment protection with those that are not both before and after the reform, I find that the reform has reduced the use of fixed-term contracts, but has not markedly changed net employment. However, the reform has had positive effects on the career stability of post-reform labour market entrants.
J41|Gender Wage Inequality In Russian Universities|For several years, the Russian system of higher education had been undergoing massive transformations related to the enhancement of the global competitiveness of the national academic sector. The introduction of research-oriented universities and the transition to incentive contracts are the main elements of the reform. In this article we show how these institutional changes contribute to reducing the problem of gender inequality in academia. Based on comprehensive data from a Russian faculty survey (MEMO), it is found that there are considerable differences in gender wage inequality by university status: female faculty earn significantly lower salaries in ordinary universities, but there are no gender differences in pay in research-oriented universities, which are most actively transitioning to incentive remuneration schemes. Female faculty experience vertical segregation: women are less likely to achieve senior positions in university hierarchies. We also found indirect evidence of women’s self-selection for lower-paid positions: female faculty are less likely to achieve advanced degrees and to have research publications. Overall, the study shows that male faculty earns 8.7% higher salaries than female counterparts after controlling for all observable characteristics. Oaxaca decomposition showed that 53% of the gender wage gap can be explained by observable characteristics, while the rest can be attributed to discrimination, self-selection or unobservable factors. In the absence of discrimination, male faculty should earn 10% higher salaries, but due to discrimination and unobservable factors, male faculty, on average, earn 18.7% more. However, the gender wage gap in academia is considerably below the national average: women earned on average around 80% of male salaries in academic sector, while in the whole Russian economy women earned around 70% of men’s wages
J41|The Added Worker Effect, Employment Contracts, and the Reasons for the Wife’s Inactivity|The recent literature provide compelling evidence of the existence of a significant added worker effect (AWE) - wives increase their labour supply in response to the job displacement of their husbands. However, little is known about the heterogeneity of the effect. I study the variation in the AWE depending on the reasons for the wife’s inactivity, and on the husband’s employment contract type. I find that the responses of discouraged women to the job displacement of their husbands were three times as strong as the responses of those women, who were inactive for reasons of health and family. This finding suggests that discouraged people are highly responsive to the income shocks that occur within a household. In addition, I find that the size of the AWE also depends on the type of employment contract the husband had. The results suggest that high employment protection reduces the wife’s incentives to join the labour force after her husband’s job displacement.
J41|Dual Labour Markets Revisited|This paper provides an overview of recent research on dual labour markets. Theoretical and empirical contributions on the labour-market effects of dual employment protection legislation are revisited, as well as factors behind its resilience and policies geared towards correcting its negative consequences. The topics covered include the stepping-stone or dead-end nature of temporary contracts, their effects on employment, unemployment, churn, training, productivity growth, wages, and labour market inflows and outflows. The paper reviews both theoretical advances and relevant policy discussions, in particular in several countries that had very poor employment performance during the recent global economic and financial crisis.
J41|Rent sharing in China: Magnitude, heterogeneity and drivers|Do firms in China share rents with their workers? We address this question by examining firm-level panel data covering virtually all manufacturing firms over the period 2000-2007, representing an average of 200,000 firms and 54 million workers per year. We find robust evidence of rent sharing (RS): workers that would move from low- to high-profit firms would see their wages increase by about 45%. The results are based on multiple instrumental variables, including firm-specific international trade shocks. We also present a number of complementary findings: RS is weaker in firms with more women and less educated workers; RS involves an element of risk sharing, as wages also decrease when profits fall; RS is lower in regions with more latent competition from rural workers; higher minimum wages tend to reduce RS; and, while employer labour market power reduces wages, it increases RS. Overall, despite its importance, RS in China is smaller than in developed economies, which reflects the weaker bargaining power of its workers and the different scope of its labour market institutions.
J41|Self-Confidence and Reactions to Subjective Performance Evaluations|Subjective performance evaluations are commonly used to provide feedback and incentives to workers. However, such evaluations can generate significant disagreements and conflicts, the severity of which may be driven by many factors. In this paper we show that a workers’ level of self-confidence plays a central role in shaping reactions to subjective evaluations - overconfident agents engage in costly punishment when they receive evaluations below their own, but provide limited rewards to principals when evaluations exceed their own. In contrast, underconfident agents do not significantly react to evaluations below their own, but reward significantly evaluations exceeding their own. Our analysis exploits data from a principal-agent experiment run with a large sample of the Danish working age population, varying the financial consequences associated with the evaluations workers receive. In contrast to existing economic models of reciprocal behavior, reactions to evaluations are weakly related to the financial consequences of the evaluations. These results point towards a behavioral model of reciprocity that intertwines the desire to protect self-perceptions with over-/underconfidence.
J41|Helping under a Combination of Team and Tournament Incentives|We study how help can be fostered by means of a team bonus in the presence of rank-order tournaments. In a simple model we combine elements of relative rewards and a team bonus and study their effect on effort, help and sabotage. Quite intuitively the theoretical analysis suggests that team members help less as relative rewards increase. This problem is mitigated by a team bonus that is proportional to the output of the whole team. We compare different parameter constellations of the theoretical benchmark with behavior observed in a one-shot experiment.
J41|The Gender Promotion Gap: Evidence from Central Banking|We examine gender differences in career progression and promotions in central banking, a stereotypical male-dominated occupation, using confidential anonymized personnel data from the European Central Bank (ECB) during the period 2003-2017. A wage gap emerges between men and women within a few years of hiring, despite broadly similar entry conditions in terms of salary levels and other observables. We also find that women are less likely to be promoted to a higher salary band up until 2010 when the ECB issued a public statement supporting diversity and took several measures to support gender balance. Following this change, the promotion gap disappears. The gender promotion gap prior to this policy change is partly driven by the presence of children. Using 2012-2017 data on promotion applications and decisions, we explore the promotion process in depth, and confirm that during this most recent period women are as likely to be promoted as men. This results from a lower probability of women to apply for promotion, combined with a higher probability of women to be selected conditional on having applied. Following promotion, women perform better in terms of salary progression, suggesting that the higher probability to be selected is based on merit, not positive discrimination.
J41|How Stable Is Labour Market Dualism? Reforms of Employment Protection in Nine European Countries|Labour market segmentation currently is at the forefront of national and European policy debates. While the European Commission and the OECD try to promote what they see as more inclusive policies, academic observers remain skeptical. Particularly the dualisation literature points to stable political economy equilibria that stack the cards against overcoming divisions between labour market insiders and outsiders. Other contributions point to a more dynamic political setting, in which negative feedback effects tend to challenge any 'dualisation consensus'. Against this background, this paper traces recent reform trajectories in a diverse group of European countries that are characterised by a high share of temporary employment: France, Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Slovenia, Spain, and Sweden. Our case studies show that recent reforms of employment regulation are characterised by much more dynamism than one would expect based on the experiences of the two preceding decades - or based on dualisation or insider-outsider theory. The reform trajectories are characterised by rather contradictory approaches, sometimes in close succession. This even includes, in several cases, substantive deregulation of dismissal protection for open-ended contracts.
J41|Wage Fairness in a Subcontracted Labor Market|Labor market subcontracting is a global phenomenon. This paper presents a theory of wage fairness in a subcontracted labor market, where workers confront multi-party employment relationships and deep wage inequities between regular and subcontractor-mediated hires. We show that subcontracting derives its appeal from a downward revision of workers' fair wage demand when producers delegate employment decisions down the supply chain. Furthermore, subcontracting creates a holdup problem, resulting in wages that workers deem unfair, along with adverse worker morale consequences in equilibrium. These insights reveal the efficiency costs of subcontracting as an employer strategy to redress workers' demand for fair wages.
J41|Getting Out of the Starting Gate on the Right Foot: Employment Effects of Investment in Human Capital|The technological progress and the globalisation process reshape the nature of jobs inducing a substantial drop in the incidence of permanent employment occupations. This paper estimates whether employers could be less reluctant to hire workers on a permanent basis in presence of a human capital investment, which they partly finance. We find that the permanent employment rate of cohorts affected by law no. 92/2012 at the age threshold of 30 years increased by about 1% when compared to the permanent employment rate of similar untreated cohorts. This difference in discontinuity impact can be generated by the vocational apprenticeship labour contract only. After 36 months from the baseline, this positive effect persists and increases to about 5%. We interpret our results as evidence that a labour contract that invests in human capital serves as a stepping stone into permanent employment.
J41|Different Strokes for Different Folks: Experimental Evidence on the Effectiveness of Input and Output Incentive Contracts for Health Care Providers with Varying Skills|A central issue in designing performance incentive contracts is whether to reward the production of outputs versus use of inputs: the former rewards efficiency and innovation in production, while the latter imposes less risk on agents. Agents with varying levels of skill may perform better under different contracts as well – more skilled workers may be better able to innovate, for example. We study these issues empirically through an experiment enabling us to observe and verify outputs (health outcomes) and inputs (adherence to recommended medical treatment) in Indian maternity care. We find that both output and input incentive contracts achieved comparable reductions in post-partum hemorrhage rates, the dimension of maternity care most sensitive to provider behavior and the largest cause of maternal mortality. Interestingly, and in line with theory, providers with advanced qualifications performed better and used new strategies under output incentives, while under input incentives, providers with and without advanced qualifications performed equally.
J41|Paying to Program? Engineering Brand and High-Tech Wages|We test the hypothesis that IT workers accept a compensating differential to work with emerging IT systems, and that employers that invest in these systems can, in turn, capture greater value from the wages they pay. We show that much of the utility IT workers derive from these systems is from skills acquired on the job. This is principally true for younger workers at employers where skill development is encouraged, and the effects are stronger in thicker markets where workers with newer skills have more outside options. An analysis of the text in online employer reviews supports the notion that IT workers value access to interesting IT systems above most other employer attributes. These findings are important because first, they provide evidence of how worker preferences can influence corporate IT investment decisions; second, because they shed light on factors influencing IT skill development; and third, because they point to a potentially important explanation for returns from IT investments.
J41|Assessing recent reforms and policy directions in France: Implementing the OECD Jobs Strategy|The OECD actively supports countries with the implementation of the OECD Jobs Strategy through the preparation of labour market chapters in the OECD Economic Surveys. This paper provides an overview of the analytical work carried out in the context of the 2019 Economic Survey for France. The paper consists of a preliminary assessment of the French labour market reforms since 2017 related to the tax and benefit system, employment protection, and collective bargaining. These reforms are broadly in line with the recommendations of the OECD Jobs Strategy. They are likely to contribute to enhanced employment and living standards of low-skilled workers and reduce labour market duality. However, a close monitoring will be necessary to assess whether their implementation has the desired effects and additional measures are needed.
J41|Successful and Dead-end Jobs in a Bureaucracy:Evidence from Japan|This paper develops a novel method that assigns a job a value to capture both the likelihood and speed of promotion from each job to a top executive and applies it to investigate the career paths of bureaucrats in Japan. We find that outwardly similar jobs within the same hierarchical rank, estimated using the standard method in Baker, Gibbs, and Holmstrom (1994), have very different opportunities to be promoted to a top executive. We can also detect frequent real demotions and the presence of early selection (read fast track) of elite bureaucrats unable to be detected through use of hierarchical rank.
J41|How general is managerial human capital? : Evidence from the Retention of Managers after M&As|This paper investigates the transferability of managerial experience by examining how managers' tenures in target firms influence their probability of retention as board members after mergers or acquisitions in Japanese firms. It develops a general equilibrium model that distinguishes several hypotheses on managerial experiences based on the coefficients of tenure on separation, given several data limitations. In particular, the paper provides a novel method to correct for selection biases by utilizing the timing of selection in a selected sample, which does not require a random sample from the population. Our results suggest that Japanese firms value both target firm-specific and general human capital after M&As and that experience as an employee increases firm-specific skills, but at the expense of the accumulation of general skills. However, experience as a board member does not have this effect.
J41|Unintended consequences of China's new labor contract law on unemployment and welfare loss of the workers|China's new Labor Contract Law, which intended to strengthen the labor protection for workers, went into effect on January 1, 2008. The law stipulated that the maximum cumulative duration of successive fixed-term (temporary) labor contracts is 10 years, and employees working for the same employer for more than 10 consecutive years are able to secure an open-ended (permanent) labor contract under the new law, which is highly desirable to employees. However, in order to circumvent the new Labor Contract Law, some employers may have dismissed workers, after the passage of the new law, who had worked in the same firm for more than 10 years. Using data from the 2008 China General Social Survey, we find strong evidence that firms did in fact dismiss their formal-contract employees who have been employed for more than 10 years. Additionally, using a regression discontinuity design based on this exogenous change in unemployment status for this particular group of workers, we show that the dismissed workers suffered significant welfare loss in terms of happiness. Our results are robust to various specifications and placebo tests.
J41|Can Reputation Discipline the Gig Economy? Experimental Evidence from an Online Labor Market|In two experiments, we examine the effects of employer reputation in an online labor market (Amazon Mechanical Turk) in which employers may decline to pay workers while keeping their work product. First, in an audit study of employers by a blinded worker, we find that working only for good employers yields 40% higher wages. Second, in an experiment that varied reputation, we find that good-reputation employers attract work of the same quality but at twice the rate as bad-reputation employers. This is the first clean, field evidence on the value of employer reputation. It can serve as collateral against opportunism in the absence of contract enforcement.
J41|Temporary Employment Contracts and Household Income|It is widely accepted that temporary jobs tend to be associated with low pay which, in turn, will have negative consequences for household income. Evidence in support of such claims, however, is surprisingly thin. This study seeks to fill this void. In articular, it is both the first study to examine the consequences of temporary employment for workers’ household income within a multivariate framework, and the first to quantify the relative importance of the different channels through which temporary employment affects income. Fixed-effects regression and decomposition analyses are applied to longitudinal survey data from Australia, a country where the incidence of temporary forms of employment, and especially casual work, are very high by Western standards. As expected, workers in casual and temporary agency employment are found to live in households with lower average incomes. In contrast, employment on a fixed-term contract is not associated with living in a household with a significantly lower income. The estimated size of the income penalty, relative to households of comparable permanent employees, is about 5% for temporary agency workers and 12% for casual employees. These differentials, however, are not primarily the result of lower wages, but instead are due to the fewer hours worked by these groups. In the case of casual workers, lower annual individual earnings are partly offset by higher incomes of other household members. This compensatory effect, however, is relatively modest in size – the income gap with permanent workers remains substantial.
J41|Working for 200 euro? The effects of traineeship reform on labor market outcomes in Croatia|In this paper we evaluate the effects of active labor market policy (ALMP) reform, the so-called SOR measure (vocational training for work without commencing employment), on labor market outcomes in Croatia. In 2012 SOR was redesigned to ease the first labor market entry and promote on-the-job training, enabling a young person without relevant work experience to get a one-year contract and a net monthly remuneration of 210 euro. The measure soon became popular, especially among university graduates, accounting for around third of their unemployment exits, and absorbing two thirds of funds allocated to ALMPs. Pooling Croatian Labor Force Surveys from 2007-2016 and using difference-in-difference strategy, we estimate the causal intent-to-treat effect of the reform on labor market outcomes of the potentially eligible group: 18-29-year-olds. Results indicate that the reform has had, at best, neutral effects on employment and unemployment; moreover, we find some evidence that a portion of young individuals were propelled into inactivity. However, we do find an adverse effect on wages-driven mostly by wages received by females and university graduates-both at the mean and higher percentiles of the wage distribution. This research provides insights on effectiveness of ALMPs in ameliorating youth unemployment in Europe, and opens questions on the appropriateness of the use of European Union funds in new EU member states.
J41|Has the Economic Crisis Worsened the Work-Related Stress and Mental Health of Temporary Workers in Spain?|This paper analyses the causal effects of temporary employment on work-related stress and mental health before (2006/07) and during the economic crisis (2011/12) and examines whether the economic recession worsened these two health outcomes. To control for selection bias, propensity scores (PS) are computed separately for men and women using microdata from two cross-sectional surveys, considering temporary (treatment group) versus permanent employment (control group). Next, we use difference-in-differences estimators stratifying by age, education level, and regional unemployment differences using PS as weights. Our results indicate that a male salaried worker with a temporary labour contract tends to have lower levels of work-related stress in the pre-crisis period, but not for women. The stratification analysis shows lower work-related stress levels among older male adults, workers with a high education level, and employees in regions with high unemployment rates. The economic crisis is responsible for increasing stress only among older temporary workers and male university graduates, without affecting women. We also see evidence of a positive link between temporary employment and poor mental health in both periods, although only for men. We neither find significant impacts for our sample of men or women, nor for most of our population subgroups with the exception of male workers with a university degree.
J41|Gaining Experience as Principal or Agent. An Experimental Study|We study experimentally whether decisions in a principal-agent model differ when subjects gain experience by changing roles rather being in a ¿xed role over time. In addition, we examine whether increasing principals’ pro¿t opportunities has an impact on their decisions. To this aim, we use a stylised labour market where multiple principals compete to hire teams of two agents by o¿ering wage contracts and claiming residual pro¿ts after paying agents. Players’ roles, either assigned randomly every round or ¿xed, and principals’ pro¿t opportunities, either high or low, vary in a between-subject design. We ¿nd that both changing roles and facing high pro¿t opportunities leads principals to o¿er more frequently e¿cient contracts in inducing both agents to put e¿ort and to higher payo¿s for everyone, with some complementarity between role changes and pro¿t opportunities.
J41|Empowerment and the Dark Side of Delegation|The existing delegation literature has focused on different preferences of principal and agent concerning project selection, which makes delegating authority costly for the principal. This paper shows that delegation has a cost even when the preferences of principal and agent are exogenously aligned. As application, the commitment effect of empowerment is considered, which has been addressed by the management and social psychology literature. In addition, it is shown that even in a setting without task commitment and other behavioral effects the principal might forgo delegation though being efficient.
J41|Worker Representation and Temporary Employment in Germany: The Deployment and Extent of Fixed-Term Contracts and Temporary Agency Work|This study examines the potential impact of works councils and unions on the deployment of fixed-term contracts and agency temps. We report inter al. that works councils are associated with a higher number of temporary agency workers when demand volatility is high while the opposite holds for fixed-term contracts. These disparities likely reflect differences in function, with agency work being more directed toward the protection of a shrinking core and fixed-term contacts being as much a port of entry as a buffer stock. We are also able to identify the number of new hires with a fixed-term contract as well as the number of FTC conversions (into regular employment) and renewals, the correlates of which flows are broadly consistent with the stock data.
J41|A Tale of Two Academic Tracks|Given asymmetric information, this paper explores the need for non-tenure-track jobs in academia alongside the usual tenure-track positions. It also explains the coexistence of these two types of jobs in research universities as an equilibrium phenomenon. The increased effort needed to produce research, accompanied by imprecisions in the academic editorial process, explains the recent increasing trend in the share of non-tenure-track jobs in academia as well as the widening wage gap between tenure-track and non-tenure-track academics.
J41|Contract Employment as a Worker Discipline Device|Fixed-term contract employment has increasingly replaced regular open-ended employment as the predominant form of employment notably in developing countries. Guided by factory-level evidence showing nuanced patterns of co-movements of regular and contract wages, we propose a two-tiered task based model with self-enforcing contracts in which firms allocate complex tasks to long term employees at incentive compatible wages, and routine tasks to fixed term employees at acceptable wages. We show that the advent of contract employment effectively lowers the cost of maintaining worker discipline, and demonstrate the conditions under which a positive change in labor demand can end up increasing the share of contract employees. We then argue that the contract employment phenomenon sheds light on two margins of hiring distortions – respectively task assignment and total employment distortions – against which the effectiveness of a suite of oft proposed labor market exibility policies should be assessed.
J41|Theory and Evidence on Employer Collusion in the Franchise Sector|"In this paper we study the role of covenants in franchise contracts that restrict the recruitment and hiring of employees from other units within the same franchise chain in suppressing and hiring of employees from other units within the same franchise chain in suppressing find that ""no-poaching of workers agreements"" are included in a surprising 58 percent of major franchisors' contracts, including McDonald's, Burger King, Jiffy Lube and H&R Block. Theoretical models of oligopsony and dynamic monopsony, as well as incentives for investment in job training, are discussed in the context of these no-poaching agreements. Although the occurrence of no-poaching agreements is difficult to predict from franchise or industry characteristics, no-poaching agreements are more common for franchises in low-wage and high-turnover industries."
J41|“Has the economic crisis worsened the work-related stress and mental health of temporary workers in Spain?”|This paper analyses the causal effects of temporary employment on work-related stress and mental health before (2006/07) and during the economic crisis (2011/12) and examines whether the economic recession worsened these two health outcomes. To control for selection bias, propensity scores (PS) are computed separately for men and women using microdata from two cross-sectional surveys, considering temporary (treatment group) versus permanent employment (control group). Next, we use difference-in-differences estimators stratifying by age, education level, and regional unemployment differences using PS as weights. Our results indicate that a male salaried worker with a temporary labour contract tends to have lower levels of work-related stress in the pre-crisis period, but not for women. The stratification analysis shows lower work-related stress levels among older male adults, workers with a high education level, and employees in regions with high unemployment rates. The economic crisis is responsible for increasing stress only among older temporary workers and male university graduates, without affecting women. We also see evidence of a positive link between temporary employment and poor mental health in both periods, although only for men. We neither find significant impacts for our sample of men or women, nor for most of our population subgroups with the exception male workers with a university degree.
J41|The Impact of Employment Protection on the Industrial Wage Structure|This paper tests whether the job security offered by stricter employment protection legislation (EPL) undermines positive compensating wage differentials that would otherwise be paid. Specifically, we ask whether industries with relatively more need for layoffs and labour flexibility have lower wages in countries where stricter EPL protects workers from layoffs. We find this generally to be true for a large sample of industries in the major OECD countries over 1984-2005, particularly for wages of unskilled workers. However, we also find that where workers are well organised, they can take advantage of EPL to secure higher wages.
J41|Inclusive Growth: The Case of Germany|This paper argues that inclusive growth appears to be the only suitable strategy for realising the right to decent work (RDW) in the digital economy. This reasoning is in blunt opposition to the current mood of giving up this right in favour of an unconditional basic income (UBI). The study starts by briefly expanding the basic argument and by defining the principles of inclusive versus exclusive growth (1); a comprehensive overview of German labour market policy and labour law reforms since the beginning of this millennium assesses to what extent Germany is pursuing these principles, accompanied by selective evidence of their consequences for the German labour market performance (2); a stylised and descriptive overview of the inclusive impact of these reforms in quantitative and qualitative terms follows, with an essay reflecting the concept of the inclusive labour contract (3).
J41|Combinations of Different Length Contracts in a Multiperiod Model: Short, Medium and Long-term Contracts|This paper develops a dynamic contracting model with verifi able and unverifi able outputs. We prove the following properties of equilibrium wage contracts, which are new to the literature: (i) combinations of dfferent length contracts can become equilibria, (ii) medium-term contracts can be included in the combinations, and (iii) equilibrium wage pro le dffers by the way different length contracts are combined. We also investigate a general mechanism, which includes menu and option contracts, and show that no mechanism can perform better than simple wage contracts in our environment. In short, above properties remain valid under general mechanisms.
J41|"Looking in Your Partner’s Pocket Before Saying “Yes!"" Income Assortative Mating and Inequality"|Income assortative mating has seldom been investigated in the literature, mostly because of endogeneity concerns related to simultaneity and omitted variable biases. Using the tax records of a major region in Italy for 2007 to 2011, we first show that income assortative mating is present mostly at very high income levels. In comparison with the median woman, women belonging to the top 1% of their income distribution are about 25 times more likely to get married to men belonging to the top 1% of their income distribution. Second, we show that, even when dealing with simultaneity and omitted variable biases, assortative mating remains significantly larger for very high-earning couples. Finally, we assess the effect of income assortative mating on inequality by assuming random pairing. Our results are consistent with previous results showing that the effects are limited on income inequality as measured by a summary statistic, such as the Gini index. However, by exploiting the large size of our administrative dataset, we show that, when a bivariate partition of the population is considered (e.g. couples with both spouses in the top 1% of their gender-specific distribution), the effect of assortative mating on inequality is huge, as, for the average counterfactual income determined by assuming random pairing, the top income share would be reduced by more than 80%.
J41|Analyzing the Aftermath of a Compensation Reduction|Firms rarely cut compensation, so little is known about the after-effects when compensation reductions do occur. We use commission reductions at a sales firm to estimate how work effort and turnover change. In response to an 18% decline in sales commissions, corresponding to a 7% decline in median take-home pay, we find turnover increases for the most productive workers. We detect limited effort responses. Turnover and effort responses do not differ based on workers' survey replies regarding expectations of firm fairness or future promotion. The findings indicate that adverse selection concerns on the extensive margin of retaining workers drive the empirical regularity that firms rarely reduce compensation.
J41|Wages and the Value of Nonemployment|Nonemployment is often posited as a worker's outside option in wage setting models such as bargaining and wage posting. The value of this state is therefore a fundamental determinant of wages and, in turn, labor supply and job creation. We measure the effect of changes in the value of nonemployment on wages in existing jobs and among job switchers. Our quasi-experimental variation in nonemployment values arises from four large reforms of unemployment insurance (UI) benefit levels in Austria. We document that wages are insensitive to UI benefit levels: point estimates imply a wage response of less than $0.01 per $1.00 UI benefit increase, and we can reject sensitivities larger than 0.03. In contrast, a calibrated Nash bargaining model predicts a sensitivity of 0.39 – more than ten times larger. The empirical insensitivity holds even among workers with a priori low bargaining power, with low labor force attachment, with high predicted unemployment duration, among job switchers and recently unemployed workers, in areas of high unemployment, in firms with flexible pay policies, and when considering firm-level bargaining. The insensitivity of wages to the nonemployment value we document presents a puzzle to widely used wage setting protocols, and implies that nonemployment may not constitute workers' relevant threat point. Our evidence supports wage-setting mechanisms that insulate wages from the value of nonemployment.
J41|The Effect of Initial Inequality on Meritocracy: a Voting Experiment on Tax Redistribution| According to Alesina and Angeletos (2005), societies are less redistributive but more efficient when the median voter believes that effort and talent are much more important than luck to determine income. We test these results through a lab experiment in which participants vote over the tax rate and their pre-tax income is determined according to their performance in a real effort task with leisure time. Subjects receive either a high or a low wage and this condition is either obtained through their talent in a tournament or randomly assigned. We compare subjects' decisions in these two different scenarios considering different levels of wage inequality. In our framework, this initial income inequality turns out to be crucial to support the theoretical hypothesis of Alesina and Angeletos (2005). Overall, we find that, only if the wage inequality is high, subjects choose a lower level of income redistribution and they provide a higher effort level in the scenario in which high-wage subjects are selected based on their talent through a tournament (than when it is randomly). Thus, we confirm almost all theoretical results in Alesina and Angeletos (2005) when the wage inequality is high enough. The big exception is for efficiency (measured as the sum of total payoffs), since theoretical results only hold for the scenario in which wage inequality is low.
J41|Consequences of Immigrating During a Recession: Evidence from the US Refugee Resettlement Program|I examine long-term employment and wage consequences for refugees who immigrate to the United States under different business cycle conditions. It is difficult to causally identify the relationship between initial economic conditions and subsequent outcomes for most immigrants because they can choose when and where they immigrate. However, refugees offer a unique opportunity to empirically measure these outcomes because their dates of arrival and states of placement are exogenously chosen through the US Refugee Resettlement Program. For every one percentage point increase in the national unemployment rate at arrival, refugees on average experience a 2.99% reduction in wages five years later and a 1.8 percentage point reduction in employment four years later. Estimates using state unemployment rate at arrival show less persistence suggesting mobility or differential economic improvement across states may be important in mitigating these effects. I also divide the sample across gender and educational attainment. I find no evidence of wage scarring for uneducated males but observe a 4.85% reduction in wages five years later for high school-educated males and a 5.29% reduction in wages four years later for college-educated.
J41|Sanctioning and Trustworthiness Across Ethnic Groups|We show how sanctioning is more effective in increasing cooperation between groups than within groups. We study this using a trust game among ethnically diverse subjects in Afghanistan. In the experiment, we manipulate i) sanctioning and ii) ethnic identity. We find that sanctioning increases trustworthiness in cross-ethnic interactions, but not when applied by a co-ethnic. While we find higher in-group trustworthiness in the absence of sanctioning, the availability and use of the sanction closes this gap. This has important implications for understanding the effect of institutions in developing societies where ethnic identity is salient. Our results suggest that formal institutions for enforcing cooperation are more effective when applied between, rather than within, ethnic groups, due to behavioral differences in how individuals respond to sanctions.
J41|Communicating subjective evaluations|Consider managers evaluating their employees' performances. Should managers justify their subjective evaluations? Suppose a manager's evaluation is private information. Justifying her evaluation is costly but limits the principal's scope for distorting her evaluation of the employee. I show that the manager justifies her evaluation if and only if the employee's performance was poor. The justification assures the employee that the manager has not distorted the evaluation downwards. For good performance, however, the manager pays a constant high wage without justification. The empirical literature demonstrates that subjective evaluations are lenient and discriminate poorly between good performance levels. This pattern was attributed to biased managers. I show that these effects can occur in optimal contracts without any biased behavior.
J41|Workers' reciprocity and the (ir)relevance of wage cyclicality for the volatility of job creation|In the last two decades advances in the theory of labour market fluctuations have emphasised the role of new hires' wage rigidity - rather than wage rigidity of existing workers - to explain the large volatility of unemployment observed in the data. However, recent evidence suggests that wages paid to newly hired workers are substantially pro-cyclical. By considering the effect that wage changes can have on workers' effort, and therefore on output, this paper provides two novel theoretical results. First, it is shown that the anticipation by firms of the effort response of new hires to wage changes can amplify the magnitude of shocks to the extent that, in contrast with the existing literature, the cyclicality of the hiring wage becomes irrelevant for their decision to hire new workers, and hence for the volatility of job creation. Second, it is shown that firms' expectation of existing workers' downward wage rigidity - and the anticipation of their negative reciprocity response to future wage cuts - does matter for the expected value of posting a new vacancy, and under certain conditions it may even reduce firms' incentive to hire.
J41|A theoretical note on asymmetries in intensity and persistence of reciprocity in labour markets|This paper presents a model that can account for, and explain, two well documented empirical asymmetries characterising a worker's reciprocity: negative reciprocity is both stronger, and more persistent, than positive reciprocity. The stronger intensity of negative reciprocity is driven by the worker being loss averse; the longer persistence is driven by the slower adaptation of the worker to wage changes that are perceived as unfair
J41|Introducing Severance Payment Systems in Japan ——A Proposal for Vacancy Decontrol——| In Japan, the court requires job restoration rather than a severance payment from a firm after it decides that a dismissal has been abusive. This results in a high settlement cost for termination. This paper makes two proposals for introducing severance payments to reduce settlement costs in Japan. The first applies to existing contracts and proposes to specify levels of severance payments that would replace the current job restoration requirement after the court determines that a case is abusive. The second applies to new employees either for a recently vacated position or a new position and proposes vacancy decontrol, which allows firms to set the levels of severance payments freely while also honoring the existing contracts. Within this category, this paper proposes government-assisted vacancy decontrol, a transitional measure, where the government sets a minimum level of statutory severance payment, which is equal to six months of wages for a worker who has worked for 20 years, following the Taiwan precedent. After the need for the transitional measure is dissolved, complete vacancy decontrol should be introduced, abolishing the statutory severance payment. We have proposed that even at this stage, the government should publicly set a default level of the severance payment, which a firm should observe unless an explicit agreement or contract stipulates otherwise. The government should immediately introduce some form of vacancy decontrol for senior workers who have already retired from a regular job.
J41|On the taxing of migrants' earnings while retaining a migrant workforce|We study policies that are aimed at retaining a migrant workforce in a Gulf State while introducing a tax on migrant earnings. We single out Qatar as a case study. We consider two types of migrants: target migrants, and non-target migrants. If migrants are target migrants, we show that in order to neutralize the effect of a tax on their earnings, Qatar needs to extend the length of time migrants are allowed to stay. Such a scheme can work even when the migrants experience utility loss from staying longer in Qatar. If migrants are non-target migrants, we show that implementation of a lottery scheme in which the prizes are life-long residency in Qatar can “compensate” for the imposition of the tax. In both cases, we present numerical examples that illustrate the magnitudes involved.
J41|Will Robots Automate Your Job Away? Full Employment, Basic Income, and Economic Democracy|Will the internet, robotics and artificial intelligence mean a 'jobless future'? A recent narrative says tomorrow's technology will fundamentally differ from cotton mills, steam engines, or washing machines. Automation will be less like post-WW2 demobilisation for soldiers, and more like the car for horses. Driverless vehicles will oust truckers and taxi drivers. Hyper-intelligent clouds will oust financial advisers, doctors, and journalists. We face more 'natural' or 'technological' unemployment than ever. Government, it is said, must enact a basic income, because so many jobs will vanish. Also, maybe robots should become 'electronic persons', the subjects of rights and duties, so they can be taxed. This narrative is endorsed by prominent tech-billionaires, but it is flawed. Everything depends on social policy. Instead of mass unemployment and a basic income, the law can achieve full employment and fair incomes. This article explains three views of the causes of unemployment: as 'natural', as stemming from irrationality or technology, or as caused by laws that let people restrict the supply of capital to the job market. Only the third view has any credible evidence to support it. After WW2, 42% of UK jobs were redundant (actually, not hypothetically) but social policy maintained full employment, and it can be done again. Unemployment is driven by inequality of wealth and of votes in the economy. Democratic governments should reprogramme the law: for full employment and universal fair incomes. The owners of the robots will not automate your job away, if we defend economic democracy.
J41|The Law-Technology Cycle & the Future of Work|Features of the 'fourth industrial revolution', such as platforms, AI and machine learning, pose challenges for the application of regulatory rules, in the area of labour law as elsewhere. However, today's digital technologies have their origins in earlier phases of industrialisation, and do not, in themselves, mark a step change in the evolution of capitalism, which was, and is, characterised by successive waves of creative destruction. The law does not simply respond to technological change; it also facilitates and mediates it. Digitalisation, by permitting the appropriation of collective knowledge, has the capacity to undermine existing forms of regulation, while creating the space for new ones. It may erode the position of some professions while enabling others, complementary to new technologies, to emerge. It is unlikely to bring about the redundancy of forms of labour law regulation centred on the employment relationship. We appear to reaching a point in the law-technology cycle where push-back against regulatory arbitrage can be expected.
J41|Common Ownership Concentration and Corporate Conduct|The question of whether and how partial common-ownership links between strategically interacting firms affect firm behavior has been the subject of theoretical inquiry for decades. Since then, consolidation and increasing concentration in the asset-management industry has led to more pronounced common ownership concentration (CoOCo). Moreover, recent empirical research has provided evidence consistent with the literature's key predictions. The resulting antitrust concerns have received much attention from policy makers worldwide. However, the implications are more general: CoOCo affects the objective function of the firm, and therefore has implications for all subfields of economics studying corporate conduct -- including corporate governance, strategy, industrial organization, and all of financial economics. This article connects the papers establishing the theoretical foundations, reviews the empirical and legal literatures, and discusses challenges and opportunities for future research.
J41|Sanctioning and Trustworthiness across Ethnic Groups: Experimental Evidence from Afghanistan|We show how sanctioning is more effective in increasing cooperation between groups than within groups. We study this using a trust game among ethnically diverse subjects in Afghanistan. In the experiment, we manipulate i) sanctioning and ii) ethnic identity. We find that sanctioning increases trustworthiness in cross-ethnic interactions, but not when applied by a co-ethnic. While we find higher in-group trustworthiness in the absence of sanctioning, the availability and use of the sanction closes this gap. This has important implications for understanding the effect of institutions in developing societies where ethnic identity is salient. Our results suggest that formal institutions for enforcing cooperation are more effective when applied between, rather than within, ethnic groups, due to behavioral differences in how individuals respond to sanctions.
J41|Short-time Work Subsidies in a Matching Model|We consider positive and normative aspects of subsidizing work arrangements where subsidies are paid in time of low demand and reduced working hours so as to stabilize workers’ income. In a matching framework such an arrangement increases labor demand. Tightening eligibility to short-time work benefits tends to reduce the wage while the impact on unemployment remains ambiguous. We develop a modified Hosios condition characterizing an efficient combination of labor market tightness and short-time benefit loss rate.
J41|The Sources of the Union Wage Gap: The Role of Worker, Firm, Match, and Jobtitle Heterogeneity|Using matched employer-employee-contract data for Portugal – a country with near-universal union coverage – we find evidence of a sizable effect of union affiliation on wages. Gelbach's (2016) decomposition procedure is next deployed to ascertain the contributions of worker, firm, match, and job-title heterogeneity to the union wage gap. Of these the most important is the firm fixed effect, followed at some distance by union workers gaining from elevated job titles and/or more generous promotion policies. For its part, unobserved worker quality plays only a very weak role, while there is even less suggestion that improved match quality bolsters the union premium.
J41|Freihandel von Lissabon nach Wladiwostok: wem nutzt, wem schadet ein eurasisches Freihandelsabkommen?|"Der Handel zwischen der EU und Russland ist derzeit durch Sanktionen des Westens gegen Russland und gegenseitige Embargo-Maßnahmen schwer belastet, ohne dass eine sichtbare Veränderung der geostrategischen Ausrichtung Russlands erreicht wurde. Vielleicht erfordert ein Interessensausgleich weniger Strafmaßnahmen, sondern eher die Perspektive auf vertiefte wirtschaftliche Kooperation. Sowohl die EU als auch die Nachfolgestaaten der Sowjetunion sollten großes Interesse an einer Freihandelszone „von Lissabon bis Wladiwostok"" haben, weil die Strukturen ihrer komparativen Vorteile stark komplementär zueinander sind. Für Russland könnte ein tiefgreifendes Abkommen zwischen der EU und der Eurasischen Wirtschaftsgemeinschaft einen Zuwachs der realen Pro-Kopf-Einkommen um 3% bringen; für Deutschland um 0,2%. Das bedeutet ein Einkommenszuwachs von 235 Euro pro Kopf und Jahr für Russland und 91 Euro für Deutschland. Damit könnten Russland und die anderen Länder der ehemaligen Sowjetunion interessante Partner für eine vertiefte wirtschaftliche Zusammenarbeit mit der EU sein. Die EU sollte an einer stabilen wirtschaftlichen Entwicklung in ihrer unmittelbaren Nachbarschaft größtes Interesse haben. Außerdem verspricht die komplementäre Spezialisierungsstruktur dieser Länder substantielle wirtschaftliche Vorteile auch für die EU."
J41|Common-Ownership Concentration and Corporate Conduct|The question of whether and how partial common-ownership links between strategically interacting firms affect firm objectives and behavior has been the subject of theoretical inquiry for decades. Since then, the growth of intermediated asset management and consolidation in the asset-management sector has led to more pronounced common ownership links at the beneficial-owner level. Recent empirical research has provided evidence consistent with the literature’s prediction that common ownership concentration (CoOCo) can affect product market outcomes. The resulting antitrust concerns have received worldwide attention. However, because CoOCo can change the objective function of the firm, the potential implications span all fields of economics that involve corporate conduct, including corporate governance, strategy, industrial organization, and financial economics. This article connects the papers establishing the theoretical foundations, reviews the empirical and legal literatures, and discusses challenges and opportunities for future research.
J41|Common Ownership, Competition, and Top Management Incentives|We show theoretically and empirically that managers have steeper financial incentives to expend effort and reduce costs when an industry’s firms tend to be controlled by shareholders with concentrated stakes in the firm, and relatively few holdings in competitors. A side effect of steep incentives is more aggressive competition. These findings inform a debate about the objective function of the firm.
J41|Strategic Profitâ€“Sharing in a Unionized Differentiated Goods Duopoly|No abstract is available for this item.
J41|Concentration and Other Wage Determinants|This research presents evidence on how the impact of industry concentration and unionism affect the Portuguese wage levels. The influence of employer association is also considered. We use sector information - two-digit level disaggregation of “Classificação das Actividades Económicas” -, and control for other wage determinants, as usually done in earnings functions regressions. Dependent variables are logarithms of the mean sector wages considered for each case. Some statistical distribution indicators are also used to provide possible insights on the impact of skill composition and dispersion - eventually reflecting good assignment of people to jobs and/or tasks - on productivity and, thus, production.
J41|Two-Sided Matching with (Almost) One-Sided Preferences|In a two-sided matching context we show how we can predict stable matchings by considering only one side's preferences and the mutually acceptable pairs of agents. Our methodology consists of identifying impossible matches, i.e., pairs of agents that can never be matched together in a stable matching of any problem consistent with the partial data. We analyze data from the French academic job market for mathematicians and show that the match of about 45 percent of positions (and about 60 percent of candidates) does not depend on the preferences of the hired candidates, unobserved and submitted at the final stage of the market.
J41|Habitual Entrepreneurs in the Making: How Labour Market Rigidity and Employment Affects Entrepreneurial Re-entry|We investigate the impact of country-level labour market regulations on the reentry decision of experienced entrepreneurs, whereby they become habitual entrepreneurs. Multilevel logit models on entry decisions among 15,709 individuals in 29 European countries show that labour market regulations have a positive influence on the decision to reenter into entrepreneurship. This positive impact is stronger among individuals holding wage jobs at the time of re-entry compared to those that do not. Our results indicate that novice and habitual entrepreneurs may respond very differently to labour market rigidity. We discuss and provide tentative explanations for these differences, and outline potential policy implications.
J41|"Insurance-markets Equilibrium with a Non-convex Labor Supply decision, Unobservable Effort, and Efficiency Wages of the ""No-shirking"" Type"|"The purpose of this paper is to describe the lottery- and insurance-market equilibrium in an economy with non-convex labor supply decision, unobservable effort, and efficiency wages of the no-shirking type a la Shapiro and Stiglitz (1984). The presence of indivisible labor creates a market incompleteness, which requires that an insurance market for (un)employment be put in operation to ""complete"" the market."
J41|Industrial relations reform, firm-level bargaining and nominal wage floors|Decentralised bargaining is an important wage setting mechanism that promotes wage flexibility which in turn determines how earnings and employment are affected by economic shocks. We investigate the impact of the 2011 industrial relations reform in Greece that allowed firms with less than 50 employees to participate in firm-level bargaining. Matching administrative contractual data with longitudinal firm-level data we identify treated and non-treated firms. We find that during the first post-reform year, treated firms with less than 50 employees experienced a 4.8 percent increase in firm-level bargaining and a 12 percent drop in wage floors relative to non-treated firms. We also document a positive employment impact.
J41|Labour contracts and stepping-stone effect in Italy: A multinomial analysis|Do short-term contracts facilitate the transition to permanent contracts? The authors use a rich administrative database for Italy to run a stepping stone analysis and evaluate which contractual agreements have more chances to lead to a permanent working position. They find that individual specific characteristics make it more likely for a worker to be employed with a specific contractual agreement and that the contribution toward more working stability varies with the previous contract. The authors conclude that fixed term positions act more as stumbling blocks than building blocks for open-ended contracts.
J41|Welche Kriterien befördern den Aufstieg auf internen Karriereleitern? Eine empirische Untersuchung auf Basis des IW-Personalpanels|Eine Auswertung der 16ten Welle des IW-Personalpanels aus dem Jahr 2017 dokumentiert die Verbreitung von internen Karriereleitern. In fast jedem zweiten Unternehmen wurden die zuletzt vakanten Führungspositionen ausschließlich aus den eigenen Reihen besetzt. In weiteren drei von zehn Betrieben fiel die Wahl neben internen auch auf externe Kandidaten. Besonders Unternehmen mit 250 und mehr Beschäftigten nutzen ihre internen Arbeitsmärkte zur Auswahl von Führungskräften - nur lediglich 3 Prozent der großen Unternehmen besetzen Führungspositionen ausschließlich extern. Für drei Viertel der Unternehmen sind die persönlichen und die fachlichen Kompetenzen sehr wichtige Auswahlkriterien für die Besetzung von Führungspositionen. Die bisher erbrachten Leistungen haben für 55 Prozent ein sehr hohes Gewicht bei der Besetzungsentscheidung. In vier von zehn Unternehmen sind Kompetenzen und bisherige Leistungen gleichermaßen von hoher Bedeutung. In größeren Unternehmen, in denen Führungskräfte häufiger reine Managementaufgaben wahrnehmen, sind persönliche Kompetenzen wie die Kommunikationsfähigkeit oder Durchsetzungsstärke deutlich häufiger für die Beförderungsentscheidungen sehr wichtig. In kleinen Unternehmen, in denen Führungskräfte stärker operativ eingebunden sind, ist dagegen die fachliche Kompetenz wichtiger als in den großen Unternehmen. [...]
J41|"""Mismatch"" in the labor market and inflation: An integrative model with lessons from the Spanish experience"|The Great Recession (2009/10) resulted in the need of different economic policies and structural reforms to boost economic growth both in the advanced and in the emerging economies. In this paper, we start from a theoretical concept that is relatively new - the modified output gap (MOG), based on both the Phillips and the Beveridge curve, initially introduced by Sell and Reinisch (2013) and Sell (2016), revealing the explicit positive relationship between the vacancy ratio on the one hand and the inflation rate on the other hand. Empirically, we estimate this relationship by developing three different panel data models: Fixed Effects (FE), Random Effects (RE) and a GMM System (Generalized Method of Moments). The obtained results show that the loss in the efficiency of matching in the labor market combined with an increase in the demand in the markets for goods and services will push up inflation. We show the empirical relevance of the modified output gap for Spain during the Great Recession and explain how it affected the implementation of the economic stimulus plan that was introduced by the then socialist government in Spain with the aim of boosting the economy.
J41|"From the ""planning euphoria"" to the ""bitter economic truth"": The transmission of economic ideas into German labour market policies in the 1960s and 2000s"|This paper compares the interconnections between dominant economic thought and processes of policy-making in the area of labour market reforms in Germany in the late 1960s and the early 2000s. The transition in labour market policies in this period could be described as a change from an active to an activating approach. At the level of economic discourse these policy changes correspond to a paradigm shift from Keynesian to neoclassical/neoliberal economic thought. We investigated these changes by focussing on two distinct reforms of labour market policies and carried out a critical discourse analysis of the relevant public and academic discourse of economists. We find that the paradigm shift in economic thought was accompanied by a shift in economists' discourses on labour market policy issues.
J41|A Real-Business-Cycle Model with Reciprocity in Labor Relations and Fiscal Policy: The Case of Bulgaria|In this paper we introduce reciprocity in labor relations and government sector to investigate how well the real wage rigidity that results out of that arrangement explains business cycle fluctuations in Bulgaria. The reciprocity mechanism described in this paper follows Danthine and Kurmann (2010) and is generally consistent with micro-studies, e.g. Lozev et all. (2011) and Paskaleva (2016), while at the same time comes into contrast with models with efficiency wages of no-shirking type that emphasize the importance of aggregate labor market conditions as the main determinant in wage setting, e.g. Vasilev (2017). Rent-sharing considerations, and worker's own past wages turn out to be the most important aspects of how labor contracting happens. In contrast, aggregate economic conditions, as captured by the employment rate, are not found to be quantitatively important for wage dynamics. Overall, the model with reciprocity and fiscal policy performs well vis-a-vis data, especially along the labor market dimension, and in addition dominates the market-clearing labor market framework featured in the standard RBC model, e.g Vasilev (2009).
J41|Aggregation With A Non Convex Labour Supply Decision Unobservable Effort And Reciprocity Gift Exchange In Labor Relations|The purpose of this note is to explore the problem of non convex labour supply decision in an economy with reciprocity in labour relations gift exchange a la Danthine and Kurmann 2010 and explicitly perform the aggregation presented in Vasilev 2017 without a formal proof and thus provide starting from micro foundations the derivation of the expected utility functions used for the aggregate household We show how lotteries as in Rogerson 1988 can be used to convexify consumption sets and aggregate over individual preferences With a discrete labour supply decisions the elasticity of aggregate labour supply increases from unity to infinity
J41|"Aggregation with non-convex labor supply decision, unobservable effort, and reciprocity (""gift exchange"") in labor relations"|"The purpose of this note is to explore the problem of non-convex labor supply decision in an economy with reciprocity in labor relations (""gift exchange"") a la Danthine and Kurmann (2010), and explicitly perform the aggregation presented in Vasilev (2017) without a formal proof, and thus provide - starting from micro-foundations - the derivation of the expected utility functions used for the aggregate household. We show how lotteries as in Rogerson (1988) can be used to convexify consumption sets, and aggregate over individual preferences. With a discrete labor supply decisions, the elasticity of aggregate labor supply increases from unity to infinity."
J41|Aggregation with non-convex labor supply, unobservable effort, and efficiency wages of the no-shirking type|The purpose of this note is to explore the problem of non-convex labor supply decision in an economy with imperfect observability of work effort, and the need to use efficiency wages to prevent shirking as in Shapiro and Stiglitz (1984). In addition, the paper and explicitly performs the aggregation presented in Vasilev (2017) without a formal proof, and thus provide - starting from micro-foundations - the derivation of the expected utility functions used for the aggregate household. We show how lotteries as in Rogerson (1988) can be used to convexify consumption sets, and aggregate over individual preferences. With a discrete labor supply decisions, the elasticity of aggregate labor supply increases from unity to infinity.
J41|Should the Maximum Duration of Fixed-Term Contracts Increase in Recessions? Evidence from a Law Reform|Fixed-term contracts (FTCs) may be an important tool to promote hirings and employment, particularly in recessions or when permanent contracts are costly. Therefore, it may be useful to let some of the legal parameters of FTCs (as well as those of other labour market institutions) vary systematically over the business cycle, namely increasing their flexibility during downturns. We evaluate this idea by examining the short-term effects of a new law introduced in Portugal, in the midst of a recession, which increased the maximum duration of FTCs from three to four and a half years. Our analysis is based on regression-discontinuity (and difference-in-differences) methods, applied to matched panel data. We find a considerable take up of this measure, as conversions to permanent contracts drop by 20%. Moreover, while we do not detect significant effects on employment status in the subsequent year, worker churning is reduced significantly, as mobility of eligible fixed-term workers to other firms drops by 10%.
J41|Sources of the Union Wage Gap: Results from High-Dimensional Fixed Effects Regression Models|We estimate the impact of union density on wages using matched employer-employee contract data for Portugal. We extend omitted variable bias decomposition procedure of Gelbach (2016) to obtain the contribution of worker, firm, and job-title heterogeneity to the union wage premium. The principal result is the dominance of the allocation or workers among firms with different wage policies. The unobserved skills of union workers have a modest impact on wages; unions do not place their members into higher job-titles along the job career hierarchy; the wage cushion enables firms to partially undo the bargained wage; and, while fringes matter, matching does not.
J41|History dependence in wages and cyclical selection: Evidence from Germany|Using employer-employee data from Germany, this paper analyzes the relationship between wages and past and contemporaneous labor market conditions. Specifically, we test the implications of implicit contract models (Beaudry and DiNardo, 1991) and an on-the-job search model (Hagedorn and Manovskii, 2013) for the wage formation of different worker types over the business cycle. The results are mixed: On the one hand, the data suggest that wages depend on labor market conditions when a match is formed - as contract theories postulate. On the other hand, past labor market conditions also affect contemporaneous wages through the evolution of match quality over a worker's job history - the main hypothesis of the on-the-job-search model. Using cyclical variation in labor market tightness to control for match quality, as in Hagedorn and Manovskii (2013), we find that previous evidence for the excess wage cyclicality of job changers can be entirely explained by cyclical variation of match quality. Refining the selection model by taking into account occupational mobility within employer-employee matches, we also find no excess wage cyclicality for new hires from unemployment - the key worker type's wage for understanding unemployment fluctuations in matching models.
J41|On the distributional effects of minimum wages: A note|In this note, we recall that unions traditionally pursue a policy of pushing higher average wages and, at the same time, for a compression of the structure of wages and salaries, which is some sort of equity. Given the precipitous fall of union density in many, if not all, OECD countries, the actual good climate for minimum wage policy comes at no surprise. Despite the fact that unions do dislike the intervention of labor market policy to the detriment of tariff autonomy, we can show that minimum wages are capable of serving both of the above-mentioned goals of unions and also help increase the overall wage quota in the economy. Hence, It can be concluded that the unions have a double dividend when inviting policy makers to pursue a policy of minimum wages: both the average wage rate can be increased and the dispersion of wages be lowered, ceteris paribus.
J41|Wage flexibility of older workers and the role of institutions - evidence from the German LIAB data set|High and rigid wages are a threat for employment, especially for older workers. While wage levels of job stayers in many countries are not decreasing in late working life, little is known about the evolution of wage flexibility over the lifecycle. Using the German LIAB data set, this paper investigates the age pattern of wage flexibility with respect to permanent and transitory shocks to firm productivity. Works councils are found to have an important effect on wage flexibility of older workers.
J41|Peer Effects in the Workplace|Existing evidence on peer effects in the productivity of coworkers stems from either laboratory experiments or real-world studies referring to a specific firm or occupation. In this paper, we aim at providing more generalizable results by investigating a large local labor market, with a focus on peer effects in wages rather than productivity. Our estimation strategy--which links the average permanent productivity of workers' peers to their wages--circumvents the reflection problem and accounts for endogenous sorting of workers into peer groups and firms. On average over all occupations, and in the type of high-skilled occupations investigated in studies on knowledge spillover, we find only small peer effects in wages. In the type of low-skilled occupations analyzed in extant studies on social pressure, in contrast, we find larger peer effects, about one-half the size of those identified in similar studies on productivity.
J41|The Extent of Rent Sharing along the Wage Distribution|The relation between rent sharing and wages has generally been evaluated on average wages. This paper uses a unique employer-employee panel database to investigate the extent of rent sharing along the wage distribution in Italy. We apply quantile regression techniques and control for national level bargaining, unobserved worker and firm heterogeneity and endogeneity. Our findings show that the extent of rent-sharing decreases along the wage distribution, suggesting that unskilled workers benefit most from firms’ rents. By applying quantile regressions by occupational categories, we show that the decreasing pattern is mainly driven by blue collar workers, while estimates for white collars are higher and basically constant along the wage distribution. We also provide evidence that unions might represent one of the driver of our findings.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J41|Recent developments of Italy’s industrial relations system|The article reviews the recent developments of Italy’s industrial relations system, covering both bargaining rules and outcomes. An increasing fragmentation is observable in collective bargaining at the national level, with the spread of new agreements amongst small and recently created associations of workers and employers, leading to lower labor costs. The role of decentralized bargaining has remained secondary and subordinate to the provisions decided at the national level, although several - gradually more generous tax breaks have been introduced in order to encourage the diffusion of firm-level wages. Giving decentralized bargaining a greater role in setting wages and in labour organization would allow for a better alignment of wage growth and increases in productivity, relaxing some of the rigidity in national bargaining, especially in terms of the duration of agreements and of the automatic indexing mechanisms, which risk making inflation more persistent.
J41|Bargaining with renegotiation in models with on-the-job search|This paper studies renegotiation in models with on-the-job search, with an application to minimum wages. My formulation nests earlier models in the literature as limit cases when the frequency of renegotiation goes to zero or infinity. The equilibrium wage distribution and the bargaining outcomes are unique. When there is a strong response of turnover to a wage increase, firms accept higher wages, which increases the share of the surplus captured by the worker. Turnover responds more to wages when marginally better job offers arrive more frequently, and when renegotiation occurs less frequently. A minimum wage increase leads to a higher density of jobs at the minimum wage. This can spread up the wage distribution, as the increased density provides a motive for firms to accept higher wages in order to reduce turnover. However, this effect depends crucially on the frequency of renegotiation being low.
J41|The Effects of Youth Labor Market Reforms: Evidence from Italian Apprenticeships|"This paper estimates the causal effects of the 2003 reform of the Italian apprenticeship contract which aimed at introducing the ""dual system"" in Italy by allowing on-the-job training. The reform also increased the age eligibility of the apprenticeship contract and introduced a minimum floor to apprentices' wages. Using administrative data and balancing techniques we find that five years after hiring, the new contract improves the chances of moving to a permanent job in the same firm, yet this happens mostly in large firms. There are also sizeable long-run wage effects of the reform, well beyond the legal duration of apprenticeships, compatible with increased human capital accumulation probably due to the training provisions of the reform."
J41|The Optimal Duration of Contracts|We study the optimal duration of contracts in a principal-agent framework with both moral hazard and adverse selection. Agents decide on a contract-specific and non-verifiable investment. Incentive compatibility requires that initial contracts, which serve to screen the ability of newly hired agents, cannot be longer than continuation contracts, offered to successful agents. Initial contracts remain unpaid unless service quality is unobservable to other agents and the share of high-ability agents is high. Optimal durations depend, in non-monotonic ways, on the principal’s ow valuation of the agent’s service and the share of high-ability agents.
J41|Different Strokes for Different Folks: Experimental Evidence on the Effectiveness of Input and Output Incentive Contracts for Health Care Providers with Different Levels of Skills|A central issue in designing performance incentive contracts is whether to reward the production of outputs versus use of inputs: the former rewards efficiency and innovation in production, while the latter imposes less risk on agents. Agents with varying levels of skill may perform better under different contractual bases as well—more skilled workers may be better able to innovate, for example. We study these issues empirically through an experiment enabling us to observe and verify outputs (health outcomes) and inputs (guideline adherence) in Indian maternity care. We find that both output and input incentive contracts achieved comparable reductions in post-partum hemorrhage (PPH) rates, the dimension of maternity care most sensitive to provider behavior and the largest cause of maternal mortality. Interestingly, and in line with the theory, providers with advanced qualifications performed better and used new health delivery strategies under output incentives, while providers with and without advanced qualifications performed equally under input incentives.
J41|Loss aversion and the quantity–quality tradeoff|Abstract Firms face an optimization problem that requires a maximal quantity output given a quality constraint. But how do firms incentivize quantity and quality to meet these dual goals, and what role do behavioral factors, such as loss aversion, play in the tradeoffs workers face? We address these questions with a theoretical model and an experiment in which participants are paid for both quantity and quality of a real effort task. Consistent with basic economic theory, higher quality incentives encourage participants to shift their attention from quantity to quality. However, we also find that loss averse participants shift their attention from quality to quantity to a greater degree when quality is weakly incentivized. These results can inform managers of appropriate ways to structure contracts, and suggest benefits to personalizing contracts based on individual behavioral characteristics.
J41|Wage Dynamics and Financial Performance: Evidence from Czech Firms|This paper examines how the financial performance of a firm affects its wage policy. For this purpose, we match data on Czech firms from the Wage Dynamics Network survey covering the period 2010-2013 with balance sheet data. Controlling for a number of firm-specific characteristics and the environment in which firms operate, we find that financial performance matters for wage setting: contractual wages are more likely to grow in firms with a higher ratio of cash flow to total assets and in firms that invest more. Conversely, firms that froze or cut contractual wages during the survey period had lower cash flow over total assets, but not necessarily a lower investment ratio. The flexible wage component exhibits a similar pattern, but is more sensitive to demand shocks and firms' financial conditions.
J41|Los trabajadores colombianos carecen de derechos sociales|"El trabajo informal en Colombia es muy alto para los estándares de la región. Se trata de tra-bajadores cuya inserción económica no está atada a la seguridad social. Ahora, el gobierno pretende poner a tributar a esos sectores con la creación del monotributo, pero es difícil exigirle impuestos a una población que carece de derechos sociales: la tributación es un contrato social. La inseguridad económica y social ha obligado a las familias a volverse unidades económicas y asumir la protección social, sin embargo, ello tiene efectos sobre la configuración del mundo social que están por estudiarse. ****** Informal work in Colombia is very high compared to the standards of the region. These are workers whose economic insertion is not tied to social security. Now the government intends to tax these sectors by creating the ""monotributo"" (single tax), though it is difficult to impose taxes on a population that lacks social rights: taxation is a social contract. Economic and social inse-curity has forced families to become economic units and to assume social protection. This off course has effects on the configuration of society, and thus should be studied."
J41|Desigualdad en México bajo el enfoque de una Economía de Mercado Jerárquica (EMJ)|No abstract is available for this item.
J41|The Effects of Youth Labor Market Reforms: Evidence from Italian Apprenticeships|This paper estimates the causal effects of the 2003 reform of the Italian apprenticeship contract which aimed at introducing the “dual system” in Italy by allowing on-the-job training. The reform also increased the age eligibility of the apprenticeship contract and introduced a minimum floor to apprentices’ wages. Using administrative data and balancing techniques we find that five years after hiring, the new contract improves the chances of moving to a permanent job in the same firm, yet this happens mostly in large firms. There are also sizeable long-run wage effects of the reform, well beyond the legal duration of apprenticeships, compatible with increased human capital accumulation probably due to the training provisions of the reform.
J41|The Political Economics of Growth, Labor Control and Coercion: Evidence from a Suffrage Reform|In this paper, we analyze how a suffrage reform in 1862/63 that shifted the de jure distribution of political power from landowners to industrialists affected Sweden’s industrialization and economic and social development from the 1860s to the 1910s. Using a newly constructed, comprehensive historical data set of the universe of approximately 2,400 Swedish local governments, we document that the change in suffrage affected a very large number of development and social outcomes at the local level, such as labor coercion, factor price manipulation in the form of entry barriers including investments in local public goods (i.e., schooling) and transportation (i.e., local railways), the real wage structure, technology adoption in both agriculture and industry, labor productivity in both agriculture and industry, changes in the composition of employment and the structure of production, demographic transition, organized labor, and persistence in dysfunctional local political institutions. Our findings are consistent with the idea that political institutions are a key determinant of long-run development and growth. Specifically, our results suggest that politically powerful landowners can block economic development using labor coercion and factor price manipulation, i.e., using entry barriers and other distortionary policies.
J41|Match Quality, Contractual Sorting and Wage Cyclicality|"This paper studies the role of match quality for contractual arrangements, wage dynamics and workers’ retention. We develop a model in which profit maximizing firms offer a performance-based pay arrangement to retain workers with relatively high match-specific productivity. The key implications of our model hold in data from the NLSY79, where information about job histories and performance pay is available. We relate our findings to the literature on occupation heterogeneity and provide evidence that jobs in ""cognitive"" occupations have better match quality, exhibit higher prevalence of performance pay, display significant sensitivity of wages to business cycle conditions and last longer."
J41|Job Market Signaling through Occupational Licensing|A large literature demonstrates that occupational licensing is a labor market friction that distorts labor supply allocation and prices. We show that an occupational license serves as a job market signal, similar to education. In the presence of occupational licensing, we find evidence that firms rely less on observable characteristics such as race and gender in determining employee wages. As a result, licensed minorities and women experience smaller wage gaps than their unlicensed peers.
J41|The Structure of the Wage Gap for Temporary Workers: Evidence from Australian Panel Data|This study uses panel data for Australia from the HILDA Survey to estimate the wage differential between workers in temporary jobs and workers in permanent jobs. Specifically, unconditional quantile regression methods with fixed effects are used to examine how this gap varies over the entire wages distribution. While fixed-term contract workers are on rates of pay that are similar to permanent workers, low-paid casual workers experience a wage penalty and high-paid casual workers a wage premium compared to their permanent counterparts. Finally, temporary agency workers usually receive a wage premium, which is particularly large for the most well paid.
J41|Temporary Employment Boom in Poland: A Job Quality vs. Quantity Trade-off?|Between 2002 and 2015, temporary employment in Poland more than doubled. Poland became the country with the highest share of temporary jobs in the EU. In this paper, we study how this process affected job quality and job quantity. We analyse the gaps between temporary and permanent workers in six dimensions of jobs quality, adopting measures proposed by the OECD and Eurofound. Of these gaps, the differences in earnings quality, job security, and work scheduling quality were the most pronounced. Job quality has improved for both groups of workers, but the gaps have not closed completely. Firms in Poland prefer to employ temporary rather than permanent workers because of the lower firing costs, tax wedges, and wages associated with temporary contracts. We use a stylised labour demand model to quantify the upper bound of a potential job creation effect due to lower labour costs incurred through the use of temporary contracts. We find that this effect did not exceed 4% of dependent employment in 2015. We cannot rule out the possibility that the net employment effect was zero. Our findings show that even if the availability of less-costly temporary contracts caused some additional jobs to be created, temporary workers suffered from lower job quality in several dimensions.
J41|Recent Developments in the Irish Labour Market: Is It All Good News?|Across many countries, the rise of atypical work has been noted whereby employees are increasingly in less secure contractual situations. While this might lead to more flexible labour markets, there are potential downsides for individuals. We explore the prevalence of atypical work in Ireland which provides a fascinating case-study. Ireland experienced a dramatic deterioration in its labour market around the Great Recession with unemployment rising from 4.8 percent in 2007 to 15 percent in 2012. This situation was also reversed somewhat quickly with unemployment falling to 8 percent by 2016. Such dramatic swings provide the context in which we explore whether atypical work increased for new job holders with the onset of recession and whether or not this weakened as the economy recovered. We find that atypical work did increase with the recession and, although moderating, the likelihood of new jobs being atypical persisted into the recovery. This raises important questions about whether economic recovery alone will improve job quality, in addition to jobs numbers.
J41|The Structure of the Wage Gap for Temporary Workers: Evidence from Australian Panel Data|This study uses panel data for Australia to estimate the wage differential between workers in temporary jobs and workers in permanent jobs. It is the first study to use unconditional quantile regression methods in combination with fixed effects to examine how this gap varies over the entire wage distribution. While the wages of fixed‐term contract workers are found to be similar to those of permanent workers, low‐paid casual workers experience a wage penalty and high‐paid casual workers a wage premium compared to their permanent counterparts. Temporary agency workers also usually receive a wage premium, which is particularly large for the most well paid.
J41|Contingent Employment and Labour Market Pathways: Bridge or Trap?|The debate over whether contingent (and typically more precarious) employment acts as a bridge to permanent employment, or as a trap, has tended to focus on transitions rather than longer-run pathways. This approach cannot accurately identify indirect pathways from contingent to permanent employment, and nor can it identify 'trap' pathways involving short spells in other states. It also fails to distinguish between those experiencing contingent employment as a 'blip' and those with longer spells. This article employs a different approach involving sequence analysis. Exploiting longitudinal data for Australian, evidence for the co-existence of pathways that correspond to 'bridge' and 'trap' characterisations of contingent employment is found. Further, in the case of casual employment these two types of labour market pathways are roughly equally prevalent, although for some groups – in particular women, those with low educational attainment, and those with a disability – 'traps' are more likely than 'bridges'.
J41|Worker Overconfidence: Field Evidence and Implications for Employee Turnover and Returns from Training|Combining weekly productivity data with weekly productivity beliefs for a large sample of truckers over two years, we show that workers tend to systematically and persistently over-predict their productivity. If workers are overconfident about their own productivity at the current firm relative to their outside option, they should be less likely to quit. Empirically, all else equal, having higher productivity beliefs is associated with an employee being less likely to quit. To study the implications of overconfidence for worker welfare and firm profits, we estimate a structural learning model with biased beliefs that accounts for many key features of the data. While worker overconfidence moderately decreases worker welfare, it also substantially increases firm profits. This may be critical for firms (such as the main one we study) that make large initial investments in worker training.
J41|Training Contracts, Employee Turnover, and the Returns from Firm-sponsored General Training|Firms may be reluctant to provide general training if workers can quit and use their gained skills elsewhere. “Training contracts” that impose a penalty for premature quitting can help alleviate this inefficiency. Using plausibly exogenous contractual variation from a leading trucking firm, we show that two training contracts significantly reduced post-training quitting, particularly when workers are approaching the end of their contracts. Simulating a structural model, we show that observed worker quit behavior exhibits aspects of optimization (for one of the two contracts), and that the contracts increased firm profits from training and reduced worker welfare relative to no contract.
J41|The Unemployment Insurance Taxable Wage Base Mystery|Unemployment insurance experts lament the low Federal taxable wage base (TWB), last increased to $7000 per worker in 1982. The Federal TWB sets only a system minimum and by 2014 all but two states had TWBs that exceeded the minimum, opening up state TWB choice for study. States do align TWB with state payroll earnings. Indeed TWB/WAGE ratios within states have been remarkably stable for decades, though the ratio varies dramatically across states. Critics seem especially concerned about the tax regressivity of low TWBs, but the hypothesis that more progressive states choose less regressive (higher) TWBs is flatly rejected by the data. Earlier UI analysts focused on employer insurance equity, and the resistance of low cost, high-wage (stable) employers to subsidizing high cost, low-wage (unstable) employers. These analysts provided convincing evidence that (i) employers believed this to be the key issue, and (ii) the TWB did redistribute the insurance premium burden in the hypothesized direction. Across states – wage levels constant – economies characterized by greater income inequality and a preponderance of large (low turnover) firms are associated with lower TWBs. Apparently critics were right to imagine a link between wages and the TWB, but ignored the fact that this matching could be done better across location.
J41|Network effects on labor contracts of internal migrants in China: a spatial autoregressive model|Abstract This paper studies the fact that 37% of the internal migrants in China do not sign a labor contract with their employers, as revealed in a nationwide survey. These contract-free jobs pay lower hourly wages, require longer weekly work hours, and provide less insurance or on-the-job training than regular jobs with contracts. We find that the co-villager networks play an important role in a migrant’s decision on whether to accept such insecure and irregular jobs. By employing a comprehensive nationwide survey in 2011 in the spatial autoregressive logit model, we show that the common behavior of not signing contracts in the co-villager network increases the probability that a migrant accepts a contract-free job. We provide three possible explanations on how networks influence migrants’ contract decisions: job referral mechanism, limited information on contract benefits, and the “mini-labor union” formed among co-villagers, which substitutes for a formal contract. In the subsample analysis, we also find that the effects are larger for migrants whose jobs were introduced by their co-villagers, male migrants, migrants with rural Hukou, short-term migrants, and less educated migrants. The heterogeneous effects for migrants of different employer types, industries, and home provinces provide policy implications.
J41|Temporary employment boom in Poland – a job quality vs. quantity trade-off?|Between 2002 and 2015, temporary employment in Poland more than doubled. Poland became the country with the highest share of temporary jobs in the EU. In this paper we study this process from the job quality vs. job quantity perspective. We analyse gaps between temporary and permanent workers in six dimensions of jobs quality, adopting measures proposed by the OECD and Eurofound. The gaps in earnings quality, job security and work scheduling quality were the most pronounced. Job quality has improved for both groups of workers but the gaps have not closed completely. Firms in Poland prefer temporary contracts because of lower firing cost, tax wedge and wages. We use a stylised labour demand model to quantify the upper bound of a potential job creation effect due to lower labour costs incurred by temporary contracts. We find that this effect doesn’t exceed 4% of dependent employment in 2015. We cannot rule out that the net employment effect was 0. Our findings show that even if cheaper, temporary contracts might have induced some job creation, workers suffered from lower job quality in several dimensions.
J41|Law and economics of training: a taxonomy of the main legal and institutional tools addressing suboptimal investments in human capital development|Abstract Economic literature has widely acknowledged the growing role of firm training in the knowledge economy. Training fosters labour productivity, boosts competitiveness, and strengthens firms’ capacity to innovate. This key role of training, however, raises relevant issues in terms of the optimal level of the corresponding investment. In fact firms that bear training costs may not be able to fully appropriate the relevant benefits. In addition training may facilitate structural changes and stimulate growth nationwide. Efficiency reasons thus justify the existence of legal and/or institutional tools, either voluntary or mandatory, aimed at addressing suboptimal investments in human capital development. The purpose of this study is to draw a systematic taxonomy of the main legal and institutional devices able to address the underlying inefficiencies of training investments. Training is on the top of the political agenda in many countries. The European Union is committed to increase adults’ participation in lifelong learning and to improve the quality of training programs and institutions. However, while training is of increasing political interest, a proper tool-box for policy makers is still missing.
J41|Countercyclical Endogenous Uncertainty Shocks, Efficiency Wages and Procyclical Precautionary Labor Productivity|This work introduces a new mechanism generating procyclical comovements of labor productivity, employment, through endogenous variations of workers’ effort, in a simple model with efficiency wages, near a locally indeterminate steady state. A current endogenous countercyclical uncertainty shock makes risk averse workers more willing to provide imperfectly monitored “precautionary effort” by increasing their expected utility gain of not shirking. If workers’ relative prudence is small and decreasing fast near the steady state, firms’ efficiency wage contracts generate significant endogenous procyclical variations of effort, employment and labor productivity, in particular when the capital-efficient labor elasticity of substitution is smaller than and close to 1.
J41|Prison Work Programs in a Model of Deterrence|This article considers the social desirability of prison work programs in a model in which the function of imprisonment is to deter crime. Two types of prison work programs are studied—voluntary ones and mandatory ones. A voluntary work program is socially beneficial: if prisoners are paid a wage that just compensates them for their disutility from work, the deterrent effect of the prison sentence is unaffected, but society obtains the product of the work program. But a mandatory work program is superior to a voluntary work program: if prisoners are forced to work without compensation, the deterrent effect of the prison sentence rises, allowing society to restore deterrence and save resources by reducing the probability of detection or the sentence length, and also to obtain greater output than under the optimal voluntary work program. In an extension of the basic analysis, however, in which prisoners vary in their disutility from work, a voluntary work program may be superior to a mandatory work program because prisoners with relatively high disutility from work can elect not to work.
J41|When No Bad Deed Goes Punished: Relational Contracting in Ghana versus the UK|Experimental evidence to date supports the double theoretical prediction that parties transacting repeatedly punish bad contractual performance by reducing future offers, and that the threat of punishment disciplines opportunistic breach. We conduct a repeated gift-exchange experiment with university students in Ghana and the UK. The experiment is framed as an employment contract. Each period the employer makes an irrevocable wage offer to the worker who then chooses an effort level. UK subjects behave in line with theoretical predictions and previous experiments: wage offers reward high effort and punish low effort; this induces workers to choose high effort; and gains from trade are shared between workers and employers. We do not find such evidence among Ghanaian subjects: employers do not reduce wage offers after low effort; workers often choose low effort; and employers earn zero payoffs on average. These results also hold if we use a strategy method to elicit wage offers. Introducing competition or reputation does not significantly improve workers' effort. Using a structural bounds approach, we find that the share of selfish workers in Ghana is not substantially different from the UK or earlier experiments. We conclude that strategic punishment in repeated labor transactions is not a universally shared heuristic.
J41|Worker Overconfidence: Field Evidence and Implications for Employee Turnover and Returns from Training|Combining weekly productivity data with weekly productivity beliefs for a large sample of truckers over two years, we show that workers tend to systematically and persistently over-predict their productivity. If workers are overconfident about their own productivity at the current firm relative to their outside option, they should be less likely to quit. Empirically, all else equal, having higher productivity beliefs is associated with an employee being less likely to quit. To study the implications of overconfidence for worker welfare and firm profits, we estimate a structural learning model with biased beliefs that ac-counts for many key features of the data. While worker overconfidence moderately decreases worker welfare, it also substantially increases firm profits. This may be critical for firms (such as the main one we study) that make large initial investments in worker training.
J41|Training Contracts, Employee Turnover, and the Returns from Firm-Sponsored General Training|"Firms may be reluctant to provide general training if workers can quit and use their gained skills elsewhere. ""Training contracts"" that impose a penalty for premature quitting can help alleviate this inefficiency. Using plausibly exogenous contractual variation from a leading trucking firm, we show that two training contracts significantly reduced post-training quitting, particularly when workers are approaching the end of their contracts. Simulating a structural model, we show that observed worker quit behavior exhibits aspects of optimization (for one of the two contracts), and that the contracts increased firm profits from training and reduced worker welfare relative to no contract."
J41|Uber vs. Taxi: A Driver’s Eye View|Ride-hailing drivers pay a proportion of their fares to the ride-hailing platform operator, a commission-based compensation model used by many internet-mediated service providers. To Uber drivers, this commission is known as the Uber fee. By contrast, traditional taxi drivers in most US cities make a fixed payment independent of their earnings, usually a weekly or daily medallion lease, but keep every fare dollar net of expenses. We assess these compensation models from a driver’s point of view using an experiment that offered random samples of Boston Uber drivers opportunities to lease a virtual taxi medallion that eliminates the Uber fee. Some drivers were offered a negative fee. Drivers’ labor supply response to our offers reveals a large intertemporal substitution elasticity, on the order of 1.2. At the same time, our virtual lease program was under-subscribed: many drivers who would have benefitted from buying an inexpensive lease chose to opt out. We use these results to compute the average compensation required to make drivers indifferent between ride-hailing and a traditional taxi compensation contract. The results suggest that ride-hailing drivers gain considerably from the opportunity to drive without leasing.
J41|Manipulating the Constraints: hard debt, efficiency wages, and union rents|Several papers have argued that firms can hide profits from unions with hard debt commitments. Alternatively, here we argue that unions can manipulate the non-shirking constraint and win higher efficiency wages. By creating a culture of mistrust and an opposition to supervision ex ante, unions can ensure higher wages ex post. This resistance to monitoring, nevertheless, leads to deadweight losses. In the absence of debt, it is shown that a sufficiently strong union will opt to minimise monitoring costs because the non-shirking constraint will no longer bind.
J41|The Impact of the 2012 Spanish Labour Market Reform on Unemployment Inflows and Outflows: a Regression Discontinuity Analysis using Duration Models|This paper studies the impact of the 2012 Spanish labour market reform on the probability of exiting and entering unemployment using a regression discontinuity approach based on duration models. The 2012 reform modified important aspects of hiring and dismissal procedures in Spain and, by doing that, affected the probability of exiting both unemployment and employment. Comparing labour market performance before and after February 2012 and using a competing risk duration model for the exit from both unemployment and employment, we find that the reform has helped employment creation in two ways. First, it has increased the likelihood of exiting from unemployment to employment. Secondly, it has reduced the probability of dismissal for workers on a temporary contract.
J41|Decentralized Bargaining and the Greek Labour Relations Reform (Law 4024/2011)|We investigate decentralized collective bargaining in Greece (2002-2016) under the industrial relations reform implemented in 2011. We match administrative data on firm-level contracts with non-participating firms to estimate determinants of decentralized bargaining before and after the reform. Decentralized bargaining increased in the post-reform period depending on firm size, industry and location. Nominal wage floors downgraded after 2011 in contacts signed by association of persons rather than trade unions. A base wage premium of 22 percent is found in favour of trade unions. Firm-level bargaining with trade unions is expected to promote decentralized bargaining with outcomes linked to firm-specific characteristics.
J41|Decentralized Bargaining and the Greek Labour Relations Reform (Law 4024/2011)|We investigate decentralized collective bargaining in Greece (2002-2016) under the industrial relations reform implemented in 2011. We match administrative data on firm-level contracts with non-participating firms to estimate determinants of decentralized bargaining before and after the reform. Decentralized bargaining increased in the post-reform period depending on firm size, industry and location. Nominal wage floors downgraded after 2011 in contacts signed by association of persons rather than trade unions. A base wage premium of 22 percent is found in favour of trade unions. Firm-level bargaining with trade unions is expected to promote decentralized bargaining with outcomes linked to firm-specific characteristics.
J41|Efficiency-wage competition: What happens as the number of players increases?|In this paper, I explore the consequences of extending the number of firms in an efficiency-wage competition framework. In this setting, I show that the effort function shape is crucial in determining key features of the model economy. Specifically, with a concave (sigmoid) effort function, the wage and the employment levels prevailing in a symmetric Nash equilibrium are, respectively, lower (higher) and higher (lower), the higher the number of competing firms. Moreover, assuming that firms adjust their wages on the basis of lagged wage bids, the adoption of a concave (sigmoid) effort function reveals that the symmetric Nash equilibrium is unstable (stable) and the speed of divergence (convergence) is an increasing function of the number of firms. Furthermore, with a concave (sigmoid) effort function the full employment equilibrium is characterized by a monopsonistic exploitation of labour that increases (decreases) with the number of productive units required to sustain that allocation. Those findings have intriguing implications for the existence of involuntary unemployment as well as for policies aimed at increasing employment.
J41|What is the effect of wages and supervision on productivity? The perspective of Sunyani Technical University staff|The study examines the influence of wages and supervision on employee’s productivity for Sunyani Technical University using standard Ordinary Least Square method (OLS). The findings of the study indicate that wages and supervision have influence on productivity; however, supervision is ranked higher to influence productivity than wages. The management of higher institutions should consider the findings of the study to ensure that workers are appropriately supervised, and well paid to improve productivity and performance. Further studies should replicate the current study in a comparative study using private and public institutions in a causal study using structural modelling method.
J41|Technological Progress and Optimum Labor Market Friction|This paper presents a stylized economy with a labor market characterized by search friction. Endogenous technological progress is the only source of growth. A single good is produced with the only factor of production, labor. It works as input in both production and R&D. The model derives the optimal job match that leads towards maximum long run gain, and this optimal can be achieved even without changing the economy’s growth rate. Model proposes, higher payment in R&D is optimal for high growing countries and/or countries with high labor market efficiency. The results are robust with tax-financing government expenditure and under stochastic fluctuations.
J41|Social harmonization and labor market performance in Europe|The paper aims to assess the impact of selected elements of social harmonization on labor market performance in the European Union among two groups of workers—the total working population and the elderly. The aim is to examine whether upward changes in labor taxes affect employment, unemployment, and inactivity rates in the European Union.
J41|A Real-Business-Cycle model with efficiency wages and fiscal policy: the case of Bulgaria|In this paper we investigate the quantitative importance of efficiency wages in explaining fluctuations in Bulgarian labor markets. This is done by augmenting an otherwise standard real business cycle model a la Long and Plosser (1983) with unobservable workers effort by employers and wage contracts as in Shapiro and Stiglitz (1984). This imperfection in labor markets introduces a strong propagation mechanism that allows the model to capture the business cycles in Bulgaria better than earlier models. The model performs well vis-a-vis data, especially along the labor market dimension, and in addition dominates the market-clearing labor market framework featured in the standard RBC model, e.g Vasilev (2009).
J41|A Real-Business-Cycle model with reciprocity in labor relations and fiscal policy: the case of Bulgaria|In this paper we introduce reciprocity in labor relations and government sector to investigate how well the real wage rigidity that results out of that arrangement ex- plains business cycle fluctuations in Bulgaria. The reciprocity mechanism described in this paper follows Danthine and Kurmann (2010) and is generally consistent with micro-studies, e.g. Lozev et all. (2011) and Paskaleva (2016), while at the same time comes into contrast with models with efficiency wages of no-shirking type that empha- size the importance of aggregate labor market conditions as the main determinant in wage setting, e.g. Vasilev (2017). Rent-sharing considerations, and worker's own past wages turn out to be the most important aspects of how labor contracting happens. In contrast, aggregate economic conditions, as captured by the employment rate, are not found to be quantitatively important for wage dynamics. Overall, the model with reciprocity and fiscal policy performs well vis-a-vis data, especially along the labor market dimension, and in addition dominates the market-clearing labor market frame- work featured in the standard RBC model, e.g Vasilev (2009).
J41|Toward a Unified Theory of Economic Reform|The dichotomy in the economics of transition literature with regard to the reform speed (Gradualist vs Radical Approach) and reform strategy (incremental reform vs structural reform) fails to capture the essence of the transitional process of a transitional economy that was ever under the control of planned economic system. In this paper, we construct a system dynamics model to provide a unified theoretical framework to illustrate that reform speed and reform strategy are inherently intertwined. We propose 4 optimal reforming combinations between reform speed and reform strategy to track the transitional trajectories of different transitional economies since 1980s. These 4 optimal reforming combinations are: (1) Incremental reform in radical speed. (2) Incremental reform in gradualist speed. (3) Structural reform in radical speed. (4) Structural reform in gradualist speed. In this paper, we demonstrate that a transitional economy would adopt one of the aforementioned 4 optimal reforming combination if and only if it minimizes the reforming cost incurred during the shock period of radical reform as well as the dual track period of gradualist reforms. Several factors in our model affecting these 4 optimal reforming combinations are also discussed. These factors include the spillover effect (both vertical and horizontal) of a newly established reforming promotion sector on other old sectors in a transitional economy, the endogenous reform damping coefficient determined by one transitional economyâ€Ÿs initial conditions and the reform damping coefficient determined by the dual track system during the gradualist reform process.
J41|La tarification des contrats courts : objectifs et instruments|Les contrats courts sont utiles au bon fonctionnement de l’économie, mais en France leur développement combiné à leur raccourcissement induit d’importants coûts économiques et sociaux, qui pèsent lourdement sur l’ensemble des agents économiques, mais relativement peu sur la minorité d’entreprises qui en font un usage intensif. L’expérience montre qu’une réglementation plus stricte influe peu sur l’incitation à utiliser les contrats courts ; c’est plutôt sur l’équation économique des entreprises utilisatrices qu’il faut chercher à peser. La théorie économique incline d’ailleurs à moduler le prix des différents contrats de travail en fonction des externalités qu’ils engendrent. L’État pourrait taxer les contrats courts, mais l’assurance chômage y a un intérêt encore plus fort et immédiat. En effet, l’assurance chômage est en première ligne face à ces transformations de l’usage des contrats de travail, et ses règles ont beaucoup évolué pour s’y adapter. Mais elle est confrontée à un paradoxe : bien assurer les contrats courts crée des subventions croisées qui incitent à leur développement. Une modulation du prix des contrats de travail peut s’appuyer sur différents moyens. Mais tous ne se valent pas : l’objectif doit être clair, et l’instrument approprié pour y parvenir. Et tous ne sont pas adaptés aux problèmes français, qui appellent une règle lisible, légère à administrer, applicable à tous les contrats de travail et tous les secteurs (sans exception y compris public), incitant les employeurs à faire des choix économes des deniers de l’assurance ; la tarification doit être contemporaine de ces comportements, mais ni punitive ni symbolique, n’augmentant pas le coût du travail, et ne visant pas à renflouer l’Unedic. Nous décrivons les différents instruments de modulation du prix des contrats de travail. Étant bien entendu que l’absence de taxe est toujours préférable à une mauvaise taxe, la cotisation dégressive en fonction de la durée du contrat de travail, assortie d’un forfait et d’une franchise, apparaît la plus adaptée pour assurer la survie de l’assurance chômage dans un marché du travail marqué par l’usage croissant de contrats de travail toujours plus courts. Nos simulations illustrent que des paramètres finement négociés peuvent conduire à un équilibre raisonnable..
J41|Outside options and wages: What can we learn from subjective assessments?|Abstract This paper studies the correlates of subjective assessments of how easy it would be for a worker to find another job as good as the present one and how easy it would be for an employer to replace a worker. First, I study the correlates of these two subjective assessments. Second, I study whether respondents who report better chances of reemployment receive higher wages and whether respondents who think they are easy to replace receive lower wages. The results are consistent with the standard job-matching model, which predicts that wages increase with better outside opportunity of the worker and fall with better outside opportunity of the employer.
J41|Pay for performance and contractual choice: the case of general practitioners in England|Abstract The Quality and Outcomes Framework (QOF) is a Pay-for-Performance scheme introduced in England in 2004 to reward primary care providers. This incentive scheme provides financial incentives that reward the overall performance of a practice, not individual effort. Consequently, an important question is how the QOF may affect contractual choices, quality provision and doctor mobility in the primary healthcare labour market. The paper provides a simple theoretical model that shows that the introduction and further strengthening of the scheme may have induced practices to compete for the best doctors and modified their choices in terms of contractual agreements with practitioners. We test the implications of this model using a linkage between Doctors Census data and practices’ characteristics from 2003 to 2007. We use linear multilevel models with random intercept and we account for sample selection. We find that after the introduction of the QOF efficient doctors are more likely to become partners and mobility among doctors has increased. The strengthening of the scheme in 2005 is associated with an increase in the quality of primary care and a reduction in access to the market for new doctors.
J41|Why do People Get Married? An Inframarginal Perspective|Abstract This paper constructs an economic model to study the emergence of marriage based on a new infra-marginal general equilibrium analysis. By depicting the commonness and complementarity of marriage, we explain how a single person shifts from being single to being married based on the division of labor. Meanwhile, reduced learning costs will make an individual more willing to abandon the single status, and the number of families in the marriage market will increase. The model reveals the necessary conditions for the existence of marriage and marital stability and explains the dynamic changes in the relative population and the prices of parties in the marriage market.
J41|Motivating Workers through Task Assignment: A Dynamic Model of Up-and-Down Competition for Status|We show how competition for status that conveys explicit benefits can motivate effort in organizations such as schools, public agencies, and unionized firms in the absence of monetary incentives or intrinsically motivated workers. We develop an indefinitely-repeated labor market tournament model in which high-status agents may be rewarded either monetarily or with favorable task assignment. If monetary incentives are unavailable and the principal relies on task assignment this entails an efficiency cost relative to the benchmark case with monetary incentives. Our model offers a new perspective on the value to an employer of flexibility over job assignments within labor contracts.
J41|The quality of employment in the early labour market experience of young Europeans|Consistently with the empirical evidence and in contrast with Shapiro & Stiglitz (1984), we demonstrate that worker owned firms exhibit not only more wage flexibility and less employment volatility than investor owned firms, but also lower expected wages than the latter. This is due to the informational advantage enjoyed by the firm's owners relatively to the workers concerning some circumstances that affect the performance of the firm. We show this both in the case in which each investor owned firm offers labor contracts to single workers who act atomistically and in the case in which each investor owned firm negotiates labor conditions with its workers who act as a group (a ''union''). Finally, we show that differences in attitudes towards risk between investor owned firms and their workers are not necessary to explain the typical combination of state-independent wages and cyclical layoffs that characterizes most industries.
J41|The output employment elasticity and the increased use of temporary contracts: evidence from Poland|The paper investigates how increased use of temporary contracts has affected employment elasticity with respect to output in Poland. Our empirical analysis covers the period of 1996-2016, with particular focus on the years 2001-2016. Several econometric tools are used to explore the relation between growth in GDP and employment. Our study shows that widespread adoption of temporary contracts contributes positively to total employment elasticity. However, what we have observed is that the share of temporary contracts has increased, but the total employment elasticity has decreased. We related this to an inverse relationship between the growth of permanent and temporary employment and the opposite trends in output elasticities of temporary and permanent employment.
J41|Does employment protection legislation affect credit access? Evidence from Europe|We investigate the impact of employment protection on firms credit access by looking at both credit obtained from banks and firms’ decision to apply for a loan. We find that greater flexibility in structuring the employees’ working hours and in dismissing employees increases the probability that firms obtain credit and that greater flexibility in dismissing employees decreases the probability that firms are discouraged from applying for credit. However, our findings also reveal that firms perceive regulations providing flexibility with regard to the employees’ working hours differently from banks, leading to a situation in which firms are more likely to be discouraged from applying for a loan, even though the probability to obtain a loan increases. Our results are robust to confounding, endogeneity, selection bias as well as to alternative specifications. JEL Classification: D22, G21, G32, J41
J41|Equity Incentives, Disclosure Quality, and Stock Liquidity Risk|We provide evidence that CEO equity incentives, especially stock options, influence stock liquidity risk via information disclosure quality. We document a negative association between CEO options and the quality of future managerial disclosure policy. Contributing to the literature on CEO risk-taking, we document a positive association between CEO options and future systematic stock liquidity risk. Controlling for endogeneity, we show that information disclosure quality is an important channel through which CEO options influence stock liquidity risk. Results are robust to various controls for endogeneity and to the use of numerous disclosure quality and stock liquidity risk measures.
J41|Do CEOs Make Their Own Luck? Relative Versus Absolute Performance Evaluation and Firm Risk|Influenced by their compensation plans, CEOs make their own luck through decisions that affect future firm risk. After adopting a relative performance evaluation (RPE) plan, total and idiosyncratic risk are higher, and the correlation between firm and industry performance is lower. The opposite is true for firms that adopt absolute performance evaluation (APE) plans. Plans including accounting-based performance metrics and/or cash payouts have weaker risk-related incentives. The higher idiosyncratic risk associated with RPE increases a firm's exposure to downside stock return risk and lowers credit quality. Our findings are economically consistent with observed differences in firms' financial and investment policies.
J41|Financing constraints and fixed-term employment: Evidence from the 2008-9 financial crisis|This paper investigates the effect of the 2008–9 financial crisis on firms’ employment composition decision when it is possible to choose between permanent and fixed-term workers. We use linked employer-employee data for the universe of private sector firms in Portugal, and exploit precrisis variation in financial vulnerability across industries for identification. We find that firms in more financially constrained industries hire a larger proportion of fixed-term workers with respect to permanent workers after the 2008-9 crisis, relative to less financially vulnerable firms. At the worker-level, workers hired by firms in industries that require significant external financing are more likely to be hired with a fixed-term contract after the crisis than comparable workers hired by other firms. Our results suggest that the crisis induced financially constrained firms to use the more flexible fixed-term contracts more intensively.
J41|A signaling-based theory of contractual commitment to relationships|In this paper I present signaling as an explanation for how and why parties commit to relationships when they initially contract about the terms of those relationships. Two forms of contractual commitment to a relationship are considered: a promise to trade in the future (contracted quantity); and a promise not to trade with anyone else (contracted exclusivity). A party is said to commit more to a relationship if it commits initially to trade a higher quantity and/or to a higher level of exclusivity. I characterize equilibrium contracts and therefore commitment. Both the ability to signal information through an exclusivity commitment and whether the informed party commits more to the relationship when the relationship is more likely to succeed depend on the source of the asymmetry of information.
J41|The healthy fright of losing a good one for a bad one|•We study changes in employment protection (EPL) on absenteeism.•We focus on permanent vs two types of temporary contract transitions.•We use individual-level panel data and find asymmetric responses to changes in EPL.•Significant overreaction of permanent workers is observed when they lose protection.•Findings are in line with psychological explanations of asymmetric reactions to good vs bad news.
J41|A Real-Business-Cycle model with reciprocity in labor relations and a government sector|In this paper we introduce reciprocity in labor relations and government sector to in- vestigate how well the real wage rigidity that results out of that arrangement explains business cycle fluctuations in Bulgaria. The reciprocity mechanism described in this paper follows Danthine and Kurmann (2010) and is generally consistent with micro- studies, e.g. Lozev, Vladova, and Paskaleva (2011) and Paskaleva (2016). Rent-sharing considerations, and worker’s own past wages turn out to be the most important as- pects of how labor contracting happens. In contrast, aggregate economic conditions, as captured by the employment rate, are not found to be quantitatively important for wage dynamics. Overall, the model with reciprocity and fiscal policy performs well vis-a-vis data, especially along the labor market dimension.
J41|Do Labor Market Institutions Matter for Fertility?|Using annual data for 20 OECD countries over the period 1961-2014, we study whether labor market institutions (LMIs) not targeted to maternity impact the total fertility rate (TFR). We distinguish between employment rigidities (ER) and real wage rigidities (RWR), since the former reduces and the latter amplifies the response of the business cycle to shocks. Panel regressions and principal component analysis reveal that ER, such as employment protection and union strength, increase TFR. On the other hand, RWR, proxied by the centralization of wage bargaining and unemployment benefits, reduce TFR. We also find evidence that unemployment volatility reduces fertility whereas wage volatility raises fertility. Thus, to the extent that labor market institutions affect unemployment and wage volatility, they may also affect fertility. We complement our analysis with a DSGE model that incorporates households' fertility decision as well as unemployment and wage rigidities. We find that downward wage rigidities amplify real contractions in response to negative demand shocks and lead to large drops in employment and fertility.
J41|Subjective Performance Evaluation of Employees with Biased Beliefs|This paper analyses how worker optimism (and pessimism) affects subjective performance evaluation (SPE) contracts. We let an optimistic (pessimistic) worker overestimate (underestimate) the probability of observing an acceptable performance. The firm is better informed about performance than the worker and knows the worker's bias. We show that optimism (and pessimism): i) changes the optimal incentive scheme under SPE, ii) lowers the deadweight loss associated with SPE contracts, iii) can lead to a Pareto improvement by simultaneously lowering the firm's expected wage cost and raising the worker's expected compensation. In addition, we show that worker pessimism can lead to SPE contracts without a deadweight loss, in contrast to the standard case in the literature.
J41|La tarification des contrats courts : objectifs et instruments|Les contrats courts sont utiles au bon fonctionnement de l’économie, mais en France leur développement combiné à leur raccourcissement induit d’importants coûts économiques et sociaux, qui pèsent lourdement sur l’ensemble des agents économiques, mais relativement peu sur la minorité d’entreprises qui en font un usage intensif. L’expérience montre qu’une réglementation plus stricte influe peu sur l’incitation à utiliser les contrats courts ; c’est plutôt sur l’équation économique des entreprises utilisatrices qu’il faut chercher à peser. La théorie économique incline d’ailleurs à moduler le prix des différents contrats de travail en fonction des externalités qu’ils engendrent. L’État pourrait taxer les contrats courts, mais l’assurance chômage y a un intérêt encore plus fort et immédiat. En effet, l’assurance chômage est en première ligne face à ces transformations de l’usage des contrats de travail, et ses règles ont beaucoup évolué pour s’y adapter. Mais elle est confrontée à un paradoxe : bien assurer les contrats courts crée des subventions croisées qui incitent à leur développement. Une modulation du prix des contrats de travail peut s’appuyer sur différents moyens. Mais tous ne se valent pas : l’objectif doit être clair, et l’instrument approprié pour y parvenir. Et tous ne sont pas adaptés aux problèmes français, qui appellent une règle lisible, légère à administrer, applicable à tous les contrats de travail et tous les secteurs (sans exception y compris public), incitant les employeurs à faire des choix économes des deniers de l’assurance ; la tarification doit être contemporaine de ces comportements, mais ni punitive ni symbolique, n’augmentant pas le coût du travail, et ne visant pas à renflouer l’Unedic. Nous décrivons les différents instruments de modulation du prix des contrats de travail. Étant bien entendu que l’absence de taxe est toujours préférable à une mauvaise taxe, la cotisation dégressive en fonction de la durée du contrat de travail, assortie d’un forfait et d’une franchise, apparaît la plus adaptée pour assurer la survie de l’assurance chômage dans un marché du travail marqué par l’usage croissant de contrats de travail toujours plus courts. Nos simulations illustrent que des paramètres finement négociés peuvent conduire à un équilibre raisonnable..
J41|Measuring Heterogeneity in Job Finding Rates Among the Nonemployed Using Labor Force Status Histories|We use a novel approach to studying the heterogeneity in the job finding rates of the nonemployed by classifying the nonemployed by labor force status (LFS) histories, instead of using only one-month LFS. Job finding rates differ substantially across LFS histories: they are 25-30% among those currently out of the labor force (OLF) with recent employment, 10% among those currently OLF who have been unemployed but not employed in the previous two months, and 2% among those who have been OLF in all three previous months. This heterogeneity cannot be deduced from the one-month LFS or from one-month responses to the CPS survey questions about desire to work or recent search activity. We conclude that LFS histories is an important predictor of the nonemployed's job finding probability, particularly for those OLF.
J41|Habitual Entrepreneurs in the Making: How Labour Market Rigidity and Employment Affects Entrepreneurial Re-entry|We investigate the impact of country-level labour market regulations on the re-entry decision of experienced entrepreneurs, whereby they become habitual entrepreneurs. Multilevel logit models on entry decisions among 15,709 individuals in 29 European countries show that labour market regulations have a positive influence on the decision to re-enter into entrepreneurship. This positive impact is stronger among individuals holding wage jobs at the time of re-entry compared to those that do not. Our results indicate that novice and habitual entrepreneurs may respond very differently to labour market rigidity. We discuss and provide tentative explanations for these differences, and outline potential policy implications.
J41|How Important is the Type of Working Contract for Job Satisfaction of Agency Workers?|Previous research has found that agency workers are less satisfied with their job than regular workers on a permanent contract. All these studies have in common that they treat agency workers as a homogeneous group; that is, they did not consider the contract type agency workers hold. This paper analyzes whether differences in job satisfaction can be explained by the contract type using data from the German Socio-Economic Panel. The analysis leads to three main results. First, differences in job satisfaction cannot be explained by the contract type. Second, agency workers on a permanent contract are significantly less satisfied with their job than regular workers on the same contract. Third, agency workers on a fixed-term contract do not differ in reported job satisfaction from regular workers on both fixed-term and permanent contracts. These findings give rise to the hypothesis that as a policy instrument agency employment appears to be well-suited for short-term periods, but it should be prevented that workers are persistently employed in such a work arrangement.
J41|Learning, Termination, and Payout Policy in Dynamic Incentive Contracts|We study a principal–agent setting in which both sides learn about future profitability from output, and the project can be abandoned/terminated if profitability is too low. With learning, shirking by the agent both reduces output and lowers the principal’s estimate of future profitability. The agent can exploit this belief discrepancy and earn information rents, reducing his incentives to exert effort. The optimal contract controls information rents to improve incentives by distorting the termination decision. Our results capture the transition from a young, financially constrained firm to a mature firm that pays dividends. For young firms, poor performance permanently raises the termination threshold, as doing so lowers information rents. Mature firms pay smoothed dividends and have a fixed termination threshold. Dividend smoothing occurs because earnings surprises are used to adjust financial slack in line with profitability. When profitability only reflects the agent’s private ability, a simple equity contract is optimal.
J41|What determines volunteer work? On the effects of adverse selection and intrinsic motivation|We analyse the screening problem of a firm hiring workers without knowing their ability while observing their intrinsic motivation. We show that volunteerism is the contractual outcome when workers are low-skilled, have high motivation, and are protected by limited liability.
J41|Bounds on the welfare loss from moral hazard with limited liability|We study a principal–agent problem with discrete outcome and effort level spaces. The principal and the agent are risk neutral and the latter is subject to limited liability. Quantifying welfare loss as the ratio between the first-best social welfare and that arising from the principal's optimal pay-for-performance contract, we provide simple parametric bounds for problem instances with moral hazard. Relying on that, we compute the worst-case welfare loss ratio among all problem instances with a fixed number of effort and outcome levels as a function of the number of possible effort levels and the likelihood ratio evaluated at the highest outcome. As extensions, we look at linear contracts and at cases with multiple identical tasks. Our work constitutes an initial attempt to quantify the losses arising from moral hazard when the agent is subject to limited liability, and shows that these losses are non-negligible in the worst case.
J41|Optimal task assignments|This paper studies optimal task assignments in a risk neutral principal-agent model in which agents are compensated according to an aggregated performance measure. The main trade-off is one in which specialization allows the implementation of any possible effort profile, while multitasking constraint the set of implementable effort profiles. Yet, the implementation of any effort profile in this set is less expensive than the equivalent profile under specialization. The principal prefers multitasking to specialization except when tasks are complements and the output after success is small enough so that it is not second-best optimal to implement high effort in each task. This result is robust to several extensions such as the existence of multiple performance measures.
J41|Looking after number two? Competition, cooperation and workplace interaction|We look for cooperation in a real-world setting in which optometrists absent less frequently in two-chair than one-chair offices because of the externality such behavior imposes on their co-worker. We motivate our empirical analysis by developing a model of worker interdependence in which two workers can either compete or cooperate. We show that, relative to a single worker working in isolation, competition unequivocally increases absence whilst cooperation may increase or decrease absence. Our empirical analysis of a unique data set finds explicit support for cooperative behavior.
J41|Employment protection and wage inequality within education groups in Europe|In this paper we employ EU-Silc microdata for 19 EU member countries in 2007 and 2012 to provide evidence on hourly wage disparities within high-, medium- and low-educated workers. Using quantile regression approaches, we look at individual and institutional determinants of earnings inequality within each cohort and across the wage distribution. Then, by focusing on the employment status (temporary/permanent) of workers, we find that remarkable differences exist in the role played by employment protection of temporary and regular jobs in shaping wage levels, depending on the group of countries, education groups and year considered, with important and group-specific policy implications.
J41|The response of household wealth to the risk of job loss: Evidence from differences in severance payments|The welfare consequences of legally mandated severance payments depend on whether or not households react to unemployment risk by accumulating higher savings. Using the 2002–2008 waves of a rich survey of wealth and consumption and the substantial variation in dismissal costs across contracts in the Spanish labor market, we estimate the link between the probability that several household members lose their job and the wealth of that household. We instrument the type of contract using regional variation in the amount, timing and target groups of subsidies given to firms to hire workers using high severance payment contracts. Our findings suggest that older workers covered by fixed-term contracts accumulate more financial wealth. For that group, a drop in severance payments increases average financial wealth by about 40% of annual labor earnings. We examine the responses of credit rejections and consumption growth to changes in job security to disentangle between credit constraints or precautionary saving motives, and the results favor the latter hypothesis.
J41|Gradual collective wage bargaining|This paper presents an alternative implementation of firm-level collective wage bargaining, where bargaining proceeds as a finite sequence of sessions between a firm and a union of variable size. We investigate the impact of such a ‘gradual’ union on the wage-employment contract in an economy with concave production. In a static framework, the resulting equilibrium is equivalent to the efficient bargaining outcome. In a dynamic framework with search frictions, we demonstrate that gradual collective wage bargaining coincides with all-or-nothing bargaining when bargaining takes place in fictitious time before production.
J41|Incentivizing Quantity and Quality of Output: An Experimental Investigation of the Quantity-Quality Trade-off|Firms face an optimization problem that requires a maximal quantity output given a quality constraint. How firms should incentivize quantity and quality to meet these dual goals remains an open question, potentially due to limitations of field data. We provide a theoretical model and conduct an experiment in which participants are paid for both quantity and quality of a real effort task. Consistent with the theoretical predictions, higher quality incentives encourage participants to shift their attention from quantity to quality, and higher quality incentives reduce inefficient decision-making. We also observe behavioral components in responsiveness to the quality incentive.
J41|Transición laboral: Estudio de caso para egresados de Ciencias Económicas, Administrativas y Financieras|Contar con título universitario no garantiza ni el status social, ni el empleo pleno. Ahí radica la importancia de vincular la formación universitaria con el empleo para determinar cuáles son las principales características para el éxito de un graduado. Se pretende con la investigación, determinar los procesos de transición al mercado laboral en la Facultad de Ciencias económicas Administrativas y Financieras de la UAGRM, para identificar características exitosas en su carrera profesional. La confluencia de diversos abordajes teóricos y metodológicos para estudiar este fenómeno nos lleva a proponer una agenda de investigación a través de la cual se elaboren bases de datos del entorno para promover una coordinación interinstitucional que beneficie a los graduados en su inserción socio profesional. Los principales hallazgos enuncian factores condicionantes del mercado laboral y factores determinantes para saborear el éxito profesional, el empleo pleno y lograr estatus social, denotando que para esto se requiere esfuerzo y trabajo individual.
J41|Do Employer Preferences Contribute to Sticky Floors?|The authors investigate the importance of employer preferences in explaining sticky floors, the pattern in which women are less likely, as compared to men, to start to climb the job ladder. The authors perform a randomized field experiment in the Belgian labor market and test whether hiring discrimination based on gender is heterogeneous by whether jobs imply a promotion (compared to the applicantsâ€™ current position). The findings show that women receive 33% fewer interview invitations when they apply for jobs that imply a first promotion at the functional level. By contrast, the results show that their hiring chances are not significantly affected by the authority level of the job.
J41|Skilled labor supply, IT-based technical change and job instability|In this paper, we provide empirical evidence on the impact of IT diffusion on the stability of employment relationships. We document the evolution of the different components of job instability over a panel of 350 local labor markets in France, from the mid 1970s to the early 2000s. Although workers in more educated local labor markets adopt IT faster, they do not experience any increase in job instability. More specifically, we find no evidence that the faster diffusion of IT is associated with any change in job-to-job transitions, and we find that it is associated with relatively less frequent transitions through unemployment. Overall, the evidence goes against the view that the diffusion of IT has spurred job instability. Combining the local labor market variations with firm data, we argue that these findings can be explained by French firms' strong reliance on training and internal promotion strategies in order to meet the new skills requirement associated with IT diffusion.
J41|Essays on Delegated Search and Temporary Work Agencies|Paper [I] models a game, where two temporary work agencies (TWAs) compete to fill a vacancy at a client firm (CF). They simultaneously choose how much effort to expend, based on their expectation of how good their opponents best candidate will be. I then show that this will make the TWAs overconfident, as the rational way of judging your own probability of winning is not looking at the opponents expected best, but comparing how much effort your opponent will expend. Paper [II] examines the misaligned incentives in the temporary work agency sector, where we first look at pure recruiting contracts, that either require payment on delivery, or payment on some specified point in time. We then look at the incentives of recruit-and-rent contracts, where the worker is leased to the client firm. We assume that the better the worker, the higher the probability that the client firm is going to want to hire him/her. If that happens then the TWA will no onger get revenues from said worker, incentivizing the TWA to not always deliver the first match it finds, if it is too good. Lastly we look at how competition can dampen this perverse incentive. Paper [III] models the waiting behavior that can occur if a TWA is contracted to find a worker for a specific time far in the future; the TWA will postpone effort. This behavior is modeled for two types of TWAs; one that is rational and plans ahead, and another that does not plan ahead at all, but instead only looks at the immediate future. I find that the one that only looks at the immediate future starts exerting effort earlier than the planner. After looking at optimal contracts under perfect monitoring and hidden action I provide two extensions. I first show that for the principal to want to delegate search to a rational TWA, the agent has to be better than the CF, by some factor, as it has to make up in efficiency what the principal loses in moral hazard, when the agent waits longer than the principal would like it to. Lastly I prove that it is profit maximizing for the principal to contract one agent and give it a deadline earlier than when the principal would need the worker, and then replace that agent with a competitor if the first one has not succeeded by that earlier deadline. Paper [IV] estimates at the effect of family experience on relative transition probability into the temporary work agency sector. Using register data for all of Sweden we run a bias-reduced logistic regression, where we include various factors that affect the probability of young adults (aged 18-34) entering the sector. This paper ties in to the literature on occupational inheritance, as well as the literature on changing social norms. We find that having had a parent, sibling or partner in the TWA sector increases your probability of entering the sector yourself.
J41|Is Flexible Labor Good for Innovation? Evidence from Russian Firm-level Data|The level of innovation activity of the Russian enterprises is inferior to the level of innovation activity of enterprises in developed countries. At the same time, Russian enterprises actively use fixed-term contracts, which help them to reduce the labor costs and adapt to changes in demand, to increase the flexibility of labor and improve the selection of employees at the workplaces. Fixed-term contracts can contribute to innovation, because they enhance the flexibility of labor relations and create savings in the use of workers. However, fixed-term contracts can reduce the likelihood of innovation because they reduce investment in human capital, leading to a reduction in labor productivity. Which trends dominate in labor relations is the subject of this study. For the study we used data about enterprises from the annual Russian Enterprises Survey in 2014. The sample is representative for Russia and includes small, medium and large enterprises with more than 30 employees in seven sectors (mining, industry, construction, transport and communications, trade, finance, business services). For the analysis, we used bivariate probit model, Heckman correction model and probit model with continuous endogenous regressor (the share of workers with fixed-term labor contracts). The results showed that fixed-term contracts have a positive effect on the innovation activity of enterprises only when they are used in a limited quantity. With an increase in the percentage of workers with fixed-term contracts, the likelihood of innovation activity of enterprises declines.
J41|Asymmetric information in external versus internal promotions|"""Individuals have two possible channels through which to obtain a managerial position: external and internal promotions. Employing the revised German Employment Register, we compare external and internal promotions by using multinomial logit regressions while accounting for workplace heterogeneity. Individual characteristics are hypothesized to exert differential effects because of their observability within and across workplaces. We find that actual working hours are a more important source of information for internal versus external promotions. By contrast, formal vocational degrees and initial job task complexity, which are also externally observed, are a relatively more important signal for external promotions. Consistent with statistical discrimination, women and foreigners face a more pronounced disadvantage in external promotions. For women, this differential effect is fully driven by promotions to executive positions characterized by high task complexity. Moreover, actual working hours show a strong positive interaction effect on women's prospects of promotion."" (Author's abstract, IAB-Doku) ((en))"
J41|History dependence in wages and cyclical selection: evidence from Germany|"""Using administrative data from Germany, this paper analyzes the relation between wages and past and current labor market conditions. Specifically, it explores whether the data is more consistent with implicit contract models (Beaudry/DiNardo, 1991) or a matching model with on-the-job search and cyclical selection (Hagedorn/Manovskii, 2013). The data suggests that wages are related to past labor market conditions as contract theories postulate. However, past labor market conditions also affect contemporaneous wages through the evolution of the match qualities over a worker's job history - the main hypothesis of the selection model. Refining the selection model by taking into account within company job regrading, we find that wages of workers who switched employers and occupations at the same time respond stronger to the cycle than wages of job stayers. In contrast, wages of workers who only switch employers or occupations are not more cyclical than wages of workers who stay at their previous employer and in their previous occupation."" (Author's abstract, IAB-Doku) ((en))"
J41|Labour market segmentation and the financial situation of the pension system in Poland|Since 2014 Poland is the country with the highest share of temporary workers in the EU. Civil law contracts, a type of temporary contracts, allow payment of lower retirement pension contributions than implied by employment contracts. We use a cohort pension model to quantify the impact of civil law contract use on revenue from contributions and spending on pensions in Poland. Between 2005 and 2015, the rising incidence of civil law contracts reduced the revenue from contributions in the general pension system by PLN 2.4 billion per year on average. This widened the pension fund deficit by approx. 5%. In the future (2016-2050), the impact of civil law contracts on the revenue from contributions will wane because of demographic changes and rising educational attainment of the workforce. However, its impact on pension spending will increase with time, although it will be weaker than the effect on revenue from contributions. Hence, labour market segmentation will deteriorate the pension system balance. The obligation to pay contributions on all contracts of mandate from at least the minimum wage level, introduced in 2016, is not sufficient to balance out the impact of segmentation on the pension system balance.
J41|Quantifying Atypical Employment in Romania â€“ The Social Dimension|Official statistics can not always highlight the true scale of atypical work phenomenon in Romania because of the multitude of the non-standard forms of employment and because of the fact that its regulatory and monitoring mechanisms are build in accordance with the typical work model. The purpose of our research is to try to estimate the atypical employment in Romania using a variety statistical data basis.
J41|Organizational Labor Augmenting Technical Changes by Liaison Role of Manager|Purpose: Organizations can adopt various labor augmenting technical changes humanistic approach practices to enhance employee satisfaction. The labor augmenting technical changes revolution moves recording and analysis activities that were traditionally professional performance lines of activities focused to high operational content. Methodology: There has been a longstanding bifurcation between the two with emotions labeled in pejorative terms and devalued in matters concerning the workplace. The form and structure of an organization's human resources system can affect employee motivation levels in several ways. Organizations can adopt various labor augmenting technical changes humanistic approach empowerment practices to enhance employee satisfaction. Findings: This paper considers the liaison role of manager. The strategic importance of workers is discussed and their interaction, as an asset, with other important organization assets. The basic methodologies for workers are then explained and their limitations are considered. The scientific and labor augmenting technical changes progress, growth and internationalization of markets, processors are processes in which the accounting profession plays a leading role of liaison role of manager. Recommendations: Continuous training, employment security, performance appraisal and alternative compensation systems can motivate skilled employees to engage in effective discretionary decision making and behavior in response to a variety of environmental contingencies.
J41|Temporary Jobs and the Severity of Workplace Accidents|From the point of view of workplace safety, it is important to know whether having a temporary job has an effect on the severity of workplace accidents. We present an empirical analysis on the severity of workplace accidents by type of contract. Method: We used micro data collected by the Italian national institute managing the mandatory insurance against work related accidents. We estimated linear models for a measure of the severity of the workplace accident. We controlled for time-invariant fixed effects at worker and firm levels to disentangle the impact of the type of contract from the spurious one induced by unobservables at worker and firm levels. Results: Workers with a temporary contract, if subject to a workplace accident, were more likely to be confronted with severe injuries than permanent workers. When correcting the statistical analysis for injury underreporting of temporary workers, we found that most of, but not all, the effect is driven by the under-reporting bias. Conclusions: The effect of temporary contracts on the injury severity survived the inclusion of worker and firm fixed effects and the correction for temporary workers’ injury under-reporting. This however does not exclude the possibility that, within firms, the nature of the work may vary between different categories of workers. For example, temporary workers might be more likely to be assigned by the employer dangerous tasks because they might have less bargaining power. Practical implications: The findings will be of help in designing public policy effective in increasing temporary workers’ safety at work and limiting their injury under-reporting.
J41|Should the maximum duration of fixed-term contracts increase in recessions? Evidence from a law reform|Fixed-term contracts (FTCs) may be an important tool to promote hirings and employment, particularly in recessions or when permanent contracts are costly. Therefore, it may be useful to let some of the legal parameters of FTCs (as well as those of other labour market institutions) vary systematically over the business cycle, namely increasing their flexibility during downturns. We evaluate this idea by examining the short-term effects of a new law introduced in Portugal, in the midst of a recession, which increased the maximum duration of FTCs from three to four and a half years. Our analysis is based on regression-discontinuity (and difference-in-differences) methods, applied to matched panel data. We find a considerable take up of this measure, as conversions to permanent contracts drop by 20%. Moreover, while we do not detect significant effects on employment status in the subsequent year, worker churning is reduced significantly, as mobility of eligible fixed-term workers to other firms drops by 10%. JEL codes: J23, J41, J63
J41|The third worker: Assessing the trade-off between employees and contractors|Firms make labour demand decisions not only between permanent and non-permanent employees but also increasingly more between employees and contractors. Indeed, this third work format can be attractive, also when employment protection law is restrictive. This paper examines empirically this scarcely researched trade-off drawing on a recent reform in Portugal that cut the severance pay of new employee hires while leaving unchanged the regulations affecting contractors. Our analysis draws on difference-in-differences methods and original high-frequency firm-level panel data on both employees and contractors. We find that the reduction in severance pay had a large relative positive effect on the wage bills and worker counts of employees compared to contractors. This result, robust to a number of checks, highlights the role of labour regulations as an additional driver of more flexible labour formats.
J41|Which Are the Benefits of Having More Female Leaders? Evidence from the Use of Part-Time Work in Italy|Using three waves of a uniquely rich survey on Italian private firms, we explore the impact of female managers on the use of part-time work. Building on a literature arguing that female leaders are more sensitive to their employees' needs and more self-transcendent than their male counterparts, we assess whether such attitudes manifest themselves also in relation to working time arrangements. Results indicate that female managers are indeed more responsive to their employees' needs: they heavily limit the employment of involuntary part-time work, correspondingly increasing full-time employment, and concede more part-time arrangements to employees asking for them. All in all, our results show that there are some hitherto unexplored benefits from increasing the number of female leaders: on the one hand, they strongly contain the widespread phenomenon of involuntary part-time employment and, on the other hand, they enhance the work-life balance of workers engaged in child care or elderly care activities.
J41|The Simple Analytics Of Job Displacement Insurance|Job displacement is a threat to the earnings of long‐tenured workers through (1) unemployment spells and (2) reduced reemployment wages. Although full insurance requires both unemployment benefits and wage insurance, supply difficulties limit actual‐loss insurance, and separation packages include partial unemployment insurance and scheduled (fixed sum) severance pay. The design of this two‐dimensional package requires a systems approach as well as a generalized replacement ratio measure of adequacy. Job search moral hazard and layoff moral hazard (firing costs) introduce serious contracting concerns. Economic theory provides a guide to the integration of these insurance instruments in this complex planning environment.
J41|Moral-Hazard-Free First-Best Unemployment Insurance|"Unemployment insurance replacement rates world-wide are well below 100 percent, a fact often attributed to search moral hazard concerns. As Blanchard and Tirole (2008) have illustrated, however, neither search nor layoff moral hazard (firing cost) distortions need arise in first-best insurance plans. Their counterexample depends on the functional form of the state utility function--utility with a single argument, consumption plus monetized leisure. The monetized leisure model is unattractive if leisure is a choice variable, however, and a review of the optimal UI literature reveals a surprising variety of alternative utility function assumptions. A standard neoclassical utility function is used to characterize the utility function conditions required to generate moral-hazard-free (MHF) first-best contracts. Two conditions emerge: (i) the necessary condition that leisure and consumption be substitutes (the cross-derivative of consumption and leisure be negative) and (ii) the sufficient condition that leisure be an inferior good, Rosen (1985). Leisure appears to be a normal good, which rules out the possibility of first-best moral-hazard-free (FB MHF) utility structures, but the first-best UI replacement rate remains very much an open question. The rich empirical literature on the ""retirement consumption paradox"" suggests that the rate is below 100 percent, easing moral hazard concerns, if not eliminating them."
J41|Job Displacement Insurance: A Policy Typology|"Efforts to insure long-tenured displacement workers against earnings losses from unemployment spells and lower wages on subsequent jobs have led to an array of government and employer programs. A policy typology is proposed to impose order on these programmatic efforts. The basic typology involves the familiar distinction between (i) separation benefit type – fixed sum severance or unemployment-linked – and (ii) financing type – insurance or savings. In this four-way categorization, severance savings accounts are the least familiar, perhaps because they are often mislabeled as unemployment insurance savings accounts (UISA). A third policy dimension – the job separation events that trigger plan payouts – is also fundamental to understanding program performance and consequences. Indeed insurance plan performance converges on that of savings plans as the range of insured events and their likelihoods expand. Severance ""savings"" plans require payouts other than for involuntary separation, most commonly for retirement, which highlights the link with pensions. Conversely the severance properties of pension plans vary with ownership rights (vesting) and ""rollover"" rules. Forced savings plans that also permit fund access for house purchases and/or human capital investments (provident funds) are an obvious extension of strict severance savings plans."
J41|Flexible and Secure Labour Market Transitions: Towards Institutional Capacity Building in the Digital Economy|Industry 4.0 and robots are said to speed up productivity thereby inducing a 'quantum leap' towards the 'end of work' and calling for a complete change of social security institutions that have so far been closely linked to employment. Unconditional basic income is the cry of the day, curiously advocated in particular by, for example, employers in high-tech industries and modern financial or distributive services. In the name of freedom, liberty and flexibility they suggest a form of security without any institutional complexity. The hidden agenda in the remaining empty institutional black box, however, is the dream of freedom from any bureaucracy and painstaking negotiations between competing interests or even getting rid of any responsibility to the new risks related to the digital revolution. This paper argues that the productivity leap promise of the digital economy is far from empirical evidence and that the proper answer to the new world of work are active securities, fair risk-sharing between employees, employers and the state and 'negotiated flexicurity' calling for a higher complexity of institutions corresponding to the increasing variability of employment relationships. The paper (1) starts with stylised facts about the new world of work with a focus on non-standard forms of employment in the EU28 member states and briefly explains the main determinants of this development. It (2) then proceeds with an analytical framework of the role of institutions and (3) applies this framework to develop suggestions of new security provisions to the main forms of non-standard employment. (4) The paper concludes by reflecting on the consequences for the prospective European Pillar of Social Rights.
J41|Impacts Of Tax And Firing Costs On Size Of The Informal Sector And Unemployment|Within the literature on the informal sector, there has been numerous research on the impact of labour regulation and the tax rate on productivity on the size of the informal sector (IS) and unemployment. These effects have mostly been analysed with the aid of search and matching models. However, we have observed, that the impact of labour regulation on the size of the informal sector and unemployment rate has not been estimated empirically. On the other hand, the effect of the tax rate on the size of the informal sector has been analysed with the aid of various theoretical and empirical models respectively. Our paper attempts to bridge the gap in the theoretical and empirical literature by demonstrating that a change in firing costs generates a trade off in the decision to operate in the informal sector or become unemployed. However, an increase in the tax rate on production can neutralise the impact of higher firing costs on unemployment. We use a dynamic general equilibrium model to show how a change in firing costs or tax rate affects the incentive of an agent to operate in the informal sector as well as the consequences for unemployment. The model’s parameters are calibrated with values used in the general literature to demonstrate analytically the impact of firing costs and the tax rate on the size of the informal sector and unemployment. Our results show that an increase in firing costs decreases the relative size of the IS but raises the unemployment rate. However, a rise in the tax rate increases the relative size of the informal sector but reduces the unemployment rate. Next, we apply panel data analysis to estimate the effect of firing costs and direct tax for a panel of 93 countries between 2000 and 2007. We find that our empirical results are consistent with the results from our theoretical model. Our results reveals how the kind of regulation (labour or non-labour) can have a direct impact on the mobility of factors of production between the formal and informal sector respectively. It also shows how regulatory policy can be refined to maximize the trade-off between the informal sector and unemployment.
J41|Motivational factors influencing teaching (FIT) as a career: An empirical study of the expatriate teachers in the Emirates|This study aimed to investigate the motivational factors that lead to choice of teaching career in expatriate teachers in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). A UAE version of the Factors Influencing Teaching (FIT)-Choice scale (Watt & Richardson, 2007) was developed following the pre-testing strategies used by Dillman (2000), Heinz (2013) and Sharif (2014) and applied to identify the factors that most influenced the expatriates choose teaching as a career in the UAE. In a proposed and successfully tested model in this study, altruistic &/or intrinsic and extrinsic factors were found to be the mediator in the relationship between prior teaching & learning experience and social influence, and choice of a teaching career. Some gender differences were observed in case of four factors, ie, fall back career, work with children and adolescents, salary and prior teaching and learning experiences, and implications were discussed. For recruitment campaigns, strategies based on this study findings and understanding of the expatriate teachers’ motivations to adopt teaching as a career in the UAE were discussed. Due to the fact that the most recent study by LinkedIn among 380 million global members highlighted the UAE to be the most popular destination for expatriates surpassing Australia, Canada and Singapore (Maceda, 2015), the findings of this study can be considered to be of value to: (a) altruistically/intrinsically motivated professionals who are international-minded and seeking greener pastures in the UAE, and (b) the UAE policymakers who are working hard to fill the demand-supply gap drawing the attention of expatriates with the right skills and expertise. Finally, the research attempts in this study are seemingly unique in the sense that no previous study on teaching motivation had a combined focus on ‘in-service’, ‘expatriate teachers’ and UAE using FIT-Choice scale.
J41|Matching as a Stochastic Process|Results of multi-party bargaining are usually described by concepts from cooperative game theory, in particular by the core. In one-on-one matching, core allocations are stable in the sense that no pair of unmatched or otherwise matched players can improve their incomes by forming a match. Because of incomplete information and bounded rationality, it is difficult to adopt a core allocation immediately. Theoretical investigations cope with the problem of whether core allocations can be adopted in a stochastic process with repeated re-matching. In this paper, we investigate sequences of matching with data from an experimental 2×2 labor market with wage negotiations. This market has seven possible matching structures (states) and is additionally characterized by the negotiated wages and profits. First, we describe the stochastic process of transitions from one state to another including the average transition times. Second, we identify different influences on the process parameters as, for example, the difference of incomes in a match. Third, allocations in the core should be completely durable or at least more durable than comparable out-of-core allocations, but they are not. Final bargaining results (induced by a time limit) appear as snapshots of a stochastic process without absorbing states and with only weak systematic influences.
J41|Combining “real effort” with induced effort costs: the ball-catching task|Abstract We introduce the “ball-catching task”, a novel computerized task, which combines a tangible action (“catching balls”) with induced material cost of effort. The central feature of the ball-catching task is that it allows researchers to manipulate the cost of effort function as well as the production function, which permits quantitative predictions on effort provision. In an experiment with piece-rate incentives we find that the comparative static and the point predictions on effort provision are remarkably accurate. We also present experimental findings from three classic experiments, namely, team production, gift exchange and tournament, using the task. All of the results are closely in line with the stylized facts from experiments using purely induced values. We conclude that the ball-catching task combines the advantages of real effort tasks with the use of induced values, which is useful for theory-testing purposes as well as for applications.
J41|Endogenous Procyclicality of Labor Productivity, Employment, Real Wages and Effort in Conditionally Heteroskedastic Sunspots Unemployment Business Cycles with Negishi-Solow Efficiency Wages|This work introduces a new mechanism that is able to generate procyclical comovements of aggregate labor productivity, employment and real wages, through endogenous variations of workers’ effort, in a simple model involving structural unemployment, efficiency wages, financial market imperfections and expectations driven conditionally heteroskedastic sunspots business cycles, near a locally indeterminate steady state. Owing to imperfect effort monitoring, workers’ effort level equates their disutility of effort to their expected utility gain of not shirking, in terms of their earned real income, and of the resulting anticipated random consumption. A positive current (consumption) sunspot shock generates a countercyclical uncertainty shock, i.e. a drecrease of the anticipated sunspot volatility, and makes risk averse workers more willing to provide ”precautionary effort” by increasing their expected utility gain of not shirking. If workers’ relative prudence is small and decreasing fast near the steady state, profit maximizing firms’ choice of efficiency wage contracts generates significant endogenous procyclical variations of effort and employment, in particular when the capital-efficient labor elasticity of substitution is smaller than 1.
J41|Contracting with Type-Dependent Naïveté|I analyse the optimal contracting behaviour of an employer who faces workers with different, incorrect beliefs about their own productivity. While the literature has focused mostly on the exploitative (when the principal knows agents’ types, Eliaz and Spiegler, 2006) and speculative (when the principal has priors on agents’ types, Eliaz and Spiegler, 2008) aspects of contracts, I introduce the assumption that workers’ naïveté depends on their actual productivity level. The employer uses this information to form posteriors on agents’productivity and design more efficient contracts. In particular, I highlight the employer’s trade-off between exploiting strongly naïve workers and designing efficient contracts for the most widespread type of worker, according to her posteriors.
J41|Fixed-Term Employment and Fertility: Evidence from German Micro Data|We study the short- to medium-run effects on subsequent fertility of starting a career with a fixed-term contract. We focus on career start since we expect that temporary contracts and their inherent economic uncertainty imply a path dependence that might have spill-over effects on other domains of life. Our empirical analysis is based on rich data from the German Socio-Economic Panel, which provides comprehensive information about individuals’ labour market history as well as about their fertility. Our main results are the following. Women (i) tend to postpone first birth due to fixed-term employment at labour market entry and (ii) reduce the number of children in the first 10 years after graduation. These associations are strongest in the subsample of native women with at least vocational training. (iii) In contrast, we find no significant correlations for men. We argue that these findings are robust to potential endogeneity threats.
J41|The Impact of the Saudization Policy on Recruitment and Retention: A Case Study of the Banking Sector in Saudi Arabia|To reduce unemployment and reliance on expatriate workers, the Saudi Arabian government has been implementing a Saudization programme to replace expatriates with Saudis. This has succeeded in the public sector, but not in the private sector, except in banking, which is perceived as a white-collar occupation and acceptable in Saudi society. As such, this study investigates the impact of Saudization on recruitment and retention in the banking sector to see what lessons have been learned and what action is required. A systematic literature review was conducted, followed by questionnaires with 48 branch managers, and interviews with 12 Human Resource managers of key banks. The findings show that Saudization has an impact on several aspects of recruitment and retention in the banking sector, in particular, banks must provide specific training to Saudi recruits, revise working hours and promote the attractiveness of the post. Adopting such practices can benefit Saudi banking and contribute to the fulfillment of Saudization.
J41|Die Rolle befristeter Beschäftigung in Europa|No abstract is available for this item.
J41|Can Fixed-Term Contracts Put Low Skilled Youth on a Better Career Path? Evidence from Spain|Fixed-term contracts have low firing costs and can thus help low skilled youth find a first job faster. But do these workers get a more rewarding career? Using Spanish social security data, we compare the careers of native male high-school dropouts who entered the labor market just before and just after a large liberalization in the use of fixed-term contracts in 1984. Using a cohort regression discontinuity design we find that the reform raised the likelihood of working before age 20. However, by substantially increasing the number of employment spells it reduced workers' accumulated employment up to 2006 by almost 200 days and accumulated wages by 22%. These effects are concentrated during the first 5-10 years of these young workers' career. We conclude that widespread fixed-term contracts have harmed the careers of low-skilled workers.
J41|Optimal Contracting with Subjective Evaluation: The Effects of Timing, Malfeasance and Guile|We introduce a general Principal-Agent model with subjective evaluation and malfeasance characterized by two-sided asymmetric information on performance that allows for an arbitrary information structure. Two generic contract forms are studied. An authority contract has the Principal reveal his information before the Agent responds with her information. Under such a contract, the Agent's compensation varies only with the Principal's information, while her information is used to punish untruthful behavior by the Principal. Conversely, a sales contract has the Agent reveal her information first. In this case, the Agent's performance incentives are affected by the information revealed by both parties. Because the Agent's information affects her compensation, the information revelation constraints are more complex under a sales contract, and provide a way to integrate Williamson's (1975) notion of guile into agency theory. We find that designing sales contracts for expert agents, such as physicians and financial advisors, are significantly more complex than designing optimal authority contracts.
J41|The Effects of Wage Contracts on Workplace Misbehaviors: Evidence from a Call Center Natural Field Experiment|Workplace misbehaviors are often governed by explicit monitoring and strict punishment. Such enforcement activities can serve to lessen worker productivity and harm worker morale. We take a different approach to curbing worker misbehavior—bonuses. Examining more than 6500 donor phone calls across more than 80 workers, we use a natural field experiment to investigate how different wage contracts influence workers’ propensity to cheat and sabotage one another. Our findings show that even though standard relative performance pay contracts, relative to a fixed wage scheme, increase productivity, they have a dark side: they cause considerable cheating and sabotage of co-workers. Yet, even in such environments, by including an unexpected bonus, the employer can substantially curb worker misbehavior. In this manner, our findings reveal how employers can effectively leverage bonuses to eliminate undesired behaviors induced by performance pay contracts.
J41|What Do Performance Appraisals Do?|This paper investigates employee performance appraisals using data from a single US firm between 2001 and 2007. We find that performance appraisals are both informative and drive important components of the employment contract. We find that employee appraisal scores vary considerably both between and within individuals over time. In addition, we show that employee performance appraisal scores are related to a range of important employment outcomes, including merit pay and bonuses, promotions, demotions and dismissals, as well as employee quits.
J41|Effects of IT-enabled Monitoring on Labor Contracting in Online Platforms: Evidence from a Natural Experiment| Two-sided platforms are typically plagued with asymmetric information, limiting market efficiency. Situated in the context of the increasingly popular online platforms for labor contracting (herein referred to as â€œonline labor marketsâ€ ), this paper investigates whether the implementation of an IT-enabled monitoring system mitigates moral hazard in online platforms and the consequences thereof. Our identification hinges on a natural experiment at Freelancer when it introduced an IT-enabled monitoring system with enhanced offline tracking features in August 2015. Based on a unique dataset including 17,827 fixed-price projects and 8,563 time-based projects matched on observable characteristics, we employ a difference-in-differences (DID) approach to identify the treatment effect of the monitoring system implementation on various outcomes from both the employer (demand) side and the contractor (demand) side, including employer contractor choice, platform entry barrier and employer surplus. We found that the implementation of the monitoring system lowers the employersâ€™ preference for high-reputation bidders in time-based projects, and thus reduces the reputation premiums and partially lowers the entry barrier for contractors who have not yet established a reputation on the platform. Specifically, using fixed-price projects as the baseline, on average, the implementation of the monitoring system increased the number of bids by 17.4% (primarily from bidders with no prior experience on the platform) and increased employer surplus in time-based projects by 21.5%. Our results testify the partial substitution relationship between reputation systems and monitoring systems, and suggest that IT-enabled monitoring systems have a significant effect on alleviating moral hazards, reducing agency costs, and intensifying supply-side platform competition.
J41|Macroeconomic Dynamics with Limited Commitment in Financial and Labor Contracts|WThis paper presents a dynamic general equilibrium model to investigate the coevolution of employment and financial systems in the process of economic development when firms f commitment to financial and labor contracts is limited. We show that equilibrium modes of financial and labor contracts endogenously change from the informal contracting phase in which both of them are implicitly self-enforced to the formal contracting phase in which they are formally enforced and become more market-based as economies develop well. Furthermore, the formal contracting phase is irreversible in the sense that, once the economy enters that regime, it never returns back to the informal contracting phase.
