J47|Legacies of Loss: The intergenerational outcomes of slaveholder compensation in the British Cape Colony|Can wealth shocks have intergenerational health consequences? We use the partial compensation slaveholders received after the 1834 slave emancipation in the British Cape Colony to measure the intergenerational effects of a wealth loss on longevity. Because the share of partial compensation received was uncorrelated to wealth, we can interpret the results as having a causal influence. We find that a greater loss of slave wealth shortened the lifespans of the generation of slaveholders that experienced the shock and those of their children, but not those of their grandchildren. We speculate on the mechanisms for this intergenerational persistence.
J47|Those Who Can't Sort, Steal: Caste, Occupational Mobility, and Rent-Seeking in Rural India|Three important features of Indian labor markets enduringly coexist: rent-seeking, occupational immobility, and caste. These facts are puzzling, given theories that predict static, equilibrium social inequality without conflict. Our model explains these facts as an equilibrium outcome. Some people switch caste-associated occupations for an easier source of rents, rather than for productivity. This undermines trust between castes and shuts down occupational mobility, which further encourages rent-seeking due to an inability of workers to sort into occupations. We motivate our contribution with novel stylized facts exploiting a unique survey question on casteism in India, which we show is associated with rent-seeking.
J47|Capital-Skill Complementarity and the Emergence of Labor Emancipation|This paper advances a novel hypothesis regarding the historical roots of labor emancipation. It argues that the decline of coercive labor institutions in the industrial phase of development has been an inevitable by-product of the intensification of capital-skill complementarity in the production process. In light of the growing significance of skilled labor for fostering the return to physical capital, elites in society were induced to relinquish their historically profitable coercion of labor in favor of employing free skilled workers, thereby incentivizing the masses to engage in broad-based human capital acquisition, without fear of losing their skill premium to expropriation. In line with the proposed hypothesis, exploiting a plausibly exogenous source of variation in proto-industrialization across regions of nineteenth-century Prussia, the initial abundance of elite-owned physical capital that also came to be associated with skill-intensive industrialization is shown to have contributed to the subsequent intensity of de facto serf emancipation.
J47|North Korea: Sanctions, Engagement and Strategic Reorientation|This paper examines the roles that sanctions, and inducements might play in resolving the North Korea problem. It finds that while the “maximum pressure” narrative is plausible, the evidence to substantiate it is thin. Likewise, the North Korean regime is aware of the potentially constraining (or even destabilizing) political implications of cross‐border economic integration and has acted to structure engagement in ways to blunt its transformative impact. Maximizing the transformative possibilities of engagement will require conscious planning by North Korea's partners. Multilateral guidelines and voluntary codes on corporate conduct could be used to anchor this process, but they will only be effective if there is greater political commitment to such norms than has been witnessed to date. Without such commitments, engagement risks enabling North Korea's doctrine of the parallel development of the economy and weapons of mass destruction.
J47|The Economic Effects of the Abolition of Serfdom: Evidence from the Russian Empire|We document substantial increases in agricultural productivity, industrial output, and peasants' nutrition in Imperial Russia as a result of the abolition of serfdom in 1861. Before the emancipation, provinces where serfs constituted the majority of agricultural laborers lagged behind provinces that primarily relied on free labor. The emancipation led to a significant but partial catch up. Better incentives of peasants resulting from the cessation of ratchet effect were a likely mechanism behind a relatively fast positive effect of reform on agricultural productivity. The land reform, which instituted communal land tenure after the emancipation, diminished growth in productivity in repartition communes.
J47|Masters and slaves: A matching approach with heterogeneous workers|"At present, most countries have officially ratified the ILO Convention concerning forced or compulsory labor; however, serfdom is still present in the twenty-first century. This paper addresses the questions of how situations of modern slavery arise and how oppressors select their victims. The analytical framework is a labor-market model in which masters and slaves are matched via a matching function. In contrast to the standard matching model, not the workers exert effort to find jobs but the employers exert effort to find and hire slaves. Workers are heterogeneous regarding their ""slavability"", which is ex-ante unknown to the potential employers. Employers exert effort to recruit slaves. The employer's decision whether and to what extent to engage in forced labor depends on governmental labor protection and on the probability of detection. Moreover, the model includes the possibility of bribery such that an employer can avoid sanctions if illicit behavior is detected. The model is solved and the impact of policy variables and other exogenous parameters on the firms' activities are investigated."
J47|Theory and Evidence on Employer Collusion in the Franchise Sector|"In this paper we study the role of covenants in franchise contracts that restrict the recruitment and hiring of employees from other units within the same franchise chain in suppressing and hiring of employees from other units within the same franchise chain in suppressing find that ""no-poaching of workers agreements"" are included in a surprising 58 percent of major franchisors' contracts, including McDonald's, Burger King, Jiffy Lube and H&R Block. Theoretical models of oligopsony and dynamic monopsony, as well as incentives for investment in job training, are discussed in the context of these no-poaching agreements. Although the occurrence of no-poaching agreements is difficult to predict from franchise or industry characteristics, no-poaching agreements are more common for franchises in low-wage and high-turnover industries."
J47|Understanding Human Trafficking Using Victim-Level Data|Quantitative research on human trafficking is scant due to lack of data. This study makes use of a unique survey we collected on former victims of trafficking and vulnerable women and girls in the Philippines. We start by exploring the correlates of trafficking and show that household composition (in particular the presence of older sisters) and plausibly exogenous measures of health and economic shocks predict the likelihood of being tracked. We then study the effects of trafficking on victims' intertemporal and risk preferences using entropy balancing. We find that trafficking victims are not differentially patient, but they are more risk-loving. Our novel data and findings are pertinent to the design of policies intending to prevent trafficking and reintegrate victims.
J47|Sir! I'd Rather Go to School, Sir!|Military service is a popular method of army recruitment for governments of developing countries that are particularly prone to conflict. This study contributes to the largely under-researched issues of military service by looking at an unintended consequence of a military service exemption policy and answering a principal question: is there a fear of conscription among the youth? It uses a discontinuity in the military service law in an under-researched country, Iran, and offers causal evidence that fear of conscription entices young men to get more education against their will. This exogenous increase is used to estimate returns to education.
J47|Side Effects of Immunity: The Rise of African Slavery in the US South|Why did African slavery rise in the southern United States? The novel empirical evidence presented in this paper reveals that (i) malaria was a major determinant for the rise and spread of African slavery in the US South and (ii) malaria resistance made sub-Saharan Africans especially attractive for employment in these regions. We show that African enslaved labor was massively introduced in the United States after the spread of a deadly malaria species, and that it remained largely concentrated in the more malariainfested areas of the South. We further document that more malaria-resistant slaves, i.e. those born in the most malaria-ridden regions of Africa, commanded higher prices.
J47|Forced labour and risk factors for inferior working conditions in Thai fishing sector|Severe working conditions on Thai fishing boats have received international attention as the so-called modern slavery, at least, since 2005. Using a survey in 2012 of fishermen on fishing boats in four provinces of Thailand conducted by the International Labour Organization, this paper examines the ranges of unacceptable working conditions by extending the measurement of forced labour. This paper makes two main contributions by identifying the degree of forced labour and measuring their working conditions. First, we conceptualise two situations, forced labour and possibly forced labour, with different combinations of available variables, which is an attempt to capture the multidimentional complexity in measuring forced labour. Second, we analysed the associated working conditions among the workers. We confirmed that fishing boats are places of forced labour and destinations of trafficked persons, and that the working conditions of forced and possibly forced workers are inferior to those of other workers.
J47|Was Domar Right? Serfdom and Factor Endowments in Bohemia|Do factor endowments explain serfdom? Domar (1970) conjectured that high land-labor ratios caused serfdom by increasing incentives to coerce labor. But historical evidence is mixed and quantitative analyses are lacking. Using the Acemoglu-Wolitzky (2011) framework and controlling for political economy variables by studying a specific serf society, we analyze 11,349 Bohemian serf villages in 1757. The net effect of higher land-labor ratios was indeed to increase coercion. The effect greatly increased when animal labor was included, and diminished as land-labor ratios rose. Controlling for other variables, factor endowments significantly influenced serfdom. Institutions, we conclude, are shaped partly by economic fundamentals.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J47|The Political Economics of Growth, Labor Control and Coercion: Evidence from a Suffrage Reform|In this paper, we analyze how a suffrage reform in 1862/63 that shifted the de jure distribution of political power from landowners to industrialists affected Sweden’s industrialization and economic and social development from the 1860s to the 1910s. Using a newly constructed, comprehensive historical data set of the universe of approximately 2,400 Swedish local governments, we document that the change in suffrage affected a very large number of development and social outcomes at the local level, such as labor coercion, factor price manipulation in the form of entry barriers including investments in local public goods (i.e., schooling) and transportation (i.e., local railways), the real wage structure, technology adoption in both agriculture and industry, labor productivity in both agriculture and industry, changes in the composition of employment and the structure of production, demographic transition, organized labor, and persistence in dysfunctional local political institutions. Our findings are consistent with the idea that political institutions are a key determinant of long-run development and growth. Specifically, our results suggest that politically powerful landowners can block economic development using labor coercion and factor price manipulation, i.e., using entry barriers and other distortionary policies.
J47|War, Migration and the Origins of the Thai Sex Industry|This paper analyzes the determinants behind the spatial distribution of the sex industry in Thailand. We relate the development of the sex industry to an early temporary demand shock, that is, US military presence during the Vietnam War. Comparing the surroundings of Thai military bases used by the US army to districts close to unused Thai bases, we find that there are currently five times more commercial sex workers in districts near former US bases. The development of the sex industry is also explained by a high price elasticity of supply due to female migration from regions affected by an agricultural crisis. Finally, we study a consequence induced by the large numbers of sex workers in few red-light districts: the HIV outbreak in the early 1990s.
J47|Capital-Skill Complementarity and the Emergence of Labor Emancipation|This paper advances a novel hypothesis regarding the historical roots of labor emancipation. It argues that the decline of coercive labor institutions in the industrial phase of development has been an inevitable by-product of the intensification of capital-skill complementarity in the production process. In light of the growing significance of skilled labor for fostering the return to physical capital, elites in society were induced to relinquish their historically profitable coercion of labor in favor of employing free skilled workers, thereby incentivizing the masses to engage in broad-based human capital acquisition, without fear of losing their skill premium to expropriation. In line with the proposed hypothesis, exploiting a plausibly exogenous source of variation in proto-industrialization across regions of nineteenth-century Prussia, the initial abundance of elite-owned physical capital that also came to be associated with skill-intensive industrialization is shown to have contributed to the subsequent intensity of de facto serf emancipation.
J47|Was Domar Right? Serfdom and Factor Endowments in Bohemia|Do factor endowments explain serfdom? Domar (1970) conjectured that high land-labor ratios caused serfdom by increasing incentives to coerce labor. But historical evidence is mixed and quantitative analyses are lacking. Using the Acemoglu-Wolitzky (2011) framework and controlling for political economy variables by studying a specific serf society, we analyze 11,349 Bohemian serf villages in 1757. The net effect of higher land-labor ratios was indeed to increase coercion. The effect greatly increased when animal labor was included, and diminished as land-labor ratios rose. Controlling for other variables, factor endowments significantly influenced serfdom. Institutions, we conclude, are shaped partly by economic fundamentals.
J47|Poor man's crop? Slavery on Brazilian cotton regions (1800-1850)|The literature about cotton production in Brazil during the nineteenth century in large part associates cotton as a “poor man’s crop” – cultivated by small farmers who did not employ a large slave labor force. Information from population maps between 1800 and 1840, however, shows that slaves represented half the population in Maranhão, the most important cotton exporter in Brazil until 1850. This represented a higher share than that observed in any northeast region in Brazil, and was comparable to those recorded in the United States’ Cotton South. This paper shows that, during the cotton boom years (1790-1820), not only large plantations cultivated the cotton exported from northeast Brazil to Britain and other countries in Europe, but also that slave prices were higher in Maranhão than in other provinces.
J47|Capital-Skill Complementarity and the Emergence of Labor Emancipation|This paper advances a novel hypothesis regarding the historical roots of labor emancipation. It argues that the decline of coercive labor institutions in the industrial phase of development has been an inevitable by-product of the intensification of capital-skill complementarity in the production process. In light of the growing significance of skilled labor for fostering the return to physical capital, elites in society were induced to relinquish their historically profitable coercion of labor in favor of employing free skilled workers, thereby incentivizing the masses to engage in broad-based human capital acquisition, without fear of losing their skill premium to expropriation. In line with the proposed hypothesis, exploiting a plausibly exogenous source of variation in early industrialization across regions of nineteenth-century Prussia, capital abundance is shown to have contributed to the subsequent intensity of de facto serf emancipation.
J47|Migration as a channel of persistence of the effects of Peru?s mining mita: what surnames may reveal|This paper proposes three indicators constructed from the surnames of the current population to analyze the effect of mita, a forced mining labor system in Peru and Bolivia during 1573 and 1812, on historical migration. The underlying assumption is that surnames within a community might be the same over time unless migration or mortality displacement takes place. The mita case is particularly appealing for applying our indicators because the use of surnames was introduced in the study region only since the Spanish conquest in 1532. We estimate the effect of mita by using a regression discontinuity design similar to the one conducted by Dell (2010), which exploits the exogenous variation in its geographic assignment.
J47|The legacies of slavery in and out of Africa|Abstract The slave trades out of Africa represent one of the most significant forced migration experiences in history. In this paper, I illustrate their long-term consequences on contemporaneous socio-economic outcomes, drawing from my own previous work on the topic and from an extensive review of the available literature. I first consider the influence of the slave trade on the “sending” countries in Africa, with attention to their economic, institutional, demographic, and social implications. Next, I evaluate the consequences of the slave trade on the “receiving” countries in the Americas. Here, I distinguish between the case of Latin America and that of the USA. Overall, I show that the slave trades exert a lasting impact along several contemporaneous socio-economic dimensions and across diverse areas of the world. JEL Classification: J47, J15, O15, N30, P48, Z10
J47|Coerced Labor in the Cotton Sector: How Global Commodity Prices (Don't) Transmit to the Poor|This paper investigates the economic fortunes of coerced vs. free workers in a global supply chain. To identify the differential treatment of otherwise similar workers we resort to a unique exogenous labor demand shock that affects wages in voluntary and involuntary labor relations differently. We identify the wage pass-through by capitalizing on Tajikistan’s geographic variation in the suitability for cotton production combined with a surge in the world market price of cotton in 2010/11 in two types of firms: randomly privatized small farms and not yet privatized parastatal farms, the latter of which command political capital to coerce workers. The expansion in land attributed to cotton production led to increases in labor demand and wages for cotton pickers; however, the price hike benefits only workers on entrepreneurial private farms, whereas coerced workers of parastatal enterprises miss out. The results provide evidence for the political economy of labor coercion and for the dependence of the economic lives of many poor on the competitive structure of local labor markets.
J47|Labor Economics in a Planned Economy: F. A. Hayek and John Jewkes on the Impossibility of Democratic Socialism|Milton Friedman (1962) is associated with the claim that political and economic freedom cannot be distinguished (cf. Lawson and Clark 2010), using the famous example that there can be no freedom of speech where the government owns the printing presses. Less well-known is F. A. Hayek's example, drawn from labor economics, used to illustrate the same principle. Hayek was joined in this by his less well-known colleague, John Jewkes. Hayek and Jewkes argued that without a freely operating price system, central economic planning cannot function without compulsory regimentation of labor. Similarly, no state may simultaneously fix “fair” wages and demand a given pattern of productive output and employment. It is impossible to both achieve income equality and accomplish an economic plan. Hayek's and Jewkes's examples help explain why democratic socialism is impossible, in the sense that it cannot accomplish what its advocates desire.
J47|Steigende Schutzdefizite im Arbeitsrecht? (Growing lack of protection in labour law?)|Der Einsatz von „Fremdbelegschaften“ hat wenig mit wachsender Vernetzung von Unternehmen zu tun. Die rechtliche Entkoppelung von arbeitsvertraglicher Beziehung und Arbeitsort wirft Probleme auf, die sich bei den einzelnen Gruppen der Fremdbelegschaften unterschiedlich stellen. Leiharbeitnehmer haben neben ihrer Vertragsbeziehung zum Verleiher zahlreiche arbeitsrechtliche Rechte und Pflichten zum Entleiher, die sich unter dem Leitbegriff eines partiellen Arbeitsverhaeltnisses zusammenfassen lassen. Ihre faktische Schlechterstellung gegenueber Stammbeschaeftigten haengt mit gesetzlich zugelassenen Billigtarifen und einer isolierten Arbeitssituation zusammen, die eine gemeinsame Interessenvertretung erschwert. Bei der zweiten Gruppe – den aufgrund Werk- oder Dienstvertrags in den Betrieb Kommenden – lassen sich die rechtlichen Probleme gleichfalls bewaeltigen, die die Nichtzugehoerigkeit zur „eigentlichen“ Belegschaft mit sich bringt. Ihre schlechtere Lage haengt damit zusammen, dass sie im besten Falle den Tarifen einer „Billig-Branche“ unterliegen, meist aber zu jenen 42 % der Beschaeftigten gehoeren, die nicht mehr durch Tarifvertraege geschuetzt sind. Bei den Soloselbstaendigen als der dritten Gruppe muss man unterscheiden. Wer sein Einkommen im Wesentlichen vom Einsatzbetrieb bezieht, wird als arbeitnehmeraehnliche Person qualifiziert und kann sich deshalb auf bestimmte arbeitsrechtliche Normen wie das Bundesurlaubsgesetz berufen, bleibt andererseits aber vom Kuendigungsschutzgesetz und von der Betriebsverfassung ausgeschlossen. Tarifvertraege sind moeglich, aber faktisch nicht durchsetzbar. Liegt wegen Fehlens eines beherrschenden Auftraggebers keine Arbeitnehmeraehnlichkeit vor, kann sich der Betroffene nur auf zivilrechtliche Schutznormen berufen, die zwar eine intensive Vertragsinhaltskontrolle, aber keinerlei Bestandsschutz gewaehren. Hinter dem Begriff der Crowdworker als vierter Gruppe verbergen sich sehr unterschiedliche Rechtsbeziehungen; soweit fuer auslaendische Plattformen gearbeitet wird, ist selbst der zivilrechtliche Schutz in Frage gestellt. Im Vergleich dazu sind die Probleme jener Beschaeftigten, deren Arbeit von einem anderen Konzernunternehmen als dem Vertragsarbeitgeber gesteuert wird, von relativ geringer Dimension. Ein einheitliches „Modell“ fuer den Umgang mit Fremdbelegschaften kann es nicht geben; die unbestreitbaren Schutzdefizite haben ihre Ursachen nicht in den Schwierigkeiten der „Ankoppelung“ an den Einsatzbetrieb, sondern in der Stellung der Betroffenen auf dem Arbeitsmarkt. (There is no necessary linkage between the use of a so-called external workforce and the increased interconnectedness of organisations. Within the external workforce, we have to distinguish four groups which are less protected than workers in a standard employment relationship. The coordination problems between an external and internal workforce are normally solved in a satisfactory way. Temporary agency workers have many legal links to the enterprise, which together can be considered to be a partial employment relationship. Workers sent to the plant by their employers on the basis of a contract of services keep their rights as employees in the relationship to their employer. In addition, there are also legal links to the company where the worker is deployed. The absence of a contract with the enterprise where the work is done is not the real cause of the weak position of these two kinds of workers. It is rather their position in the labour market and their difficulty in joining trade unions and their lack of access to the improved working conditions of collective agreements. Self-employed workers with no employees are often in a still worse condition, protected only by civil law. If they work more or less exclusively for one enterprise, some labour law rules apply comprising annual leave and the (theoretical) possibility to conclude collective agreements. However, they cannot invoke the rules against unfair dismissal and they are not integrated into the system of works councils. The situation of crowdworkers varies according to the task they have to fulfil. If they are self-employed persons without employees, they will often be protected only by civil law which guarantees an intensive control of contract clauses but does not protect against the termination of the relationship. To improve their position is a question for labour market policy too. The concept of creating a uniform model to cover external workforces is misleading because it neglects the real reasons for decreasing employment protection.)
J47|Arbeitsrecht in der vernetzten Arbeitswelt (Labour law in an interconnected digital working world)|Der vorliegende Beitrag untersucht aus arbeitsrechtlicher Perspektive das Phaenomen, dass in der vernetzten Arbeitswelt der Zugriff auf Arbeitskraft seltener im Rahmen des traditionellen Normalarbeitsverhaeltnisses erfolgt und stattdessen zunehmend externe Arbeitskraefte im Rahmen von Netzwerkorganisationen eingesetzt werden. Es wird die These entwickelt, dass es zu kurz greifen wuerde, diesen Wandel unter der fuer das Arbeitsrecht derzeit typischen bipolaren Perspektive zu analysieren, und dass arbeitsrechtliche Begrifflichkeiten und Grundstrukturen im Hinblick auf mehrpolige Rechtsbeziehungen und interorganisationale Fragestellungen weiterzuentwickeln sind. Konzeptionelle Defizite der Regulierung des drittbezogenen Personaleinsatzes werden herausgearbeitet. Ausgehend von den in den Grundrechten wurzelnden staatlichen Schutzpflichten und dem im Rechtsstaatsprinzip wurzelnden Kohaerenzgebot werden ein Leitbild fuer die vernetzte Arbeitswelt entworfen und Schlussfolgerungen fuer eine systematische Entwicklung des Rechts der externen Arbeitskraefte gezogen. (This paper adopts a labour law perspective to analyse the more frequent external deployment of labour than conventional employment in network organisations. We argue that it is insufficient to analyse this phenomenon from the bipolar perspective dominant in the traditional concept of labour law. Instead it is necessary to develop a concept and structure of (labour) law with regard to multipolar relations and inter-organisational problems. The paper analyses the conceptual deficits of the current regulation of triangular labour deployment strategies. It then develops guiding principles for the deployment of labour in an interconnected digital working world. It does so by focusing on the duty of States to protect human rights and the principle of coherent regulation. In the light of these principles, we draw practical conclusions for the regulation of the use of external labour.)
J47|Entgrenzung von Organisation und Arbeit? Interorganisationale Fragmentierung als Herausforderung für Arbeitsrecht, Management und Mitbestimmung. Einleitung zum Schwerpunktheft|Die Artikel des Schwerpunktheftes setzen an verschiedenen inhaltlichen Dimensionen und Ebenen dieser Fragmentierung an: Auf der Arbeitsebene ist der Beitrag von Gabriele Fassauer und Silke Geithner angesiedelt, der die inner-organisatorische Bewaeltigung von Co-Konfiguration durch Auftragsmanager behandelt. Auf Basis der Taetigkeitstheorie beleuchten die Autorinnen die Co-Konfiguration zwischen Kunden und Produzenten, indem sie die Grenzarbeit von Auftragsmanagern im Zentrum interorganisationaler Leistungserstellung sichtbar machen, um den Anforderungen von Kunden, Zulieferern und den unternehmensinternen Arbeitsgruppen gerecht zu werden. Die Mitbestimmungspraxis von Betriebsraeten im Umgang mit quasi-externalisierter Arbeit ist Gegenstand von gleich zwei Aufsaetzen mit je unterschiedlicher Blickrichtung. Der Artikel von Markus Hertwig, Johannes Kirsch und Carsten Wirth zielt auf die Erkundung des Umgangs des Betriebsrats mit Onsite-Werkvertraegen in strukturationstheoretischer Perspektive. Fuer die Ernaehrungs- und Getraenkeindustrie zeigen sie verschiedene Praktiken auf, die in verschiedenen Typen des Umgangs von Betriebsraeten mit Onsite-Werkvertraegen verdichtet werden, die zwischen Kooperation und Konfrontation, zwischen Ablehnung und Akzeptanz angesiedelt sind. Karina Becker thematisiert aus einer sozialkritischen Perspektive den Gesundheits- und Arbeitsschutz fuer Werkvertragsbeschaeftigte in der Pflege. Dabei interessiert sie sich insbesondere fuer die rechtlichen Sekundaermachtpotenziale der Betriebsraete sowie deren etwaige Verschiebungen innerhalb des Feldes des Arbeits- und Gesundheitsschutzes. Auf diese Weise wird die Reichweite staatlicher Mindestschutzvorschriften im Betrieb bzw. im Haushalt als Verhandlungsgegenstand der Mitbestimmung thematisiert. Auf der Mesoebene zwischen Organisationen und (arbeits-)rechtlichem Rahmen setzen Isabell Hensel, Jochen Koch, Eva Kocher und Anna Schwarz mit einer interdisziplinaeren Einordnung online vermittelter Arbeitsauftraege und Werke an. Sie deuten neue Formen der Arbeitserbringung („Crowdworking“) in ihrer Vielgestaltigkeit, d.h. auch und gerade hinsichtlich von Potenzialen, die jenseits einer allfaelligen Prekarisierung angesiedelt sein koennen. Hierbei greifen sie zum einen auf die Organisations- und Managementtheorie zurueck, zum anderen benutzen sie das Arbeitsrecht, um das Spektrum von Crowdworking in einem Regelkreis aus Autonomie und Kontrolle, Flexibilitaet und Stabilitaet zu ordnen. Auf der Makroebene diskutiert Andreas Buecker die Regulierung der multipolaren Arbeitsbeziehungen und insbesondere des sog. drittbezogenen Personaleinsatzes, indem er bestehende Quellen des Arbeitsrechts (AEntG, MiloG, ArbSchG, BetrVG) auf Anwendbarkeit prueft, um regulative Luecken zu praezisieren. Zugleich thematisiert er die Rolle von Leitbildern im Diskurs der Rechtsfortbildung. Im Ergebnis argumentiert er fuer eine Fortentwicklung des Arbeitsrechts, um ueber den klassischen bipolaren Arbeitnehmerbegriff hinaus auch mehrpolige Rechtsbeziehungen erfassen zu koennen und die Betroffenen nicht schutzlos zu stellen. Hieran knuepfen zwei Debattenbeitraege an, um die derzeitige Konstruktion des Arbeitsrechts auf den Pruefstand zu stellen. Ebenso wie Buecker setzen sowohl Christiane Brors als auch Wolfgang Daeubler am grundsaetzlich bestehenden sozialen Schutzbedarf in mehrpoligen Arbeitsbeziehungen an, blicken aber gleichsam etwas optimistischer in die Zukunft. Brors haelt das zweipolige Arbeitsverhaeltnis nach wie vor fuer den richtigen Anker, um den Schutz abhaengig Beschaeftigter zu gewaehrleisten und zeigt auf, dass bestehende Ansaetze, insbesondere im Rahmen des Rechts der Leiharbeit, ausbaufaehig sind. AEhnlich sieht es Daeubler, der gleichermassen im Arbeitsrecht wie im Recht der Selbststaendigen ausbaufaehige Konstruktionen sieht. Deutlich wird dabei aber, dass gerade im letzteren Bereich der Gesetzgeber gefragt sein koennte, ueber den Typus der arbeitnehmeraehnlichen Person den Schutz von Selbststaendigen zu verbessern. Darueber hinaus macht Daeubler deutlich, dass gerade beim Crowdsourcing ein Problem in der Internationalitaet der Rechtsbeziehung liegen koennte.
J47|Coerced Labor in the Cotton Sector: How Global Commodity Prices (Don't) Transmit to the Poor|This paper investigates the economic fortunes of coerced vs. free workers in a global supply chain. To identify the differential treatment of otherwise similar workers we resort to a unique exogenous labor demand shock that affects wages in voluntary and involuntary labor relations differently. We identify the wage pass-through by capitalizing on Tajikistan's geographic variation in the suitability for cotton production combined with a surge in the world market price of cotton in 2010/11 in two types of firms: randomly privatized small farms and not yet privatized parastatal farms, the latter of which command political capital to coerce workers. The expansion in land attributed to cotton production led to increases in labor demand and wages for cotton pickers; however, the price hike benefits only workers on entrepreneurial private farms, whereas coerced workers of parastatal enterprises miss out. The results provide evidence for the political economy of labor coercion and for the dependence of the economic lives of many poor on the competitive structure of local labor markets.
J47|Schoene, neue Arbeitswelt – ist der Arbeitsvertrag dafuer zu „altbacken“? (The employment contract – Too old fashioned for the brave new employment world?)|Der Beitrag wendet sich gegen die These, dass in Abkehr von dem Ausgangspunkt des zweiseitigen Vertrags „multipolare Arbeitsbeziehungen“ fuer eine juristische Betrachtungsweise gewaehlt werden sollen. Neue Organisationsformen der Arbeit duerfen nicht zu Nachteilen fuer den Arbeitnehmer fuehren. Die Arbeitsorganisation wird vom Arbeitgeber vorgegeben. Der Arbeitnehmer hat keinen Einfluss darauf. Die Organisationsform ist Ausdruck der strukturellen Ungleichgewichtslage zwischen Arbeitgeber und Arbeitnehmer. Aufgabe des Arbeitsrechts ist es, die Ungleichgewichtslage zu beseitigen und nicht sie als Ausgangspunkt zu nehmen und so zu akzeptieren. (This article criticizes the argument that in labour law analyses, the bipolar contract should be abandoned as a starting point in favour of multipolar employment relations.. Modern employment relations in multipolar organisations could be used to evade the given legal protection of the employee. Work organisation is the prerogative of the employer and employees have no influence over it.. It is the function of labour law to secure workers’ rights in this situation on the basis of the bipolar contract and not to weaken their position by accepting new organizational forms of work.)
J47|Onsite-Werkvertraege und Industrielle Beziehungen: Praktiken der Betriebsraete zwischen Ablehnung und Akzeptanz (Onsite-subcontracting and industrial relations: Practices of works councils between rejection and acceptance)|Mit Onsite-Werkvertraegen koennen vielfaeltige negative Konsequenzen fuer die Arbeitsbedingungen der Beschaeftigten und fuer die Interessenvertretung verknuepft sein. Deshalb fragen wir, wie Betriebsraete mit der Verbreitung von Onsite-Werkvertraegen in den Kernbereichen der Wertschoepfung umgehen und welche Praktiken der Interessenvertretung im Prozess des Outsourcings entwickelt werden. In diesem Beitrag zeigen wir auf Basis einer strukturationstheoretischen Analyse von insgesamt zwoelf Fallstudien aus dem Verarbeitenden Gewerbe und dem Einzelhandel, dass sich zwei grundlegende Handlungsmuster (Ablehnung oder Akzeptanz) herausbilden. Diese Handlungsmuster differenzieren sich weiter nach den grundlegenden Sicht , Handlungs und Legitimationsweisen der Betriebsraete in die vier Typen‚ ‚Ablehnung – Unsicherheit‘, ‚Ablehnung – Konfrontation‘, ‚Akzeptanz – Kooperation‘ und ‚Akzeptanz – Ausgestaltung‘ aus. Die Betriebsraete ueben dabei Einfluss aus, ohne jedoch alle negativen Konsequenzen aufheben zu koennen. Dies hat Folgen fuer das Erwerbssystem als Ganzes. (Onsite-subcontracting can produce multiple negative consequences for employment conditions and interest representation. Therefore, we ask how works councils position themselves towards onsite-subcontracting and how they intervene in the process of outsourcing. Based on a structurationist analysis of twelve case studies in the manufacturing sector and in retailing, we identify two major patterns of action (rejection and acceptance). The patterns of action can be differentiated into four types of works council behaviour: ‘rejection – uncertainty, ‘rejection – confrontation’, ‘acceptance – co-operation’ and ‘acceptance – arrangement’. Furthermore, works councils exert influence to a varying degree but they cannot offset all negative consequences. This has implications for the overall employment system.)
J47|Human Capital Quality and Aggregate Income Differences: Development Accounting for U.S. States|Although many U.S. state policies presume that human capital is important for state economic development, there is little research linking better education to state incomes. In a complement to international studies of income differences, we investigate the extent to which quality-adjusted measures of human capital can explain within-country income differences. We develop detailed measures of state human capital based on school attainment from census micro data and on cognitive skills from state- and country-of-origin achievement tests. Partitioning current state workforces into state locals, interstate migrants, and immigrants, we adjust achievement scores for selective migration. We use the new human capital measures in development accounting analyses calibrated with standard production parameters. We find that differences in human capital account for 20-35 percent of the current variation in per-capita GDP among states, with roughly even contributions by school attainment and cognitive skills. Similar results emerge from growth accounting analyses.
J47|Side Effects of Immunities: the African Slave Trade|The resistance of Sub-Saharan Africans to diseases that were plaguing the southern United States contributed to the establishment of African slavery in those regions. Specifically, Africans' resistance to malaria increased the profitability of employing African slave labor, especially that of slaves coming from the most malaria-ridden parts of Africa. In this paper, I first document that African slavery was largely concentrated in the malaria-infested areas of the United States. Moreover, I show that the introduction of a virulent strain of malaria into US colonies greatly increased the share of African slaves, but only in states where malaria could thrive. Finally, by looking at the historical prices of African slaves, I show that enslaved individuals born in the most malaria-ridden African regions commanded higher prices.
J47|George Orwell and the Incoherence of Democratic Socialism|George Orwell's famous fictions, Animal Farm and Nineteen-Eighty Four were intended to advocate democratic socialism by portraying undemocratic forms of socialism as totalitarian. For Orwell, democracy was a political institution which would limit the abuse of power. But there are several problems with democratic socialism which ensure its failure. In Orwell's novel A Clergyman's Daughter, Orwell's views of economics and politics are inconsistent and conflicting in a way that ensures democratic socialism will not succeed on Orwell's terms. Democratic socialism in general is criticized according to F. A. Hayek's Road to Serfdom and John Jewkes's The New Ordeal by Planning, whose arguments differ crucially from those against market socialism by Andrei Shleifer and Robert W. Vishny. An economic analysis of the political institutions of democratic socialism shows that democratic socialism must necessarily fail for political (not economic) reasons even if nobody in authority has ill-intentions or abuses their power.
J47|Slave prices and productivity at the Cape of Good Hope from 1700 to 1725: Did everyone win from the trade?|This paper analyses the economic viability of slavery in the Cape Colony in southern Africa. It has been extensively documented that the affluence of elites was built on the importation of slaves. However, the Dutch East India Company or Verengide Oost-indische Companje, which administrated the colony, expressed concerns that free settlers had invested too much capital in the trade, so that some indications exist that profitability was not certain for all farmers. In this paper, hedonic slave price indices and the value of their marginal productivity have been estimated, to construct annual returns, which are in turn compared with returns on other investments for the period 1700–1725. Hedonic price functions were estimated to remove the anticipated lifetime returns that slaves would yield and to isolate buyers’ perceived depreciation of the slave for 1 year. Cobb–Douglas production functions were estimated for average farmers, as well as at various quintiles along the distribution, to evaluate scale effects. Large farmers enjoyed high returns to slavery over most of the period, confirming the assertions that the elite used slaves profitably. Small farmers, however, did not recoup slave costs from agricultural production: this suggests either that they overinvested in slavery relative to other capital goods (e.g. ploughs or wagons), or that they used slaves profitably outside of agriculture.
J47|Street Prostitution Zones and Crime|This paper studies the effects of legal street prostitution zones on registered and perceived crime. We exploit a unique setting in the Netherlands where these tippelzones were opened in nine cities under different regulation systems. Our difference-in-difference analysis of 25 Dutch cities between 1994-2011 shows that opening a tippelzone decreases registered sexual abuse and rape by about 30-40 percent in the first two years. For cities which enforced licensing in tippelzones, we also find reductions in drug-related crime and long-term effects on sexual assaults. Effects on perceived drug nuisance depend on the regulation system and the proximity of respondents to the tippelzone.
J47|Human Trafficking in Southeast Asia: Results from a Pilot Project in Vietnam|"Human trafficking is one of the most widely spread and fastest growing crimes in the world. However, despite the scope of the problem, the important human rights issues at stake and the professed intent of governments around the world to put an end to ""modern day slavery"", there is very little that is actually known about the nature of human trafficking and those most at risk as potential victims. This is due in large part to the difficulty in collecting reliable and statistically useful data. In this paper we present the results of a pilot study run in rural Vietnam with the aim of overcoming these data issues. Rather than attempt to identify victims themselves, we rely on the form rural migration often takes in urbanizing developing countries to instead identify households that were sources of trafficking victims. This allows us to construct a viable sampling frame, on which we conduct a survey using novel techniques such as anchoring vignettes, indirect sampling, list randomization and social network analysis to construct a series of empirically valid estimates that can begin to shed light on the problem of human trafficking."
J47|Income Insecurity, Job Insecurity and the Drift towards Self-employment in SSA|This study contributes to the explanation to growing informality by proposing and testing a simple framework that link income insecurity to the proliferation of informal enterprise through job insecurity in selected SSA countries. The study adopted a quantitative approach and used ANOVA analysis to analyze a uniform firm level data on informal enterprises in Ghana, Kenya and the DRC. The analyses suggested that income insecurity exist in the form of significant seasonal variations in sales returns. Enterprises that employ more than one worker, on the average, cut employment significantly during the slowest months as compared to employment in the busiest months. Thus a link is established between income insecurity and job insecurity which deters the informal enterprises from increasing permanent employment and hence remains small overtime. Instead firms resort to casual workers and unpaid workers to facilitate production. The insecurity in the informal sector paid employment drive paid employees into self-employment after learning the employer’s trade and hence multiply the number of enterprises in a locality which in turn keep returns fairly normal in the sector. The major recommendation of that study is that owners of informal enterprises must be regulated in their current jobs and assisted to build capacity to deal with sales variations and other employment uncertainty after which the demand for formality and growth in decent employment shall be a natural course of action to the firms.
J47|Slave prices and productivity at the Cape of Good Hope from 1700 to 1725: did all settler farmers profit from the trade?|This paper analyses the economic viability of slavery in the Cape Colony of southern Africa. It has been extensively documented that the affluence of elites was built on the importation of slaves. However, the Dutch East India Company or Verengide Oost-indische Companje (VOC), which administrated the colony, expressed concerns that free settlers had invested too much capital in the trade, so that some indications exist that profitability was not certain for all farmers. In this paper hedonic slave price indices and the value of their marginal productivity have been estimated, to construct annual returns, which are in turn compared with returns on other investments for the period 1700-1725. Hedonic price functions were estimated to remove the anticipated lifetime returns that slaves would yield, and to isolate buyers’ perceived depreciation of the slave for one year. Cobb-Douglas production functions were estimated for average farmers, as well as at various quintiles along the distribution, to evaluate scale effects. Large farmers enjoyed high returns to slavery over most of the period, confirming the assertions that the elite used slaves profitably. Small farmers, however, did not recoup slave costs from agricultural production: this suggests either that they overinvested in slavery relative to other capital goods (e.g. ploughs or wagons), or that they used slaves profitably outside of agriculture.
J47|Lavoro servile ed economia post-fordista|"Recenti fatti di cronaca hanno portato all’attenzione dell’opinione pubblica la presenze in Italia di forme schiavistiche di lavoro; la schiavitù sembra riguardare prevalentemente il lavoro migrante. Ben maggior rilievo nelle nuove forme di sfruttamento assume il lavoro servile: esso rappresenta il polo abbietto, l’altra faccia della medaglia dell’ideologia del lavoro autonomo imprenditorializzato. Nell’articolo si indagano tre nuove forme del lavoro servile nel contesto dell’economia post-fordista: il lavoro privato di cura svolto dalle ""badanti"", il lavoro nelle imprese informate ai codici neo-paternalistici e, infine, le nuove forme di sfruttamento connesse alle ideologie della gratuità e della reciprocità, laddove si sviluppano intrecci e sovrapposizione tra vita e lavoro, convivialità e produzione (volontariato, protagonismo del cliente, lavoro gratuito orientato all’acquisizione di competenze lavorative, ecc.). Al sindacato si pongono sfide che richiedono strumenti innovativi di conoscenza e intervento."
J47|Economic Aspects of the complementarity between Corruption and Crime: Evidence from Italy in the period 1996-2005|This paper empirically investigates the connection between corruption and crime. Such linkage has been often underestimated because corruption has been often analyzed as a white-collar crime. In fact it is not characterized by violence. Recently a theoretical connection has been suggested to highlight that corruption and crime can be considered strategic complements. This paper, therefore, delves into the link between corruption and crime investigating empirically this relation for Italian regions in the period 1996-2005. Results show that current crime is positively associated with past levels of corruption. This somehow confirms the complementary relationship between the two illicit phenomena.
J47|The Labor/Land Ratio and India’s Caste System|This paper proposes that India’s caste system and involuntary labor were joint responses by a nonworking landowning class to a low labor/land ratio in which the rules of the caste system supported the institution of involuntary labor. The hypothesis is tested in two ways: longitudinally, with data from ancient religious texts, and cross-sectionally, with twentieth-century statistics on regional population/land ratios linked to anthropological measures of caste-system rigidity. Both the longitudinal and cross-sectional evidence suggest that the labor/land ratio affected the caste system’s development, persistence, and rigidity over time and across regions of India.
J47|Economic aspects of the complementarity between corruption and crime: evidence from Italy in the period 1996-2005| This paper empirically investigates the connection between corruption and crime. Such linkage has been often underestimated because corruption has been often analysed as a white-collar crime. In fact, it is not characterised by violence. Recently, a theoretical connection has been suggested to highlight that corruption and crime can be considered strategic complements. This paper, therefore, delves into the link between corruption and crime investigating empirically this relation for Italian regions in the period 1996-2005. Results show that current crime is positively associated with past levels of corruption. This somehow confirms the complementary relationship between the two illicit phenomena.
J47|Παιδική Εργασία: Οι Σύγχρονες Διαστάσεις Ενός Όχι Και Τόσο Μακρινού Φαινομένου<BR>[Child Labour: Aspects of a next-door phenomenon]|Child Labour is a global phenomenon, which is linked with serious consequences on the childhood and the development of human capital. Apart from the violation of the pertinent human rights, children's employment could harm their health and safety and affect their ability to participate in schooling. Aim of this paper is to assess the ecumenical developments in fighting child labour and the involvement of certain international organizations. Furthermore, it evaluates thecurrent trends of national policies on child labour in Greece.
J47|Exploitation, Altruism, and Social Welfare: An Economic Exploration|Child labor is often condemned as a form of exploitation. I explore how the notion of exploitation, as used in everyday language, can be made precise in economic models of child labor. Exploitation is defined relative to a specific social welfare function. I first show that under the standard dynastic social welfare function, which is commonly applied to intergenerational models, child labor is never exploitative. In contrast, under an inclusive welfare function, which places additional weight on the welfare of children, child labor is always exploitative. Neither welfare function captures the more gradual distinctions that common usage of the term exploitation allows. I resolve this conflict by introducing a welfare function with minimum altruism, in which child labor in a given family is judged relative to a specific social standard. Under this criterion, child labor is exploitative only in families where the parent (or guardian) displays insufficient altruism towards the child. I argue that this welfare function best captures the conventional concept of exploitation and has useful properties for informing political choices regarding child labor.
J47|Financiamento e Organização do Tráfico de Escravos para Pernambuco no Século XIX|Dados apurados na última década mostram que Recife foi o quinto maior centro mundial de tráfico escravista. 1 No entanto, o tráfico para Recife é ainda pouco pesquisado. Sabe-se que as mais de 1.350 viagens para Recife, nos quase três séculos do tráfico, tiveram em geral origem nesse porto, e foram, portanto, de iniciativa de agentes locais. Porém, não se sabe quem foram tais agentes. O presente trabalho traz esclarecimentos acerca desse ponto, a partir de dados primários da pesquisa e outras fontes. .
J47|Exploitation, Altruism, and Social Welfare: An Economic Exploration|Child labor is often condemned as a form of exploitation. I explore how the notion of exploitation, as used in everyday language, can be made precise in economic models of child labor. Exploitation is defined relative to a specific social welfare function. I first show that under the standard dynastic social welfare function, which is commonly applied to intergenerational models, child labor is never exploitative. In contrast, under an inclusive welfare function, which places additional weight on the welfare of children, child labor is always exploitative. Neither welfare function captures the more gradual distinctions that common usage of the term exploitation allows. I resolve this conflict by introducing a welfare function with minimum altruism, in which child labor in a given family is judged relative to a specific social standard. Under this criterion, child labor is exploitative only in families where the parent (or guardian) displays insufficient altruism towards the child. I argue that this welfare function best captures the conventional concept of exploitation and has useful properties for informing political choices regarding child labor.
J47|Human Trafficking and Regulating Prostitution|We study sex trafficking in a marriage market model of prostitution. When traffickers can coerce women to sell sex, trafficked prostitutes constitute a non-zero share of supply in any unregulated market for sex. We ask if regulation can eradicate trafficking and restore the equilibrium that would arise in an unregulated market without traffickers. While all existing approaches – criminalization of prostitutes (“the traditional model”), licensed prostitution (“the Dutch model”), and criminalization of johns (“the Swedish model”) – fail to accomplish this goal, we show that there exists an alternative regulatory model that does. Political support for regulation hinges on the level of gender income inequality.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J47|Child labor in agricultural households in Burkina Faso, Ivory Coast and Mali: test of the luxury axiom by a fuzzy sets theory approach|This study highlights the role of poverty factor in the explanation of child labor, by taking the work of Basu & Van (1999) as a theoretical basis. Thus, besides the search for the determinants of child labor by a multivariate approach, it tests the hypothesis of the luxury axiom which link child labor to the household poverty and vulnerability levels. As main results, it appears that poverty plays a significant role in Ivory Coast, while Burkina Faso and Mali are characterized much more by the impact of the cultural factors. Otherwise, it appears that in Ivory Coast, household poverty is particularly relevant to the agricultural activities. Some elements of recommendations to both the national or international stakeholders, for an effective fight against the child labor under these unacceptable forms have been proposed.
J47|Child labor in agricultural households in Burkina Faso, Ivory Coast and Mali: test of the luxury axiom by a fuzzy sets theory approach|This study highlights the role of poverty in explaning child labor supply. It appears that poverty plays a significant role in Ivory Coast, while Burkina Faso and Mali are rather characterized by the inluence of cultural non-poverty related factors.
J47|Reinterpretace změn v sociálním systému v kontextu raně novověkého myšlení<BR>[Reinterpretation of Changes in the Social System in the Context of Early Modern Thought]|The beginning of modern times, in contrast to the previous era, is still characterized by a growing importance of labour in human life. The article is focused on the new social policy and the evolution of institutions called workhouses and house of corrections which illustrate the growing meaning of labour. Workhouses, however they were seen as benevolent equipment, they have been strengthened also with practically advantageous symbiosis undertaken principles of mercantilism. Despite the controversial practice of workhouses, we can consider them as the most important stage in the long term evolution of active labour market policy. Labour as a topos of modern social policy identified new opportunities to help the poor and anticipated various forms of active labour market policies of modern times.
J47|The Labor/Land Ratio and India's Caste System|This paper proposes that India's caste system and involuntary labor were joint responses by a nonworking landowning class to a low labor/land ratio in which the rules of the caste system supported the institution of involuntary labor. The hypothesis is tested in two ways: longitudinally, with data from ancient religious texts, and cross-sectionally, with twentieth-century statistics on regional population/land ratios linked to anthropological measures of caste-system rigidity. Both the longitudinal and cross-sectional evidence suggest that the labor/land ratio affected the caste system's development, persistence, and rigidity over time and across regions of India.
J47|O Problema do Trabalho Infantil na Agricultura familiar: o caso da produção de tabaco em Agudo-RS| The aim of this paper is to analyze the emergence of the child labor problem in tobacco growing in Agudo (Rio Grande do Sul state), triggered by the promulgation of Act 6.481/2008, which addresses the worst child labor conditions. The methodological procedures used were the literature review, desk research and a case study, conducted in the municipality of Agudo. In the case study, we have tried to obtain quantitative and qualitative data through questionnaires and open interviews directed to 27 tobacco growers, and with teenagers and children under 18 years old. The survey results indicate the existence of a clash between different conceptions of child labor in small scale family farmers. The legal devices, the commitment terms and the tobacco supply chain contracts forbid child labor below the age of 18 based on international agreements and regulations which guarantee childhood development. From the perspective of the families, child labor is understood as “help” and a way of socialization and training of the inheritor. Therefore, parents do not agree that child labor is a perverse form of labor exploitation of their children.
J47|Capitalizing China|"Despite a vast accumulation of private capital, China is not embracing capitalism. Deceptively familiar capitalist features disguise the profoundly unfamiliar foundations of ""market socialism with Chinese characteristics."" The Chinese Communist Party (CCP), by controlling the career advancement of all senior personnel in all regulatory agencies, all state-owned enterprises (SOEs), and virtually all major financial institutions state-owned enterprises (SOEs), and senior Party positions in all but the smallest non-SOE enterprises, retains sole possession of Lenin's Commanding Heights. This manuscript introduces the chapters comprising the NBER volume Capitalizing China (Fan and Morck, eds. 2012), which examine China's high savings rate, banking system, financial markets, financial regulations, corporate governance, and public finances; and consider policy alternatives the CCP might consider if its goal is China's elevation into the ranks of high income countries.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
J47|Translating Market Socialism with Chinese Characteristics into Sustained Prosperity|No abstract is available for this item.
J47|The Global Fight against Child Trafficking: How Can It Be Won ?|We study how countries can coordinate their national action plans so as to fight global child trafficking. As both the demand and supply of trafficked children are transboundary in scope, international cooperation may be necessary to mitigate cross-country externalities. We show that specialization is the main feature of international cooperation. We also show that the pattern of specialization depends only on the level of economic development of state-parties. In particular, specialization leads to asymmetric national action plans when state-parties have different levels of economic development: the governments of poorer countries specialize on fighting the supply of trafficked children from their territories, while the governments of richer countries specialize on fighting the demand arising within their territories.
J47|A Fair And Equitable Method Of Recruitment? Conscription By Ballot Into The Australian Army During The Vietnam War|Australia’s commitment to the Vietnam War drew on the selective conscription of additional manpower through 16 biannual ballots. 20-year-old men were liable to serve if their date of birth was drawn out. The random nature of the ballot was seen as an equitable method of selection for a system of labour coercion that was potentially life-threatening. We investigate the various stages of conscription of these ‘national servicemen’ to undertake service in Vietnam throughout the war and evaluate the extent to which the processes provided for fair and equitable selection. Comparisons are drawn with a similar process of Vietnam-War era conscription in the United States.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J47|Between Keeping Your Head Down and Trying to Get Noticed: Agency Workers in French Car Assembly Plants|Numerical flexibility is commonly promoted as a driver of employment growth. However, contingent work is frequently associated with “bad jobs”, particularly for those in low skilled occupations. Agency work is a common and growing form of contingent work and is often promoted as a tool for facilitating the labour market integration of young workers. In France, young agency workers make up a significant part of the labour force within car assembly plants. Studies have shown that these workers have harsher working conditions than permanent co-workers and are subject to a “despotic” factory regime. However, the triangular relationship, which frames the agency contract, may give rise to a more complex outcome in which the aspiration for stable employment mediates the coercion of labour market vulnerability.
J47|East Africa and the End of the Indian Ocean Slave Trade|The conventional historiography claims that the East African slave trade came to an end in the 1880s as a result of the British Royal Navy's diligent patrols in the Indian Ocean. This paper argues instead that the slave trade from East Africa to Eastern Arabia endured long after the 1880s, in part because sustained demand for slave labor in Arabia and the Gulf-particularly in the lucrative pearl and date industries-remained high through the early twentieth century. The Royal Navy's celebrated antislavery campaign in the Indian Ocean was largely ineffective and was not the main factor in ending the slave trade. Instead, the East African slave trade came to an end mainly as a result of three factors beyond British control: (1) a raid by Portuguese forces against slave traders in Mozambique in 1902, (2) the development new sources of slave labor from neighboring Baluchistan, and (3) the collapse of Arabian date and pearl markets as a result of globalization and global depression.
J47|The Impact of Union Corruption on Union Membership|This paper examines the relationship between union corruption actions and union membership. State-level data from the Office of Labor-Management Standards, and other sources, are utilized over two study periods (1974-2000 and 2001- 2008) to test three hypotheses, including the union corruption hypothesis, as pos­sible explanations for the decline in union membership in the United States over time. Although our initial findings suggest a negative relationship exists between union corruption and membership, after removing the possibility of simultaneous equations bias, we find that changes in corruption do not influence changes in union membership in our sample.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J47|New York City, Muslims, and the Indian Ocean: Preliminary Findings on the Connection via the Slave Trade|This article examines the enslaved African population in early New York City, with a particular focus on those who may have been Muslims. Beyond exceptional individuals, the information on African Muslims is scarce and speculative, but it would appear that there were such individuals, mostly from Madagascar, who were occupants of the city. Much more research remains to be done.
J47|"La ""badante"" e il lavoro post fordista"|"Negli ultimi quindici anni il lavoro di cura privato a sostegno dei processi di assistenza familiare degli anziani ha avuto un consistente sviluppo attraverso la disponibilità di donne migranti. In questo saggio si esplorano le pratiche lavorative delle ""badanti"" come espressione di alcune caratteristiche del lavoro post-fordista: la sollecitazione a forme di autovalorizzazione e, al tempo stesso, la crescente precarietà e informalità del lavoro, la centralità strategica assunta dalle competenze femminili (ascolto, cura, mediazione, relazione, etc.) e, infine, il contraddittorio sviluppo di forme neo-servili."
J47|Etude comparative des conditions de travail des enfants issus des ménages agricoles au Burkina Faso, en Cote d’Ivoire et au Mali<BR>[Comparative study of working conditions of children from agricultural households in Burkina Faso, Cote d’ivoire and Mali]|BASED ON A SERIES OF SURVEYS ON THE LIVING AND MIGRATION CONDITIONS OF CHILDREN, THIS STUDY HIGHLIGHTS THE MAGNITUDE AND CHARACTERISTICS OF CHILD LABOUR IN BURKINA FASO, CÔTE D'IVOIRE AND MALI. FOUR (04) MAJOR LESSONS WERE LEARNT : (I) THE OVERWHELMING MAJORITY OF CHILDREN WORKING IN VIOLATION OF THE INTERNATIONAL NORMS AS ISSUED BY THE INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (ILO) ; (II) THE LEVEL OF POVERTY INFLUENCES CHILD LABOUR ONLY IN CÔTE D'IVOIRE. THE DIRECTION OF THIS INFLUENCE CONFIRMS THE LUXURY AXIOM SINCE POOR HOUSEHOLDS RELATIVELY SEND THEIR CHILDREN TO WORK ; (III) WHATEVER THE LEVEL OF EDUCATION OF THE HEAD OF THE HOUSEHOLD, EARLY ENTRY OF CHILDREN INTO THE LABOUR MARKET APPEARS TO REMAIN A STABLE DEAL IMPACTED BY OTHER FACTORS. IN ADDITION, SCHOOL DOES NOT SEEM TO BE A VIABLE ALTERNATIVE DISCRIMINATING CHILD LABOUR, AS MOST WORKING CHILDREN ARE IN SCHOOL ; (IV) FINALLY, THERE IS INTERDEPENDENCE BETWEEN THE DECISIONS TO PARTICIPATE IN THE DIFFERENT ACTIVITIES STUDIED.
J47|Introduction: New Perspectives on the Quality of Working Life|No abstract is available for this item.
J47|The social effects of the current economic crisis on the European Union labour market (English version)|In order to raise awareness about the importance and topicality of this issue, one must analyze the dimension and proliferation of economic inequality on a global level, given the fact that the data and the classifications provided by social sciences do not mirror the actual situation, as they do not succeed in interpreting the difficulties many families are currently facing, either directly or indirectly, during the present economic crisis. On a global scale, the building up of wealth and inequality in the distribution of income is a growing phenomenon, highly visible in developed countries and in world macro-regional relations. The current economic crisis is the driving force of this process, constantly increasing in speed and intensity and equally deepened by the imbalances that have caused a decrease in consumption. This paper will address the social impact of unemployment in the main European Union member states and Romania, often in contrast with the United States, the origin of the present crisis. It will focus on the agents that have helped control the damages in European countries, often more effectively than in the US, as well as the instruments used to control the social effects of the economic crisis, given the surprising interest of economists in protecting the “labour force” and not the “place of employment”. Therefore, the effects of the present economic crisis have become a challenge that social Europe cannot afford to overlook if it wants to encourage “sustainable development”, as stated in the 2020 strategic plan.
J47|Gender Equity in Nigeria’s Educational System: A Necessity for Socio-Economic Development|This paper is devoted to education of women as a key precondition for improving family health as well as the socio-economic status of the entire country. Education empowers women to participate in decision-making in the society and thus gives them the opportunity to make positive decision affecting their lives. Since the situation in the country is such that favours men as against women, efforts should be made by governments at all levels to educate and encourage the girl child through their parents on the need to go to school by introducing various policy measures. The authors suggested some of the measures that can be adopted to national education policy which should include free education for girls, lower grades for girls as against that of men, more hostels for girls to remove them from household chores, legislation against forced marriages as practiced in some parts of the Northern country, bursaries and scholarships should be given to girls especially those on science, technical and engineering programmes.
J47|Labor Market Regulations and Income Inequality: Evidence for a Panel of Countries|This paper presents evidence on the impact of labor regulations on income inequality using two recently published databases on labor institutions and outcomes (Rama and Artecona, 2002; Botero, Djankov, La Porta, López-de-Silanes and Shleifer, 2003) and different cross-section and panel data analysis techniques for a sample of 121 countries over the 1970-2000 period. When we consider the techniques most likely to be robust, we find that: (i) de jure regulations do not improve income distribution; (ii) relative compliance with existing regulations improves income distribution; (iii) de facto regulations are weakly associated with improving income inequality. This result partly reflects the fact that regulations are endogenous and, more interestingly, different regulations have quite distinct effects. In particular, we find that any redistributive effect of labor regulations may come from trade union membership, public employment and mandated benefits (proxied by maternity leave).<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
