J48|What works for Active Labor Market Policies?| The past 5 years have witnessed a flurry of RCT evaluations that shed new light on the impact and cost effectiveness of Active Labor Market Policies (ALMPs) aiming to improve workers´ access to new jobs and better wages. We report the first systematic review of 102 RCT interventions comprising a total of 652 estimated impacts. We find that (i) a third of these estimates are positive and statistically significant (PPS) at conventional levels; (ii) programs are more likely to yield positive results when GDP growth is higher and unemployment lower; (iii) programs aimed at building human capital, such as vocational training, independent worker assistance and wage subsidies, show significant positive impact, and (iv) program length, monetary incentives, individualized follow up and activity targeting are all key features in determining the effectiveness of the interventions.
J48|Hot spots policing in a high crime environment: An experimental evaluation in Medellín|Objectives: Test direct, spillover and aggregate effects of hot spots policing on crime in a high crime environment. Methods: We identified 967 hot spot street segments and randomly assigned 384 to a six-months increase in police patrols. To account for the complications resulting from a large experimental sample in a dense network of streets, we use randomization inference for hypothesis testing. We also use non-experimental streets to test for spillovers onto non-hot spots, and examine aggregate effects citywide. Results: Our results show an improvement in short term security perceptions and a reduction in car thefts, but no direct effects on other crimes or satisfaction with policing services. We see larger effects in the least secure places, especially for short term security perceptions, car thefts and assaults. We find no evidence of crime displacement but rather a decrease in car thefts in nearby hot spots and a decrease in assaults in nearby non-hot spots. We estimate that car thefts decreased citywide by about 11 percent. Conclusions: Our study highlights the importance of context when implementing hot spots policing. What seems to work in the U.S. or even in Bogotá is not as responsive in Medellín (and vice versa). Further research—especially outside the U.S.—is needed to understand the role of local crime patterns and police capacity on the effectiveness of hot spots policing.
J48|Café ¿alternativa para la sustitución de cultivos de uso ilícito?|Uno de los principales retos para la consolidación del Acuerdo Final entre la guerrilla de las FARC y el Gobierno de Colombia tiene que ver con la sustitución de cultivos de uso ilícito por otros que brinden mejores condiciones económicas, como el caso del café. El presente documento busca responder si cultivar café es una alternativa económicamente viable para la sustitución de dichos cultivos. Para ello, se usan datos cuantitativos que permiten realizar un análisis comparativo entre el cultivo del café y el cultivo de la coca. Los resultados muestran las fuertes dificultades que no solo afronta el café, sino cualquier otro cultivo, frente a la coca en cuanto a rendimientos y precio. Estas condiciones configuran un gran reto para el Gobierno Nacional en la consolidación y desempeño de la sustitución de cultivos ilícitos. *** One of the main challenges for the consolidation of the Final Agreement between FARC guerrillas and the Colombian Government has to do with the substitution of illicit crops by others that offer better economic conditions, such as coffee. This paper seeks to answer whether growing coffee is an economically viable alternative for the substitution of illicit crops. For this purpose, quantitative data is used to carry out a comparative analysis between coffee and coca. The results show the strong difficulties faced not only buy coffee but by any other crop, against coca in terms of yields and price. This conditions constitutes a great challenge for the National Government in the consolidation and performance of the substitution of illicit crops.
J48|Del papel a la sustitución de cultivos ilícitos: análisis de la implementación del punto 4 del Acuerdo de paz en el departamento del Cauca|El punto cuatro del Acuerdo de paz entre el Gobierno colombiano y las FARC-EP, que aborda la solución al problema de los cultivos ilícitos, no ha tenido un grado homogéneo de implementación a lo largo del territorio nacional. Este estudio analiza las propuestas realizadas antes y después de la firma del Acuerdo para dar solución a esta situación en el departamento del Cauca. Se encuentran tres aspectos principales. En primer lugar, existe un aparente fracaso en las políticas antidrogas implementadas hasta antes de los acuerdos de paz en el departamento, especialmente asociado a la ineficiencia de la aspersión aérea de glifosato. En segundo lugar, existe un bajo grado de implementación de las disposiciones del punto 4 en el territorio. En tercer lugar, existe una serie de violaciones sistemáticas de DD.HH a líderes sociales del Cauca, especialmente hacia aquellos que apoyan la sustitución voluntaria de cultivos ilícitos. *** Point four of the Peace Agreement between Colombian Government and the FARC-EP, which addresses problem of illicit crops, has not had a homogeneous degree of implementation throughout the national territory. This study analyzes the proposals made before and after the signing of the Agreement to solve this situation in the department of Cauca. There are three main aspects. First, there is an apparent failure in the anti-drug policies implemented in the department prior to the peace accords, especially associated with the inefficiency of aerial spray of glyphosate. Secondly, there is a low degree of implementation of the provisions of point 4 in the territory. Third, there is a series of systematic human rights violations against social leaders in Cauca, especially those that support the voluntary substitution of illegal crops.
J48|Digital Labour Platforms in Europe: Numbers, Profiles, and Employment Status of Platform Workers|This report explores three issues related to the growing phenomenon of Digital Labour Platforms: firstly, how to measure platform work as a form of employment incorporating elements such as regularity of provision, time allocated and income generated; on this basis, and drawing on a new dedicated survey (COLLEEM), the article quantifies and categorises platform work into sporadic, secondary and main. Secondly, it provides an empirical investigation of the association between individual characteristics, such as gender, age, family composition, education and motivation, and the probability of carrying out particular types of platform work, such as microtasking, creative services, software development, transportation and so on. The analysis highlights substantial heterogeneity in the attributes and motivations of the workers performing different tasks. Finally, it discusses the employment status of platform workers and provides some descriptive statistics suggesting that a large share of platform workers perceive themselves as employees, even though they are in most cases legally considered self-employed.
J48|Assessing the impact of off- and on-the-job training on employment outcomes. A counterfactual evaluation of the PIPOL program|This evaluation study aims to assess the impact of PIPOL, an integrated program of active labor policies, on the employment integration of benefit recipients. To address the issue, we have resorted to a counterfactual approach with data from two main sources: the program administration and compulsory communications on employment and unemployment spells. We found a net impact of 5% on average for on-the-job training, but no impact for off-the-job training. On-the-job training also affects the probability to find permanent work (+3%). This is consistent with the view that young people have excellent theoretical, but very little work-related competences. Off-the-job training does affect the probability to experience at least one labor contract after 2016. These results are partly due to a lock-in effect, namely the tendency of those who attend training programs to delay their job search. Interestingly, we found that the program has a different impact for different typologies of recipients and different types of intervention. In a nutshell, active labor policy works when it generates work-related competences.
J48|Zero Hours Contracts and Their Growth|This paper studies the prevalence and nature of zero-hours contracts (ZHCs) in the UK labour market. The headline count of ZHC workers based on the Labour Force Survey has long underestimated and continues to underestimate the number of workers in ZHC or ZHC-like jobs. ZHC jobs and workers are heterogeneous, but ZHC jobs have become increasingly concentrated among young workers, full-time students, migrants, black and minority ethnic workers, in personal service and elementary occupations, and in the distribution, accommodation and restaurant sector over time. Compared to other forms of employment, median wages in ZHC jobs have also fallen over time. The most common prior labour market state for ZHC workers is non-ZHC employment, particularly part-time employment, and we cannot reject that part of the reported growth in ZHCs has been driven by reclassification of existing employment relationships. Similarly, we cannot reject that growth in public awareness of ZHCs contributed substantially to recent growth in reported ZHCs, particularly over the period 2013/14.
J48|Impact of Increased Long-Term Care Insurance Payments on Employment and Wages in Formal Long-Term Care|This paper examines the effect of raising Long-term Care Insurance (LTCI) payments on employment and wages of workers in the long-term care (LTC) industry. Specifically, I use the change in the regional premium in 2012 as an exogenous shock to the insurance fee schedule: the change in the unit price of LTCI service ranges from a decrease of 2.8% to an increase of 4.2%. I find no increase in the number of employees in the establishments, registered under the LTCI scheme, in municipalities where the regional premium increased. The earnings and working hours of LTC workers did not increase, either.
J48|The effectiveness of interventions to reduce informality in low- and middle income countries|"Labor markets in low- and middle income countries are characterized by high levels of informality. A multitude of interventions have therefore been implemented in many countries with the objective to increase the formalization of firms and workers, including information campaigns, simplification of registration procedures, reductions of payroll taxes and social security contributions, and interventions that enforce labor or business formalization. In this paper, we compile a database of 157 impact estimates from 32 academic studies that evaluate empirically one or more of these formalization interventions. The empirical analysis correlates the impact estimates of the primary studies - given as either (i) a measure of sign and statistical significance or (ii) the effect size - with explanatory factors such as the intervention type, the outcome variable, the scope of the intervention (program or policy), and other covariates. Several key findings emerge: first, the intervention type is not a strong determinant for the effectiveness of formalization interventions, though tax incentives and labor inspection are most likely to display significant positive effects. Second, the outcome ""worker registration"" shows significantly better results than other outcomes. Third, interventions at scale - i.e. formalization ""policies"" - are more effective on average than singular ""programs""."
J48|Wage Fairness in a Subcontracted Labor Market|Labor market subcontracting is a global phenomenon. This paper presents a theory of wage fairness in a subcontracted labor market, where workers confront multi-party employment relationships and deep wage inequities between regular and subcontractor-mediated hires. We show that subcontracting derives its appeal from a downward revision of workers' fair wage demand when producers delegate employment decisions down the supply chain. Furthermore, subcontracting creates a holdup problem, resulting in wages that workers deem unfair, along with adverse worker morale consequences in equilibrium. These insights reveal the efficiency costs of subcontracting as an employer strategy to redress workers' demand for fair wages.
J48|Subvention du capital agricole des femmes et inÃ©galitÃ©s de genre au Burkina Faso|Sub-Saharan African countries have a strong presence of women in agriculture, but women have limited access to productive agricultural resources. This paper analyzes the potential impacts of a 30% subsidy on women's capital in agriculture in Burkina Faso. It makes use of a computable general equilibrium model. The results indicate that the modernization of agriculture frees the female labor force from agriculture to non-agricultural activities such as agribusiness, catering, and textiles. This leads to a fall in unemployment for women (-0.24%) than for men (-0.16%). In addition, the subsidy policy increases women's income (+ 0.33%) more than men's (+ 0.02%). Finally, the agricultural capital subsidy for women (men) is more effective in terms of reducing gender inequalities (GDP growth) respectively.
J48|Does Class Size Matter? How, and at What Cost?|Using high quality administrative data on Greece we show that class size has a hump shaped effect on achievement. We do so both nonparametrically and parametrically, while controlling for potential endogeneity and allowing for quantile effects. We then embed our estimates for this relationship in a dynamic structural model with costs of hiring and firing. We argue that the linear specification form used in past work may be why it found mixed results. Our work suggests that while discrete reductions in class size may have mixed effects, discrete increases are likely to have very negative effects while marginal changes in class size would have small negative effects. We find optimal class sizes around 27 in the absence of adjustment costs and achievement maximizing ones around 15, and firing costs much larger than hiring costs consistent with the presence of unions. Despite this, reducing firing costs actually reduces achievement. Reducing hiring costs raises achievement and reduces class size. We show that class size caps are costly, and more so for small schools, even when set at levels well above average.
J48|Military Service and Public Sector Employment: Birthdates Called in the Vietnam Draft Lotteries Appear Excessively in the Population of Civilian U.S. Federal Personnel Records|Since at least T.H. Marshall, scholars have recognized military service as a form of sacrifice that warrants compensation from the state. Indeed, some see the very genesis of the modern welfare state as compensation for wartime sacrifice. War-widow pensions, expansion of the franchise, and subsidized higher education are all examples of rights and benefits “bestowed” in return for wartime mobilization. Similarly, in the U.S., governments have hired veterans preferentially for civilian public jobs as recompense for active military service. Although oft-overlooked, those policies appear influential: the percent of job holders identifying as veterans in the civilian U.S. executive branch exceeds the proportion in the wider population by several multiples. This century-old pattern suggests a significant means by which wartime mobilization has influenced the state. Yet efforts to understand it have struggled to rule out the possibility that those who serve in the armed forces are predisposed to work for the state in both military and civilian capacities (for example, preferring the stability of government employment). Here we rule out this possibility by examining whether birthdates randomly called for induction in the Vietnam-Era Selective Service Lotteries (VSSL) appear disproportionately in the population of non-sensitive personnel records of the civilian U.S. executive branch. We find that birthdates called for induction appear with unusually high frequency among employees who were draft eligible and at risk of induction, but not among other employees. This finding suggests a treatment effect from military service, thus dovetailing with the hypothesis that wartime mobilization has substantially and continually influenced who works in the contemporary administrative state.
J48|Are Foreign Stem PhDs More Entrepreneurial? Entrepreneurial Characteristics, Preferences and Employment Outcomes of Native and Foreign Science & Engineering PhD Students|Prior research has shown that immigrants make important contributions to US innovation and are more likely than natives to become entrepreneurs. However, there is little evidence on how foreign and native high-skilled workers differ prior to entering the workforce. Moreover, little attention has been paid to distinguishing between founders and employees who join startups. We draw on a longitudinal survey of over 5,600 foreign and native STEM PhD students at U.S. research universities to examine entrepreneurial characteristics and career preferences prior to graduation, as well as founding and employment outcomes after graduation. First, we find that foreign PhD students differ from native PhD students with respect to individual characteristics typically associated with entrepreneurship such as risk tolerance, a preference for autonomy, and interest in commercialization. Second, foreign PhD students are more likely to express intentions to become a founder or a startup employee prior to graduation. Third, despite their entrepreneurial career interests, foreign PhDs are less likely to become founders or startup employees in their first industry job after graduation. These patterns call for future research on factors that enable or constrain foreign STEM workers from realizing their entrepreneurial career aspirations.
J48|Gig economy platforms: Boon or Bane?|The rapid emergence of gig economy platforms that use digital technologies to intermediate labour on a per-task basis has triggered an intense policy debate about the economic and social implications. This paper takes stock of the emerging evidence. The results suggest that gig economy platforms’ size remains modest (1-3 per cent of overall employment). Their growth has been most pronounced in a small number of services industries with high shares of own-account workers, suggesting that thus far they have been a substitute for traditional self-employment rather than dependent employment. New evidence provided in this paper is consistent with positive effects of platform growth on overall employment and small negative or insignificant effects on dependent employment and wages. While most empirical studies suggest that platforms are more efficient in matching workers to clients, reductions in barriers to work could offset such productivity-enhancing effects by creating employment opportunities for low-productivity workers. Fully reaping the potential benefits from gig economy platforms while protecting workers and consumers requires adapting existing policy settings in product and labour markets and applying them to traditional businesses and platforms on an equal footing.
J48|Enhancing the social integration of Roma in Slovak Republic|Roma account for almost one-tenth of the population in the Slovak Republic. They live mostly excluded from the general population in concentrated settlements, separated neighbourhoods or ghettos. The majority live in poverty and face social exclusion in almost all aspects of everyday life. Only a small share of Roma work, and a majority suffer from long spells of unemployment, their educational attainment is low, and a large number are illiterate. Social exclusion is further exacerbated by rising general animosity and mistrust between Roma and non-Roma groups. This calls for immediate policy action. The government should ensure easy access to all public services and provide additional support for the disadvantaged Roma communities. Individual policies should be effectively coordinated, because the problems that the Roma are facing are interconnected. A necessary precondition for successful Roma integration is the support of the general population. Policy interventions towards Roma integration should be accompanied by measures to eliminate the prejudices among parts of the majority population against their fellow citizens.
J48|Self-Employment in Developing Countries: A Search-Equilibrium Approach|This paper develops and estimates a life-cycle on-the-job search model with self-employment that captures labour market stylized facts typical of middle-income developing economies. Workers flow across unemployment, self-employment, formal and informal wage employment. Individuals differ across and within employment sectors in terms of earnings, self-employment ability and transition rates. Counterfactual analysis shows that a flat reduction in payroll taxation increases the share of formal sector workers mainly due to a drop in self-employment. A proportional reduction in payroll taxes improves total welfare by increasing formal sector wages and profits, and allowing for a better allocation of high education workers. Converting to a progressive payroll tax system, equivalent to a flat reduction, is ineffective in reducing informality and leads to a decline in total welfare. (Copyright: Elsevier)
J48|What Works for Active Labor Market Policies?|The past 5 years have witnessed a flurry of RCT evaluations that shed new light on the impact and cost effectiveness of Active Labor Market Policies (ALMPs) aiming to improve workers´ access to new jobs and better wages. We report the first systematic review of 102 RCT interventions comprising a total of 652 estimated impacts. We find that (i) a third of these estimates are positive and statistically significant (PPS) at conventional levels; (ii) programs are more likely to yield positive results when GDP growth is higher and unemployment lower; (iii) programs aimed at building human capital, such as vocational training, independent worker assistance and wage subsidies, show significant positive impact, and (iv) program length, monetary incentives, individualized follow up and activity targeting are all key features in determining the effectiveness of the interventions.
J48|Employment protection reform in European labor markets: the collective bargaining regime matters|"Policy advisers repeatedly call on Western European countries to reform their employment protection legislation (EPL) by adopting layoff taxes to finance unemployment insurance (UI). This new design, partly based on the existing ""experience-rating"" (ER) system in the U.S., would induce firms to internalize layoff fiscal costs and hence reduce unemployment. Its success remains uncertain in economies with a collective wage-setting system, as in many Western European countries. Using a matching model with endogenous job destruction, we provide an ex-ante evaluation of this policy reform’s effects on labor market outcomes in a firm-level bargaining economy and a sector-level bargaining one. Using numerical exercises, we show that compared to a scenario of a simple increase in EPL stringency, the implementation of an ER system results in a decrease in unemployment under both bargaining regimes. Because of the possibility for firms to adjust most terms and conditions of employment (including wage) in decentralized negotiations, juxtaposing the ER system with the existing EPL yields the best labor market performance under a firm-level bargaining regime. The lack of internal flexibility in sector-level bargaining calls for accompanying the implementation of the ER with a relaxation of the existing EPL’s stringency. Lastly, we show that in industries with a turbulent economic environment, accompanying the introduction of ER while reducing the existing EPL’s strictness is recommended."
J48|Assessing the Impact of Off- and On-The-Job Training on Employment Outcomes: A Counterfactual Evaluation of the PIPOL Program|This evaluation study aims to assess the impact of PIPOL, an integrated program of active labor policies, on the employment integration of benefit recipients. To address the issue, we have resorted to a counterfactual approach with data from two main sources: the program administration and compulsory communications on employment and unemployment spells. We found a net impact of 5% on average for on-the-job training, but no impact for off-the-job training. On-the-job training also affects the probability to find permanent work (+3%). This is consistent with the view that young people have excellent theoretical, but very little work-related competences. Off-the-job training does affect the probability to experience at least one labor contract after 2016. These results are partly due to a lock-in effect, namely the tendency of those who attend training programs to delay their job search. Interestingly, we found that the program has a different impact for different typologies of recipients and different types of intervention. In a nutshell, active labor policy works when it generates work-related competences.
J48|Impact of welfare sanctions on employment and benefit receipt: Considering top-up benefits and indirect sanctions|This comprehensive study on UB-II-sanctions in Germany, applying PSM, presents the ex-post effects of welfare sanctions on several employment states for diverse (sub-)groups of employable welfare recipients. Besides unemployed, we also regard employed, and indirectly affected household members. The monthly updated ATT show the development of the sanction effect over two years. We find sanction effects as highly volatile over time and strongly dependent on individual factors and on circumstances like the timing of the sanction. In total, we suppose tendentially positive effects on the probabilities to enter employment and to exit welfare, at least in the short run. The positive effects tend to work stronger in the short run, and the negative effects tend to work stronger in the medium and long run. Hence, the shorter the time horizons of studies on welfare sanctions are, the more the positive effects are overrated systematically. Especially the frequently occurring cases with strongly negative slopes of cumulated ATT indicate that the early positive effects, mainly driven by people with good labor market perspectives, are at the cost of people with strongly detrimental sanction effects, even in the long run.
J48|Impact of welfare sanctions on the quality of subsequent employment: Wages, incomes, and employment stability|"This study provides the first comprehensive analysis of sanction effects on post-welfare employment quality in Europe using the outcome variables daily wage, yearly income, and covering job stability with the durations of three employment states: employed, unemployed, and supplementary benefit receipt. Applying PSM, we estimate the treatment effects (ATT) of UB-II-sanctions in Germany based on a rich administrative data set. Novelties of this study are the analysis of postwelfare sanction effects also for employed welfare recipients (""Aufstocker"") and for indirectly affected employable household members. Our analyses reveal highly significant and strongly negative effects of benefit sanctions on the quality of post-welfare employment in the short and long run. In terms of income and employment stability we find a catch-up process which is by far not strong enough to compensate the loss within two years. For employed welfare recipients the negative effects on income and job stability even exceed the effects for unemployed. Particularly striking are the remarkably strong and highly significant negative effects on indirectly affected unemployed household members."
J48|Youth unemployment in the Middle East and North Africa, and the Moroccan case|Youth unemployment, and unemployment, in the Middle East North Africa (MENA) countries are among the highest in the world. The tendency to generalize, however, is inappropriate as different groups of countries exhibit vastly different labor market outcomes and causes vary. The standard way of thinking about youth unemployment - i.e. demand for labor driven by economic growth and supply driven by demographics - is of limited use in the MENA countries. Other factors, including sectoral composition of growth, the oil and gas endowment, a large pool of underutilized workers, cultural factors, and mismatch appear to play a more important role, as the case study of Morocco illustrates. The prospects for reducing youth unemployment over the next few years are not good. Policy-makers need to pay more attention to the growth of services, especially those that are, and that tend to remain, labor intensive.
J48|Introducing Severance Payment Systems in Japan ——A Proposal for Vacancy Decontrol——| In Japan, the court requires job restoration rather than a severance payment from a firm after it decides that a dismissal has been abusive. This results in a high settlement cost for termination. This paper makes two proposals for introducing severance payments to reduce settlement costs in Japan. The first applies to existing contracts and proposes to specify levels of severance payments that would replace the current job restoration requirement after the court determines that a case is abusive. The second applies to new employees either for a recently vacated position or a new position and proposes vacancy decontrol, which allows firms to set the levels of severance payments freely while also honoring the existing contracts. Within this category, this paper proposes government-assisted vacancy decontrol, a transitional measure, where the government sets a minimum level of statutory severance payment, which is equal to six months of wages for a worker who has worked for 20 years, following the Taiwan precedent. After the need for the transitional measure is dissolved, complete vacancy decontrol should be introduced, abolishing the statutory severance payment. We have proposed that even at this stage, the government should publicly set a default level of the severance payment, which a firm should observe unless an explicit agreement or contract stipulates otherwise. The government should immediately introduce some form of vacancy decontrol for senior workers who have already retired from a regular job.
J48|Comparative Analysis of Youth Unemployment in Korea and Japan: Implications for Korea (in Korean)|This paper analyzes the determining factors in the unemployment rate among young people in their 20s by studying data from 30 OECD member countries between 2000 and 2017. Also, it identifies reasons why Korea has a higher youth unemployment rate than Japan, and assesses what implications Japan¡¯s youth unemployment measures could have on Korea. The study highlights the variables that have meaningful impacts on youth unemployment. They include the unemployment rate among the working-age population, the percentage of each age bracket in the overall population, the GDP growth rate, the percentage of wage laborers in each age group, the percentage of elderly people, and the percentage of part-time workers. This paper also finds that a decline in the youth population, especially among people in their 20s, does not help to address the issue of youth unemployment. Secondly, this paper explains the additional factors behind Korea¡¯s higher youth unemployment rates. One is Korea¡¯s disadvantageous employment environment, compared to that in Japan, in terms of wage earning. Other factors include the existence of fewer decent corporate jobs than in Japan, and wide disparities in wages between large and small corporate jobs. Therefore, while making efforts to resolve long-term and structural problems, it is necessary to actively promote policy measures to solve short-term mismatch problems of youth employment by referring to Japanese policy examples.
J48|Labor Market Duality in Korea and Policy Responses (in Korean)|This paper reviews the previous literature regarding the state and causes of labor market duality in Korea, provides brief empirical evidence on the existence of labor market duality, and suggests possible remedies for resolving the duality based on the experiences from four European countries which differ in the severity of the labor market duality. We confirm the existence of the duality based on the wage gap and immobility in two dimensions: large-small firms and permanent-temporary positions. Lastly, we suggest some countermeasures to mitigate the duality problem. First, the government need to supervise the contracts between large and small firms to enhance fairness in the contracts. Second, employers and unions may consider a new wage negotiation system in which wages can be determined collectively within an industry. Third, it is necessary to remove blind areas in social insurance system and provide universal income support programs for low-income employees to guarantee the economic security.
J48|'Wage', 'Salary' & 'Remuneration': A Genealogical Exploration of Juridical Terms & Their Significance for the Employer's Power to Make Deductions from Wages|The Supreme Court in Hartley v King Edwards VI College (2017) has confirmed that an employee who refuses to work in accordance with his contract forfeits his right to be paid for the duration of the breach. The decision extends to professional employees paid a periodic salary the principle established in Miles v Wakefield MDC (1987). The present article sheds new light on these decisions by situating them within a broader debate concerning the function of the wage and the proper relationship between work and payment. Drawing on insights from economic theory, and engaging in a genealogical analysis of legal concepts, the article shows how this debate has, over time, conditioned the use of concepts such as the 'wage', 'the salary' and 'remuneration' in legislation and case law concerning deductions. It shows that the legal concept of the 'wage' is closely related to the economic idea of the wage as the price of a commodity, while the legal concepts of 'salary' and 'remuneration' are more closely analogous to the economic idea of the wage as the cost of subsistence. The courts' tendency to confuse these concepts, and to analyse the employer's power to deduct as a right to withhold wages for non-performance of the contract, tells us much about the implicit assumptions underpinning cases such as Miles and Hartley, and how they have shaped the path of the law.
J48|The Law-Technology Cycle & the Future of Work|Features of the 'fourth industrial revolution', such as platforms, AI and machine learning, pose challenges for the application of regulatory rules, in the area of labour law as elsewhere. However, today's digital technologies have their origins in earlier phases of industrialisation, and do not, in themselves, mark a step change in the evolution of capitalism, which was, and is, characterised by successive waves of creative destruction. The law does not simply respond to technological change; it also facilitates and mediates it. Digitalisation, by permitting the appropriation of collective knowledge, has the capacity to undermine existing forms of regulation, while creating the space for new ones. It may erode the position of some professions while enabling others, complementary to new technologies, to emerge. It is unlikely to bring about the redundancy of forms of labour law regulation centred on the employment relationship. We appear to reaching a point in the law-technology cycle where push-back against regulatory arbitrage can be expected.
J48|Race-Blind Admissions, School Segregation, and Student Outcomes: Evidence from Race-Blind Magnet School Lotteries|"We know surprisingly little about the influence of race-blind school admissions on student outcomes. This paper studies a unique reform where a large, urban school district was federally mandated to adopt a race-blind lottery system to fill seats in its oversubscribed magnet schools. The district had previously integrated its schools by conducting separate admissions lotteries for black and non-black students to offset the predominantly black applicant pools. The switch to race-blind lotteries dramatically segregated subsequent magnet school cohorts. I show that race-blind admissions caused the more segregated schools to enroll students with lower average baseline achievement and to employ lower value-added teachers due to sorting. I also find that segregation is further exacerbated by ""white flight"" as white students transfer out of the district after attending more segregated schools. Ultimately, the mandated segregation decreases student standardized test scores and four-year college attendance. I provide suggestive evidence that the impact of racial segregation is partially mediated by changes to peer baseline achievement."
J48|Entrepreneurship, institutions and skills in low-income countries|This paper develops a model of costly firm creation in an economy with weak institutions, costly business environment as well as skill gaps where one of the equilibrium outcomes is a low-productivity trap. The paper tests the implications of the model using a cross-sectional dataset including about 100 countries. Both theoretical and empirical results suggest that to move the economy into a productive equilibrium, complementarity matters: reforms to improve the business environment tend to be more effective in creating productive firms when accompanied by narrowing skill gaps. Similarly, more conducive business regulations amplify the positive impact on firm creation of better education and reduced skill mismatches. To escape a low-productivity trap, policymakers should thus create a pro-business framework and a well-functioning education system.
J48|The local impact and multiplier effect of universities in Lower Saxony on the labour market|This paper quantifies and compares the direct and indirect effects of labour demand generated by each university location in Lower Saxony. The results are classified in order to identify regional patterns. The applied method is based on three components: the importance, the dynamics and the interdependence of the university related labour market in relation to the other economic sectors. The importance of the university locations for their respective local economy and in comparison with each other is assessed by an indicator. The dynamic and change of the importance of the different university locations is shown using a shift-share analysis. Both measures can be applied for a classification and spatial clustering of different types of university locations. Additionally, input-output-based employment multipliers are estimated to display the interaction of the university locations with the local economy. The results can be summarised in the identification of three differing regions. The south-east of Lower Saxony is characterised by big, established, well integrated university locations with low dynamics. Adjacent, smaller university locations have difficulties to emerge of the shadows of the dominant locations. In the western part of Lower Saxony can be found small to big university locations with growing importance and continuous development potential. The university locations in the north east are small to medium sized and rather unimportant for the local as well as the total labour market.
J48|Unsafe Sex in the City: Risk Pricing in the London Area|This paper studies the incidence, determinants, and pricing of unprotected oral sex in the London sex services market. The analysis is based upon matched sex worker–client panel data, which were collected from ‘field reports’ on PunterNet.com website over the 1999–2009 time period. We find a steady increase in the incidence of unprotected oral sex during this period, rising from
J48|Do Board Gender Quotas Matter? Selection, Performance and Stock Market Effects|From business to politics and academia, the economic effects of the introduction of gender quotas are under scrutiny. We provide new evidence based on the introduction of mandatory gender quotas for boards of directors of Italian companies listed on the stock market. Comparing before and after the reform within firms, we find that quotas are associated with a higher share of female board directors, higher levels of education of board members, and a lower share of older members. We then use the reform period as an instrument for the share of female directors and find no significant impact on firms' performance. Interestingly, the share of female directors is associated with a lower variability of stock market prices. We also run event studies on the stock price reaction to both the announcement and the introduction of gender quotas. A positive effect of the quota law on stock market returns emerges at the date of the board's election. Our results are consistent with gender quotas giving rise to a beneficial restructuring of the board, which is positively received by the market.
J48|The unemployment impact of product and labour market regulation: evidence from European countries|This paper provides robust estimates of the impact of both product and labour market regulations on unemployment using data for 24 European countries over the period 1998-2013. Controlling for country-fixed effects, endogeneity and a large set of covariates, results show that product market deregulation overall reduces the unemployment rate. This finding is robust across all specifications and in line with theoretical predictions. However, not all types of reforms have the same effect: deregulation of state controls and in particular involvement in business operations tends to push up the unemployment rate. Labour market deregulation, proxied by the employment protection legislation index, is detrimental to unemployment in the short run while a positive impact (i.e. a reduction of the unemployment rate) occurs only in the long run. Analysis by sub-indicators shows that reducing protection against collective dismissals helps in reducing the unemployment rate. The unemployment rate equation is also estimated for different categories of workers. While men and women are equally affected by product and labour market deregulations, workers distinguished by age and by educational attainment are affected differently. In terms of employment protection, young workers are almost twice as strongly affected as older workers. Regarding product market deregulation, highly-educated individuals are less impacted than low- and middle-educated workers.
J48|Race-Blind Admissions, School Segregation, and Student Outcomes: Evidence from Race- Blind Magnet School Lotteries|This paper studies a school district that was federally mandated to adopt a race-blind lottery system to fill seats in its oversubscribed magnet schools. The district had previously integrated its schools by conducting separate admissions lotteries by race to offset its predominantly black applicant pools. The change dramatically segregated subsequent magnet school cohorts. More segregated schools enroll students with lower baseline achievement and employ lower valueadded teachers. Segregation is further exacerbated by “white flight” as white students transfer out of the district after attending more segregated schools. Ultimately, mandated segregation decreases student test scores and college attendance.
J48|Does paternity leave reduce fertility?|We find that the introduction of two weeks of paid paternity leave in Spain in 2007 led to delays in subsequent fertility. Following a regression discontinuity design and using rich administrative data, we show that parents who were (just) entitled to the new paternity leave took longer to have another child compared to (just) ineligible parents. We also show that older eligible couples were less likely to have an additional child within the following six years after the introduction of the reform. We provide evidence in support of two potentially complementary channels behind the negative effects on subsequent fertility. First, fathers' increasing involvement in childcare led to higher labor force attachment among mothers. This may have raised the opportunity cost of an additional child. We also find that men reported lower desired fertility after the reform, possibly due to their increased awareness of the costs of childrearing, or to a shift in preferences from child quantity to quality.
J48|Inclusive Growth: The Case of Germany|This paper argues that inclusive growth appears to be the only suitable strategy for realising the right to decent work (RDW) in the digital economy. This reasoning is in blunt opposition to the current mood of giving up this right in favour of an unconditional basic income (UBI). The study starts by briefly expanding the basic argument and by defining the principles of inclusive versus exclusive growth (1); a comprehensive overview of German labour market policy and labour law reforms since the beginning of this millennium assesses to what extent Germany is pursuing these principles, accompanied by selective evidence of their consequences for the German labour market performance (2); a stylised and descriptive overview of the inclusive impact of these reforms in quantitative and qualitative terms follows, with an essay reflecting the concept of the inclusive labour contract (3).
J48|Reform Reversal in Former Transition Economies (FTEs) of the European Union: Areas, Circumstances and Motivations|The rapid journey from central planning to EU (euro area) membership stress-tested the social learning processes of the Former Transition Economies (FTEs). The desire for a higher standard of living, to be anchored to the West, and to enter the EU, spurred major reform waves and led to the very rapid introduction of best-practice institutions. Although social learning accompanied this process, in many FTEs it was not fast enough to keep pace with the rapid reforms, leaving best-practice institutions with social norms that were not sufficiently strong to maintain them. As a result, wide-spread reform reversals emerged in the region. Such reform reversals appeared as formal reversals, which changed legislation (or formal rules), and behavioral reversals, which eroded the quality of an institution by materially changing the way it worked. It was frequently the interaction of reversals in different sectors that created a full-blown reform reversal episode, with the financial sector particularly prone to behavioral reversals, both in public and private institutions. External anchors such as the Washington institutions played a dominant role in shaping the transition process. Along with the EU accession process, the EU acted as a strong anchor that could prevent or reverse formal reform reversals in areas covered by EU law, but could play a much weaker role in the case of behavioral reversals. Our analysis naturally leads to the conclusion that the ultimate solution to prevent reform reversals is to accelerate social learning processes that strengthen the national ownership of reforms. It is also important to focus on the quality and internal coherence of reforms and newly created institutions.
J48|Does on-the-job training help graduates find a job? Evidence from an Italian region|"This paper provides an evaluation of a training programme for graduates entitled ""Work Experience for Graduates"" (WELL - Work Experience Laureati and Laureate) that was recently implemented in Italy. The aim of the programme was to increase the career prospects of unemployed graduates in the region of Umbria. It consisted of two measures: (i) on-the-job training for unemployed graduates, and (ii) wage subsidies to firms and organisations for hiring the trainees at the end of the programme. We rely on administrative data and match- ing methods to evaluate the effectiveness of the intervention in terms of the employability of participants. Results indicate that WELL participants are more likely to be employed and to sign an apprenticeship contract within the region. We also find substantial gender differences in employability and the type of contract obtained, with men having a higher probability of finding a job (permanent contract or apprenticeship). We show that this may be explained by different choices in terms of field of study, with males being more prone to enrolling in scientific areas and females in the humanities."
J48|Economic Growth in the EU: Is Flexicurity a Help or a Hindrance?|In the light of the recent economic crisis, flexicurity has permeated many European Union (EU) policies with the hope that more flexible labour markets alongside modern social security systems and active learning can reinvigorate economic growth. This paper employs a variant of the Solow growth model to examine the impact that flexicurity had on economic growth in 27 EU Member States for the years 2000 to 2015. Using principal components to capture the multi-faceted concept of flexicurity, the results reveal that, in isolation, flexicurity failed to provide any growth stimulus. Lifelong learning, active labour market policy and modern security systems proved However, incorporating the role of the social partners and trust into the model provided a more positive picture of the flexicurity-growth relationship.
J48|The unemployment impact of product and labour market regulation: Evidence from European countries|This paper provides a robust estimation of the impact of both product and labour market regulations on unemployment using data for 24 European countries over the period 1998-2013. Controlling for country-fixed effects, endogeneity and various covariates, results show that product market deregulation overall reduces unemployment rate. This finding is robust to all specifications and in line with theoretical predictions. However, not all types of reforms have the same effect: deregulation of State controls and in particular involvement in business operations tends to push up the unemployment rate. Labour market deregulation, proxied by the employment protection legislation index, is detrimental to unemployment in the short run while a positive impact (i.e. a reduction of the unemployment rate) occurs only in the long run. Analysis by sub-indicators shows that reducing protection against collective dismissals helps in reducing the unemployment rate. The unemployment rate equation is also estimated for different categories of workers. While men and women are equally affected by product and labour market deregulations, workers distinguished by age and by educational attainment are affected differently. In terms of employment protection, young workers are almost twice as strongly affected as older workers. Regarding product market deregulation, highly-educated individuals are less impacted than low- and middle-educated workers.
J48|Charity Begins at Home (and at School): Effects of Religion-Based Discrimination in Education|Religions often preach preferential treatment of fellow believers. This paper examines whether one’s religious status (secular or religious) leads one to discriminate against people with a different religious status; how this affects human capital formation; and whether this discrimination is affected by exposure to others with a different religious orientation. We develop a method of detecting individual religious status and apply it to study grading decisions on national matriculation exams in Israel’s Jewish state education. Comparing grades given by religious versus secular examiners to religious versus secular students, we find evidence of in-group bias. This bias is almost entirely driven by male examiners. Exploiting bunching in the grade distribution, we are able to examine who drives this observed bias: the secular or the religious. In addition, we find that in some cases exposure at home and at work to others with different religious beliefs may attenuate the bias. These biases in grading have long-run implications since they affect students’ eligibility for university admission and as a result their occupation and earnings in adulthood.
J48|Intergenerational Mobility in Education: Variation in Geography and Time|Although the measurement of intergenerational income mobility has seen a rapid increase in attention and policy discussions, similar examinations of educational mobility in the U.S. are lacking. This paper begins to fill this gap by documenting differences in educational mobility across time (1982-2004) and geography (U.S. states). The study complements recent estimates of intergenerational income mobility because educational mobility both contributes to income mobility and is a target for education policies. We both develop a method to compute intergenerational correlation coefficients which respects the unique properties of education attainment, as well as utilize standard measures in the literature. While naive intergenerational regressions of years attained suggest a slight increase in mobility over the sample period, we find that mobility fluctuated: decreasing over roughly the first decade and increasing in the second. In addition, there is also substantial geographic variation in education mobility. We identify local community and policy factors, such as the existence of high school exit exams, that are correlated with educational mobility as well as a lack of increase in mobility in the South.
J48|"Fiscal Policy, as the ""Employer of Last Resort"": Impact of MGNREGS on Labour Force Participation Rates in India"|"We examine the impact of conditional fiscal transfers on public employment across gender in India taking the case of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS). The MGNREGS, as an ""employer of last resort"" fiscal policy, is a direct employment transfer, which guarantees to provide 100 days of paid work opportunities at a predetermined wage for public works in India through a self-selection criterion. Using unit record data of the latest 68th round of NSS Employment-Unemployment survey, we examined gender differential impacts of MGNREGS on labour force participation rates across States in India. The unit of analysis in our paper is not `household', but is one step ahead to capture the intra-household level of participating behaviour in the economic activity. The results, based on the survey enumerating 2,80,763 individuals in rural areas, revealed that there is a striking heterogeneity in the gender impacts of job guarantee programme across States of India. The probit estimates showed that MGNREGS job card holder's labour force participation rates were higher than the non-card holders and the result was more pronounced for women. The analysis of the time-use patterns and the unpaid care economy statistics of job guarantee card holders obtained from the unit records also shows that augmenting public investment in care economy infrastructure is significant for the job guarantee programme to function at its full potential in India."
J48|Structural policies to boost productivity and inclusion in Costa Rica|Owing to past structural reforms, Costa Rica has enjoyed robust GDP growth and productivity levels are gradually converging towards the OECD average. However, large GDP per capita and productivity gaps persist. In addition, not everyone has benefited from this growth. Inequality has increased and labour market conditions are a concern. Costa Rica has a lower share of employed workers in the population than almost all OECD countries, unemployment remains well above its pre-global-financial-crisis level, labour market participation has decreased and the share of informal jobs is high. Recognising these challenges, Costa Rica has accelerated its structural reform momentum recently, with policy reforms underway or planned in several areas that present win-win opportunities to boost both productivity and inclusion. These include efforts to tackle labour market informality, simplify the minimum wage structure, increase competition and reduce regulatory burdens. In addition to further reforms in these priority areas, structural policy improvements are also needed to increase outcomes and reduce inequalities in education and address significant transport infrastructure gaps.
J48|Fiscal Policy, as the “Employer of Last Resort”: Impact of Direct fiscal transfer (MGNREGA) on Labour Force Participation Rates in India|We examine the impact of conditional fiscal transfers on public employment across gender in India taking the case of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS). The MGNREGS, as an “employer of last resort” fiscal policy, is a direct employment transfer, which guarantees to provide 100 days of paid work opportunities at a predetermined wage for public works in India through a self-selection criterion. Using unit record data of the latest 68th round of NSS Employment-Unemployment survey, we examined gender differential impacts of MGNREGS on labour force participation rates across States in India. The unit of analysis in our paper is not ‘household’, but is one step ahead to capture the intra-household level of participating behaviour in the economic activity. The results, based on the survey enumerating 2,80,763 individuals in rural areas, revealed that there is a striking heterogeneity in the gender impacts of job guarantee programme across States of India. The probit estimates showed that MGNREGS job card holder’s labour force participation rates were higher than the non-card holders and the result was more pronounced for women. The analysis of the time-use patterns and the unpaid care economy statistics of job guarantee card holders obtained from the unit records also shows that augmenting public investment in care economy infrastructure is significant for the job guarantee programme to function at its full potential in India.
J48|Building Less Flawed Metrics|Metrics are useful for measuring systems and motivating behaviors. Unfortunately, naive application of metrics to a system can distort the system in ways that undermine the original goal. The problem was noted independently by Campbell and Goodhart, and in some forms it is not only common, but unavoidable due to the nature of metrics. There are two distinct but interrelated problems that must be overcome in building better metrics; first, specifying metrics more closely related to the true goals, and second, preventing the recipients from gaming the difference between the reward system and the true goal. This paper describes several approaches to designing metrics, beginning with design considerations and processes, then discussing specific strategies including secrecy, randomization, diversification, and post-hoc specification. Finally, it will discuss important desiderata and the trade-offs involved in each approach.
J48|Employment in China’s hi-tech zones|Abstract The purpose of this paper is to explore employment differences over time across China’s hi-tech zones. Using data from China’s Ministry of Science and Technology, we find that if a university science park is within a hi-tech zone, employment in that zone is higher, but that finding only holds for zones established in the pre-information communication technology period. After 2000, proximity to a university science park does not appear to be necessary for the exchange of tacit knowledge which we contend leverages the technology base of firms and organizations in the zone and thus their level of employment. We also find greater employment in hi-tech zones in which information technology is a dominant industry.
J48|The Unemployment Impact of Product and Labour Market Regulation: Evidence from European Countries|This paper provides robust estimates of the impact of both product and labour market regulations on unemployment using data for 24 European countries over the period 1998-2013. Controlling for country-fixed effects, endogeneity and a large set of covariates, results show that product market deregulation overall reduces the unemployment rate. This finding is robust across all specifications and in line with theoretical predictions. However, not all types of reforms have the same effect: deregulation of state controls and in particular involvement in business operations tends to push up the unemployment rate. Labour market deregulation, proxied by the employment protection legislation index, is detrimental to unemployment in the short run while a positive impact (i.e. a reduction of the unemployment rate) occurs only in the long run. Analysis by sub-indicators shows that reducing protection against collective dismissals helps in reducing the unemployment rate. The unemployment rate equation is also estimated for different categories of workers. While men and women are equally affected by product and labour market deregulations, workers distinguished by age and by educational attainment are affected differently. In terms of employment protection, young workers are almost twice as strongly affected as older workers. Regarding product market deregulation, highly-educated individuals are less impacted than low- and middle-educated workers.
J48|Ökonomische Effekte der Deregulierung der Handwerksordnung im Jahr 2004|Die deutsche Handwerksordnung regelt die Unternehmensgründung in handwerklichen Berufen durch die Vorgabe verpflichtender Qualifikationsstandards. Im Jahr 2004 wurde der Marktzugang im Handwerk durch eine Novellierung der Handwerksordnung dereguliert, sodass für mehr als die Hälfte aller Handwerksberufe seitdem keine Meisterpflicht mehr gilt. Seit der Reform wird eine politische und wissenschaftliche Diskussion zu den einzel- und gesamtwirtschaftlichen Effekten dieser Deregulierung geführt. Fast fünfzehn Jahre nach der Deregulierung können aus den bisherigen Studien grundlegende Effekte abgeleitet werden und Forschungslücken definiert werden, um die weitere wirtschaftspolitische Diskussion wissenschaftlich zu fundieren. Der vorliegende Artikel fasst dafür die theoretischen Grundpositionen und die empirischen Studien zur Entwicklung des deutschen Handwerkssektors nach der Deregulierung zusammen und formuliert anschließend zu schließende Forschungslücken zur umfassenden wirtschaftspolitischen Bewertung der Handwerksreform.
J48|Can social safety nets protect public health? The effect of India's workfare and foodgrain subsidy programmes on anaemia|Can large-scale social safety nets be nutrition sensitive even if they do not explicitly incorporate health and nutrition as programmatic goals? This paper focuses on the consequences of a countrywide guaranteed workfare programme (MGNREGA) and subsidised food distribution scheme (PDS) in India for the prevalence of anaemia, examining whether individuals in districts with a broader reach of these mega-programmes are less likely to be anaemic. Using an Instrumental Variable (IV) approach to address the endogeneity of programme scale, we find that an individual residing in a district where the programmes have broader reach is less likely to suffer from all forms of anaemia and has a lower haemoglobin deficit from the benchmark suggested by the World Health Organisation (WHO) - ranging between 0.91 to 6.2 percentage points for a 10 percentage point expansion in programme scale. While the PDS seems to be more effective in reducing the incidence of mild anaemia than moderate or severe anaemia, while the strength of effects for MGNREGA seem to be the least for mild. These are catch-all effects that represent partial and general equilibrium impacts through multiple pathways. Programme interaction effects suggest the MGNREGA and PDS may be substitutes - associated improvements in anaemia for regions with higher PDS access (MGNREGA participation) are more pronounced when the scale of MGNREGA participation (PDS access) is low. There exist nonlinearities in these relationships with the efficacy of both programmes varying across scales of implementation.
J48|Public employment services under decentralization: Evidence from a natural experiment|We study whether decentralizing public employment services impacts job finding positively, as is suggested by the classic decentralization theorem, or negatively, as is suggested by political economy considerations. Our difference-in-difference estimates for a German reform in 2012 point to negative effects: Decentralization decreased job finding by 10% and increased the use of inefficient job creation programs that likely reduce local but increase federal public expenditures.
J48|Informalidad laboral y elementos para un salario mínimo diferencial por regiones en Colombia|Se presenta evidencia de que el salario mínimo en relación con el salario correspondiente al percentil 70 afecta el tamaño del sector informal en las áreas urbanas en Colombia. Dicho efecto se observa en promedio en todas las áreas urbanas. Sin embargo, cuando se analizan las ciudades individualmente, se encuentra que el efecto del salario mínimo relativo es diferencial; por ejemplo, en Barranquilla es muy bajo mientras que en Popayán, Villavicencio y Neiva es muy alto. Por ello, en estas últimas, más que en otras, parece haber una gran desconexión entre la productividad de la mano de obra menos capacitada y el salario mínimo. Se plantean dos propuestas para introducir un salario mínimo diferencial dependiendo del alejamiento de la informalidad (productividad laboral) de cada ciudad del promedio de 23 ciudades. Se presentan estimaciones del efecto de la actividad económica y los costos no laborales distintos del salario en un sinnúmero de variables del mercado laboral.
J48|The effects of paternity leave on fertility and labor market outcomes|This paper studies the effects of a father quota in the parental leave period on households' labor market and fertility decisions. Identification is based on the 2007 reform of the Spanish family benefit system, which extended the sixteen weeks of paid parental leave by two additional weeks exclusively reserved for fathers and nontransferable to mothers. Using a regression discontinuity design, we show that the reform substantially increased the take-up rate of fathers (by as much as 400%), as well as the re-employment probability of mothers shortly after childbirth (by about 11%). However, it did not affect parents' longer-term leave-taking or employment behavior. We also find that the introduction of the two weeks of paternity leave delayed higherorder births and reduced subsequent fertility among older women (by about 15%). These results suggest a limited scope for the father quota to alter household behaviors beyond the parental leave period and reduce gender inequality at the workplace.
J48|Gender Quotas: Challenging the Boards, Performance, and the Stock Market|Comparing before and after the reform within firms, we find that quotas are associated with a higher share of female board directors, higher levels of education of board members, and a lower share of older members. We then use the reform period as an instrument for the share of female directors and find no significant impact on firmsâ€™ performance. Interestingly, we find that the share of female directors is associated with a lower variability of stock market prices. We also run event studies on the stock price reaction to the introduction of gender quotas. A positive effect of the quota law on stock market returns emerges at the date of the boardâ€™s election. Our results are consistent with gender quotas giving rise to a beneficial restructuring of the board, which is positively received by the market.
J48|The Impact of MGNREGA on Agricultural Outcomes and the Rural Labour Market: A Matched DID Approach|Abstract This paper attempts to address the impact of the MGNREGA on the rural agricultural sector, focusing on cropping patterns, irrigated area, crop yields, wages and rural employment. The analysis is based on two data sources: the first is a unique district-season level panel dataset that we construct using multiple sources, and the second is unit record data from the NSS Employment Unemployment Surveys. To identify causal effects, we employ a difference-in-difference matching procedure, where districts are matched based on propensity scores; the use of propensity scores represents a novel aspect of this paper. We also examine pre-programme trends for each outcome variable to provide a check on the validity of our estimates. Our results indicate modest changes in cropping patterns that are state and period specific; however, they do not indicate any improvements in crop yields that were expected given the MGNREGA’s focus on investments in irrigation, although there is some evidence that irrigated area may have expanded after a lag. We also find that there is no systematic evidence of impact on wages and therefore no evidence that public works employment in MGNREGA crowded out casual labour in agriculture.
J48|The Impact of Digital Technologies on Worker Tasks: Do Labor Policies Matter?|Between 1999 and 2006, Brazilian cities experienced strong growth in the provision of internet services, driven in part by the privatization of the telecommunications industry. A main concern of policymakers is that digital technology replaces routine, manual tasks, displacing lower-skilled workers. In Brazil, stringent labor market institutions exist to protect workers from such shocks, but by increasing labor costs, labor policy may also constrain firms from adjusting the workforce and fully benefiting from technology adoption. We show that digital technology adoption shifted the demand for skills toward an increased use of non-routine and cognitive tasks. Furthermore, and in contrast with labor policy intentions, we show that de facto labor market regulations differentially benefit the most skilled workers, particularly those workers employed in non-routine and cognitive tasks. Our results point to important changes in the future of labor markets in middle-income settings and warn for distortive and unintended consequences of labor market policies.
J48|¿Cuestión de salarios?: Efectos de las políticas salariales del sector público en la elección sectorial de profesionales calificados|El presente trabajo estima un modelo de elección sectorial de Roy, con el objetivo de evaluar la efectividad de un rango de políticas salariales contrafactuales en el sector público en la atracción de capital humano al sector público colombiano. Utilizando datos administrativos de profesionales beneficiarios de créditos de Colfuturo, se halla que un aumento de salarios es más efectivo en atraer a profesionales con postgrado que a profesionales sin postgrado. Con base en estos resultados, se presentan recomendaciones para el diseño de políticas de capital humano para el Estado colombiano.
J48|Uptake of health insurance and the productive safety net program in rural Ethiopia|Due to lack of well-developed insurance and credit markets, rural families in Ethiopia are exposed to a range of covariate and idiosyncratic risks. In 2005, to deal with the consequences of covariate risks, the government implemented the Productive Safety Net Program (PSNP), and in 2011, to mitigate the financial consequences of ill-health, the government introduced a pilot Community Based Health Insurance (CBHI) Scheme. This paper explores whether scheme uptake and retention is affected by access to the PSNP. Based on household panel data and qualitative information, the analysis shows that participating in the PSNP increases the probability of CBHI uptake by 24 percentage points and enhances scheme retention by 10 percentage points. A large proportion of this effect may be attributed to explicit and implicit pressure applied by government officials on PSNP beneficiaries. Whether this is a desirable approach is debatable. Nevertheless, the results suggest that membership in existing social protection programs may be leveraged to spread new schemes and potentially accelerate poverty reduction efforts.
J48|The Impact of the Action Plan for Promoting Employment and Combating Unemployment on Employment Informality in Algeria|This paper examines whether the Action Plan for Promoting Employment and Combating Unemployment, a labor market intermediation program adopted by the Algerian government in 2008, reduced the informality of employment in Algeria. Using repeated cross-section data from the Household Survey on Employment for the period from 1997 to 2013, and a difference-in-difference methodology, we estimate whether the Action Plan has reduced the probability that workers are employed informally in enterprises of more than 5 workers – the type of enterprise that is most likely to be directly affected by the Action Plan. Our results show that the Action Plan has in fact contributed to reducing employment informality in such enterprises, but with heterogeneous effects. More precisely, it reduced informality for employees of establishments of 10 workers or more but had no significant effects on informality for those working in enterprises of 5 to 9 workers. Furthermore, when we restrict our estimates to new entrants only, we do not find statistically significant effects.
J48|Can social safety nets protect public health? The effect of India’s workfare and foodgrain subsidy programmes on anaemia| Can large-scale social safety nets be nutrition sensitive even if they do not explicitly incorporate health and nutrition as programmatic goals? This paper focuses on the consequences of a countrywide guaranteed workfare programme (MGNREGA) and subsidised food distribution scheme (PDS) in India for the prevalence of anaemia, examining whether individuals in districts with a broader reach of these mega-programmes are less likely to be anaemic. Using an Instrumental Variable (IV) approach to address the endogeneity of programme scale, we find that an individual residing in a district where the programmes have broader reach is less likely to suffer from all forms of anaemia and has a lower haemoglobin deficit from the benchmark suggested by the World Health Organisation (WHO) – ranging between 0.91 to 6.2 percentage points for a 10 percentage point expansion in programme scale. While the PDS seems to be more effective in reducing the incidence of mild anaemia than moderate or severe anaemia, while the strength of effects for MGNREGA seem to be the least for mild. These are catch-all effects that represent partial and general equilibrium impacts through multiple pathways. Programme interaction effects suggest the MGNREGA and PDS may be substitutes – associated improvements in anaemia for regions with higher PDS access (MGNREGA participation) are more pronounced when the scale of MGNREGA participation (PDS access) is low. There exist nonlinearities in these relationships, with the efficacy of both programmes varying across scales of implementation.
J48|The Strategy of Street Vendors in Facing Local Government Policy. A Case of Street Vendor in Bandung|"""Objective – The presence of street vendors in public places has emerged some problems, such as disordered situation, traffic jam and decreasing aesthetics of the city. In order to overcome the problems, Bandung have some policies issued such as relocation, arrangement and business loans. However, these policies never completely solve the street vendors problems. This research will describe the strategy of street vendors in retaining the existence of their selling place. Methodology/Technique – The research took place in Bandung using the qualitative approach. Bandung is one of the big city in Indonesia and also capital of west java province. The activity of data collection was conducted through participant observation, in-depth interviews, and documentation. Findings – The result of the research shows that the strategy of street vendors in resisting the city government was conducted through various ways, both disguised and open ones. Both types of resistance were committed individually and collectively. Novelty – This article describes the tactics and strategies developed by the street vendors to face the government policy."""
J48|Organized interests and foreign-educated professionals: The case of the associations for physicians and nurses in Sweden|The role and importance of employee organizations (i.e., unions) on policies concerning international migration have been studied extensively for decades. However, we know very little about the strategies of the organized interests of health care professionals. This paper will contribute to previous research, both internationally and in the Swedish context, on issues concerning the (re-)action of professional organizations towards migration reforms that might endanger the profession's control over their segment of the labor market. Through a study of the associations representing the two largest licensed health care professions in Sweden – physicians and nurses – the study investigates if, and how, they try to limit the competition in the labor market against reforms that are promoting increased mobility and international migration. The conclusions are mixed, suggesting that the long-term goals of professional associations are more important than strategies that might reduce the competition of foreign-educated practitioners in the short run.
J48|Gender Quotas in the Board Room and Firm Performance: Evidence from a Credible Threat in Sweden|Board room quotas have recently received an increasing amount of attention. This paper provides novel evidence on firm performance from an exogenous change in female board participation in Sweden. We use the credible threat, aimed at listed firms, of a quota law enacted by the Swedish deputy prime minister as an exogenous variation. The threat caused a substantial and rapid increase in the share of female board members in firms listed on the Stockholm stock exchange. This increase was accompanied by an increase in different measures of firm performance in the same years, which were related to higher sales and lower labor costs.
J48|Recent Developments in the Irish Labour Market: Is It All Good News?|Across many countries, the rise of atypical work has been noted whereby employees are increasingly in less secure contractual situations. While this might lead to more flexible labour markets, there are potential downsides for individuals. We explore the prevalence of atypical work in Ireland which provides a fascinating case-study. Ireland experienced a dramatic deterioration in its labour market around the Great Recession with unemployment rising from 4.8 percent in 2007 to 15 percent in 2012. This situation was also reversed somewhat quickly with unemployment falling to 8 percent by 2016. Such dramatic swings provide the context in which we explore whether atypical work increased for new job holders with the onset of recession and whether or not this weakened as the economy recovered. We find that atypical work did increase with the recession and, although moderating, the likelihood of new jobs being atypical persisted into the recovery. This raises important questions about whether economic recovery alone will improve job quality, in addition to jobs numbers.
J48|The Impact of Traineeships on the Employment of the Mentally Ill: the Role of Partial Compliance|Lavoro&Psiche is a RCT aimed at increasing employment among severely mentally ill patients, by offering them a structured job-search experience. The key feature of the treatment was the presence of a “job coach” entirely dedicated to support the job search of a small number (12-13) of mentally ill patients. What most often the job coach did was finding the patient a traineeship. If one were to consider only the effect of making the support of the coach available - the so-called Intention-To-Treat effect – it would be a disappointing statistically non significant 5 percentage point difference in the employment of treatment and control members, in the full post-treatment year. However, the impact of making something available is rarely the primary interest of policy-makers, who would rather know the effect of receiving it. The main difficulty in obtaining unbiased estimates of the latter is that ‘who receives what’ is no longer solely determined by randomization, but also by post-randomization events and decisions. During the implementation period of Lavoro&Psiche of 2011-12, an unprecedented wave of traineeship opportunities hit those enrolled in the demonstration, both in the experimental and in the control group. The main finding is that, for the subset of the experimental group that was induced by the offer to be involved in a traineeship the chances of having a job in the post-treatment year more than double from the 17% of those who did not do any traineeship to the 34% of those who did, well above the Intention-To-Treat impact estimates.
J48|Wage Rigidities in Colombia: Measurement, Causes, and Policy Implications|This paper evaluates the extent of wage rigidities in Colombia over a period, 2002-2014, in which the fall in unemployment was relatively slow with respect to sustained economic growth. Following Holden and Wulfsberg (2009), we compute a measure of downward real wage rigidity (DRWR) of 12.09%, four times bigger than their aggregate estimate for the OECD economies. Moreover, in contrast to the evidence for the advanced economies, the determinants of such rigidities show no connection to the wage bargaining system. Amid the absence of effective labor market institutions to make rigidities less prevalent, economic growth appears as the most powerful mechanism to ward them off. Under this light, we provide a stylized description of the wage setting rule in Colombia, compare it with the common one in the advanced economies, and call for a far-reaching reform of the Colombian wage bargaining setup.
J48|The Effects of Paternity Leave on Fertility and Labor Market Outcomes|This paper studies the effects of a father quota in the parental leave period on households' labor market and fertility decisions. Identification is based on the 2007 reform of the Spanish family benefit system, which extended the sixteen weeks of paid parental leave by two additional weeks exclusively reserved for fathers and non- transferable to mothers. Using a regression discontinuity design, we show that the reform substantially increased the take-up rate of fathers (by as much as 400%), as well as the re-employment probability of mothers shortly after childbirth (by about 11%). However, it did not affect parents' longer-term leave-taking or employment behavior. We also find that the introduction of the two weeks of paternity leave delayed higher- order births and reduced subsequent fertility among older women (by about 15%). These results suggest a limited scope for the father quota to alter household behaviors beyond the parental leave period and reduce gender inequality at the workplace.
J48|The Impact of the Action Plan For Promoting Employment and Combating Unemployment on Employment Informality in Algeria|This paper examines whether the Action Plan for Promoting Employment and Combating Unemployment, a labor market intermediation program adopted by the Algerian government in 2008, reduced the informality of employment in Algeria. Using repeated cross-section data from the Household Survey on Employment for the period from 1997 to 2013, and a difference-in-difference methodology, we estimate whether the Action Plan has reduced the probability that workers are employed informally in enterprises of more than 5 workers — the type of enterprise that is most likely to be directly affected by the Action Plan. Our results show that the Action Plan has in fact contributed to reducing employment informality in such enterprises, but with heterogeneous effects. More precisely, it reduced informality for employees of establishments of 10 workers or more but had no significant effects on informality for those working in enterprises of 5 to 9 workers. Furthermore, when we restrict our estimates to new entrants only, we do not find statistically significant effects.
J48|Activation against absenteeism – Evidence from a sickness insurance reform in Norway|I evaluate a program aimed at strictly enforcing a requirement that people on long-term sick leave be partly back at work unless explicitly defined as an exception. Employing the synthetic control method, I find that the reform reduced work-hours lost due to sickness absenteeism by 12% in the reform region compared to a comparison unit created by a weighted average of similar regions. The effect is driven by both increased part-time presence of temporary disabled workers and accelerated recovery. Musculoskeletal disorders was the diagnosis group declining the most. The findings imply large savings in social security expenditures.
J48|The Impact of Digital Technologies on Worker Tasks: Do Labor Policies Matter?|Between 1999 and 2006, Brazilian cities experienced strong growth in the provision of internet services, driven in part by the privatization of the telecommunications industry. A main concern of policymakers is that digital technology replaces routine, manual tasks, displacing lower-skilled workers. In Brazil, stringent labor market institutions exist to protect workers from such shocks, but by increasing labor costs, labor policy may also constrain firms from adjusting the workforce and fully benefiting from technology adoption. We show that digital technology adoption shifted the demand for skills toward an increased use of non-routine and cognitive tasks. Furthermore, and in contrast with labor policy intentions, we show that de facto labor market regulations differentially benefit the most skilled workers, particularly those workers employed in non-routine and cognitive tasks. Our results point to important changes in the future of labor markets in middle-income settings and warn for distortive and unintended consequences of labor market policies.
J48|Prison Work Programs in a Model of Deterrence|This article considers the social desirability of prison work programs in a model in which the function of imprisonment is to deter crime. Two types of prison work programs are studied—voluntary ones and mandatory ones. A voluntary work program is socially beneficial: if prisoners are paid a wage that just compensates them for their disutility from work, the deterrent effect of the prison sentence is unaffected, but society obtains the product of the work program. But a mandatory work program is superior to a voluntary work program: if prisoners are forced to work without compensation, the deterrent effect of the prison sentence rises, allowing society to restore deterrence and save resources by reducing the probability of detection or the sentence length, and also to obtain greater output than under the optimal voluntary work program. In an extension of the basic analysis, however, in which prisoners vary in their disutility from work, a voluntary work program may be superior to a mandatory work program because prisoners with relatively high disutility from work can elect not to work.
J48|Effects of maternal work incentives on youth crime|This study exploits differences in the implementation of welfare reform in the United States across states and over time to identify causal effects of maternal work incentives, and by inference employment, on youth arrests between 1988 and 2005, the period of time during which welfare reform unfolded. We consider both serious and minor crimes as classified by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, consider differential effects by the youth's gender and age, investigate the extent to which effects were stronger in states with more stringent work incentive policies and larger welfare caseload declines, and use a number of different model specifications to assess robustness and patterns. We find that welfare reform led to reduced arrests for minor crimes among youth ages 15–17 years by 9–11%, with similar estimates for males and females, but that it did not affect youth arrests for serious crimes. The results from this study add to a scant knowledge base about the effects of maternal employment on adolescent behavior by exploiting a large-scale social experiment that greatly increased employment of low-skilled women. The results also provide some support for the widely-embraced argument that welfare restrictions discourage undesirable social behavior, not only of mothers, but also of the next generation.
J48|Rethinking the Benefits of Youth Employment Programs: The Heterogeneous Effects of Summer Jobs|This paper reports the results of two randomized field experiments, each offering different populations of youth a supported summer job in Chicago. In both experiments, the program dramatically reduces violent-crime arrests, even after the summer. It does so without improving employment, schooling, or other types of crime; if anything, property crime increases over 2-3 post-program years. To explore mechanisms, we implement a machine learning method that predicts treatment heterogeneity using observables. The method identifies a subgroup of youth with positive employment impacts, whose characteristics differ from the disconnected youth served in most employment programs. We find that employment benefiters commit more property crime than their control counterparts, and non-benefiters also show a decline in violent crime. These results do not seem consistent with typical theory about improved human capital and better labor market opportunities creating a higher opportunity cost of crime, or even with the idea that these programs just keep youth busy. We discuss several alternative mechanisms, concluding that brief youth employment programs can generate substantively important behavioral change, but for different outcomes, different youth, and different reasons than those most often considered in the literature.
J48|Enhancing skills to boost growth in Hungary|Skill requirements in the labour market have significantly changed over the past two decades. The restructuring of the economy is making the labour market increasingly knowledge-based. The education system has reacted to this structural change, but as the pace has been relatively slow, many graduates remain without adequate skills and insufficiently prepared to apply knowledge in unfamiliar settings. Moreover, strong selectivity early in the education system reinforces student’s socio‑economic background, leading to an excess of low skilled workers with poor labour market prospects. This contributes to persistently low employment rates and low productivity gains, slowing down the income convergence process. The education system needs to improve learning outcomes by better aligning student qualifications with labour market needs. Improving overall educational outcomes would also make the education system more equitable and inclusive. Bolstering the supply of skills requires lifelong learning and improving the access to labour market to those who have left the education system without proper skills. In return, this will also increase “on‑the‑job” training, which is a key driver of acquiring competences after graduation. In addition, mobilising untapped skill resources, particular educated younger women, would raise employment, which is needed to confront the labour market problem arising from population ageing. Améliorer les compétences pour dynamiser la croissance en Hongrie Les compétences recherchées sur le marché du travail ont sensiblement changé au cours des vingt dernières années. Du fait de la restructuration de l'économie, le marché de l'emploi est de plus en plus fondé sur la connaissance. Le système d'enseignement s'est adapté à cette évolution structurelle, mais dans la mesure où le rythme de cet ajustement a été relativement lent, de nombreux diplômés restent privés de compétences adéquates et insuffisamment préparés à appliquer leurs connaissances dans des situations qui ne leur sont pas familières. En outre, la sélectivité forte et précoce qui caractérise le système éducatif accentue l'influence du milieu socioéconomique des élèves et des étudiants, ce qui se traduit par un excédent de travailleurs peu qualifiés dont les perspectives d'emploi sont médiocres. Cela contribue à la faiblesse persistante des taux d'emploi et des gains de productivité, ce qui ralentit le processus de convergence des revenus. Il faut améliorer les résultats du système d'enseignement, en assurant une meilleure correspondance entre les qualifications acquises et les besoins du marché du travail. Une amélioration globale des résultats du système d'enseignement le rendrait également plus équitable et inclusif. Pour renforcer l'offre de main-d'oeuvre qualifiée, il faut s'appuyer sur la formation tout au long de la vie et améliorer l'accès au marché du travail des personnes ayant quitté le système scolaire sans compétences adéquates. Cela se traduira par un développement de la formation « en cours d'emploi », qui est un vecteur essentiel d'acquisition de compétences après l'achèvement de la formation initiale. En outre, mobiliser les ressources en main-d'oeuvre qualifiée inexploitées, en particulier les femmes jeunes ayant reçu une formation, permettrait de rehausser le taux d'emploi, ce qui est nécessaire pour s'attaquer au problème que représente le vieillissement démographique pour le marché du travail.
J48|Enhancing employability and skills to meet labour market needs in Italy|The various deficiencies of the labour market and the educational system have resulted in high unemployment, low labour force participation, low skills levels and high skill mismatch. Job creation is key to tackling the high unemployment rates, especially for the young and long-term unemployed. Promoting jobs without paying attention to their quality and to the skills required by employers may have adverse impact on welfare and productivity. The Jobs Act and Good School (“Buona Scuola”), two major reforms of the labour market and the educational system, are good steps in the right direction. The Jobs Act and the temporary social security contribution exemptions have contributed to raise employment. By strengthening job search and training policies, the Jobs Act can enhance jobseekers’ employability. Increasing the effectiveness of public employment services, given the low spending level, remains a challenge. The Good School reform has the potential to improve school outcomes and provide more aligned skills to the job market. Increasing employability by upgrading skills that match employer needs remains a priority. Business involvement in education and training institutions at all educational levels will be paramount to ensure the provision of relevant skills, the availability of traineeship and apprenticeship places and provide on-the-job training. The adaptability of skills could be encouraged by lowering barriers to labour mobility and boosting work-based learning. This Working Paper relates to the 2017 OECD Economic Survey of Italy (www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/economic-survey-italy.htm).
J48|Enhancing advanced skills to better meet labour market demand in the Slovak Republic|Changing labour market demand and moving up the global value chain requires high-skilled workers. However, the share of adults with high skill levels in the Slovak Republic is one of the lowest in the OECD. Improving the education system would raise quality and better align students’ skills with new labour market needs and help them face further changes in the work environment. The contribution of the tertiary education system to skills improvement is one of the lowest in the OECD. It has to open itself more to the outside world: by easing the conditions for foreign professors and researchers to teach at Slovak universities, promoting internationally respected research and intensifying the cooperation with the business sector. Another challenge is to secure an adequate supply of skilled workers in the face of rapid population ageing and increasing emigration of young high-skilled workers. Ageing of the population will not only lead to shrinking labour supply, but a growing part of the workforce will need to be retrained. Bolstering the supply of skills requires lifelong learning and attracting skilled migrants, including returning Slovaks.This Working Paper relates to the 2017 OECD Economic Survey of the Slovak Republic (www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/economic-survey-slovak-republic.htm).
J48|Luxembourg: harnessing skills for more inclusive growth|Digitalisation, automation and future technological changes are changing the world of work, affecting the skills needed to perform them. The future of jobs will not look like the present situation: increasingly, workers will have to adapt to fast technological change, accept more mobility during their career, and regularly upgrade their skills to remain employable. Luxembourg’s workforce is highly skilled, reflecting the concentration in the country of sophisticated firms in the financial sector and other top-end international services. However, some middle- skilled routine jobs – especially back office, custodian and legal services in the financial sector – may disappear as a result of automation. Workers with strong and adaptable skills will be well prepared to thrive in this new environment. While many individuals working in Luxembourg already possess such characteristics, many others do not, resulting in a relatively high level of skills mismatch. Further improvements in the education system are needed to address this challenge, provide the young with learning-to-learn as well as technical capabilities and avoid that large groups of people are left behind. As skill sets will need to be updated during working careers, the system of initial education must be complemented by a flexible system of lifelong learning, tailored to the special needs of individuals with limited education attainment and older workers. Better use of existing skills would entail reorienting labour market policies from supporting job creation towards high-quality training programmes with substantial on-the-job learning component and reflecting future labour market needs. The tax and benefit system needs to be adjusted to increase incentives to work for low-skilled youth, older workers and second earners. Fully individualised taxation would increase incentives to work of second earners and make the tax system more gender neutral, while an additional parental leave entitlement for fathers may result in more gender-balanced use of part-time work. This Working Paper relates to the 2017 OECD Economic Survey of Luxembourg (www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/economic-survey-luxembourg.htm).
J48|Luxembourg: reaping the benefits of a diverse society through better integration of immigrants|Luxembourg’s large foreign-born population is a pillar of the country’s prosperity: they have brought skills and knowledge to many sectors of the economy. They also tend to successfully find jobs, with a higher employment rate than natives. However, not all immigrants have done well. The minority from non-EU origin (about 10% of the country’s population) suffers from high unemployment, large gender gaps in activity and below-average incomes. Refugees are particularly vulnerable. Other integration shortcomings go beyond disadvantaged minorities. Pervasive labour market segmentation is well illustrated by the marked under-representation of the foreign-born in public sector jobs. Political participation of immigrants at local level is modest. At school, their children are often put at a disadvantage by an education system which tends to perpetuate socio-economic inequality. The diversity of Luxembourg’s society contributed by immigrants should be seen as an asset for economic growth and well-being. Initiatives such as the diversity charter can help private and public organisations to reap the benefit of diversity through the inclusion of outsiders and the strengthening of social cohesion. Learning the languages of Luxembourg, developing social capital and having foreign qualifications validated are key preconditions for successful integration. Education requires both general equity-enhancing reforms, starting at early childhood, and targeted support to disadvantaged students, including upgraded vocational studies. Furthermore, job matching and social cohesion would benefit from greater immigrant participation in public sector employment and civic life. Avoiding that asylum seekers undergo protracted inactivity is also a concern. This Working Paper relates to the 2017 OECD Economic Survey of Luxembourg (www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/economic-survey-luxembourg.htm).
J48|Ensuring a dynamic skills-training and life-long learning system in Switzerland|Switzerland makes more use of its human resources than most other OECD countries. Labour force participation is high and the unemployment rate low for most segments of society. This ensures a high standard of living for most Swiss people. Nevertheless, productivity growth is relatively slow. While this may in part be attributable to already being an advanced economy, it also means that Switzerland cannot be complacent with regard to education and skills. Its admirably low youth joblessness suggests that the transition from education to work is functioning soundly. However, there is mounting evidence that as the structure of industry is changing, due to globalisation and digitalisation for instance, vacancies and skills mismatches are spreading. The mix of skills being taught differs from those taught in most other high income OECD countries in which a common secondary school track predominates and the emphasis is on equipping young adults with academic tertiary qualifications. In this context, it is important that the system is flexible enough to respond to shifts in the demand for skills and that workers continue to learn. While the participation of women and immigrants in the economy compares relatively well, more can still be done to improve equity in the accumulation of skills. This Working Paper relates to the 2017 OECD Economic Survey of Switzerland (http://www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/economic-survey-switzerland.htm).
J48|The puzzles and contradictions of the Indian labour market: What will the future of work look like?|Analysing the Indian labour market poses inherent challenges given the country’s size and diversity. Rather than a case of “jobless growth”, India has experienced concentrated employment growth, mainly in urban areas and for men. Women’s participation in the labour force has declined. Some outcomes partly reflect India’s overall level of economic development. At the same time, structural transformation in other countries, including those in the region, has led to greater absorption of workers, particularly women, in manufacturing. Looking at the future of work, the current situation is likely to prevail in the near future, unless policy interventions inject a structural shift in trends. This means that workers will continue to leave agriculture and seek employment in urban areas. But the ability of the manufacturing sector to engage workers will be constrained by the capital and skill intensity of production, which will be further impacted by technological change. More wage employment will be created but the challenge is to ensure these workers have access to social security and other benefits. As women become better educated, their participation in the labour force is likely to increase but many constraints keep them out of paid employment.
J48|Impact of oil booms and busts on human capital investment in the USA|Abstract This paper uses Census IPUMS data from 1970 to 2000 and ACS data from 2010 to estimate the impact of oil booms and busts on wages and human capital formation in the USA. The paper finds that the oil boom between 1970 and 1980 was associated with a slower growth in the relative demand for skills in the oil and gas sector and regions where the sector had a large presence. The oil boom led to a sharp rise in real wages and a modest decline in college wage premium in oil-rich regions in the USA. Using a synthetic cohort approach, the paper finds that relative to cohorts who went to high school in the pre-oil boom period, the cohort reaching high school age during the oil boom was about 1–2% points less likely to have a college degree by 2000 and 2010.
J48|Macroeconomic impact of flexicurity on the integration of people with disabilities into the labour market. A two-regime spatial autoregressive analysis|Abstract The aim of this paper is to examine the impact of flexicurity upon regional labour market performance in the employment of disabled people. To this purpose, we estimate a matching function by means of a two-regime spatial autoregressive model on Italian regions for the period 2006–2011. Our results highlight the importance of spatial interactions in the matching process of disabled people, which enable Northern–Central Italy regions to find a job for a number of disabled persons five times higher than the one employed by Southern Italy regions.
J48|Speculation on a Flexicurity Index for Disabled People: The Italian Case|Abstract The aim of this paper is to analyze a flexicurity index for disabled people by using Italian regional data. To this purpose, the empirical results are based on a composite index denoted as Mazziotta-Pareto Index. Our results show that Northern Italy regions show a higher flexicurity degree than Southern Italy ones. In addition, by estimating an augmented matching function, we verify that flexicurity increases the probability of finding employment for a disabled person. In particular, we test that the flexicurity indicator that gives more weight to the economic independence of disabled people represents the indicator that most favors the labour matching process.
J48|Regional Performance Trends in Providing Employment for Persons with Disabilities: Evidence from Italy|Abstract The aim of this work is to analyse the situation of persons with disabilities in the Italian labour market, with a view to providing guidelines to promote their inclusion both in the labour market and in society. For this purpose, we propose a two-step analysis focusing on Italian regions for the period 2006–2009. In the first phase, we use the Data Envelopment Analysis method to evaluate regional efficiency in providing employment for persons with disabilities. Cluster analysis is then applied to regional efficiency scores and economic policy variables in order to identify “policy clusters of regions”. Our results show that it is necessary both to focus on the residual work ability of persons with disabilities and to develop a social integration culture on the demand side of the labour market. Moreover, a structural reform of disability benefit systems is required in order to promote a culture of social inclusion.
J48|The Effect of Work First Job Placements on the Distribution of Earnings: An Instrumental Variable Quantile Regression Approach|Government employment programs for low-skilled workers typically emphasize rapid placement of participants into jobs, of which many are temporary-help jobs. Using data from Detroit’s welfare-to-work program and the Chernozhukov-Hansen instrumental variables quantile regression method, we find that neither direct-hire nor temporary-help job placements significantly affect the lower tail of the earnings distribution. In the upper tail, direct-hire placements yield sizable earnings increases for over half of participants, while temporary-help placements yield significant earnings losses at higher quantiles. Our results cast doubt on the efficacy of employment programs’ exclusive focus on rapid job placement and their widespread reliance on temporary-help placements.
J48|Evaluating Public Employment Programs with Field Experiments: A Survey of American Evidence|Research in the 1970s based on observational data provided evidence consistent with predictions from economic theory that paying unemployment insurance (UI) benefits to involuntarily jobless workers prolongs unemployment. However, some scholars also reported estimates that the additional time spent in subsidized job search was productive. That is, UI receipt tended to raise reemployment wages after work search among the unemployed. A series of field experiments in the 1980s investigated positive incentives to overcome the work disincentive effects of UI. These were followed by experiments in the 1990s that evaluated the effects of restrictions on UI eligibility through stronger work search requirements and alternative uses of UI. The new century has seen some related field experiments in employment policy, and reexamination of the earlier experimental results. This paper reviews the experimental evidence and considers it in the context of the current federal-state UI system.
J48|Lehman Sisters: Female Bank Executives and Risk-Taking|This paper studies the impact of female executives on risk-taking within US banks. An examination of US bank panel data from 2002 to 2010 provides evidence that female executives reduce levels of risk-taking in banks. We also find that a more balanced gender ratio has a greater impact on bank risk-taking than merely with the presence of female executive. The results are robust to alternative specifications of riskiness and instrument variable approach. However, when we only use part of the sample period surrounding the financial crises of 2007-2008, the results do not hold. We interpret the results as suggesting that having female executives and more balanced gender ratios in the executive team reduces bank risk-taking overall. But the risk-reduction becomes less effective during crisis years.
J48|Bank CEO inside debt and loan contracting|Contrary to the theoretical prediction that CEOs with large debt-based compensation take lower levels of risk, we find that banks with higher CEO inside debt compensation extend syndicated loans with smaller number of lenders, lower spread, less covenant, and higher maturity. Using two-stage selection models, we reconciled these seemingly counter intuitive results of inside debt leads to less conservative loan contracting terms by incorporating banks selection effect. We find that the mechanism of inside debt limit bank risk-taking in loan contracting is through making loans to safer borrowers in the first place, but not through tighter loan terms. These results are consistent and robust to instrumental variables and structure models that control for the endogeneity of relationships.
J48|The Impact of Traineeships on the Employment of the Mentally Ill: The Role of Partial Compliance|"Lavoro&Psiche is a RCT aimed at increasing employment among severely mentally ill patients, by offering them a structured job-search experience. The key feature of the treatment was the presence of a ""job coach"" entirely dedicated to support the job search of a small number (12-13) of mentally ill patients. What most often the job coach did was finding the patient a traineeship. If one were to consider only the effect of making the support of the coach available – the so-called Intention-To-Treat effect – it would be a disappointing statistically non significant 5 percentage point difference in the employment of treatment and control members, in the full post-treatment year. However, the impact of making something available is rarely the primary interest of policy-makers, who would rather know the effect of receiving it. The main difficulty in obtaining unbiased estimates of the latter is that 'who receives what' is no longer solely determined by randomization, but also by post-randomization events and decisions. During the implementation period of Lavoro&Psiche of 2011-12, an unprecedented wave of traineeship opportunities hit those enrolled in the demonstration, both in the experimental and in the control group. The main finding is that, for the subset of the experimental group that was induced by the offer to be involved in a traineeship the chances of having a job in the post-treatment year more than double from the 17% of those who did not do any traineeship to the 34% of those who did, well above the Intention-To-Treat impact estimates."
J48|How much does others’ protection matter? Employment protection and well-being|Workers’ well-being depends crucially on the legal framework and its statutes regulating the level of protection. While it seems obvious that a worker’s level of satisfaction is directly affected by the level of protection she receives, this paper argues that the level of protection other workers receive constitutes in integral part as well.
J48|Public employment services under decentralization: evidence from a natural experiment|This paper studies whether the decentralization of public employment services (PES) increases job placements among the unemployed. Decentralizing PES has been a widely applied reform used by governments aiming to enhance their efficacy. However, economic theory is ambiguous about its effects, and empirical evidence has been scarce. Using a difference-in-differences design, we exploit unique within-country variation in decentralization provided by the partial devolution of German job centers in 2012. We find that decentralization reduces job placements by approximately 10%. Decentralized providers expand the use of active labor market programs and monitoring strategies which diminish job seekersâ€™ reemployment prospects but shift costs to higher levels of government.
J48|The Efficiency Implications Of Using Proportional Evaluations To Shape The Teaching Workforce|" type=""main"" xml:id=""coep12107-abs-0001""> We examine the efficiency implications of imposing proportionality in teacher evaluation systems. Proportional evaluations force comparisons to be between equally circumstanced teachers. We contrast proportional evaluations with global evaluations, which compare teachers to each other regardless of teaching circumstance. We consider a policy where administrators use teacher ratings to help shape the workforce and define efficiency in terms of student achievement. Our analysis shows that proportionality can be imposed in teacher evaluation systems without efficiency costs under a wide range of evaluation and estimation conditions. Proportionality is efficiency enhancing in some cases. These findings are notable given that proportional evaluations offer a number of other policy benefits. (JEL I20, J48)"
J48|Résider en zus influe-t-il sur la mobilité quotidienne des actifs ?. Une analyse économétrique à partir de l’enquête Ménages déplacements de Lyon (2006)|This article addresses the issue of the lack of access in deprived urban zones (??zus?? for ??sensitive urban zones??) that the French urban policy aims to reduce. This study evaluates the impact of the place of residence of the entire employed active persons of Lyon metropolitan area on their whole daily mobility and on their commuting, by identifying the specific effect of living in a neighborhood with or without a zus.?The analysis is based on the Household Travel Survey conducted in the Lyon urban area in 2006, enhanced with contextual indicators extracted from geographical databases.?Results of multivariate models show that living in a neighborhood with a zus reduces not only the number of workers? trips but also their daily travel distance and travel time.?The own contribution of the effect of living in a neighborhood with a zus is in the order of minus 2?km and 7?min per day.?By contrast, when we restrict our analysis to commuting trips, we observe an opposite effect?: all other things being equal, the workers living in a neighborhood with a zus travel longer distances than their counterparts living in a neighborhood without zus (1.5?km more, for 10% more travel time).?These differences are moderate but statistically significant.?They rather confirm the hypotheses of lack of access and of spatial mismatch faced by the active population of deprived urban zones and are an incentive to carry out such analyses in other urban contexts. Classification JEL?: R41, J48, R12.
J48|Des politiques urbaines nationales : un oxymore ?|The national value added is shared between productive capital, labor and land.?This is one of the oldest and most important questions of political economy.?This article uses this grid of analysis to discuss how local public policies benefit one or the other of these three factors, either explicitly or implicitly and silently.?We favour a policy mix based on national policies targeted to national aid to individuals (mostly income support, work incentives and mobility) and fungible budgets defined at the local level, after national transfers to the local level.?The policy mix at the local level may include schooling policy, transportation policies and urban renewal policies. Instead, direct or indirect transfers to local firms such as geographically-targeted tax reliefs should be banned?: they interfere with fair competition and lead to displacement of jobs with little net employment effects. Classification JEL?: H7, I38, J48, R5.
J48|The short-run and long-run effects of decentralizing public employment services|A German policy experiment from 2012 allows me to identify the short-run and longrun causal effects of decentralization on the placement efficiency of public employment services (PES). I exploit variation over time and across districts with different types of PES in a difference-in-differences framework. Decentralization had significant negative effects on placements in the short run, but not in the long run. This points to a transition process, during which caseworkers acquire relevant placement skills. Decentralization also had a persistent negative effect on sanctions on the welfare recipients, which probably indicates a reluctance of local authorities to reduce the well-being of their potential voters.
J48|Descripción de la evolución del empleo en el sector industrial colombiano por tamaño de empresa (1995-2012)|En este documento se realiza una descripción de la distribución del empleo durante el período 1995-2012 para las pequeñas, medianas y grandes empresas del sector industrial colombiano. Particularmente, se verifica por tamaño empresarial la participación de acuerdo con el número de empresas en el total del sector industrial, el aporte en términos del empleo vinculado a sus actividades y la creación o destrucción de puestos de trabajo. Para ello, se consideran los dos criterios de clasificación empresarial vigentes en la Ley 590 de 2000: el monto de activos y el número de empleados. Así mismo, se analiza la distribución de las empresas mediante la densidad de Kernel considerado el total industrial, divisiones de actividad y grado de intensidad tecnológica. Los resultados están en línea con la percepción general que se tiene acerca del número de empresas: la mayoría son de tamaño pequeño y mediano. En contraste, al considerar la absorción de empleo por tamaño de empresa, se encuentra que son las grandes empresas las que poseen la mayor parte del empleo del sector industrial, y a su vez son las que crean la mayor parte de puestos de trabajo. De otra parte, a nivel de división de actividad se observa una alta concentración del empleo, es así como entre 4 y 6 divisiones de actividad concentran más del 60% del total de empleo del sector, independientemente de su tamaño empresarial. Finalmente, la distribución por tamaño es estable durante el período de estudio y se caracteriza por mostrar un sesgo a la derecha tanto para el total industrial, como a nivel de divisiones de actividad de acuerdo con el grado de intensidad tecnológica.
J48|Infant Health Care and Long-Term Outcomes|This paper studies the long-term and life cycle consequences of increasing access to mother and child health care centers in the first year of life. Access to these centers increased completed years of schooling by 0.15 years and earnings by 2%. These effects were stronger for children from a low socioeconomic background and contribute to a 10% reduction in the intergenerational persistence in educational attainment. Better nutrition within the first year of life is a likely mechanism. In particular, we find positive effects on adult height, fewer health risks at age 40, and decreased infant mortality from diarrhea.
J48|"Individual Disadvantage and Training Policies: The Makings of ""Model-based"" Composite Indicators"|In evaluating a policy, it is fundamental to represent its multiple dimensions and the targets it affects. Indeed, the impact of a policy generally involves a combination of socio-economic aspects that are difficult to represent. In this study, regional training policies are addressed, which are aimed at recovering the huge gaps in employability and social inclusion of weak Italian trainees. Previous counterfactual estimates of the net impact of regional training policies show the mess to observe and take into account the manifold aspects of trainees’ weakness. In fact, the target population consists of very disadvantaged individuals, who experience hard situations in the labour market. To overcome this shortfall, the present paper proposes a Structural Equation Model, that considers the impact of trainees’ socio-economic conditions on the policy outcome itself. In particular, the ex ante human capital is estimated from educational, social and individual backgrounds. Then, labour and training policies augment the individual human capital, affecting labour market outcomes jointly with individual job search behaviour. All these phenomena are expressed by a wide set of manifest variables and synthesised by composite indicators calculated with Partial Least Squares SEM. The makings of SEM are appraised, applied to the case of trainees in compulsory education.
J48|Profiting from presenteeism? Effects of an enforced activation policy on firm profits|Activation requirements and graded benefits are strategies for reducing social insurance costs in comprehensive welfare states. In Norway, a policy of issuing graded rather than full time sickness absence certificates, is viewed as a strategy not just to reduce direct costs of sick pay but also to facilitate returns to work and reduce inflows to permanent disability. This paper analyzes effects of graded sick leave on firm profits, on average and across different firm groups. A series of panel data models are formulated to estimate the effects of grading on firm profits. In these models, grading is found to mitigate the negative effects of sickness absence on firm profit. A one percentage point increase in full time sickness absence leads to a 1.7% reduction in return on assets relative to the sample mean; this negative effect is reduced by 70% when absence is graded. Effects are robust to inclusion of firm fixed effects as well as time-varying proxies for labor demand.
J48|De cartoneros a recicladores urbanos. El rol de las políticas locales en mejorarla sustentabilidad de los recolectores de base|Las políticas locales enfocadas a la economía informal, en general, ya los recolectores, en particular, están basadas en cuatro aproximaciones: (1)Dua-lista, de represión en contra de la actividad, producto de la preservación de la po-breza y de la reducción del crecimiento económico; (2)Estructuralista, enfocadasen reforzar las organizaciones y mejorar la negociación de precios; (3)Neoliberal,dirigida a promover la actividad a través de la legalización y el libre mercado,y (4)Co-producción, que considera un fuerte apoyo de las políticas locales paramejorar la productividad de la actividad. Son escasos los estudios -cualitativos y/ocuantitativos- que comparen estas políticas urbanas. Este estudio evalúa la vera-cidad de la caracterización de la economía informal y el impacto de las políticaslocales que estas teorías recomiendan aplicar. Los resultados obtenidos del estudiomuestran una asociación positiva entre el apoyo local y el incremento de la sosteni-bilidad de los recicladores de base en cuanto a su crecimiento económico, equidadsocial, protección medioambiental y reducción de las externalidades negativas.
J48|Gender Quotas: Challenging the Boards, Performance, and the Stock Market|In 2011, Italy introduced gender quotas for boards of directors of companies listed on its stock market. Comparing before and after the reform within firms, we find that quotas are associated with a higher share of female board directors, higher levels of education of board members, and a lower share of older members. We then use the reform period as an instrument for the share of female directors and find no significant impact on firms' performance. Interestingly, we find that the share of female directors is associated with a lower variability of stock market prices. We also run event studies on the stock price reaction to the introduction of gender quotas. A positive effect of the quota law on stock market returns emerges at the date of the board's election. Our results are consistent with gender quotas giving rise to a beneficial restructuring of the board, which is positively received by the market.
J48|Public Employment Effects over the Business Cycle: the Czech Case|The paper contributes to understanding the effects stemming from the public sector employment changes in the Czech Republic and their impacts on the labor market through the lens of a New Keynesian dynamic stochastic general equilibrium model with search and matching frictions. The size of the public sector has been generally expanding over the last decade contrary to many other European countries with the exception of the years 2011 - 2012 when the economic crisis became more evident even in the otherwise financially stable Czech Republic. We model the labor market dynamics across the business cycle and examine the impacts of the varying number of public workers on the labor market variables as private employment, unemployment rate and market tightness as well as on the overall economic growth. We aim at determining whether a portion of unemployment can be explained by either the increased public hiring or shrinking of the number of public employees in the last decade. As the results suggest, in re cessionary times the expansion of the public sector managed to keep the unemployment rate from attaining higher values. However, the following turnover of government size development threw the labor market into a deeper crisis than it would have been if the public sector size had remained unaltered.
J48|Collective bargaining systems and macroeconomic and microeconomic flexibility: the quest for appropriate institutional forms in advanced economies|Abstract This paper addresses the design of the machinery of collective bargaining from the perspective of microeconomic and macroeconomic flexibility. In the former context, somewhat greater attention is given over to enterprise flexibility than external adjustment. In the latter context, close attention is also paid to changes in collective bargaining along the dimensions of bargaining coverage, structure, and coordination. Support is adduced for the German, contemporary Scandinavian, and British models. The role of trust in securing micro and macro flexibility also receives attention, suggesting that the polder or Dutch model might also be expected to populate the firmament of fit-for-purpose collective bargaining arrangements. JEL Classification: Microeconomics/Institutions (D02), Institutions and the Macroeconomy (E02), Employment/Unemployment/Wages (E24), Income Distribution (E25), Macroeconomic Policy Objectives (E61), Labor Economics Policies (JO8) Trades Unions (J51), Collective Bargaining (J52), Labor-Management Relations (J53), Public Policy (J58), Comparative Analysis of Economic Systems (P51)
J48|L’impact des politiques d’exonérations territoriales : méthodes d’évaluation et résultats| This paper reviews the literature on the efficiency of locally-targeted tax incentives in the U.S. and France. It shows mixed results in terms of labour market performance measured by net job creation, business creation and unemployment reduction. In France, evaluations of the Zones Franches Urbaines (ZFU) programme find a small positive effect on local economic activity, while evaluations of the Zones de Redynamisation Rurale (ZRR) show no significant impact. Unfortunately, the tax exemption programme for French overseas départements has not yet been evaluated ex-post. Our article also shows the main methodological challenges – such as constructing effective control groups and precisely defining the boundaries of targeted areas – that need to be met in order to obtain a robust evaluation.
J48|Are Unemployment Rates in OECD Countries Stationary? Evidence from Univariate and Panel Unit Root Tests|This paper revisits the dynamics of unemployment rate for 29 OECD countries over the period of 1980-2013. Numerous empirical studies of the dynamics of unemployment rate are carried out within a linear framework. However, unemployment rate can show nonlinear behaviour as a result of business cycles or some idiosyncratic factors specific to labour market (Cancelo, 2007). Thus, as a testing strategy we first perform Harvey et al. (2008) linearity unit root test and then apply the newly ESTAR nonlinear unit root test suggested by Kruse (2011). This test has higher power than conventional unit root tests when time series exhibits nonlinear behaviour. Our empirical findings provide significant evidence in favour of unemployment rate stationarity for 25 countries. For robustness purpose, we have also used panel unit root tests without and with structural breaks. The results show that unemployment hysteresis hypothesis is strongly rejected when taking into account the cross-sectional and structural break assumptions. Thus, unemployment rates are expected to return back to their natural levels without executing any costly macroeconomic labour market policies by the OECD's governments.
J48|Illness-related absence among preschool children: Insights from a health intervention in Swedish preschools|We evaluate the effect of a preschool health intervention aimed at reducing infections through improved hygiene practices and training of the staff. The large-scale design enables us to study heterogeneous effects with respect to several child and preschool characteristics that are related to the level of illness-related absence. We find no reduction, on average, in children’s illness-related absence. This conclusion holds across different age groups of preschool children, and for preschools with varying levels of absence before the intervention. We find some suggestive evidence that the intervention may have induced effects operating in different directions: while improved hygiene practices may have reduced illness, stricter guidelines regarding absence during infections seems to have contributed to an increased absence level, resulting in an overall zero effect. Overall, our results suggest that reducing absence through improved hygiene practices is not easily accomplished in a child care setting.
J48|Beschäftigungseffekte von Ein-Euro-Jobs in den Einsatzbetrieben|"""This study examines the impact of One-Euro-Jobs on the employment development and staff structure in public, non-profit and private establishments. The data source is the IAB Establishment Panel 2005 to 2013, which is linked to regional indicators at district level (unemployment rate, share of One-Euro-Jobs in the total population, local debts per inhabitant, population density, regional density of public employment). We use linear and non-linear static panel models as well as dynamic panel methods. The results do not reveal an overall effect of One-Euro-Jobs on total employment. However, we identify a positive - complementary - effect on high skilled workers and a negative - substitutive - effect on low-skilled workers. Our interpretation is as follows: The implementation of measures like One-Euro-Jobs partly requires high skilled staff for management, instruction, qualification and support. The decline of One-Euro-Jobs during the past years led to a decreasing demand for these positions. In contrast, the substitutive relationship between One-Euro-Jobs and low-skilled workers indicates that the decrease of One-Euro-Jobs in recent years led to an increasing demand for low-skilled workers."" (Author's abstract, IAB-Doku) ((en))"
J48|Youth employment security and labour market institutions: A dynamic perspective|In this paper we propose a dynamic perspective to analyse young people's labour market performance. The approach is based on the analysis of individual trajectories in the labour market, and focuses on young Europeans about five years after they left education. We use this approach also to examine the effects of employment protection legislation and labour market policies on objective youth employment security. Empirical findings suggest that the most disadvantaged groups, such as women and low educated workers, benefit from a more stringent regulation regulation on temporary contracts and higher national expenditures on labour market policies.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J48|Deconstructing Informality: A Response to Vulnerability or an Optimal Choice?|The rapid growth of informal employment in China in recent decades has attracted attention, but to understand its implications, the concept of informality must be deconstructed. We reclassify employment status into three categories: salaried workers who have long-term contracts; the self-employed; and causal workers without long term contracts (working in either the formal or the informal sector). The monthly earnings of the self-employed are much (47%) higher than those casual employees. Self-employment is not necessarily a misfortune and the flexibility it provides may be optimal for some kinds of workers. For example, the self-employed are more likely to be disabled and to have young families. Institutionally, it is still difficult for casual workers and most rural-urban migrant workers to embark on business ownership. Although a large group of rural-urban migrants are employees with longer term contracts, their rural registration (hukou) means they lack the social protection of urban residents. The labour force with rural hukou is more likely to fall into the informal sector and, within that sector, is most likely to be engaged in casual labouring jobs. Policies to support small businesses may be warranted given the detrimental impacts of informality on casual workers. Experimental interventions could be tried along the lines of those used in Peru to provide funds to support entrepreneurial activities by this group to lift themselves out of a poverty trap into more sustainable employment. Skill training, encouragement for innovation, tax credits and reducing institutional constraints on starting up small business should be all considered.
J48|Do Youth Employment Programs Improve Labor Market Outcomes? A Systematic Review|This study reviews the evidence on the labor market impact of youth employment programs. We analyze the effectiveness of interventions, and factors that influence program performance including country context, target beneficiaries, program design, implementation, and evaluation type. We identify 113 impact evaluations covering a wide range of methodologies, interventions, and countries. The meta-analysis synthesizes the evidence based on 2,259 effect sizes (Standardized Mean Differences) and the statistical significance of 3,105 impact estimates (Positive and Statistically Significant). Just more than one-third of youth employment program evaluations worldwide show a significant positive impact on labor market outcomes - either employment rates or earnings. In general, programs have been more successful in middle- and low-income countries; this may be because programs' investments are especially helpful for the most vulnerable population groups that they target. We conjecture that recent programs might have benefited from innovations in design and implementation. In middle-low income countries, skills training and entrepreneurship programs have had a higher impact. In high-income countries, the role of intervention type is less decisive - much depends on context and how services are chosen and delivered, a result that holds across country types. We find evidence that programs integrating multiple interventions more likely succeed because they respond better to different needs of beneficiaries. Results also point to the importance of profiling and follow-up systems in determining program performance, as well as to incentive systems for services providers.
J48|Labor market reforms in Europe: towards more flexicure labor markets?|Abstract Labor market segmentation refers to a salient divide between secure and insecure jobs and is related to problems in important areas, including macro-economic efficiency, workers’ well-being and repercussions for social cohesion. EU-28 countries have started a new wave of labor market reforms in the aftermath of the 2008/2009 crisis to tackle a number of issues, including labor market segmentation. This particularly concerns reforms in: (1) employment protection, i.e. dismissal protection and restrictions on fixed-term contracts; (2) unemployment benefit generosity and coverage; and (3) the intensity of active labor market policies. The paper provides an overview of reform patterns and tries to assess whether and to what extent these reforms have led to less dualized, more ‘flexicure’ labor markets in terms of dismissal protection, the provision of unemployment benefits and access to ALMPs. In particular, we will provide some evidence on potential changes in hirings on temporary contracts.
J48|Flexible and Secure Labour Market Transitions: Towards Institutional Capacity Building in the Digital Economy|Industry 4.0 and robots are said to speed up productivity thereby inducing a 'quantum leap' towards the 'end of work' and calling for a complete change of social security institutions that have so far been closely linked to employment. Unconditional basic income is the cry of the day, curiously advocated in particular by, for example, employers in high-tech industries and modern financial or distributive services. In the name of freedom, liberty and flexibility they suggest a form of security without any institutional complexity. The hidden agenda in the remaining empty institutional black box, however, is the dream of freedom from any bureaucracy and painstaking negotiations between competing interests or even getting rid of any responsibility to the new risks related to the digital revolution. This paper argues that the productivity leap promise of the digital economy is far from empirical evidence and that the proper answer to the new world of work are active securities, fair risk-sharing between employees, employers and the state and 'negotiated flexicurity' calling for a higher complexity of institutions corresponding to the increasing variability of employment relationships. The paper (1) starts with stylised facts about the new world of work with a focus on non-standard forms of employment in the EU28 member states and briefly explains the main determinants of this development. It (2) then proceeds with an analytical framework of the role of institutions and (3) applies this framework to develop suggestions of new security provisions to the main forms of non-standard employment. (4) The paper concludes by reflecting on the consequences for the prospective European Pillar of Social Rights.
J48|Cash wage payments in transition economies: Consequences of envelope wages|In transition economies, a significant number of companies reduce their tax and social contributions by paying their staff an official salary, described in a registered formal employment agreement, and an extra, undeclared “envelope wage,” via a verbal unwritten agreement. The consequences include a loss of government income and a lack of fair play for lawful companies. For employees, accepting under-reported wages reduces their access to credit and their social protections. Addressing this issue will help increase the quality of working conditions, strengthen trade unions, and reduce unfair competition.
J48|What are the consequences of regularizing undocumented immigrants?|Millions of people enter (or remain in) countries without permission as they flee violence, war, or economic hardship. Regularization policies that offer residence and work rights have multiple and multi-layered effects on the economy and society, but they always directly affect the labor market opportunities of those who are regularized. Large numbers of undocumented people in many countries, a new political willingness to fight for human and civil rights, and dramatically increasing refugee flows mean continued pressure to enact regularization policies.
J48|Die Rolle befristeter Beschäftigung in Europa|No abstract is available for this item.
J48|Can Fixed-Term Contracts Put Low Skilled Youth on a Better Career Path? Evidence from Spain|Fixed-term contracts have low firing costs and can thus help low skilled youth find a first job faster. But do these workers get a more rewarding career? Using Spanish social security data, we compare the careers of native male high-school dropouts who entered the labor market just before and just after a large liberalization in the use of fixed-term contracts in 1984. Using a cohort regression discontinuity design we find that the reform raised the likelihood of working before age 20. However, by substantially increasing the number of employment spells it reduced workers' accumulated employment up to 2006 by almost 200 days and accumulated wages by 22%. These effects are concentrated during the first 5-10 years of these young workers' career. We conclude that widespread fixed-term contracts have harmed the careers of low-skilled workers.
J48|Can Online Off-the-Shelf Lessons Improve Student Outcomes? Evidence from a Field Experiment|Many websites now warehouse instructional materials designed to be taught by teachers in a traditional classroom. What are the potential benefits of the new resources? We analyze an experiment in which we randomly give middle school math teachers access to existing high-quality, off-the-shelf lessons, and in some cases, support to promote their use. Teachers receiving access alone increased students' math achievement by a marginally significant 0.06 of a standard deviation. Teachers who received access and support increased students' math achievement by 0.09 of a standard deviation. Weaker teachers experience larger gains, suggesting that these lessons substitute for teacher skill or efforts. The online materials are more scalable and cost effective than most policies aimed at improving teacher quality, suggesting that, if search costs can be overcome, there is a real benefit to making high-quality instructional materials available to teachers on the Internet.
J48|Applying behavioural economics to public policy in Canada|Behavioural economics incorporates ideas from psychology, sociology and neuroscience to better predict how individuals make long-term decisions. Often the ideas adopted include present or inattention bias, both potentially leading to suboptimal outcomes. But these models also point to opportunities for effective, low-cost government policies that can have meaningful positive effects on people's long-term well-being. The last decade has been marked by a growing interest from governments the world over in using behavioural economics to inform policy decisions. This is true of Canada as well. In this paper we discuss the increasingly important role behavioural economics plays in Canadian public policy. We first contextualize government policies that have incorporated insights from behavioural economics by outlining a collection of models of intertemporal choice. We then present examples of public policy initiatives that are based upon findings in the field, placing particular emphasis on Canadian initiatives. We also document future opportunities, challenges and limitations.
J48|Boosting skills for all in the Netherlands|Strong and adequate skills are essential to support workers’ productivity and to ensure robust employment outcomes. Developing workers’ skills would also increase their personal satisfaction and wages, contributing in making growth more inclusive. The Netherlands performs well in terms of competences of a large part of the population. Moreover, the country has been successful in adjusting the required level of skills over time. The education system plays a key role in developing skills and achieves good results, but there is room to make vocational education and lifelong learning less job-specific to better adapt to new economic trends. There is scope to use more effectively existing skills at work of youth entering the labour market and entrepreneurs, and to reduce labour market mismatches. Another challenge is to help some people to acquire skills by facilitating their labour market integration – in particular first- and second-generation immigrants, long-term unemployed, and people with low educational attainment and health problems -, which requires stronger targeted active labour market policies. Développer les compétences de tous aux Pays-Bas Des compétences solides et adéquates sont indispensables pour asseoir la productivité des travailleurs et assurer des résultats satisfaisants sur le plan de l’emploi. Développer les compétences des travailleurs aurait également pour effet d’accroître leur degré de satisfaction personnelle et leurs salaires, contribuant ainsi à rendre la croissance plus inclusive. Les Pays-Bas obtiennent de bons résultats du point de vue des compétences d’une large fraction de la population. En outre, le pays a réussi à ajuster le niveau de compétences requis au fil du temps. Le système éducatif joue un rôle clé dans le développement des compétences et donne de bons résultats, mais il est encore possible de rendre l’enseignement professionnel et l’apprentissage tout au long de la vie moins spécifiques à un type donné d’emploi afin de favoriser une meilleure adaptation aux nouvelles tendances économiques. Il existe également une marge permettant d’utiliser plus efficacement les actuelles compétences au travail des jeunes entrant sur le marché du travail et des entrepreneurs, et de réduire les problèmes d’appariements sur le marché du travail. Un autre enjeu consiste à aider certaines personnes à acquérir des compétences en facilitant leur intégration sur le marché du travail, en particulier les immigrés de première et deuxième générations, les chômeurs de longue durée et les personnes ayant un faible niveau d’études ou des problèmes de santé, ce qui suppose de déployer plus vigoureusement des politiques actives du marché du travail ciblées.
J48|Jóvenes que no trabajan ni estudian: evolución y perspectivas| Analizamos la dinámica de la población NEET peruana durante las últimas dos décadas, usando información de los censos y las encuestas de hogares. Identificamos a los NEET, caracterizándolos y clasificándolos según su intensidad NEET. Encontramos que la población NEET es esencialmente urbana, conformada por mujeres y por aquellos que acaban de terminar la secundaria. Además, una importante proporción de las mujeres NEET están dispuestas a trabajar. Finalmente, la proporción de NEET en los jóvenes se viene reduciendo a lo largo del tiempo. Concluimos con recomendaciones de política.
J48|Labour Market Policies for Encouraging Economic Activity and Labour Productivity in Bulgaria|This article aims to present the recent labour market policies for encouraging economic activity of working age population, labour market inclusion and increasing labour productivity. It points out that a number of different programs and labour market measures have been implemented in Bulgaria in the last twenty years. The results of the analysis show up both positive and negative features of the implemented policies. These policies contribute to increasing labour market inclusion in the short run and this is the main positive effect. Meanwhile, the lack of consistence of the policy and sustainability of employment embody the main negative feature. The article analyses the effect of the Human Resource Development Program, conducted in Bulgaria in the period 2007-2013, over the labour market development, labour inclusion and productivity, in particular. It employs different quantitative and qualitative indicators to assess the achievements of a total of EUR 402.4 millions, invested in policies for encouraging economic activation of working age population, labour market inclusion and increasing labour productivity. In conclusion the author draws out recommendations for improvements of conducted policies.
J48|De cartoneros a recicladores urbanos. El rol de las políticas locales en mejorar la sustentabilidad de los recolectores de base|Las políticas locales enfocadas a la economía informal, en general, y a los recolectores, en particular, están basadas en cuatro aproximaciones: (1) Dualista, de represión en contra de la actividad, producto de la preservación de la pobreza y de la reducción del crecimiento económico; (2) Estructuralista, enfocadas en reforzar las organizaciones y mejorar la negociación de precios; (3) Neoliberal, dirigida a promover la actividad a través de la legalización y el libre mercado, y (4) Co-producción, que considera un fuerte apoyo de las políticas locales para mejorar la productividad de la actividad. Son escasos los estudios -cualitativos y/o cuantitativos- que comparen estas políticas urbanas. Este estudio evalúa la veracidad de la caracterización de la economía informal y el impacto de las políticas locales que estas teorías recomiendan aplicar. Los resultados obtenidos del estudio muestran una asociación positiva entre el apoyo local y el incremento de la sostenibilidad de los recicladores de base en cuanto a su crecimiento económico, equidad social, protección medioambiental y reducción de las externalidades negativas. Policies towards the urban economy, in general, and towards scavengers, in particular, are based in four approaches: (1) dualists propose repressive policies against scavengers’ activities as they look at them as a means of poverty preservation and slowing of economic growth; (2) structuralists address weak sup- porting policies, reinforcing scavengers association and better negotiation power to avoid capitalist exploitation; (3) neoliberals promote scavenging activities through legalization and free-markets without government intervention; and, (4) co-production arrangements propose a strong local support as a means to enhance scavengers’ productivity. Qualitative-quantitative research on the impact of different policy approaches on scavengers’ sustainable performance is scarce. This paper tries to fill this gap in the literature evaluating the veracity of competing theoretical characterizations and policy approaches. The empirical results suggest a positive association between levels of local government support and scavengers’ sustainable performance on economic growth, social equity, environmental protection and reduction of negative externalities of the activity.
J48|Can Public Policies Bring about the Democratization of the Outsourcing of Household Tasks?|For twenty years or so, the outsourcing of household tasks has been considered to be increasing in many countries. In some countries (particularly in France), extensive public policies have been put in place to develop demand and create employment by explicitly seeking to democratize consumption, which still predominantly concerns more affluent households. By using both quantitative and qualitative data, this paper aims to gain a better understanding of the factors of demand for these services and to examine the possibility of bringing the process of democratization to a successful conclusion. Due to the originality of the data used, my approach differs from previous research in two main areas: first, it highlights the lack of democratization of the consumption of these services (among working-age households), and second, it identifies the two forms of inequality underlying their development.
J48|A Majority Vote Based Classifier Ensemble for Web Service Classification|Abstract Service oriented architecture is a glue that allows web applications to work in collaboration. It has become a driving force for the service-oriented computing (SOC) paradigm. In heterogeneous environments the SOC paradigm uses web services as the basic building block to support low costs as well as easy and rapid composition of distributed applications. A web service exposes its interfaces using the Web Service Description Language (WSDL). A central repository called universal description, discovery and integration (UDDI) is used by service providers to publish and register their web services. UDDI registries are used by web service consumers to locate the web services they require and metadata associated with them. Manually analyzing WSDL documents is the best approach, but also most expensive. Work has been done on employing various approaches to automate the classification of web services. However, previous research has focused on using a single technique for classification. This research paper focuses on the classification of web services using a majority vote based classifier ensemble technique. The ensemble model overcomes the limitations of conventional techniques by employing the ensemble of three heterogeneous classifiers: Naïve Bayes, decision tree (J48), and Support Vector Machines. We applied tenfold cross-validation to test the efficiency of the model on a publicly available dataset consisting of 3738 real world web services categorized into 5 fields, which yielded an average accuracy of 92 %. The high accuracy is owed to two main factors, i.e., enhanced pre-processing with focused feature selection, and majority based ensemble classification.
J48|Drivers and effects of labour market reforms: Evidence from a novel policy compendium|Abstract The paper analyses the determinants and short-term effects of labour market reforms, using information from a novel policy compendium that covers 110 developed and developing economies between 2008 and 2014. We find that the approval of reforms is positively associated with the unemployment rate, the simultaneous implementation of fiscal consolidation measures and the presence of a fixed exchange rate regime. Differences in the results are explored by looking at the direction of reforms (i.e. increasing or decreasing legislation), temporal horizon (i.e. temporary or permanent measures) and coverage (i.e. complete or two-tier reforms); while also analysing separately reforms’ determinants across domains of labour legislation (e.g. permanent contracts, collective dismissals). Finally, we find that deregulatory labour market reforms tend to increase the unemployment rate in the short run when they are approved during contractionary periods—while they have a non-significant effect when approved during periods of economic stability or expansion. JEL Classification: J20, J52, J38, J48, J58, K31
J48|Inclusive labour market: A role for a job guarantee scheme|In the European labour market there is a clear scope for improvement in activity rates. Moreover, sustainable employment is impeded by the pervasiveness of temporary work, self-employment and part-time work. As a consequence there is a clear role for active inclusion policies, complemented by stimulating macroeconomic policies. However, the implementation of appropriate policies, initiated in 2008, never really took off and stagnated due to the austerity measures enforced after the financial crisis. For that reason we propose to experiment with Job Guarantee (JG) projects. On the one hand, JG projects should provide a macroeconomic stimulus to the economy by employing everybody who is out of work in JG jobs at the minimum wage. On the other hand, JG projects could stop the downward trend in job quality and foster inclusive labour markets by providing quality jobs and sustainable employment. We propose to finance the JG Scheme by redirecting social security (administration) funds, by including JG elements in the European Investment Plan (also known as the Juncker Plan) and to spend part of the € 60 billion which the ECB is injecting each month in the Euro Area on job guarantee projects.
J48|The Effects of Increasing the Minimum Wage on Prices: Analyzing the Incidence of Policy Design and Context|We analyze the price pass-through effect of the minimum wage and use the results to provide insight into the competitive structure of low-wage labor markets. Using monthly price series, we find that the pass-through effect is entirely concentrated on the month that the minimum wage change goes into effect, and is much smaller than what the canonical literature has found. We then discuss why our results differ from that literature, noting the impact of series interpolation in generating most of the previous results. We then use the variation in the size of the minimum wage change to evaluate the competitive nature of low-wage labor markets. Finally, we exploit the rich variation in minimum wage policy of the last 10–15 years—including the rise of state and city-level minimum wage changes and the increased use of indexation—to investigate how the extent of price pass-through varies by policy context. This paper contributes to the literature by clarifying our understanding of the dynamics and magnitude of the pass-through effect and enriching the discussion of how different policies may shape the effect that minimum wage hikes have on prices.
J48|Alternative Work Arrangements and Job Satisfaction|There has been a rise in alternative work arrangements in recent years, with much variation in who selects these work arrangements and the reasons for doing so. Higher participation rates may stem in part from individual’s needs which are not met in more traditional jobs and is reflected in the impact they have on job satisfaction. This study explores variations in job satisfaction by work arrangement, controlling for both occupation and gender for respondents to the 2006, 2010 and 2014 General Social Survey. The rise in such employment and the prospect of it continuing to rise may have implications for the structure of jobs offered by traditional firms and it may also have important implications for the social safety nets of such workers and their families given the nature of how such benefits are provided in our economy. (updated 3/2018)
J48|The Impact of Business Support Services for Small and Medium Enterprises on Firm Performance in Low -and Middle- Income Countries: A Meta-Analysis|Interventions designed to support small and medium enterprises (SMEs) are popular among policy makers, given the role SMEs play in job creation around the world. Business support interventions in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) are often based on the assumption that market failures and institutional constraints impede the growth of SME growth. Significant resources from governments and international organizations are directed to SMEs to maximize their socioeconomic impact. Business-support interventions in LMICs most often relate to formalization and business environments, exports, value chains and clusters, training and technical assistance, and access to credit and innovation. Very little is known about the impact of such interventions despite the abundance of resources directed to SME business-support services. This paper systematically reviews and summarizes 40 rigorous evaluations of SME-support services in LMICs and presents evidence to help inform policy debates. The study found indicative evidence that overall business-support interventions help improve firm performances and create jobs. However, little is still known about which interventions work best for SMEs and why. More rigorous impact evaluations are needed to fill the large knowledge gap in the field.
J48|Performance Standards and Employee Effort: Evidence From Teacher Absences| The 2001 No Child Left Behind Act (NCLB) increased accountability pressure in U.S. public schools by threatening to impose sanctions on Title‐1 schools that failed to make adequate yearly progress (AYP) in consecutive years. Difference‐in‐difference estimates of the effect of failing AYP in the first year of NCLB on teacher effort in the subsequent year suggest that on average, teacher absences in North Carolina fell by about 10 percent. The probability of being frequently absent similarly decreased. These reductions in teacher absences were driven by within‐teacher increases in effort and by teachers in the bottom half of the effectiveness distribution. On average, only a modest amount of the achievement gains attributable to the increased accountability pressure are explained by the corresponding decline in teacher absences.
J48|Job placement agencies in an agent-based model of the local labor market with the long-term unemployed and on-the-job flows|In this paper, an agent-based search model of the labor market with heterogeneous agents and an on-the-job search is developed, i.e. the long-term unemployed and other job seekers compete for vacancies which differ in skills demands and in the sector of the economy. Job placement agencies help both types of unemployed persons find the proper vacant job by improving their search effectiveness and by sharing leveraged job advertisements. The agents' interactions take place in an artificial world drawn from labor market search theory. Six global model parameters were calibrated with the Latin hypercube sampling technique for one of the largest urban areas in Poland. To investigate the impact of parameters on model output, two global sensitivity analysis methods were used, i.e. Morris screening and Sobol indices. The results show that both programs considerably influence unemployment and long-term unemployment ratios as well as the level of wages, duration of unemployment, skills demand and worker turnover. Moreover, strong cross-effects were detected: programs aimed at one group of job seekers affect other job seekers and the whole economy. This impact is sometimes positive and sometimes it is negative.
J48|Job placement agencies in an artificial labor market|In this paper, an agent-based search and matching (ABSAM) model of a local labor market with heterogeneous agents and an on-the-job search is developed, i.e. job seekers who vary in unemployment duration, skills levels and preferences compete for vacancies which differ for skills demands and the sector of the economy. Job placement agencies help unemployed persons find appropriate job vacancies by improving their search effectiveness and by sharing job advertisements. These agents cooperate in an artificial labor market where the key economic conditions are imposed. The interactions between the participants are drawn directly from labor market search theory. The main research task was to measure the direct and indirect impacts of labor market policies on labor market outcomes. The global parameters of the ABSAM model were calibrated with the Latin hypercube sampling technique for one of the largest urban areas in Poland. To study the impact of parameters on model output, two global sensitivity analysis methods were used, i.e. Morris screening and Sobol indices. The results show that the job placement agencies' services, as well as minimum wage and unemployment benefits, considerably interact with and influence unemployment and long-term unemployment ratios, wage levels, duration of periods of unemployment, skills demand, and worker turnover. Moreover, strong indirect effects were detected, e.g. programs aimed at one group of job seekers affected other job seekers and the whole economy. This impacts are sometimes positive and sometimes negative.
J48|Do Youth Employment Programs Improve Labor Market Outcomes? A Systematic Review|This study reviews the evidence on the impact of youth employment programs on labor market outcomes. The analysis looks at the effectiveness of various interventions and the factors that influence program performance including country context, targeted beneficiaries, program design and implementation, and type of evaluation. We identify 113 counterfactual impact evaluations covering a wide range of methodologies, interventions, and countries. Using meta-analysis methods, we synthesize the evidence based on 2,259 effect sizes (Standardized Mean Differences, or SMD) and the statistical significance of 3,105 treatment effect estimates (Positive and Statistically Significant, or PSS). Overall, we find that just more than one-third of evaluation results from youth employment programs implemented worldwide show a significant positive impact on labor market outcomes – either employment rates or earnings. In general, programs have been more successful in middle- and low-income countries; this may be because these programs' investments are especially helpful for the most vulnerable population groups – low-skilled, low-income – that they target. We also conjecture that the more-recent programs might have benefited from innovations in design and implementation. Moreover, in middle and low income countries, skills training and entrepreneurship programs seem to have had a higher impact. This does not imply, however, that those programs should be strictly preferred to others; much depends on the needs of beneficiaries and program design. In high-income countries, the role of intervention type is less decisive – much depends on context and how services are chosen and delivered, a result that holds across country types. We find strong evidence that programs that integrate multiple interventions are more likely to succeed because they are better able to respond to the different needs of beneficiaries. We also find evidence about the importance of profiling and follow-up systems in determining program performance, and some evidence about the importance of incentive systems for services providers.
J48|Additional Career Assistance and Educational Outcomes for Students in Lower Track Secondary Schools|This paper estimates the effect of Additional Career Assistance (ACA) on educational outcomes for students in Lower Track Secondary Schools (LTSS) for the area of Freiburg (Germany). The analysis uses individual data during the late 2000's on grades in LTSS and educational outcomes after leaving LTSS. Compared to LTSS students in the surroundings of Freiburg, students in the City of Freiburg receive more intensive information, counselling, and mentoring regarding the school-to-work transition and vocational training (ACA). The goal of ACA is to foster the transition to the labor market. Many LTSS students with good grades participate in additional teaching during the last two years in LTSS, thus preparing themselves for a higher educational degree after leaving LTSS. We investigate the effect of ACA on grade development in LTSS and on educational upgrading after leaving LTSS. Our empirical analysis shows negligible effects of ACA on educational outcomes, which, however, mask quite heterogeneous effects. In fact, educational outcomes worsen (improve) for German students who (do not) participate in additional teaching. We find no significant effects for students with a migration background.
J48|Sementes da Paixão: agroecologia e resgate da tradição| In favor of a pesticide-free farming and against genetically modified seeds that do not fall into line to its production system, farmers in the semiarid of Paraíba state have prepared Community Seed Banks (BSC), which are part of a network called Seeds of Passion. This network is based on ideals of agroecology, agricultural practice alternative and sustainable ecological principles. The farmers who participate of this network constantly advocate a peasant identity and traditional, in opposition to modernization and capitalism. Therefore, thanks to the repetition of the need to effect the rescue of farmers tradition, we have as central object to reflect about the speech of tradition rescue propagated by agroecological farmers, by technicians who work with them and by those who write about this reality, seeking to understand, through an analysis of papers that deal with the experiences of the Seeds of Passion, what are the conditions of existence of the invention of this tradition and what is the purpose of promoting such redemption in a modern historical context. Finally, this tradition is not opposed to modernity and science, but it would be a way of developing and implementing distinct knowledge of the dominant standard of rationality.
J48|Considerations on the Leader and Leadership in the Military Profession|Nowadays armies have modern means of fighting - weapons and military equipment, but the humans continue to be one of their most important components. To be followed by our subordinates, to inspire them into higher levels of military teamwork, to lead them in fight and to be effectively and efficient on the modern battlefield there are crucial things for military organization, but these all don’t come easy and naturally for military personnel. Therefore, military that is in charge must be, know, and, do, things that are acquired through education, study, personal experiences and military training. So, the military leaders have had to continue adapt throughout the human history his acts of leading (military leadership) based on either philosophy or practice or, better, on both philosophy and practice, in concert with a complex and changing environment that has permanently required new views, conceptions and approaches, new attitudes, new skills and differing perspectives of the military who were and are in charge. On short, we consider that developing military leaders and leadership are critical issues for the modern military organization and, implicitly, for military profession. In this paper, we use a synthetic approach of some considerable issues for modern military organization and profession of the army – the military leader and military leadership.
J48|Financial incentives and labour market duality|The French labour market is divided between workers in permanent jobs and those who alternate fixed-term contracts with unemployment spells. Among other public policies aiming at reducing this duality, financial incentives could induce employers to lengthen contract duration or favour permanent contracts. This article develops a matching model fitted to the French labour market characteristics and calibrated on French data. A gradual decrease in unemployment contributions or a firing tax reduces the share of short-term contract in total employment but increases market rigidity and lowers labour productivity. However, decreasing unemployment contributions gradually is less favourable for new entrants than a firing tax and lengthens unemployment spells. An additional contribution levied on short-term contracts to finance a bonus for permanent-contract hirings also decreases labour market duality and increases activity by 0.13% but without negative impacts on labour market flexibility and productivity.
J48|Unanticipated Effects Of California'S Paid Family Leave Program|" type=""main"" xml:id=""coep12102-abs-0001""> We examine the effect of California paid family leave (CPFL) on young women's labor force participation and unemployment, relative to men and older women. CPFL enables workers to take at most 6 weeks of paid leave over a 12-month period in order to bond with new born or adopted children, or to care for sick family members or ailing parents. The policy benefits women, especially young women, as they are more prone to take such a leave. However, the effect of the policy on overall labor market outcomes is less clear. We apply difference-in-difference techniques to identify the effects of the CPFL legislation on young women's labor force participation and unemployment. We find that the labor force participation rate, the unemployment rate, and the duration of unemployment among young women rose in California compared to men (particularly young men) and older women in California, and to other young women, men, and older women in states that did not adopt PFL. The latter two findings regarding higher young women's unemployment and unemployment duration are unanticipated effects of the CPFL program. We utilize robustness checks as well as unique placebo tests to validate these results .( JEL H43, J13, J18, J48)"
J48|Welfare Magnet Hypothesis, Fiscal Burden, and Immigration Skill Selectivity| In this paper, we investigate the effect of welfare state generosity on the difference between skilled and unskilled migration rates, and the role of mobility restriction in shaping this effect. We utilize the free labor movement within the European Union plus Norway and Switzerland (EUR) and the restricted movement from outside the EUR in order to compare the free-migration regime to the restricted-migration regime. We find strong support for the magnet hypothesis under the free-migration regime, and the fiscal burden hypothesis under the restricted-migration regime, even after controlling for differences in educational quality and returns to skills in source and host countries.
J48|The Effects of Youth Employment: Evidence from New York City Summer Youth Employment Program Lotteries|Programs to encourage labor market activity among youth, including public employment programs and wage subsidies like the Work Opportunity Tax Credit, can be supported by three broad rationales. They may: (1) provide contemporaneous income support to participants; (2) encourage work experience that improves future employment and/or educational outcomes of participants; and/or (3) keep participants “out of trouble.” We study randomized lotteries for access to New York City's Summer Youth Employment Program (SYEP), the largest summer youth employment program in the U.S., by merging SYEP administrative data on 294,580 lottery participants to IRS data on the universe of U.S. tax records and to New York State administrative incarceration data. In assessing the three rationales, we find that: (1) SYEP participation causes average earnings and the probability of employment to increase in the year of program participation, with modest contemporaneous crowdout of other earnings and employment; (2) SYEP participation causes a moderate decrease in average earnings for three years following the program and has no impact on college enrollment; and (3) SYEP participation decreases the probability of incarceration and decreases the probability of mortality, which has important and potentially pivotal implications for analyzing the net benefits of the program.
J48|Entrepreneurship and its analysis in Colombia: A contextualized literature review|This paper presents a literature review contextualized through the different stages of Colombian industrial history up to the first decade of the XXI century, when an attempt is made to organize the growing interest in the topic of entrepreneurship. We find a tight connection between public policy agenda setting and the definition of the research agenda of the topic. We also find a dualistic approach in the research of the topic, with universities and think-tanks leading the investigation on accumulative / innovative entrepreneurship, and a consultancy-bias group dedicated to the study of subsistence entrepreneurship. ***** Este artículo presenta una revisión del avance en el estudio de emprendimiento, contextualizado a través de las diferentes fases de la historia empresarial colombiana. El artículo presenta una marcada conexión entre las motivaciones detrás de la definición de las políticas industrial y de emprendimiento, y la definición de la agenda de investigación de la comunidad académica. Asimismo, se encuentra un dualismo en el estudio del tema; por un lado, grupos de investigación (universidades e instituciones gubernamentales) dedicados al estudio de emprendimientos acumulativos/ de innovación; y por otro, un sesgo proconsultoría dedicado al estudio de emprendimientos de subsistencia.
J48|Impacto tributario de la Ley 1429 del 2010 en la pequeña empresa en El Espinal, Tolima|El fomento y la creación de empresa es una de las iniciativas que mayor relevancia tiene en el ámbito mundial y nacional, debido al gran aporte al desarrollo económico, social y cultural que estas generan. La Ley 1429 de 2010 es una política clara del gobierno Colombiano Que busca el alcance de la formalización y generación de empleo en la pequeña empresa, generando incentivos en la etapa inicial, aumentando los beneficios y disminuyendo los costos de formalización, pretendiendo contribuir con el progreso del país. La metodología fue de tipo descriptiva-exploratoria, la población objeto de estudio se tomó de las empresas debidamente registradas, se aplica el instrumento de recolección de datos que fue debidamente cotejada para darle coherencia a la información, la encuesta fue aplicada al representante legal y al contador público de las empresas formalizadas, determinando un impacto bajo en la formalización de la pequeña empresa.
J48|Sector rural colombiano: dinámica laboral y opciones de afiliación a la seguridad social|"""Este documento presenta un diagnóstico de los aspectos demográficos, del mercado laboral y socio-económicos que influyen en la afiliación a la seguridad social de la población en el área rural. Aspectos como la baja escolaridad, los bajos ingresos, los altos niveles de informalidad y pobreza y la estacionalidad de la producción agrícola no permiten aumentar el nivel de afiliación. Muestra también que a pesar de las características del sector rural, no existe un arreglo institucional especial para la afiliación a la seguridad social. Finalmente, el documento esboza la posibilidad de la universalización de la cobertura en salud y pensión de la población rural."""
J48|Solar energy potential assessment of western Himalayan Indian state of Himachal Pradesh using J48 algorithm of WEKA in ANN based prediction model|Solar potential of western Himalayan Indian state of Himachal Pradesh is assessed using Artificial Neural Network (ANN) based global solar radiation (GSR) prediction model. J48 algorithm in Waikato Environment for Knowledge Analysis (WEKA)is used for the selection of input parameters for ANN model for predicting GSR. Most relevant input parameters are found to be temperature, altitude and sunshine hours whereas latitude, longitude, clearness index and extraterrestrial radiation are found to be least influencing variables. The usefulness of J48 algorithm in variable selection is checked by developing five ANN models: ANN-1, ANN-2, ANN-3, ANN-4 and ANN-5. The maximum mean absolute percentage error (MAPE) for ANN-1, ANN-2, ANN-3, ANN-4 and ANN-5 are found to be 16.91%, 16.89%, 16.38%, 6.89% and 9.04% respectively. ANN-5 model is used to develop the solar maps of Himachal Pradesh. The estimated GSR varies from 3.59 to 5.38 kWh/m2/day indicating good solar potential for solar energy applications. A correlation is developed between NASA satellite data and ground measured GSR data to find values close to ground measured GSR for different locations. The correlation coefficient is found to be 0.97. Models developed can be used to assess solar potential of any location worldwide.
J48|Mobilité quotidienne des actifs résidant en zones urbaines sensibles et accès à l'emploi : Une analyse économétrique à partir de l'Enquête Ménages Déplacements de Lyon|Alors que le désenclavement des zones urbaines sensibles est l'un des objectifs de la politique de la ville, visant notamment à favoriser l'accès à l'emploi, très peu travaux s'intéressent à l'analyse des pratiques de mobilité de leurs habitants. En se focalisant sur la population des actifs de l'aire urbaine de Lyon, l'objectif de cet article est de tester l'impact du lieu de résidence, à travers la distinction ZUS/non ZUS, sur leur mobilité quotidienne et celle liée au travail en particulier. L'analyse repose sur la dernière Enquête Ménages Déplacements lyonnaise (2006) enrichie d'autres sources de données spatialisées. Les résultats des modèles multivariés montrent que le fait d'habiter un quartier ZUS réduit le nombre de déplacements des actifs, mais aussi leur distance et leur temps au quotidien. En revanche, quand il s'agit de la seule mobilité domicile-travail, les actifs de ces quartiers sont amenés à parcourir de plus longues distances. Ces résultats laissent entrevoir les difficultés spécifiques des actifs dans les zones urbaines défavorisées en matière de mobilité quotidienne et d'accès à l'emploi et aux aménités.
J48|Mobilité quotidienne des actifs résidant en zones urbaines sensibles et accès à l'emploi : Une analyse économétrique à partir de l'Enquête Ménages Déplacements de Lyon|Alors que le désenclavement des zones urbaines sensibles est l'un des objectifs de la politique de la ville, visant notamment à favoriser l'accès à l'emploi, très peu travaux s'intéressent à l'analyse des pratiques de mobilité de leurs habitants. En se focalisant sur la population des actifs de l'aire urbaine de Lyon, l'objectif de cet article est de tester l'impact du lieu de résidence, à travers la distinction ZUS/non ZUS, sur leur mobilité quotidienne et celle liée au travail en particulier. L'analyse repose sur la dernière Enquête Ménages Déplacements lyonnaise (2006) enrichie d'autres sources de données spatialisées. Les résultats des modèles multivariés montrent que le fait d'habiter un quartier ZUS réduit le nombre de déplacements des actifs, mais aussi leur distance et leur temps au quotidien. En revanche, quand il s'agit de la seule mobilité domicile-travail, les actifs de ces quartiers sont amenés à parcourir de plus longues distances. Ces résultats laissent entrevoir les difficultés spécifiques des actifs dans les zones urbaines défavorisées en matière de mobilité quotidienne et d'accès à l'emploi et aux aménités.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J48|Understanding Social Work In The Development Plans: Where We Were, Where We Are Now|The objective of this research is to evaluate the development plans that are made so far with using qualitative research design in terms of social work. Development plans express that improving the social policy within the framework determined objectives. The first development plan was conducted in 1963 in Turkey and plans have conducted 10 times so far. Because the main purpose of the development plans is to increase the welfare of people, it is important to evaluate the plans in terms of social work. This study was designed based on qualitative research methods. During the evaluation of the data in the study, content and document analysis was made and the created themes were grouped as 'social services, integrity-disorganization and social justice'
J48|Entrepreneurship and the Business Environment in Africa: An Application to Ethiopia|Since mid-2000s, Ethiopia has been one of the fastest growing countries in the world. However, productive entrepreneurship in high-value added activities has made limited contributions to this growth, in part because of a weak business environment. Moreover, the low-productive firms in the informal sector still account for a large share of employment. Reflecting these facts, this paper presents a model of costly entrepreneurial start-ups in an economy with a large informal sector and rigid business environment where an equilibrium outcome can be a low-skill, low-productivity trap. By fostering productive start-ups and skilled employment, creation of an enabling business environment could help move the Ethiopian economy into high-productivity equilibrium.
J48|Analyzing the Labor Market Outcomes of Occupational Licensing|Recent assessments of occupational licensing have shown varying effects of the institution on laborâ€ market outcomes. This study revisits the relationship between occupational licensing and laborâ€ market outcomes by analyzing a new topical module to the Survey of Income and Program Participation. Relative to previously available data, the topical module offers more detailed information on occupational licensing attainment, with larger sample sizes and access to richer sets of personâ€ level characteristics. We find that those with a license earn higher pay, are more likely to be employed, and have a higher probability of employerâ€ sponsored health insurance offers.
J48|Revisiting the Employment Effects of Minimum Wages in Europe|The aim of this study is to estimate the relationship between the minimum wage and the employment rate of young individuals, taking into account potential nonlinearity. In a cross‐country setup of European countries, we find a significant nonlinear relationship between the minimum wages and employment rate of young individuals. Theoretically, while low minimum wages can indeed be positively associated with employment, after a certain level of the minimum wage, the relationship turns negative. This implies that there is an optimal level of minimum wages that maximizes the employment rate of young individuals. We additionally show that the negative relationship between minimum wages and employment of young workers is stronger if labor markets are otherwise strictly regulated and when workers are relatively unproductive. Using these results, we are able to calculate country‐specific turning points and show that some European countries in our sample might in fact contribute to high unemployment rates among young individuals by setting minimum wages too high. However, in other European countries, especially the Eastern European countries, an increase in minimum wages (up to a certain level) might even lead to higher employment rates of young individuals.
J48|"The contribution of operational program ""Human Resource Development 2007-2013"" for encouraging employment and labour productivity in Bulgaria"|"The present study aims to outline the effect of the first Operational Program ""Human resource Development"" conducted in Bulgaria in the period 2007-2013 on the labour market and on labour inclusion and productivity, in particular. It employs different quantities and qualities indicators to present the achievements of a total of EUR 402,4 millions, allocated for encouraging economic activity for increasing labour productivity. The study outlines the positive effects and some negatives of the conducted policies and draws out recommendations for improvements."
J48|Labour Market Policies for Increasing Economic Activity and Labour Productivity in Bulgaria|"This study aims to present the recent active labour market policies for encouraging labour market participation and increasing labour productivity. It points out that a number of different programs and labour market measures have been implemented in Bulgaria in the last twenty years. The achievements of the analysis point out both positive and negative features. The programs contribute for increasing labour market inclusion and employment participation in a short run and this is the main positive effect. However, the lack of consistence and sustainability of employment occurred as negative features. The study outlines the effect of ""Human Resource Development"" Program, conducted in Bulgaria in the period 2007-2013, on labour market development and labour inclusion and productivity, in particular. It employs different quantities and qualities indicators to present the achievements of a total of EUR 402,4 millions, allocated for encouraging economic activity for increasing labour productivity. In conclusion the study outlines the positive effects and some negatives of the conducted policies and draws out recommendations for improvements."
J48|Employment formalization in Argentina: Recurring and new challenges for public policies|This chapter examines employment formalization in Argentina from 2003 to 2014 as well as the public policies associated with that process. It identifies the critical segments of informality along with the challenges they pose to a strategy aimed at reducing informality in a labour market that has proven relatively resistant to such reductions in recent years. The results show a decrease in informality for salaried employment, although there has not been a similar decrease among the self-employed. After a significant drop in non-registered salaried employment between 2003 and 2008, slower formal employment growth has offset advances in formalization. Informality affects nearly 44 per cent of all employed individuals. The need to develop specific actions as part of a comprehensive strategy is due to the characteristics of the critical segments of the labour market and the persistence of a heterogeneous productive structure.
J48|The Booming Socioeconomic Impacts of Shale: A Review of Findings and Methods in the Empirical Literature|The U.S. shale boom has been joined by many other countries producing various unconventional fossil fuels (UFF) in the past decade. This new UFF industry differs from previous energy extraction by its rapid growth and sparse geographic nature, making the analysis of its socioeconomic consequences for extractive regions key for better regional planning and policy making. As such, the shale literature has boomed in recent years with numerous empirical studies evaluating and analysing different socioeconomic impacts from across the globe. This paper provides the first in-depth literature review of the growing body of empirical studies analysing the local impacts of shale (and other UFF) extraction, especially examining employment, income, population, housing, human and social capital effects and the co-existence of the industry with other productive activities. We find a quite surprising range of findings that in several occasions are contradictory, prompting more questions to many important issues. Given this broad range of results, we also focus on critical empirical considerations within this literature that are important to consider in future quantitative assessments of UFF impacts. Finally we provide some policy considerations and lines of future research.
J48|Do E-verify mandates improve labor market outcomes of low-skilled native and legal immigrant workers?|We examine the impact of the 2007 Legal Arizona Workers Act (LAWA) on employment outcomes of low-skilled legal workers. We use the synthetic control method to select a group of states against which the labor market trends of Arizona can be compared. Our results suggest that contrary to its intent, LAWA does not appear to have improved labor market outcomes of legal low-skilled workers who compete with unauthorized immigrants, the target of the legislation. In fact, we find some evidence of diminished employment and increased unemployment among legal low-skilled workers in Arizona. These findings are concentrated on the largest demographic group of workers—non-Hispanic white men. While they are less likely to find employment, those who do have on average higher earnings as a result of LAWA. The pattern of results points to both labor supply and labor demand contractions due to LAWA, with labor supply dominating in terms of magnitude.
J48|Getting stable: an evaluation of the incentives for permanent contracts in Italy|There is little evidence as to the effectiveness of incentives for the conversion of fixed-term contracts into permanent jobs. We aim at filling this gap by studying a recent Italian program which provides benefits for employers who convert contracts for workers in specific demographic groups (females, younger men). Due to funding constraints, the incentives were available only for a few days, allowing us to employ a difference-in-differences strategy between similar short periods. Using administrative microdata for the Veneto region, we show that the subsidy increased conversions by 83% on average, with no substitution effects over time or across groups of workers. JEL codes: J21, J41, J48 Copyright Ciani and de Blasio; licensee Springer. 2015
J48|Impact of minimum wage on gender wage gaps in urban China|This paper provides evidence on whether the minimum wage (MW) has affected gender wage gaps in urban China. Several major conclusions emerge. First, from 1995 to 2007, the proportion of workers whose wages were below the regional MW level was greater for female workers than for male workers. Second, the results obtained by using the difference-in-differences estimation method show that from a long-term perspective, the MW will help to reduce gender wage gaps and that the effect is more obvious for the low-wage group. However, in the short term, the amelioration effect is not obvious. JEL classification: J31, J48, J71 Copyright Li and Ma. 2015
J48|A decade of labour market reforms in the EU: insights from the LABREF database|This paper analyses the main features and determinants of labour market reforms in the EU over the period of 2000–2011 using the European Commission LABREF database. The data suggests that the timing, focus, and geographical distribution of reforms reflect the interplay between economic shocks and existing institutions. The 2008 crisis was followed by increased policy activity in most policy domains in a large number of EU countries, initially to cushion the impact of the crisis on employment and incomes, subsequently to improve the adjustment capacity of labour markets. Regression analysis indicates that reform activism is stronger in countries with lower GDP per capita and long-standing EU membership, under critical economic and labour market conditions, and where political costs are low. The direction of reforms is affected by economic and labour market conditions, available fiscal space, and by initial policy settings. JEL classification: J20, J38, J48, J58, J68 Copyright Turrini et al. 2015
J48|Effects of Minimum Wages on Total Employment: Evidence from Cyprus|This study examines the relationship between total employment and the minimum wage in the special case where only a number of occupations are covered by the relevant legislation. Empirical evidence is provided by analysing time series data from Cyprus, the only country in the European Union where the minimum wage coverage is limited to a small number of occupations. After addressing the issues of stationarity, dynamic specification and endogeneity that most of the existing literature ignores, evidence is found of a significant and negative relationship between the minimum wage and total employment. This result is robust across variations in the sample period and the measure of the minimum wage. In the framework of recently developed search and matching models, the findings suggest the existence of significant spill-over effects to the occupations that are not covered by the minimum wage legislation. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
J48|Did PLAs on LA Affordable Housing Projects Raise Construction Costs?|The cost of building nine affordable housing projects in Los Angeles under the terms of a project labor agreement between the years 2008 and 2012 are compared to 121 affordable housing projects developed and built in the same time period and same area without project labor agreement requirements. We use three approaches to compare costs: 1) simple comparison of average square foot cost and average per unit cost, 2) a visual inspection of the cost data by increasing size of projects measured by square foot size and housing unit size, and 3) “nearest neighbor” analysis comparing the nine PLAs each to the four nearest comparisons along the dimensions of size, units, stories and targeted population. We break our sample down into a subsample for the City of Los Angeles excluding within-county but outside-the-city projects and into a subsample for prevailing wage projects only. Our conclusions are the same using all three statistical approaches to comparing costs and using all three samples: the nine PLA affordable housing projects were not more expensive to build than comparable projects not governed by project labor agreements.
J48|Macroeconometric evaluation of flexicurity in the case of disabled workers. A panel approach using italian regional data|The aim of this paper is to examine the impact of flexicurity upon Italian regional labour market performance in the employment of disabled people. For this purpose, we implement a two step analysis by using Italian regional data for the period 2006-2011. In the first step, we verify by means of three flexicurity indices that Northern and Central regions show a higher degree of flexicuritythan Southern regions. In the second phase of our analysis, we verify by estimating an augmented matching function that flexicurity increases the probability of finding employment for a disabled person. In particular, we test that the flexicurity indicator that gives more weight to the economicindependence of disabled people represents the in dicator that most favors the labour matching process.
J48|Sorting through Affirmative Action: Three Field Experiments in Colombia|The use of affirmative action policies to promote female employment remains debated. Do affirmative action policies attract female applicants, and does that come at the expense of deterring highly qualified male applicants? In three field experiments in Colombia, we compare job seekers who are informed of affirmative action selection criteria before they apply with those who are told after applying. We find that the gains in attracting female applicants far outweigh the losses in male applicants. Moreover, our results indicate that affirmative action does not decrease the quality of the top 15th percentile of the pool of applicants.
J48|Impact of welfare sanctions on employment entry and exit from labor force: Evidence from German survey data|Similar to numerous other European countries, Germany's unemployment policy went through a paradigm shift in 2005, towards activation policy by tightening their monitoring and sanction regime. With our study, we aim to provide causal evidence for whether an intended positive effect of benefit sanctions on employment entry of welfare recipients has been bought at the expense of an unintended enhanced incentive to leave the labor market. Using a mixed proportional hazard model, we draw causal inference of sanction enforcements on unemployment exit hazards. Based on a novel survey sample covering the first three years after the 'Hartz IV' law came into effect, we provide evidence for a positive impact of sanctions on employment as well as on exit from labor force.
J48|Is the labor market in Bulgaria segmented?|The present study of the segmentation of the labor market in the country aims to enrich the existing body of knowledge relating to this issue. A methodological framework was elaborated to study the labor market segmentation by income and employment profiles, based on data from monitoring specific labor and specific income pursuant to individual observations of the National Statistics Institute. There is a link between a specific type of labor and a specific income in compliance with specific criteria to define available or non-available segmentation on the labor market. For the implementation of the specific assignments a survey methodology is proposed in conformity with the European Income and Living Conditions (EU-SILC) survey. Bulgaria is involved therein since 2006.
J48|The Influence of Labor Intensive Export on China's Economy Growth|This paper examines the sources of China’s economic growth, emphasizing the role of factor endowment. After evaluating the determinants of gross domestic product growth, it goes further to decompose the total export with Cobb–Douglas production function, which revealed increasing return to scale of 0.75 for labor intensive exports and 0.31 capital intensive exports. Revealed comparative advantage results reported that labor intensive export exerts a major impact on China’s development. They claim that margins for these goods are large. Thus, a drop in export arising from decrease in labor intensive export will cause a gap in China’s gross domestic product.
J48|How Natural Is the Natural Rate of Unemployment?| Must we accept unemployment rates of 5 and 6 percent? The author thinks the concept that such rates are natural has weakened our possible responses. He discusses other ways to share the burden of unemployment. We all have a right to work, he argues.
J48|Sector rural colombiano: Dinámica laboral y opciones de afiliación a la seguridad social|Este documento presenta un diagnóstico de los aspectos demográficos, del mercado laboral y socio-económicos que influyen en la afiliación a la seguridad social de la población en el área rural. Aspectos como la baja escolaridad, los bajos ingresos, los altos niveles de informalidad y pobreza y la estacionalidad de la producción agrícola no permiten aumentar el nivel de afiliación. Muestra también que a pesar de las características del sector rural, no existe un arreglo institucional especial para la afiliación a la seguridad social. Finalmente, el documento esboza la posibilidad de la universalización de la cobertura en salud y pensión de la población rural.
J48|La industria en colombia: tres décadas sin política sectorial -Consecuencias sobre empleo e ingresos en el sector-|El artículo busca establecer la relación entre la política pública relacionada con la industria, formulada desde finales de los años 80 en Colombia y las consecuencias que tuvo tanto sobre la configuración productiva como sobre el mundo del trabajo en el sector. Los resultados apuntan a la ausencia de una política industrial activa por parte de los gobiernos de todo el periodo y el énfasis en una estrategia transversal para introducir ciencia y tecnología a los procesos. Sin embargo el análisis evidencia que este propósito se quedó en el enunciado pues no fueron tomadas acciones específicas para lograrlo. Como consecuencia el patrón de crecimiento nacional se desindustrializó. Los impactos para los trabajadores fueron negativos: disminución del empleo manufacturero frente al empleo total, estancamiento relativo de los salarios reales frente al crecimiento de la productividad laboral y aumento de la brecha en la apropiación del excedente generado. La estructura productiva industrial se transformó hacia una mayor intensidad en bienes relacionados con actividades extractivas, en desmedro de las intensivas en conocimiento, contrario a lo que pregonaba la estrategia oficial. Finalmente, la política económica planteada por el gobierno del Presidente Juan Manuel Santos en su primer periodo no se orientó a cambiar estas tendencias de largo plazo.
J48|Gustav von Schmoller-Vorlesung 2014: Evidenzbasierte wissenschaftliche Politikberatung|Politikentscheidungen gestalten die Wohlfahrt von Nationen, aber die politische Praxis erfolgt nach komplexen Regeln. Evidenzbasierte Politikberatung durch Wissenschaftler will forschungsbasierten harten Fakten und Restriktionen Gewicht geben. Der auf der Gustav von Schmoller-Vorlesung beruhende Beitrag diskutiert Herausforderungen und Erfolgsbedingungen einer solchen Strategie und macht Vorschläge, wie sie besser umgesetzt werden kann. / While policy measures affect the welfare of nations, the practice of policy advice is determined by complex rules. Evidence-based scientific policy advice gives weight to hard empirical facts and restrictions. The lecture discusses challenges and conditions for success and provides suggestions to improve the implementation of such a strategy.
J48|A regression discontinuity analysis of graduation standards and their impact on students’ academic trajectories|In 2006, North Carolina put in place high school exit standards requiring students to pass a series of high-stakes exams across several years. I use a regression discontinuity (RD) approach to analyze whether passing or failing one of these exams (Algebra I) impacts a student's decision between choosing a more rigorous college-preparatory math curriculum and an easier ‘career’ track math curriculum. I find a 5 percentage point gap in the probability of selecting the rigorous curriculum between 9th grade students who just passed and those who just failed the exam. RD results across two years (one year in which the graduation standards were not in place) suggest that the discontinuity arose due to fewer students opting into the college track as a result of the exam results.
J48|Who makes, who breaks: Which scientists stay in academe?|We examine the survival of young scientists in academe. The propensity to leave follows an inverse u-shape. Publishing increases and patenting decreases the chance of survival. Scientists with strong preferences for business are less likely to stay in academe.
J48|Employment restrictions and political violence in the Israeli–Palestinian conflict|Following the outbreak of the Second Intifada in 2000, Israel imposed severe restrictions on the employment of Palestinians within its borders. We study the effect of this policy change on the involvement of West Bank Palestinians in fatal confrontations with Israelis during the first phase of the Intifada. Identification relies on the fact that variation in the pre-Intifada employment rate in Israel across Palestinian localities was not only considerable but also unrelated to prior levels of involvement in the conflict. We find robust evidence that localities that suffered from a sharper drop in employment opportunities were more heavily involved in the conflict.
J48|Does Occupational Licensing Deserve Our Approval? A Review of Work by Morris Kleiner|The licensing of occupations—a very forceful intervention in markets—is pervasive and growing in modern economies. Yet the attention paid to it by economists and economics textbooks has been small. Highly welcome, therefore, has been the extensive and intensive work on this subject by Morris Kleiner. Kleiner’s latest book, titled Stages of Occupational Regulation: Analysis of Case Studies (2013), explores the progression of occupational regulation, from mere registration to certification to outright licensing—three distinct stages. Kleiner carefully selects for his analysis a series of occupations representing the stages of regulation, devoting a chapter to each occupation. He uses a variety of statistical approaches to tease out, from numerous databases, what the impact of mild to heavy regulation on labor markets appears to be. Kleiner’s work leads him to call for a pervasive review of occupational regulation in the United States, with a view towards replacing occupational licensure, which introduces the most inefficiency and welfare loss, with mere certification of occupations. That recommendation gains plausibility in an age where cheap computation and data mining makes it possible to protect consumers from low-quality and possibly dangerous services by providing robust, user-friendly information on the quality of services delivered by competing occupations, such as doctors and nurse practitioners.
J48|Inégalités d'exposition aux agents cancérogènes, mutagènes ou reprotoxiques (CMR) en milieu professionnel en France|Our study uses the 2010 Medical Monitoring Survey of Professional Risks (Surveillance médicale des expositions aux risques, SUMER) to assess French employees' exposure to carcinogenic, mutagenic and reprotoxic (CMR) chemicals at work. Nearly 2.2 million people, i.e. 10.2 % of employees were exposed to one or more CMR during the week before their medical visit. Among them, 70,000 experienced multiple exposures in the workplace, bringing to 3.5 million the number of exposure situations identified in 2010. Exposure to asbestos represents only 2.3% of the exposures to CMR, or 10 times less than the exposure to diesel exhaust. Our results show that there are jobs and employees profiles that face multiple disadvantages in the labor market, including the high risk of exposure to substances that are hazardous to health. These include workers, employees working at night and with precarious employment contracts, which should therefore be high priority targets for prevention.
J48|Minimum Wage Law for Domestic Workers: Impact Evaluation of the Indian Experience|We conduct an impact evaluation of the minimum wage legislation for domestic workers that was introduced in four states in India over the period of 2004-2012. Combining the matching and differencein-difference estimation strategies we estimate both the short-run and long-run impacts of the legislation on real wages and on employment opportunities. Our results show a positive impact of the legislation on real wages in the short-run, albeit of very small magnitude.However, the legislation seems to have no impact on real wages in the long-run. Further, the legislation did not seem to have had any impact on the extensive margin in terms of employment opportunities or the probability of being employed as a domestic worker in both the short and long run. Our conclusion is that minimum wage legislation for domestic workers need not improve the living standards of workers unless accompanied by strong enforcement mechanisms. To our knowledge, this is the first attempt at quantitatively evaluating the impact of minimum wage legislation for domestic workers in India.
J48|Worktime Regulations and Spousal Labor Supply|We study interdependencies in spousal labor supply by exploiting the design of the French workweek reduction, which introduced exogenous variation in one's spouse's labor supply, at constant earnings. Treated employees work on average two hours less per week. Husbands of treated women respond by reducing their labor supply by about half an hour, consistent with substantial leisure complementarity, and specifically cut the nonusual component of their workweek, leaving usual hours unchanged. Women's response to their husband's treatment is instead weak and rarely statistically significant, possibly due to heavier constraints in the organization of their workweek.
J48|Inégalités d’exposition aux agents cancérogènes, mutagènes ou reprotoxiques (CMR) en milieu professionnel en France|Notre étude exploite l’édition 2010 de l’enquête Surveillance médicale des expositions aux risques professionnels (SUMER) pour dresser un état des lieux des expositions des salariés français aux agents CMR sur leur lieu de travail. Au total, 2,2 millions de personnes, soit 10,2% des salariés, ont été exposés à un ou plusieurs produits CMR lors de la semaine précédant leur visite médicale. Parmi eux, 70000 connaissaient une multi-exposition sur leur lieu de travail, ce qui porte à 3,5 millions le nombre de situations d’expositions recensées en 2010. Les situations des expositions à l’amiante ne représentent que 2,3% des expositions aux produits CMR, soit 10 fois moins que les expositions aux gaz d’échappement diesel. Nos résultats montrent qu’il existe des emplois et des profils de salariés qui cumulent les préjudices sur le marché du travail, y compris de forts risques d’exposition à des produits dangereux pour la santé. Il s’agit notamment des ouvriers, des travailleurs de nuit et des salariés à contrats précaires, qui devraient donc constituer des cibles prioritaires pour les mesures de prévention.
J48|Gender Quotas and Women's Political Leadership|Though more than 100 countries have adopted gender quotas, the impacts of these reforms on women’s political leadership remain largely unknown. We exploit a quasi-experiment – a zipper quota imposed by the Swedish Social Democratic national party on municipal party groups – to examine quotas’ effect on women’s selection and survival as leaders within their parties. We find that those municipalities where the quota had a larger impact became more likely to appoint female leaders, but not more likely to support the reelection of women to the post. Extending this analysis, we show that the quota increased the number of qualified female candidates without increasing the diversity among women within the group. These results lend support to the notion that quotas may have an acceleration effect on women’s representation in leadership posts and help dispel the myth that quotas trade short-term gains in women’s descriptive representation for long-term exclusion from political power.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J48|Employment Effects of the EU Temporary and Agency Workers Directive in Sweden|This paper analyses possible effects on total employment, and the distribution between agency work and regular contracts as a consequence of the Swedish implementation of the EU Temporary and Agency Workers Directive in a dual labour market Mortensen-Pissarides search model. The directive states that the basic working and employment conditions for agency workers should be equal to those for a comparable employee at the client firm, and that all parties should actively facilitate the transition from agency employment to employment directly at the client firm. Even though the results suggest a negative net effect on total employment, the implementation is shown to have a positive impact on overall welfare, and that an increased transition probability from the agency sector into regular employment would contribute even more.
J48|Essays on Temporary Work Agencies and the Economic Analysis of Law|Paper [I] adds to the theoretical literature on the incentives of Temporary Work Agencies (TWAs). Using a principal-agent model with hidden action to model two main types of contracts between a TWA and a Client Firm (CF), the TWA is shown to potentially act against the best interest of the CF when helping to fill a vacant position. The results also suggest that the adverse effect of the incentive misalignment is larger when the worker is going to be leased instead of hired by the CF. However, this effect could potentially be offset by introducing a sufficient level of competition among the TWAs. Paper [II] uses individual-level data on young adults to estimate how the probability of being employed in the Swedish temporary agency sector is affected by whether a partner or other family member has experience of temporary agency work. The results show a significant effect from all peer groups of a magnitude that correspond to the other most influential control variables. We also find that this cohort of the agency sector has a relatively high education level compared to the regular sector, and that there are predominately men working in this sector. Paper [III] analyses possible effects on total employment, and the distribution between agency work and regular contracts as a consequence of the implementation of the EU Temporary and Agency Workers Directive in Sweden. The analysis is based on changes in the compensation to agency workers in a calibrated extension of a Mortensen-Pissarides search model. Even though the results suggest a negative net effect on total employment, the implementation is shown to increase (utilitarian) welfare, and an increased transition probability from the agency sector into regular employment will increase welfare even further. Paper [IV] focuses on settlement probabilities for different types of representation within the Swedish Labour Court. Empirical estimates on a set of unjust dismissal cases show that private representatives are generally less likely to reach a settlement than their union counterparts. The settlement probabilities converge following court-mandated information disclosure, which suggests that information asymmetry is an important factor in explaining differences in settlement behaviour. Privately instigated negotiations are therefore in general insufficient for making cases with non-union representation reach the same settlement rate as cases with union representation.
J48|Privatization of Industry in Central and Eastern European Countries|Since the fall of the communist regime in the early 1990s, the Central and South Eastern European countries (CEE) have gone through several phases of transition, having a mail goal the liberalization of their economies. Experiences taken from centralized planned economy to a market economy, economists have offered an opportunity to study both theoretically and in practical point of view. The economists are still debating various strategies and their economic transition, because the problems of transition in CEE countries are not fully resolved. The purpose of this article was the theoretical and empirical analysis of the privatization of the industry of Central and Eastern Europe, the current European Union Member States and the main economic indicators are built into the process, to identify structural weaknesses in the economies of emerging post communist.
J48|Evidence-Based Scientific Policy Advice|While policy measures affect the welfare of nations, the practice of policy advice is determined by complex rules. Evidence-based scientific policy advice gives weight to hard empirical facts and restrictions. The lecture discusses challenges and conditions for success and provides suggestions to improve the implementation of such a strategy.
J48|Evidenzbasierte wissenschaftliche Politikberatung|Politikentscheidungen gestalten die Wohlfahrt von Nationen, aber ihre Praxis erfolgt komplexen Regeln. Evidenzbasierte Politikberatung durch Wissenschaftler will forschungsbasierten harten Fakten und Restriktionen Gewicht geben. Der Beitrag diskutiert Herausforderungen und Erfolgsbedingungen einer solchen Strategie und macht Vorschläge, wie sie besser umgesetzt werden kann.
J48|Imperfect information and labor market bias against small and medium-sized enterprises: a Korean case|We examine the labor market’s bias against small and medium-sized enterprises focusing on the Seoul Digital Industrial Complex case. We adopt Heckman’s approach to control selection bias, and use primary data from questionnaire surveys conducted at both firm and employee levels. We find that conventional firm-specific factors, such as wages, fringe benefits, and weekly work hours, primarily explain the labor market bias, but imperfect information is also positively associated with the bias. For example, a firm’s inadequate ability to identify a pool of potential employee candidates or to provide them comprehensive firm- or job-specific information tends to worsen labor shortages, and an employee’s ex-ante incomplete knowledge of on-the-job training or education opportunities tends to increase ex-post turnover intentions. Our results suggest that reducing the market bias requires improving imperfect information as well as conventional firm-specific conditions. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014
J48|The Effects of High-Skilled Immigration Policy on Firms: Evidence from H-1B Visa Lotteries|We study the effect of a firm winning an additional H-1B visa on the firm’s outcomes, by comparing winning and losing firms in the Fiscal Year 2006 and 2007 H-1B visa lotteries. We match administrative data on the participants in these lotteries to the universe of approved U.S. patents, and to IRS data on the universe of U.S. firms. Winning additional H-1B visas has insignificant effects on firms’ patenting and use of the research and experimentation tax credit, with confidence intervals that generally rule out more than modest effects. Additional H-1Bs cause at most a moderate increase in firms’ overall employment, and these H-1Bs substantially crowd out firms’ employment of other workers. There is some evidence that additional H-1Bs lead to lower average employee earnings and higher firm profits.
J48|Communication, Public Relations’ Pillar|This would affect the proper functioning of institutions, both parties feeling the need to succeed, to have recognition, inclusion, control, harmony. Communication maintains mutual cooperation and properly manages the various problems that may rise and create a proper climate conduct of the business.
J48|The Integrative Analysis of Economic Ecosystems: Reviewing labour market policies with new insights from permaculture and systems theory|"This paper explores new ways of applying ecological knowledge to solve economic problems in a manner that suits the complexity of society and environmental challenges. This is done by developing the integrative analysis method. The integrative analysis uses systems ecology in order to characterize economic systems with their energetic properties and model them as ecosystems. This makes it possible to assess them with the design principles of permaculture, a resourceful discipline of ecological engineering. Through a process that adopts the main characteristics of the ""Soft Systems Methodology"" incremental changes can be found to make economies increasingly resemble the natural functioning of healthy and stable ecosystems. To show the capabilities of the integrative analysis, it is applied to three different perceptions of the labour market and its surrounding actors, starting with the viewpoint of the European Commission. In conclusion, many EU proposals to meet labour-related challenges can be refined and complemented with existing alternative proposals. This way the integrative analysis makes it possible to enhance economic strategies with integrated solutions for a widened problem scope. As a consequence, single problem interventions also address the far-reaching environmental and social challenges of declining resource and energy supply."
J48|Measuring a Territorial Labor Market Development Index|There is a widespread debate on the importance of the quality of labor, which is the requirement for wages to cover basic needs and provide people with a decent way of life and fostering development at the same time. This paper proposes to measure a labor market development index, using variables that can usually be found in labor surveys and can be applied for regional and country comparisons with easiness of aggregation through geometric means. We consider three principal pillars that make of labor one of the main mechanics for development: equality, productivity, and welfare.
J48|Does Employment Protection Legislation Induce Structural Unemployment? Evidence from 15 OECD Countries|This paper estimates the Non-Accelerating Inflation Rate of Unemployment (NAIRU) for 15 OECD economies from 1990 to 2012 using an iterative Phillips curve process and tests the relationship between strictness of employment protection and the NAIRU. A possible negative externality of employment protection legislation is a higher level of structural unemployment. Using Prais-winsten estimation correcting for panel-level heteroscedasticity a panel-specific first-order autoregressive process, results indicate that there is no relationship between strictness of protection for individual and collective dismissals for regular contracts and the NAIRU. The effect of strictness of employment protection for regular contracts is sensitive to model specification; the coefficient loses its significance when full controls are used in estimation. An implication is that deregulation is not a necessary policy tool in addressing the problem of structural unemployment.
J48|Политиките На Пазарот На Труд И Сиромаштијата Во Македонија, 2008 - 2013<BR>[Labour market, employment policies and poverty in R. Macedonia, 2008 - 2013]|The positive economic performance of Macedonian economy before the onset of the global economic crisis did not spilled over its effects on the improvements of job creation, inequality and poverty. In 2007, Macedonia experienced 6.1% real GDP growth, thus reaching the pre-transition level of GDP growth, but at the same time, the unemployment rate and the relative poverty rate were one of the highest in Europe, 34.9% and 29.4%, respectively. The global economic crisis worsened the economic developments in the country, further increasing the poverty rates (30.4% relative poverty rate in 2012) and inequality (Gini index in 2011 is 44.2), while the rate of unemployment remained above 30%. In the policy responses to counteract the impact of the economic crisis, Macedonian government introduced different set of measures mainly focused on the support of the private sector. Parts of the measures were announced as direct improvement of the labour market and the protection of vulnerable groups. Most of the recent studies assessing the impact of the Government policies during the crisis are mainly focused on the capacities in sustaining the macroeconomic stability of the economy, while only few addressed the effects and impact of the policies in improving the employment, social protection and reduction of poverty. This analysis puts focus on the Government employment policies and poverty-reduction programs introduced in the period from 2007 until 2013. The aim of the research is to explore the effectiveness of the government programs through the assessment of their design and implementation, the level of their usage by the targeted social groups and the government consistency in their enforcement. This research also explore the ability of the programs to produce medium to long-term results and thus give real positive impact on the unemployment and poverty in the country. The research is based on the analysis of the government documents, official statistics data and secondary data.
J48|Evidence-Based Scientific Policy Advice|While policy measures affect the welfare of nations, the practice of policy advice is determined by complex rules. Evidence-based scientific policy advice gives weight to hard empirical facts and restrictions. The lecture discusses challenges and conditions for success and provides suggestions to improve the implementation of such a strategy
J48|Conceptual Framework of the active ageing policies in employment in Poland|The aim of this work is to present an in depth understanding of the conceptual framework of active ageing policies, which have been created and implemented in Poland. The discussion of active ageing in employment in Poland started relatively late. The first discussions on the unfavourable situation of elderly employment emerged only in the second half of the 1990s, when the debate on the pension system reform started. While only a few ageing policies were developed at the national level during that time, several interesting initiatives were undertaken at a regional level and in the third sector. They were mostly focused on productive ageing and the problems associated with the economic activation of people over 50. The intensive implementation of the active ageing policies in Poland started in 2012, during the European Year of Active Ageing. At present, there is an intense discussion on policies addressed to the elderly, which concentrate not only on the activation of the labour market, but also on healthy, active and socially inclusive ageing, education andcivil engagement. This paper concludes that despite intense work being done by public authorities, the concept still needs a deeper implementation - especially at the regional level. Furthermore, close observation and evaluation of the activation programmes is still missing and the identification and implementation of good practices which are already being developed in other European countries is under-used.
J48|Do “good neighbors” enhance regional performances in including disabled people in the labor market? A spatial Markov chain approach|The purpose of this study was to examine whether the performance of Italian regions in providing employment of disabled people according to Law 68/99 can be affected by the performance of neighboring regions. Hence, we propose a two-step analysis focusing on Italian regions for the period 2000–2009. In the first step, we verify by means of Stochastic Frontier Approach that Central and Northern Italy regions are more efficient than Southern Italy ones in the matching process between demand and supply of jobs for disabled people. Then, the efficiency results are analyzed using a Markov Spatial Transition Matrix in order to provide insights into the transitions of regions between different efficiency levels, taking their local context into account. The results of this analysis show that good neighbors are important in promoting the improvement of regions’ performance. However, the effects produced by bad neighbors should not be underestimated, especially when they are concentrated in an area of the country and show a time-space persistence. The effect of a persistent dualism on the performance of Italian regions with respect to the application of Law 68/99 represents a problem for policy-makers. Hence, they must seriously consider it, especially when regions with low efficiency scores are surrounded by neighbors with poor efficiency score and show an unhealthy poorly performing labor market. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014
J48|Do as the Neighbors Do: Examining the Effect of Residential Neighborhoods on Labor Market Outcomes|This paper examines the effect of where immigrants live on their labor market outcomes. We provide robust evidence that both the number and the labor market activity of immigrants’ neighbors affect their employment. In particular, we demonstrate that immigrants are much more likely to be employed in the same firm as their geographic neighbors than are other immigrants. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York (outside the USA) 2014
J48|Employment of disabled people in the private sector. An analysis at the level of Italian Provinces according to article 13 of law 68/1999|Law 68 of March 12, 1999, whose aim is to regulate and promote the employment of disabled people, has contributed significantly to the employment of persons with disabilities, and consequently to their social inclusion. In particular, article 13 of this law offers exemption from national insurance contributions to private institutions that employ disabled people. In this paper we propose a two-step analysis to assess the effectiveness of this law at the level of Italian Provinces for the year 2005. In the first phase, we verify by means of data envelopment analysis which Provinces are ranked among the most efficient ones in the application of article 13 of law 68/99. Then, through the use of cluster analysis, we examine differences among Provinces in terms of the factors that determine their different efficiency in the employment of disabled people. The results show that the employment of disabled persons is significantly affected by three groups of factors, i.e. the input endowment of the factors which affect the employment of disabled people, the Province ability to coordinate actions geared to achieving the employment of persons with disabilities, and the promotion of policy actions aimed at supporting the social inclusion of disabled people. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media Dordrecht 2014
J48|Wage Differentials between Foreign Multinationals and Local Plants and Worker Quality in Malaysian Manufacturing|Using industrial census data for 2000, and smaller sets of survey data for 2001–2004, this paper examines the extent of wage differentials between medium-large (20 or more workers) foreign multinational enterprises (MNEs) and local plants in Malaysia's manufacturing industries. On average, wages in sample MNEs were higher than in local plants by two-fifths or more. In addition to being more capital-intensive and relatively large, MNEs also hired higher shares of workers in highly paid occupations and with moderate or high education. Results from large samples of 17 manufacturing industries combined suggest that statistically significant MNE–local differentials of 5%–9% persisted even after accounting for differences in worker occupation, education, and sex, plant capital intensity and size, as well as the influences of yearly fluctuations, industry affiliation, and plant location on the constants estimated. When MNE–local differentials and all slopes are allowed to vary among the 17 industries, positive and significant differentials were observed in all estimates for six industries: food and beverages, chemicals, rubber, general machinery, electrical machinery, and furniture. Positive and significant differentials were also observed in most estimates for another five industries. However, the size and significance of these differentials often varied depending on the industry and sample examined, as well as the estimation technique used. © 2013 Asian Development Bank and Asian Development Bank Institute.
J48|Did the 2007 Legal Arizona Workers Act Reduce the State's Unauthorized Immigrant Population?| We test for an effect of Arizona's 2007 Legal Arizona Workers Act (LAWA) on the proportion of the state's population characterized as noncitizen Hispanic. We use the synthetic control method to select a group of states against which Arizona's population trends can be compared. We document a notable and statistically significant reduction in the proportion of the Hispanic noncitizen population in Arizona. The decline observed matches the timing of LAWA's implementation, deviates from the time series for the synthetic control group, and stands out relative to the distribution of placebo estimates for other states in the nation. © 2014 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
J48|Overtime Labor, Employment Frictions, and the New Keynesian Phillips Curve|This paper presents a New Keynesian (NK) model that is extended to differentiate between straight time and overtime work. The model proposes that the New Keynesian Phillips curve (NKPC) should be estimated with marginal cost measured in terms of overtime labor; the resulting coefficient estimates are in accordance with theory and statistically significant for the hybrid NKPC (which allows for backward-looking price setters) but not for the purely forward-looking NKPC. In the hybrid model, backward-looking behavior is found to be predominant. The paper also shows that the incorporation of employment frictions (predetermined employment and convex adjustment costs) in NK models helps reconcile the frequent price changes found in the microdata with the degree of sluggishness in inflation adjustment to output changes at the macro level. © 2014 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
