J50|“The Institutional Adjustment Margin to Import Competition: Evidence from Italian Minimum Wages”|A growing body of research has contributed to understanding the labor market and political effects of globalization. This paper explores an overlooked aspect of trade-induced adjustments in the labor market: the institutional aspect. We take advantage of the two-tier collective bargaining structure of the Italian labor market, whereby the first tier entails setting minimum wages at the contract level. Using an instrumental variable strategy and exploiting variations in contract-level exposure to trade, we find for the 1995-2003 period that on average, the surge in imports decreased contractual minimum wages by 1.5%. This impact increased with the increase in the share of unskilled workers employed under this contract. This negative institutional effect contrasts with a nonsignificant effect of trade on total wages, with the latter becoming positive and large only for highly skilled workers.
J50|Do Minimum Wages Make Wages More Rigid? Evidence from French Micro Data|How do minimum wages (MW) shape the aggregate wage dynamics when wage adjustment is lumpy? In this paper, we document new empirical findings on the effect of MW on wage rigidity using quarterly micro wage data matched with sectoral bargained MW. We estimate a micro empirical model of wage rigidity taking into account minimum wage dynamics and we use a simulation method to investigate implications of lumpy micro wage adjustment for the aggregate wage dynamics. Our main findings are the following. Both national and sectoral MW have a large effect on the timing and on the size of wage adjustments. At the aggregate level, MW contribute to amplify, by a factor of 1.7, the response of wages to past inflation. Ignoring MW leads to underestimate the speed of aggregate wage adjustment by about a year. The elasticities of wages with respect to past inflation, the national MW and industry-level MW are respectively 0.42, 0.17 and 0.16. Finally, there are significant spillover effects of the NMW on higher wages transiting through industry-level MW.
J50|Trust and Workplace Performance|This study explores the relationship between trust and establishment performance. The outcome indicators are management's assessment of the economic or financial situation of the workplace and its relative labor productivity. Trust is initially measured using the individual survey respondent's assessment of the 'contribution' of the other side, the rating of the employee representative being favored over that of management as less subject to feedback from performance. Although the potential endogeneity of employee trust is taken into account, an improved measure is constructed from the discrepancy or dissonance between the assessments of the two sides as to the quality of industrial relations at the workplace. All trust measures are associated with improved establish-ment performance. However, there is no suggestion from specifications using the two more favored trust measures that any one type of formal workplace representation – either works councils or union bodies – is superior. Dissonance, if indeed exogenous, demonstrates that good industrial relations trump type of workplace representation.
J50|Collective Bargaining and Police Misconduct: Evidence from Florida|Growing controversy surrounds the impact of labor unions on law enforcement behavior. Critics argue that unions impede organizational reform and insulate officers from discipline for misconduct. Yet collective bargaining tends to increase wages, which could improve officer behavior. We provide quasi-experimental empirical evidence on the effects of collective bargaining rights on violent incidents of misconduct. Our empirical strategy exploits a 2003 Florida Supreme Court decision (Williams), which conferred collective bargaining rights on sheriffs’ deputies, resulting in a substantial increase in unionization among these officers. Using a Florida state administrative database of “moral character” violations reported by local agencies between 1996 and 2015, we implement a difference-in-difference approach in which police departments (which were unaffected by Williams) serve as a control group for sheriffs’ offices (SOs). Our estimates imply that collective bargaining rights led to a substantial increase in violent incidents of misconduct among SOs, relative to police departments. The effect of collective bargaining rights is concentrated among SOs that subsequently adopted collective bargaining agreements, and the timing of the adoption of these agreements is associated with increases in violent misconduct. There is also some evidence consistent with a “bargaining in the shadow” effect among SOs that did not unionize.
J50|Institutions, Holdup and Automation|This paper documents a positive relationship between labor-friendly institutions and investment in industrial robots in a sample of advanced economies. Institutions explain a substantial proportion of cross-country variation in automation. The relationship between institutions and robots is stronger in sunk cost-intensive industries, where producers are more vulnerable to holdup. This suggests that automation is used by producers as a tool to thwart rent appropriation by labor.
J50|The importance of being psychologically empowered: buffering the negative effects of employee perceptions of leader-member exchange differentiation|Although differentiated relationships among leaders and their followers are fundamental to Leader–Member Exchange (LMX) theory, research provides limited knowledge about whether employees’ responses to individual perceptions of LMX differentiation are uniform. In a field study, we examined whether individual-level psychological empowerment buffers the negative relationship between perceived LMX differentiation and job satisfaction and found that the negative relationship is strongest under low employee psychological empowerment conditions, as compared to high psychological empowerment. Furthermore, in a multi-wave field study and an experiment, we extended these initial findings by investigating employees’ perceptions of supervisory fairness as a mediator of this moderated relationship. We found that the indirect effect between perceived LMX differentiation and job satisfaction, through supervisory fairness perceptions, is strongest under low employee psychological empowerment, as compared to high psychological empowerment. Collectively, our findings showcase the importance of psychological empowerment as a tool for employees to use to counteract the negative effect of perceived differentiated contexts. Practitioner points: When employees perceive that their managers have differentiated relationships across workgroup employees, employees tend to be less satisfied in their jobs, and this negative relationship is explained through employees’ perceptions of supervisory fairness. Employees with low psychological empowerment levels (e.g., employees who feel less in control of their work) report lower levels of job satisfaction when they perceive that their managers differentiate among employees. However, employees with high levels of psychological empowerment are more resilient in contexts where managers are perceived to differentiate across workgroup employees. The findings reinforce the necessity for managers and organizations to implement and promote empowerment initiatives.
J50|Evaluating the design and implementation of the whole systems integrated care programme in North West London: why commissioning proved (again) to be the weakest link|Background: Commissioning is a term used in the English National Health Service (NHS) to refer to what most health systems call health planning or strategic purchasing. Drawing on research from a recent in-depth mixed methods study of a major integrated care initiative in North West London, we examine the role of commissioning in attempts to secure large-scale change within and between health and social care services to support the delivery of integrated care for people living with complex long-term conditions. Methods: We analysed data collected in semi-structured interviews, surveys, workshops and non-participant observations using a thematic framework derived both deductively from the literature on commissioning and integrated care, as well as inductively from our coding and analysis of interview data. Results: Our findings indicate that commissioning has significant limitations in enabling large-scale change in health services, particularly in engaging providers, supporting implementation, and attending to both its transactional and relational dimensions. Conclusions: Our study highlights the consequences of giving insufficient attention to implementation, and especially the need for commissioners to enable, support and performance manage the delivery of procured services, while working closely with providers at all times. We propose a revised version of Øvretveit's cycle of commissioning that gives greater emphasis to embedding effective implementation processes within models of commissioning large-scale change.
J50|Speaking up to prevent harm: a systematic review of the safety voice literature|Safety voice is the act of speaking up about safety in order to prevent accidents and physical harm. It occurs across contexts (e.g., healthcare, aviation, construction, mountaineering, high-risk sports) and understanding the phenomenon enables interventions. Despite recent interest, however, it remains unclear how safety voice (i) differs conceptually from employee voice, (ii) is delineated across levels of analysis, and (iii) could be optimally investigated. Addressing this, we identified 48 articles, and integrated 256 safety voice antecedents, 7 pragmatics and 23 outcomes into an ecological framework. Overlap was found with employee voice concepts and methodologies, especially for the behavioural nature of speaking-up. Nonetheless, safety voice appeared unique in terms of the content of the raised message (e.g., limited to safety), the context and person speaking-up, identified antecedents (e.g., hazard-specific antecedents), and methodological challenges (e.g., operationalisation of victimhood). Our proposed safety voice framework provides a novel approach to safety voice that is ecological and indicates interventions for mitigating physical harm.
J50|The U.S. water data gap: A survey of state-level water data platforms to inform the development of a national water portal|Water data play a crucial role in the development and assessment of sustainable water management strategies. Water resource assessments are needed for the planning, management, and the evaluation of current practices. They require environmental, climatic, hydrologic, hydrogeologic, industrial, agricultural, energy, and socioeconomic data to assess and accurately project the supply of and demand for water services. Given this context, we provide a review of the current state of publicly available water data in the United States. While considerable progress has been made in data science and model development in recent years, data limitations continue to hamper analytics. A brief overview of the water data sets available at the federal level is used to highlight the gaps in readily accessible water data in the United States. Then, we present a systematic review of 275 websites that provide water information collected at the state level. Data platforms are evaluated based on content (ground and surface water, water quality, and water use information) along with the analytical and exploratory tools that are offered. Wev discuss the degree to which existing state-level data sets could enrich the data available from federal sources and review some recent technological developments and initiatives that may modernize water data. We argue that a national water data portal, more comprehensive than the U.S. Energy Information Administration, addressing the significant gaps and centralizing water data is critical. It would serve to quantify the risks emerging from growing water stress and aging infrastructure and to better inform water management and investment decisions.
J50|Emerging roles of lead buyer governance for sustainability across global production networks|Global production networks (GPNs) connect multiple producers involved in fragmented manufacturing processes. Major brands and retailers, considered as lead firms, are under increasing pressure to ensure products made through GPNs are produced sustainably. Theories of governance developed to understand dynamics in outsourced production can provide insight into this issue. However, these theories and related empirical research have often focused on relationships between lead firms and upper-tier suppliers. When manufacturing involves multiple fragmented stages, understanding the role of lead firms becomes more difficult. This article considers new governance roles that lead firms, as buyers, are playing when attempting to promote sustainable practices across all stages of production for buyer-driven industries. The focus is exploring the nature of new governance approaches which lead firms have developed in order to address diverse sustainability challenges found within GPNs, particularly related to lower-tier suppliers. These approaches can involve lead firms working through vertical buyer–seller links or developing new horizontal relationships, which link lead firms with lower-tier suppliers and governance processes in these suppliers’ local productive systems. The findings draw from field research examining how top UK garment retailers provide governance to producers involved in creating cotton garments in India and a review of publicised policies and practices of these retailers related to promoting sustainable production. Five types of governance mechanisms that can involve vertical or horizontal links are identified. Considering the growth of new governance relationships expands previous conceptions of the roles of lead firm governance.
J50|Communicating under the regimes of divergent ideas: how public agencies in Sweden manage tensions between transparency and consistency|In this article we draw on Scandinavian institutionalism to argue that ideas act as imperatives for organizations’ communication, whereby differences between ideas can generate tensions that organizations must manage. We focus on transparency and consistency, ideas that frequently underpin organizational communication, but are mobilized by different problems and offer different solutions. An analysis of communication policy and strategy documents in 188 Swedish public agencies shows how transparency and consistency coexist, but are translated into local settings in divergent ways. The resulting tensions relate to the purpose of communication, roles of organizational actors and of media, and stakeholder identities. Tensions are managed using three strategies: firewalling, ranking, and compromising. The findings show that ideas are fundamental to organizational communication, but that organizations also contribute to transformations and hybridizations of ideas. We suggest further analyses of interactions among institutions, organizations, and communication, particularly of how the translations of ideas generate tensions that must be resolved.
J50|Understanding health management and safety decisions using signal processing and machine learning|Background: Small group research in healthcare is important because it deals with interaction and decision-making processes that can help to identify and improve safer patient treatment and care. However, the number of studies is limited due to time- and resource-intensive data processing. The aim of this study was to examine the feasibility of using signal processing and machine learning techniques to understand teamwork and behaviour related to healthcare management and patient safety, and to contribute to literature and research of team working in healthcare. Methods: Clinical and non-clinical healthcare professionals organised into 28 teams took part in a video- and audio-recorded role-play exercise that represented a fictional healthcare system, and included the opportunity to discuss and improve healthcare management and patient safety. Group interactions were analysed using Recurrence Quantification Analysis (Knight et al., 2016), a signal processing method that examines stability, determinism, and complexity of group interactions. Data were benchmarked against self-reported quality of team participation and social support. Transcripts of group conversations were explored using the topic modelling approach (Blei et al., 2003), a machine learning method that helps to identify emerging themes within large corpora of qualitative data. Results: Groups exhibited stable group interactions that were positively correlated with perceived social support, and negatively correlated with predictive behaviour. Data processing of the qualitative data revealed conversations focused on: (1) the management of patient incidents; (2) the responsibilities among team members; (3) the importance of a good internal team environment; and (4) the hospital culture. Conclusions: This study has shed new light on small group research using signal processing and machine learning methods. Future studies are encouraged to use these methods in the healthcare context, and to conduct further research on how the nature of group interaction and communication processes contribute to the quality of team and task decision making.
J50|Difficult training improves team performance: an empirical case study of US college basketball|One major challenge facing policymakers is to design education and workplace training programs that are appropriately challenging. We review previous research which suggests that difficult training is better than easy training. However, surveys we conducted of students and of expert sport coaches showed that many prescribed easy rather than difficult training for those they coached. We analyzed the performance of NCAA basketball teams in postseason tournaments to see whether the existing research, largely on individuals in short-term situations, would generalize to teams in the long run. Indeed, playing difficult nonconference (training) games modestly improved performance for NCAA teams in the postseason. Difficult training particularly benefitted teams that lost many nonconference games, and the effect of difficulty was positive within the range of difficulty NCAA teams actually encounter, making it clear that difficult training is superior. We suggest that our results can be generalized beyond sports, although with careful consideration of differences between NCAA basketball teams and other teams that may limit generalizability. These results suggest that policymakers might consider amplifying the difficulty of team training exercises under certain conditions.
J50|Field opacity and practice outcomes decoupling: private regulation of labor standards in global supply chains|Although private regulation of labor standards in global supply chains is increasingly adopted by firms in diverse industries, a mounting quantum of scholarly evidence suggests that this approach has not generated sustainable improvements in working conditions of workers in global supply chains. Prior studies attribute this gap between private regulation practices and expected outcomes to flaws in each element of the private regulation model or to symbolic adoption by firms. The authors draw on recent developments in institutional theory regarding practice-outcome decoupling to suggest an alternative organizational field-level explanation. Using qualitative and quantitative data from a global apparel supplier and a global home products retailer, they demonstrate how actor heterogeneity creates field opacity via practice multiplicity, behavioral invisibility and causal complexity, contributing to practice-outcomes decoupling.
J50|Measuring the activity of mental health services in England: variation in categorising activity for payment purposes|In the context of international interest in reforming mental health payment systems, national policy in England has sought to move towards an episodic funding approach. Patients are categorised into care clusters, and providers will be paid for episodes of care for patients within each cluster. For the payment system to work, clusters need to be appropriately homogenous in terms of financial resource use. We examine variation in costs and activity within clusters and across health care providers. We find that the large variation between providers with respect to costs within clusters mean that a cluster-based episodic payment system would have substantially different financial impacts across providers.
J50|Institutions, infrastructures, and data friction – reforming secondary use of health data in Finland|New data-driven ideas of healthcare have increased pressures to reform existing data infrastructures. This paper explores the role of data governing institutions during a reform of both secondary health data infrastructure and related legislation in Finland. The analysis elaborates on recent conceptual work on data journeys and data frictions, connecting them to institutional and regulatory issues. The study employs an interpretative approach, using interview and document data. The results show the stark contrast between the goals of open and big data inspired reforms and the existing institutional realities. The multiple tensions that emerged during the process indicate how data frictions emanate to the institutional level, and how mundane data practices and institutional dynamics are intertwined. The paper argues that in the Finnish case, public institutions acted as sage-guards of public interest, preventing more controversial parts from passing. Finally, it argues that initiating regulatory and infrastructural reforms simultaneously was beneficial for solving the tensions of the initiative and analyzing either side separately would have produced misleading accounts of the overall initiative. The results highlight the benefits of analyzing institutional dynamics and data practices as connected issues.
J50|The role of contradictions and norms in the design and use of a telemedicine system: healthcare professionals’ perspective|No abstract is available for this item.
J50|Platforms as service ecosystems: lessons from social media|No abstract is available for this item.
J50|Generalized exchange orientation|We conceptualize generalized exchange orientation, and develop and validate a scale assessing individual orientations toward generalized exchange as well as reciprocal and negotiated exchange for offering a full set of measurements for social exchange orientation. Through 4 phases and using data from 1,408 participants, we established factorial, nomological, discriminant, and incremental validity of the social exchange orientation Scale and examined measurement invariance of the scale between samples from the United States and Japan. First, our findings indicate the newly developed scale for generalized exchange orientation (GEO) is distinct from measures of other forms of social exchange orientation and prosocial orientation. Second, the GEO Scale shows incremental validity as it predicts citizenship behaviors toward individuals above and beyond the key dispositional antecedents known in the literature. Implications and future research on generalized exchange are discussed.
J50|Democracy in trade unions, democracy through trade unions?|Since the Webbs published Industrial Democracy at the end of the nineteenth century, the principle that workers have a legitimate voice in decision-making in the world of work – in some versions through trade unions, in others at least formally through separate representative structures – has become widely accepted in most west European countries. There is now a vast literature on the strengths and weaknesses of such mechanisms, and we review briefly some of the key interpretations of the rise (and fall) of policies and structures for workplace and board-level representation. We also discuss the mainly failed attempts to establish broader processes of economic democracy, which the eclipse of nationally specific mechanisms of class compromise makes again a salient demand. Economic globalization also highlights the need for transnational mechanisms to achieve worker voice (or more radically, control) in the dynamics of capital-labour relations. We therefore examine the role of trade unions in coordinating pressure for a countervailing force at European and global levels, and in the construction of (emergent?) supranational industrial relations. However, many would argue that unions cannot win legitimacy as democratizing force unless manifestly democratic internally. We therefore revisit debates on and dilemmas of democracy within trade unions, and examine recent initiatives to enhance democratization.
J50|Why American Older Workers Have Lost Bargaining Power| The bargaining power of workers cannot be measured directly, but it can be inferred from working conditions and institutional factors. This study documents the stagnation in older workers’ wages and the seven reasons older workers have lost bargaining power. Five factors relate to monopsony exposure from eroding retirement income security, union loss, more insecure employment relationships, persistent age discrimination, and geographical immobility. Two additional factors -- older workers' ineligibility for the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC); and older workers’ relative propensity to work for smaller firms – also weaken bargaining power. Significant loss of bargaining power of workers over age 55 who are projected to fill 6.4 million of the 11.4 million net new jobs created between 2016 and 2026 could suppress wages and working conditions for all workers.
J50|The Origins of the Swedish Wage Bargaining Model|That export-led industry sets the wage norm for the whole economy, acting as the “wage leader”, is a celebrated part of the Swedish wage bargaining and labour market model. Export- led wage leadership is assumed to lead to controlled, non-inflationary wage increases, as wages are set with international competition in mind. This paper maps the origins of this export industry wage leadership model, showing that the conventional cross-class alliance story focusing on the 1930s does not square with the facts. Going through the central trade union wage bargaining protocols from 1939 to 1959, I show that industry wage leadership was non-existent in the 1930s. In fact, wage formation at the time was quite decentralized. Instead, industry wage leadership was created only in the 1950s. The driving force behind it was not a cross-class alliance between workers and employers in export industry against home market workers, but rather the integration of the trade union wage policy into a Social Democratic macroeconomic project.
J50|A new model for wage formation in Iceland|Iceland is recovering after a severe crisis, which is an impressive turnaround by any standard. However, the improvement of the economy has led to a rising wage growth, which, if it continues, may lead to another boom-bust cycle. Persistent high wage growth is likely to induce the central bank to raise the interest rate, so as to prevent inflation from exceeding the inflation target. A combination of high wage growth and a monetary tightening would likely lead to appreciation of the Icelandic krona, which would weaken the competitive position of Icelandic firms. To ensure that wage growth is reduced down to sustainable levels, Iceland would benefit from adopting a wage leadership model, also referred to as a pattern bargaining model, like the Norwegian “frontfag-model”. Establishing a wage leadership model requires three steps. - Develop a common understanding among the labour market parties about the challenges and the need for sustainable wage growth. - Establish a wage leader which negotiates first and thus sets the norm for the wage growth in other parts of the labour market. - Ensure that the norm for the wage growth is followed elsewhere in the labour market.
J50|Socialist Legacies and Human Resource Management in European Transition Economies : An Analytical Survey|This paper takes up the human resource management studies targeting European transition economies (ETEs) in the context of transition economies and empirically examines the relationship between the existing studies, which discuss the institutional and cultural legacies of their socialist period, and the attributes of the literature. This analytical survey clarifies that the major studies in human resource management in ETEs still keep focus on the old socialist legacies, particularly in traditional industries, and that the socialist institutional legacies are actively and continuously discussed in ETEs to understand the diversity of European HRM, though there is a possibility that the divergence theory based on cultural legacies may become inapplicable in accordance with their deepening integration with the EU economy.
J50|“The Institutional Adjustment Margin to Import Competition: Evidence from Italian Minimum Wages”|A growing body of research has contributed to understanding the labor market and political effects of globalization. This paper explores an overlooked aspect of trade-induced adjustments in the labor market: the institutional aspect. We take advantage of the two-tier collective bargaining structure of the Italian labor market, whereby the first tier entails setting minimum wages at the contract level. Using an instrumental variable strategy and exploiting variations in contract-level exposure to trade, we find for the 1995-2003 period that on average, the surge in imports decreased contractual minimum wages by 1.5%. This impact increased with the increase in the share of unskilled workers employed under this contract. This negative institutional effect contrasts with a nonsignificant effect of trade on total wages, with the latter becoming positive and large only for highly skilled workers.
J50|Works Councils and Workplace Health Promotion in Germany|From a theoretical viewpoint, there can be market failures resulting in an underprovision of occupational health and safety. Works councils may help mitigate these failures. Using establishment data from Germany, our empirical analysis confirms that the incidence of a works council is significantly associated with an increased likelihood that the establishment provides more workplace health promotion than required by law. This result also holds in a recursive bivariate probit regression accounting for the possible endogeneity of works council incidence. Furthermore, analyzing potentially moderating factors such as collective bargaining coverage, industry, type of ownership, multiestablishment status and product market competition, we find a positive association between works councils and workplace health promotion for the various types of establishments examined. Finally, we go beyond the mere incidence of workplace health promotion and show that works councils are positively associated with a series of different measures of workplace health promotion.
J50|Rent sharing in China: Magnitude, heterogeneity and drivers|Do firms in China share rents with their workers? We address this question by examining firm-level panel data covering virtually all manufacturing firms over the period 2000-2007, representing an average of 200,000 firms and 54 million workers per year. We find robust evidence of rent sharing (RS): workers that would move from low- to high-profit firms would see their wages increase by about 45%. The results are based on multiple instrumental variables, including firm-specific international trade shocks. We also present a number of complementary findings: RS is weaker in firms with more women and less educated workers; RS involves an element of risk sharing, as wages also decrease when profits fall; RS is lower in regions with more latent competition from rural workers; higher minimum wages tend to reduce RS; and, while employer labour market power reduces wages, it increases RS. Overall, despite its importance, RS in China is smaller than in developed economies, which reflects the weaker bargaining power of its workers and the different scope of its labour market institutions.
J50|Trust and workplace performance|This paper explores the relationship between trust and establishment performance. The outcome indicators are management’s assessment of the economic or financial situation of the workplace and its relative labor productivity. Trust is initially measured using the individual survey respondent’s assessment of the ‘contribution’ of the other side, the rating of the employee representative being favored over that of management as less subject to feedback from performance. Although the potential endogeneity of employee trust is taken into account, an improved measure is constructed from the discrepancy or dissonance between the assessments of the two sides as to the quality of industrial relations at the workplace. All trust measures are associated with improved establishment performance. However, there is no suggestion from specifications using the two more favored trust measures that any one type of formal workplace representation – either works councils or union bodies – is superior. Dissonance, if indeed exogenous, demonstrates that good industrial relations trump type of workplace representation.
J50|Do Workers Discriminate against Female Bosses?|I hire 2,700 workers for a transcription job, randomly assigning the gender of their (fictitious) manager and provision of performance feedback. While praise from a manager has no effect, criticism negatively impacts workers' job satisfaction and perception of the task's importance. When female managers, rather than male, deliver this feedback, the negative effects double in magnitude. Having a critical female manager does not affect effort provision but it does lower workers' interest in working for the firm in the future. These findings hold for both female and male workers. I show that results are consistent with gendered expectations of feedback among workers. By contrast, I find no evidence for the role of either attention discrimination or implicit gender bias.
J50|Scabs: The Social Suppression of Labor Supply|Social norms have the potential to alter the functioning of economic markets. We test whether norms shape the aggregate labor supply curve by preventing workers from supplying labor at wage cuts—leading decentralized individuals to implicitly behave as a cartel to maintain wage floors in their local labor markets. We partner with 183 existing employers, who offer jobs to 502 workers in informal spot labor markets in India. Unemployed workers are privately willing to accept jobs below the prevailing wage, but rarely do so when this choice is observable to other workers. In contrast, social observability does not affect labor supply at the prevailing wage. Workers give up 49% of average weekly earnings to avoid being seen as breaking the social norm. In addition, workers pay to punish anonymous laborers who have accepted wage cuts—indicating that cartel behavior is reinforced through the threat of social sanctions. Punishment occurs for workers in one’s own labor market and for those in distant regions, suggesting the internalization of norms in moral terms. Finally, consistent with the idea that norms could have aggregate implications, measures of social cohesion correlate with downward wage rigidity and business cycle volatility across India.
J50|Améliorer les performances du marché du travail en France: mise en oeuvre de la Stratégie pour l’emploi de l’OCDE|Ce chapitre propose une analyse approfondie des performances du marché du travail français suivant la nouvelle Stratégie pour l’emploi de l’OCDE. Depuis 2015, les créations d’emploi ont fait refluer le chômage et les situations de sous emploi ont diminué, mais le marché du travail français reste confronté à de nombreux défis. Le taux d’emploi, bien qu’en hausse, demeure relativement faible, les compétences de la population sont inégales, et la rotation d’une partie des travailleurs sur des contrats de moins d’un mois a augmenté. Les créations d’emplois de qualité ont été insuffisantes pour permettre l’intégration économique et sociale d’un grand nombre de jeunes et des moins qualifiés. Des réformes ambitieuses ont visé à réduire l’incertitude entourant le coût des fins de contrats de travail, tout en améliorant les opportunités de formation pour les moins qualifiés et en renforçant l’accompagnement et l’orientation, de manière cohérente avec les recommandations de la nouvelle Stratégie pour l’emploi de l’OCDE. Le gouvernement a aussi restructuré le dialogue social aux niveaux des entreprises et des branches, réduit les incertitudes sur les procédures de licenciement économique et poursuit une réforme de l’assurance chômage. Afin de maximiser les gains de ces réformes, la priorité doit être de renforcer l’efficacité de la formation continue et de limiter la reproduction des inégalités et les décrochages scolaires. Simplifier l’organisation des services d’accompagnement et faciliter les mobilités professionnelles permettraient aussi un meilleur appariement entre offre et demande de travail et des gains de productivité soutenus. Le dialogue social au niveau des entreprises doit également être encouragé, tout comme l’engagement des employeurs dans la formation initiale et continue. Enfin, la réforme en cours de l’assurance chômage ainsi qu’une unification des systèmes de soutien aux bas revenus améliorerait l’efficacité et la lisibilité des prestations sociales tout en incitant plus fortement à la reprise d’emplois durables. Ce Document de travail se rapporte à l’Étude économique de l’OCDE de la France 2019 (http://www.oecd.org/fr/economie/france-en-un-coup-d-oeil/)
J50|Employment protection reform in European labor markets: the collective bargaining regime matters|"Policy advisers repeatedly call on Western European countries to reform their employment protection legislation (EPL) by adopting layoff taxes to finance unemployment insurance (UI). This new design, partly based on the existing ""experience-rating"" (ER) system in the U.S., would induce firms to internalize layoff fiscal costs and hence reduce unemployment. Its success remains uncertain in economies with a collective wage-setting system, as in many Western European countries. Using a matching model with endogenous job destruction, we provide an ex-ante evaluation of this policy reform’s effects on labor market outcomes in a firm-level bargaining economy and a sector-level bargaining one. Using numerical exercises, we show that compared to a scenario of a simple increase in EPL stringency, the implementation of an ER system results in a decrease in unemployment under both bargaining regimes. Because of the possibility for firms to adjust most terms and conditions of employment (including wage) in decentralized negotiations, juxtaposing the ER system with the existing EPL yields the best labor market performance under a firm-level bargaining regime. The lack of internal flexibility in sector-level bargaining calls for accompanying the implementation of the ER with a relaxation of the existing EPL’s stringency. Lastly, we show that in industries with a turbulent economic environment, accompanying the introduction of ER while reducing the existing EPL’s strictness is recommended."
J50|Legitimacy and Incentives in a Labour Relationship|We design a two-stage model where the winner of a tournament becomes the executive of his former opponent. We call procedural legitimacy, the legitimacy an executive obtains if he is promoted through a competition with no unfair treatment. The aim of this paper is to study how effort may paradoxically bolster or undermine this type of legitimacy with respect to technological assumptions. Besides we show that, in bayesian terms, winning the competition reinforces the belief of having been advantaged but it also reinforces the belief that the looser will be disadvantaged in the future and thus be less productive. This will tend to make winning the competition by being advantaged much less profitable. To incentivize more effort during the competition, the firm has to design a procedure where opponents are not evaluated by their peers but by neutral and external people. Thus the competition will not bring information on a potential inequality of treatment in the future. We argue civil servant examination in public administration and human resources departments are designed partially for this reason..
J50|Which kind of ability bolsters legitimacy?|The aim of this paper is to study in a theoretical perspective how the choice of the ability on which an executive is evaluated to be promoted may be a crucial stake. We show that a procedure where an executive is selected on a managerial ability will allow to increase his own wage, compared to a procedure where he needs to demonstrate ability on the same task than his employee. The intuition is that it would neutralize the issue of rivalry with the employee by preserving the self confidence of the employee in spite he has failed at being promoted, making him easier to incentivize. The consequence is that selecting leaders on their ability to outperform their employee will tend to favor the emergence of a leadership culture of humility during the promotion process in a sense that opponents will strategically reduce their performance to preserve the self-confidence of their employee and then make him less costly to incentivize. On the contrary, selecting leaders on managerial ability will favor the emergence of a leadership culture of demonstration of strength.
J50|The Hidden Effect of Meritocratic Promotion Procedure: Experimental Evidence|The aim of this experimental paper is to show how the willingness of an employee to accept inequality of wages between him and his executive will depend on the ability on which the executive is evaluated when he is promoted. This willingness to accept inequality is captured by the minimum wage enough to incentivize to work for his executive. We show that selecting an executive on his ability to outperform his employee at his own task will be counterproductive to make employee accepting inequality of wages. We argue that the efficiency of “merit-based” promotion procedure may be challenged by this result.
J50|Die Lohnentwicklung in den Westbalkanländern, Moldau und der Ukraine|This publication is available in German language only. For a brief English summary see further below. Erst in den letzten Jahren kam es im Zuge der allgemeinen Erholung der Wirtschaft zu einem deutlichen Anstieg der Reallöhne in den Westbalkanländern, Moldau und der Ukraine. Trotzdem sind die Lohnquoten kaum gestiegen bzw. zum Teil sogar leicht gesunken. Nur im Kosovo ist es zu einer deutlichen Annäherung an das österreichische Lohnniveau gekommen. Die Verbesserung der Arbeitsmarktbedingungen hatte einen nur mäßig positiven Effekt auf die Lohnentwicklung. Die Arbeitslosenquoten bleiben – trotz jüngster Rückgänge – oft im zweistelligen Bereich, so dass sich die Verhandlungsmacht der Arbeitnehmer nur geringfügig verbessert hat. Auch die schrittweise Dezentralisierung der Lohnsetzungsmechanismen hat das Lohnwachstum gebremst. Generell sind kollektivvertragliche Mechanismen in den Ländern der Region wesentlich schwächer entwickelt als etwa in Österreich. Deren Reichweite wird durch den geringen Anteil der unselbständig Beschäftigten an der (formellen) Gesamtbeschäftigung begrenzt. Hohe Arbeitslosigkeit und ein großes Lohngefälle, vor allem im Vergleich mit Westeuropa, hatten eine beträchtliche Abwanderung und einen Rückgang der Bevölkerung vieler dieser Länder zur Folge. Mit der Fortsetzung dieses Trends wird auch für die Zukunft gerechnet. Langfristig gesehen geht dadurch ein wichtiger Teil von Humankapital verloren, was die Aussichten auf eine Annäherung an das westeuropäische Niveau – unter anderem in puncto Löhne – beeinträchtigen dürfte. English Summary Wage developments in the West Balkans, Moldova and Ukraine In recent years, the general economic recovery has finally fed through to a significant increase in real wages in the Western Balkan countries, Moldova and Ukraine. Nevertheless, wage shares have barely picked up, and even declined slightly in several places. Significant convergence towards the Austrian wage level has only been registered in Kosovo. The improvement in labour market conditions in the countries covered has had only a moderately positive effect on wage developments. Despite recent declines, many countries continue to record double-digit unemployment rates, meaning that the bargaining power of employees has improved only slightly. The gradual decentralisation of wage-setting mechanisms has also slowed wage growth. In general, collective bargaining mechanisms are much less developed than, for example, in Austria. Their scope is limited by the low share of employees in total (formal) employment. High unemployment and large wage gaps, especially in comparison with Western Europe, have led to considerable outward migration and population decline in many of these countries. This trend is expected to continue in the future. In the long run, this will result in the loss of an important share of the human capital of these countries, which might affect their prospects for convergence towards Western European levels, including in wages.
J50|Plädoyer für eine neue Tarifpolitik: Kritische Situationsanalyse und Diskussion einer alternativen Gestaltungsvariante|Es gibt gute Gründe, die jahrzehntelang eingespielten Muster der Tarifpolitik kritisch zu hinterfragen. Für einen besonders problematischen Aspekt liefert das aktuelle Jahr 2019 ein gutes Beispiel: Die Ergebnisse von Tarifvertragsverhandlungen weisen aus betriebswirtschaftlicher Sicht ein kontraproduktives zeitliches Muster auf. Die höchsten Tarifabschlüsse werden nämlich oftmals in Jahren getätigt, in denen sich die Wachstumsraten der Wirtschaft deutlich reduzieren. Unternehmen bräuchten in dieser Phase eigentlich eine Kostenentlastung. Stattdessen gehen sie mit sockelwirksam erhöhten Personalkosten in eine Abschwungphase. Diese kontraproduktive Antizyklik kann potenziell zu einer Gefährdung der Arbeitsplätze in einzelnen Betrieben führen. Die Zahl der Betriebe in Kurzarbeit belegt dies deutlich. Weitere problematische Aspekte der üblichen tarifpolitischen Mechanismen sind: Kosten und Störpotenzial von Arbeitskämpfen, Belastung des öffentlichen Lebens und des Betriebsfriedens durch Streiks, Inflexibilität von Tarifverträgen, Kompliziertheit und Antiquiertheit von Verhandlungsritualen, finanzielle Überforderung einzelner Unternehmen durch Betriebsferne der Tarifverträge. Die Diskussion aller Aspekte führt zur Schlussfolgerung, dass die Suche nach alternativen Mechanismen in der Tarifpolitik sinnvoll ist. Es wird dazu ein Lastenheft entwickelt. Im Ergebnis wird ein neues Paradigma in der Tarifpolitik vorgeschlagen und diskutiert, das im Dauerbetrieb stärker durch eine betriebswirtschaftlich sinnhafte Zyklik, Standardisierung, Automatisierung und Einfachheit geprägt ist. Im Kern besteht der Ansatz aus zwei Komponenten. Alle Beschäftigten erhalten zunächst in jedem Jahr automatisch einen Ausgleich für die Inflationsrate. Dies schafft Kaufkraftstabilität. In einem nächsten Schritt wird die Gesamtbelegschaft dann zu einem langfristig vereinbarten Prozentsatz automatisch am Vorjahresgewinn des eigenen Unternehmens beteiligt. Dieses zweite Element sichert eine höhere Flexibilität der Personalkosten und führt zu betriebsnäheren Tarifergebnissen. Im Detail sind dabei eine Fülle von Einzelfragen zu diskutieren, unter anderem muss eine Lösung für nicht gewinnorientierte Organisationen gefunden werden.
J50|Works Councils and Workplace Health Promotion in Germany|From a theoretical viewpoint, there can be market failures resulting in an underprovision of occupational health and safety. Works councils may help mitigate these failures. Using establishment data from Germany, our empirical analysis confirms that the incidence of a works council is significantly associated with an increased likelihood that the establishment provides more workplace health promotion than required by law. This result also holds in a recursive bivariate probit regression accounting for the possible endogeneity of works council incidence. Furthermore, analyzing potentially moderating factors such as collective bargaining coverage, industry, type of ownership, multi-establishment status and product market competition, we find a positive association between works councils and workplace health promotion for the various types of establishments examined. Finally, we go beyond the mere incidence of workplace health promotion and show that works councils are positively associated with a series of different measures of workplace health promotion.
J50|The Growing Divergence in U.S. Employee Relations: Individualism, Democracy, and Conflict|The growing divergence in U.S. employee relations is described through a review of national and state-level changes to employment protection laws. Major employment laws are reviewed, as are the significant exceptions to the laws, and exemptions to the exceptions. Major regulatory actions, as well as reversals of the regulations, and reversals of the reversals are also described. An analysis of changes to state employment policies since 2000 shows an increasing ideologically driven divergence within the country between left-leaning “equity and voice” states and right-leaning “individual rights and efficiency” states. Instability and divergence are major features of the U.S. system of employee relations that require additional scrutiny.
J50|The development of the German labour market after World War II|Labour market developments have Germany undergone two shocks: German reunification in the early 1990s, and the Hartz reforms in the early 2000s. They separated the German labour market into the traditional rather corporatist labour market segment, characterised by a high degree of coordination, and a new, less regulated labour market segment. The latter is characterised by low wages and precarious working conditions. A precariat living under conditions of high uncertainty developed. All these developments are mainly the result of legal changes in Germany - changes which, with respect to employment creation, were unneeded.
J50|Labour market power and the distorting effects of international trade|This article examines how trade shocks shape labour market imperfections that create market power in labour markets and prevent an efficient allocation of labour. I develop a framework for measuring such labor market distortions in monetary terms and document large degrees of those distortions in Germany's manufacturing sector. Import competition can only exert labor market disciplining effects when firms rather than workers have labour market power. Otherwise, export demand and import competition shocks tend to fortify existing distortions by amplifying labour market power structures. This diminishes the gains from trade compared to a model with perfectly competitive labour markets.
J50|Micro-mechanisms behind declining labour shares: Market power, production processes, and global competition|This article investigates how changing production processes and increasing market power at the firm level relate to a fall in Germany's manufacturing sector labour share. Coinciding with the fall of the labour share, I document a rise in firms' product and labour market power. Notably, labour market power is a more relevant source of firms' market power than product market power. Increasing product and labour market power, however, only account for 30% of the fall in the labour share. The remaining 70% are explained by a transition of firms towards less labour-intensive production activities. I study the role of final product trade in causing those secular movements. I find that rising foreign export demand contributes to a decline in the labour share by increasing labour market power within firms and by inducing a reallocation of economic activity from nonexporting-high-labour-share to exporting-low-labour-share firms.
J50|Price-cost margin and bargaining power in the European Union|Using firm-level data between 2004 and 2012 for eleven countries of the European Union (EU), we document the size of product and labour market imperfections within narrowly defined sectors including services which are virtually undocumented. Our findings suggest that perfect competition in both product and labour markets is widely rejected. Levels of the price-cost margin and union bargaining power tend to be higher in some service sectors depicting however substantial heterogeneity. Dispersion within sector and across countries tends to be higher in some services sectors assuming a less tradable nature which suggests that the Single Market integration is partial particularly relaxing the assumption of perfect competition in the labour market. We report also figures for the aggregate economy and show that Eastern countries tend to depict lower product and labour market imperfections compared to other countries in the EU. Also, we provide evidence in favour of a very limited adjustment of both product and labour market imperfections following the international and financial crisis.
J50|Tarifpolitischer Bericht 1. Halbjahr 2019: Viele Warnstreiks, lange Laufzeiten|Der vorliegende Report berichtet über ausgewählte Tarifverhandlungen im 1. Halbjahr 2019. Wie schon im Vorjahr stand neben den Entgeltforderungen der Wunsch nach neuen Wahlmodellen auf der tarifpolitischen Agenda der Gewerkschaften. Bei diesen Wahlmodellen handelt die Gewerkschaft eine zusätzliche Entgeltkomponente aus, die wahlweise auch in Freizeit getauscht werden kann. In der Eisen- und Stahlindustrie setzte die IG Metall ein zusätzliches Urlaubsgeld von 1.000 Euro durch, welches die Arbeitnehmer in maximal fünf freie Tage umwandeln können. Auch in der westdeutschen Textilindustrie und im Bankgewerbe wurde über Wahlmodelle diskutiert. Hier konnten sich die Gewerkschaften aber nicht durchsetzen. In der ostdeutschen Textilindustrie ging es um eine Verkürzung der Wochenarbeitszeit. Die IG Metall erreichte in den Verhandlungen, dass die Arbeitszeit bis 2027 stufenweise von derzeit 40 auf 37 Stunden reduziert wird. Bei den Klinikärzten an den kommunalen Kliniken setzte der Marburger Bund eine exaktere Erfassung der geleisteten Arbeitsstunden und zwei arbeits- und bereitschaftsfreie Wochenenden pro Monat durch. Die Entgeltforderungen lagen zwischen 5,0 und 6,5 Prozent. Ver.di verlangte im Handel und im Öffentlichen Dienst außerdem überdurchschnittliche Anhebungen der unteren Lohngruppen. Dies konnte die Gewerkschaft vor allem im Öffentlichen Dienst, aber auch im Einzelhandel durchsetzen. In den meisten Tarifabschlüssen wurden stufenweise Lohnanpassungen bei langen Laufzeiten vereinbart. Im Öffentlichen Dienst addieren sich die drei Erhöhungsstufen auf 7,8 Prozent (zweimal 3,2 und einmal 1,4 Prozent) bei einer Laufzeit von 33 Monaten. Die Klinikärzte erhalten für denselben Zeitraum insgesamt 6,5 Prozent mehr. In der Druckindustrie wurden sogar 36 Monate Laufzeit beschlossen. Dort steigen die Löhne ebenfalls in drei Stufen um insgesamt 5,4 Prozent. Im Bankgewerbe einigten sich die Tarifparteien auf zwei Erhöhungen von jeweils 2 Prozent bei einer Laufzeit von 29 Monaten. Kürzere Laufzeiten gab es mit 18 Monaten in der Papiererzeugenden Industrie - die Löhne steigen in diesem Zeitraum einmalig um 3 Prozent - und vor allem beim Kabinenpersonal von Eurowings. Dort wurde im Rahmen der Verhandlungen über den Manteltarifvertrag zwischen ver.di und dem Unternehmen auch vereinbart, für die bei ver.di organisierten Flugbegleiter eine Lohnerhöhung von 2 Prozent für neun Monate zu übernehmen, die zuvor bereits die Flugbegleiter-Organisation UFO ausgehandelt hatte. Im Vergleich zum gleichen Vorjahreszeitraum legte die Konfliktintensität - sie misst, wie stark die Tarifverhandlungen durch Streikdrohungen, Verhandlungsabbrüche oder Warnstreiks eskalieren - deutlich zu: Im 1. Halbjahr 2018 fielen im Durchschnitt je Verhandlung 6,7 Punkte an, im 1. Halbjahr 2019 waren es 10,8 Punkte. Die Druckindustrie kam auf 44 Punkte, gefolgt vom Bankgewerbe mit 33 und den Klinikärzten mit 19 Punkten. Konfliktfrei ging es in drei Branchen zu: in der Papiererzeugenden Industrie, in der ostdeutschen Textilindustrie und bei der Deut-schen Post. Dort werden künftig wieder alle Paketzusteller nach dem Haustarifvertrag vergütet. Im zweiten Halbjahr drohen vor allem Konflikte im Flugverkehr durch UFO. Anstehende Verhandlungen in der Chemischen Industrie und im Bauhauptgewerbe (Anpassung des branchenspezifischen Mindestlohns) dürften hingegen eher konfliktfrei verlaufen. In der Chemischen Industrie sind selbst Streikdrohungen selten.
J50|Tarifpolitischer Bericht 2. Halbjahr 2018: Vielfach stockende Verhandlungen|Der vorliegende Report berichtet über die Tarifverhandlungen im 2. Halbjahr 2018. Im 1. Halbjahr hatte es bereits Tarifverhandlungen in wichtigen Branchen gegeben, beispielsweise in der Metall- und Elektro-Industrie, im Öffentlichen Dienst (Bund und Kommunen) und im Bauhauptgewerbe. Im 2. Halbjahr 2018 stand vor allem der Verkehrssektor im Fokus der Tarifauseinandersetzungen. Dabei gab es bei der Deutschen Bahn und in der Luftfahrt eine Reihe von Warnstreiks, die erhebliche Auswirkungen auf Drittbetroffene hatten. In der Luftfahrt schwelten verschiedene Tarifkonflikte bei der irischen Fluggesellschaft Ryanair, die sich nach der Insolvenz von AirBerlin zu einem zentralen Akteur im deutschen Flugverkehr entwickelt hat. Die Verhandlungen mit den Piloten eskalierten dabei ebenso wie die Verhandlungen mit dem Kabinenpersonal. Es gab mehrfach Warn- oder Tagesstreiks. Im November 2018 konnten für beide Berufsgruppen Eckpunkte vereinbart werden, auf deren Basis nun erstmals für das Unternehmen Tarifverträge für das in Deutschland stationierte Personal entwickelt werden. Auch bei Eurowings kam es im Streit um einen neuen Manteltarifvertrag für das Kabinenpersonal zu Warnstreiks. Dieser Konflikt wurde noch nicht beigelegt. Bei der Deutschen Bahn kam es ebenfalls zu einem Warnstreik, der bundesweit fast den gesamten Zugverkehr zum Erliegen brachte. Zum Ausstand hatte nicht die Gewerkschaft Deutscher Lokführer (GDL), sondern die konkurrierende Eisenbahn- und Verkehrsgewerkschaft (EVG) aufgerufen. Nach diesem Warnstreik einigten sich EVG und Deutsche Bahn auf einen neuen Tarifabschluss, der auch half, die zwischenzeitlich abgebrochenen Verhandlungen zwischen Bahn und GDL wieder aufzunehmen und zum Abschluss zu bringen. Auch in anderen Wirtschaftszweigen verliefen die Verhandlungen eher stockend. In der Druckindustrie schwelt ein Grundsatzkonflikt. Dort hatten die Arbeitgeber den Manteltarifvertrag gekündigt. Die Vereinte Dienstleistungsgewerkschaft (ver.di) lehnt aber jedwede Verschlechterung von Arbeitsbedingungen ab. Für die Gebäudereinigung fordert die IG Bauen-Agrar-Umwelt (IG BAU) ein 13. Monatsgehalt. Dies lehnen wiederum die Arbeitgeber strikt ab. In keiner der beiden Branchen deutet sich trotz monatelanger Verhandlungen derzeit eine Kompromisslinie an. Schwierig waren auch die Verhandlungen bei T-Systems, einer Tochter der Deutschen Telekom. Hier wurden die Verhandlungen dadurch belastet, dass das Management angekündigt hatte, massiv Stellen abbauen zu wollen. Im Durchschnitt von insgesamt 22 analysierten Tarifverhandlungen, die entweder im Jahr 2018 beendet wurden oder 2018 begannen, lag die Konfliktintensität bei 10,5 Punkten. Die Auseinandersetzung zwischen Ryanair und den Piloten führte zu 53 Konfliktpunkten, der Tarifkonflikt in der Metall- und Elektro-Industrie zu 35 Punkten und der in der Druckindustrie zu 31 Punkten. Harmonisch ging es hingegen in der Chemischen Industrie zu. Dort einigten sich die Sozialpartner konfliktfrei. Aufgrund der guten Arbeitsmarktlage könnte auch das Jahr 2019 konfliktreich werden. Nach wie vor liegen die Forderungen der Gewerkschaften bei 5,5 bis 6 Prozent, obwohl sich die Konjunktur abgekühlt hat. Allerdings wird 2019 eher ein kleines Tarifjahr. In vielen Branchen wird es Entgeltsteigerungen geben, die bereits 2018 ausgehandelt wurden.
J50|Supervision and Work Content: Industry level evidence|The existence of a trade-off between supervision and wages has proven to be a challenging empirical issue due to the lack of direct measures of supervision and its simultaneous setting with wages. This article proposes a novel measure of supervisory frequency and an explanation based on an old idea, namely that firm's choice depends on how difficult it is to monitor the workers they employ. We test this hypothesis using occupational level data on the frequency of super-visory detailed work activities and measures of work content. At the industry level the analysis suggests supervision increases with the complexity of the activities performed by workers, hence, in striking contrast to previous studies relying on the ratio of supervisors to employees, industries that employ more workers performing non-routine cognitive activities also rely on supervision the most. Moreover, at the individual level there is no evidence of a trade-off but only weak evidence of a positive relation between wages and supervision which seems to be a complement rather than a substitute to wage incentives.
J50|Die Lohnentwicklung in den mittel- und osteuropäischen Mitgliedsländern der EU|This publication is available in German language only. For a brief English summary see further below. Die Arbeitsmärkte in den mittel- und osteuropäischen Mitgliedsländern der EU (EU-MOE-8) haben sich seit der globalen Wirtschaftskrise von 2008-2009 deutlich verbessert. Die Arbeitslosenraten gingen kontinuierlich zurück, in erster Linie aufgrund rückläufiger demographischer Entwicklungen und massiver Auswanderung Richtung Westen, was eine Schrumpfung der Bevölkerung im erwerbsfähigen Alter zur Folge hatte. Trotzdem war das Lohnwachstum in den EU-MOE-8 noch bis vor kurzem eher verhalten, was dazu führte, dass die Lohnquote generell stabil blieb. Die sogenannte Phillips-Kurve, die einen negativen Zusammenhang zwischen Arbeitslosigkeit und Lohnwachstum darstellt, gilt also in diesem Zeitraum für die meisten EU-MOE-8 nicht – anders als etwa in Österreich oder Deutschland. Der Hauptgrund dafür ist die voranschreitende Flexibilisierung und Liberalisierung der Arbeitsmärkte der EU-MOE-Länder in den Jahren seit der Wirtschaftskrise. Vor allem die Lohnverhandlungsmechanismen wurden dezentralisiert, und der Grad der kollektivvertraglichen Abdeckung ging, zum Teil dramatisch, zurück. Dies hatte tendenziell eine Verschlechterung der Verhandlungsposition der ArbeitnehmerInnen zur Folge, wodurch die positiven Effekte der allgemeinen Verbesserung der Arbeitsmarktlage konterkariert wurden. English Summary Wage developments in the Central and East European Member States of the EU Labour markets in the Central and East European Member States of the EU (EU-CEE-8) have improved significantly since the global economic crisis of 2008-2009. Unemployment rates declined steadily, primarily due to adverse demographic trends and massive outward migration to the West, which resulted in a decline in the working-age population. Nevertheless, until recently wage growth in EU-CEE-8 was rather restrained, resulting in generally stable wage shares. The so-called Phillips curve, which represents a ne<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J50|Labour market power and the distorting effects of international trade|This article examines how trade shocks shape labour market imperfections that create market power in labour markets and prevent an efficient allocation of labour. I develop a framework for measuring such labour market distortions in monetary terms and document large degrees of those distortions in Germany's manufacturing sector. Import competition can only exert labour market disciplining effects when firms rather than workers have labour market power. Otherwise, export demand and import competition shocks tend to fortify existing distortions by amplifying labour market power structures. This diminishes the gains from trade compared to a model with perfectly competitive labour markets.
J50|Tarifpolitischer Bericht - 1. Halbjahr 2018: Arbeitszeit zurück auf der Agenda|"Der vorliegende Report berichtet über die Tarifverhandlungen im 1. Halbjahr 2018. Neben dem Entgelt stand in einigen Verhandlungen auch das Thema Arbeitszeit auf der Agenda. In der Metall- und Elektro-Industrie setzte die IG Metall eine ""kurze Vollzeit"" durch, die Arbeitnehmern in Vollzeit das Recht einräumt, die Wochenarbeitszeit vorübergehend für maximal zwei Jahre auf bis zu 28 Stunden zu reduzieren. Dieser Anspruch ist mit dem Recht verbunden, wieder zur Vollzeit zurückzukehren. Im Gegenzug erhalten die Unternehmen der Branche mehr Möglichkeiten, mit Mitarbeitern, die dies wollen, längere Wochenarbeitszeiten als die tariflich geregelten 35 Stunden zu vereinbaren. Bei der Deutschen Post wurde ein Wahlmodell eingeführt: Die Beschäftigten entscheiden selbst, ob sie lieber Lohnerhöhungen oder mehr Freiheit haben möchten. Obwohl die Gewerkschaften zumeist 6 Prozent mehr Geld für zwölf Monate forderten, fielen die Abschlüsse sehr differenziert aus. Auf den ersten Blick erzielte die IG Bauen-Agrar-Umwelt mit einem Lohnzuwachs für 2018 von 5,7 Prozent im Westen und 6,6 Prozent im Osten einen Rekordabschluss. Dieser relativiert sich aber, wenn die lange Laufzeit mitberücksichtigt wird. Insgesamt hat die Tariflohndynamik in den ersten Monaten dieses Jahres gegenüber dem Vorjahr spürbar zugenommen. Im März und April stiegen die Tarifverdienste um 2,8 Prozent, im Mai sogar um 4,0 Prozent. 2017 lag der Zuwachs noch bei durchschnittlich 2,1 Prozent. Die neue Dynamik wird sich wohl auch im 2. Halbjahr 2018 fortsetzen. Im Vergleich zum Vorjahr verliefen die Tarifverhandlungen weniger kooperativ. Besonders konfliktreich ging es in der Metall- und Elektro-Industrie zu. Hier verursachten die verschiedenen Konflikthandlungen wie Streikdrohungen, Warnstreiks oder juristische Klagen insgesamt 35 Konfliktpunkte. Das ist der höchste Wert seit 2003, dem Jahr des gescheiterten Arbeitskampfes zur Einführung der 35-Stunden-Woche in Ostdeutschland. Im Durchschnitt der 15 analysierten Tarifverhandlungen lag die Konfliktintensität bei 6,7 Punkten. Das ist deutlich höher als der Jahresdurchschnitt im letzten Jahr. 2017 fielen im Durchschnitt 3,5 Punkte je Konflikt an. Diese Tendenz zu weniger kooperativen Verhandlungen könnte sich im zweiten Halbjahr 2018 fortsetzen. Dann drohen vor allem in der Druckindustrie und bei der Fluggesellschaft Ryanair Konflikte. Spannend werden auch die Tarifverhandlungen bei der Deutschen Bahn, wo sich weiterhin keine Kooperation zwischen den rivalisierenden Gewerkschaften andeutet."
J50|Tarifkonflikte im Jahr 2017: Kooperation statt Konfrontation|Eine Auswertung von 178 Tarifkonflikten zeigt, dass das Tarifjahr 2017 das friedlichste seit dem Jahr 2000 war. Die maximale Eskalationsstufe - sie gibt auf einer Skala von 0 bis 7 an, bis zu welcher Stufe ein Tarifkonflikt eskaliert - erreichte im Durchschnitt der 16 ausgewerteten Tarif-verhandlungen einen Wert von 1,2 und die Konfliktintensität - sie ist die bereinigte Summe aller während einer Tarifverhandlung aufgetretenen Konflikthandlungen - lag bei 3,5 Punkten. Im Streikrekordjahr 2015 lag die durchschnittliche maximale Eskalationstufe noch bei 3,5 und die Konfliktintensität bei 17,8 Punkten. Ein Grund für die gute Jahresbilanz 2017 war, dass wichtige Konflikte in der Luftfahrt und bei der Deutschen Bahn ohne größere Eskalation beigelegt werden konnten. Außerdem wurde in der Chemischen Industrie, in der Süßwarenindustrie im Bauhaupt-gewerbe und bei den Klinikärzten des Marburger Bundes konfliktfrei verhandelt. Konfliktreich ging es hingegen im Einzelhandel zu. Dort summierten sich die Konfliktpunkte auf 26 bei einer maximalen Eskalationsstufe von 4 (Warnstreik). Eine Auswertung nach Gewerkschaften zeigt: Über den gesamten Zeitraum hinweg verhandelte die IG Bergbau, Chemie, Energie am kooperativsten. Die Vereinigung Cockpit und die Lokführer-gewerkschaft GDL erreichten die höchsten Konfliktintensitäten und die Flugbegleiter-Organisation UFO sowie die Vereinte Dienstleistungsgewerkschaft ver.di im Einzelhandel die höchsten maximalen Eskalationsstufen. Das laufende Tarifjahr dürfte wieder konfliktreicher als 2017 verlaufen. In der Metall- und Elektro-Industrie spitzte sich der inzwischen beigelegte Tarifkonflikt stärker zu als bis zu den in den Vorjahren üblichen Warnstreiks, da die Arbeitgeber juristische Mittel gegen die Rechtmäßigkeit der Tagesstreiks einlegten (Eskalationsstufe 5). Im Öffentlichen Dienst und bei der Deutschen Post gab es bereits erste Warnstreiks und im Bauhauptgewerbe standen die Tarifverhandlungen zuletzt kurz vor dem Scheitern. Konfliktrisiken bergen auch die anstehenden Tarifver-handlungen in der Telekommunikation, in der Druckindustrie und bei der Deutschen Bahn.
J50|Corporate Taxes, Patent Shifting and Anti-Avoidance Rules: Empirical Evidence|We empirically assess international corporate tax avoidance by strategic location of innovative output. The analysis draws on the universe of patent applications to the European Patent Office linked with data on multinational entities (MNEs) in Europe. Four findings emerge: Firstly, patent holdings are distorted towards low-tax countries. Secondly, patent location in low-tax countries is correlated with a geographic separation of R&D output and input. Thirdly, MNEs systematically sort high-value (low-value) patents to low-tax (high-tax) countries. Fourthly, the propensity to locate patent ownership in low-tax countries is significantly decreased if controlled foreign company rules are enacted in the MNE’s parent country. The tightening of transfer pricing legislations, in turn, exerts a weak negative effect on the location of patent ownership only.
J50|Unionization, Cash, and Leverage|What is the effect of unionization on corporate financial policies? The average unionized firm responds with lower cash and higher leverage to a unionization election than the average firm escaping unionization. However, using a regression discontinuity design I find that the causal effect of unionization is close to zero on average, but heterogeneous across firms. For the subset of large and financially unconstrained firms, the causal effect is positive on leverage and negative on cash; the opposite is true for small and financially constrained firms. These results help reconcile controversially discussed views on how corporate finance and labor interact.
J50|Identification of publicly available data sources to inform the conduct of Health Technology Assessment in India|Background: Health technology assessment (HTA) provides a globally-accepted and structured approach to synthesising evidence for cost and clinical effectiveness alongside ethical and equity considerations to inform evidence-based priorities. India is one of the most recent countries to formally commit to institutionalising HTA as an integral component of the heath resource allocation decision-making process. The effective conduct of HTA depends on the availability of reliable data. Methods: We draw from our experience of collecting, synthesizing, and analysing health-related datasets in India and internationally, to highlight the complex requirements for undertaking HTA, and explore the availability of such data in India. We first outlined each of the core data components required for the conduct of HTA, and their availability in India, drawing attention to where data can be accessed, and different ways in which researchers can overcome the challenges of missing or low quality data. Results: We grouped data into the following categories: clinical efficacy; cost; epidemiology; quality of life; service use/consumption; and equity. We identified numerous large local data sources containing epidemiological information. There was a marked absence of other locally-collected data necessary for informing HTA, particularly data relating to cost, service use, and quality of life. Conclusions: The introduction of HTA into the health policy space in India provides an opportunity to comprehensively assess the availability and quality of health data capture across the country. While epidemiological information is routinely collected across India, other data inputs necessary for HTA are not readily available. This poses a significant bottleneck to the efficient generation and deployment of HTA into the health decision space. Overcoming these data gaps by strengthening the routine collection of comprehensive and verifiable health data will have important implications not only for embedding economic analyses into the priority setting process, but for strengthening the health system as a whole.
J50|Comparing blunders in government|Abstract Much attention has been paid to government ‘blunders’ and ‘policy disasters’. National political and administrative systems have been frequently blamed for being disproportionately prone to generating mishaps. However, little systematic evidence exists on the record of failures of policies and major public projects in other political systems. Based on a comparative perspective on blunders in government, this article suggests that constitutional features do not play a prominent role. In order to establish this finding, this article (a) develops theory-driven expectations as to the factors that are said to encourage blunders, (b) devises a systematic framework for the assessment of policy processes and outcomes, and (c) uses fuzzy-set qualitative comparative analysis to identify sets of causal conditions associated with particular outcomes (i.e. blunders). The article applies this novel approach to a set of particular policy domains, finding that constitutional features are not a contributory factor to blunders in contrast to instrument choice, administrative capacity and hyper-excited politics
J50|Maximizing versus satisficing in the digital age: disjoint scales and the case for “construct consensus”|A question facing us today, in the new and rapidly evolving digital age, is whether searching for the best option – being a maximizer – leads to greater happiness and better outcomes than settling on the first good enough option found – or “satisficing.” Answers to this question inform behavioural insights to improve well-being and decision-making in policy and organizational settings. Yet, the answers to this fundamental question of measurement of the happiness of a maximizer versus a satisficer in the current psychological literature are: 1) conflicting; 2) anchored on the use of the first scale published to measure maximization as an individual-difference, and 3) unable to describe the search behaviour of decision makers navigating the digital world with tools of the 21st century - apps, smartphones or tablets, and most often all of them. We present, based on a review and analysis of the literature and scales, a call to stop the development of more maximization scales. Furthermore, we articulate the argument for a re-definition of maximizing that balances the face validity of the construct and the relevance to decision making in an age of digital tools so that future scales are useful for future choice architects and researchers
J50|Predictive analytics and disused railways requalification: insights from a Post Factum Analysis perspective|Strategic decision making problems in the public policy domain typically involve the comparison of competing options by different stakeholders. This paper considers a real case study oriented toward ranking potential actions for the regeneration of disused railways in Italy. The study involves multiple con icting criteria such as an expected duration of construction works, costs, a number of potential users, and new green areas. Within this context, we demonstrate that Post Factum Analysis (PFA) coupled with Decision Aiding supports the development of robust recommendations. The role of PFA is to highlight how the actions' performances need to be modified so that the recommendation is changed in a desired way. In particular, it highlights the minimal improvements that would warrant the feasibility of some currently impossible outcome (e.g., achieving a better position in the ranking) or the maximal deteriorations that alternatives can afford to maintain some target result (e.g., not losing their advantage over some other options). The use of a focus group with both experts and participants in the decision making process provided insights on how PFA can support: (i) the creation of arguments in favour or against the respective options under analysis, (ii) understanding of the results' sensitivity with respect to possible changes in the alternatives' performances, (iii) a better informed discussion about the results among the participants in the process, and (iv) the development of new/better alternatives.
J50|Disentangling digital platform competition:the case of UK mobile payment platforms|Digital platforms confer competitive advantage through superior architectural configurations. There is however still a dearth of research that sheds light on the competitive attributes which define platform competition from an architectural standpoint. To disentangle platform competition, we opted for the mobile payment market in the United Kingdom (UK) as our empirical setting. By conceptualizing digital platforms as layered modular architectures and embracing the theoretical lens of strategic groups, this study supplements prior research by deriving a taxonomy of platform profiles that is grounded on the strategic dimensions of value creation and value delivery architectures. We discover that mobile payment platforms could be delineated based on whether they are: (1) integrative or integratable on their value creation architecture; and (2) have direct, indirect, or open access on their value delivery architecture. The preceding attributes of value creation architecture and value delivery architecture aided us in identifying six profiles associated with mobile payment platforms, which in turn led us to advance three competitive strategies that could be pursued by digital platforms in network economies.
J50|Visualising value for money in public health interventions|Background: The Socio-Technical Allocation of Resources (STAR) has been developed for value for money analysis of health services through stakeholder workshops. This paper reports on its application for prioritisation of interventions within public health programmes. Methods: The STAR tool was used by identifying costs and service activity for interventions within commissioned public health programmes, with benefits estimated from the literature on economic evaluations in terms of costs per Quality-Adjusted Life Years (QALYs); consensus on how these QALY values applied to local services was obtained with local commissioners. Results: Local cost-effectiveness estimates could be made for some interventions. Methodological issues arose from gaps in the evidence base for other interventions, inability to closely match some performance monitoring data with interventions, and disparate time horizons of published QALY data. Practical adjustment for these issues included using population prevalences and utility states where intervention specific evidence was lacking, and subdivision of large contracts into specific intervention costs using staffing ratios. The STAR approach proved useful in informing commissioning decisions and understanding the relative value of local public health interventions Conclusions:. Further work is needed to improve robustness of the process and develop a visualisation tool for use by public health departments
J50|Reputations count: why benchmarking performance is improving health care across the world|This paper explores what motivates improved health care governance. Previously, many have thought that performance would either improve via choice and competition or relying on trust and altruism. But neither assumption is supported by available evidence. So instead we explore a third approach of reciprocal altruism with sanctions for unacceptably poor performance and rewards for high performance. These rewards and sanctions, however, are not monetary but in the form of reputational effects through public reporting of benchmarking of performance . Drawing on natural experiments in Italy and the UK, we illustrate how public benchmarking can improve poor performance at both the sub-national and national level through ‘naming and shaming’ and enhance good performance through ‘competitive benchmarking’ and peer learning. Ethnographic research in Zambia also showed how reputations count. Policy-makers could use these effects in different ways to improve public services.
J50|Why the distribution matters: using discrete event simulation to demonstrate the impact of the distribution of procedure times on hospital operating room utilisation and average procedure cost|Background: Economic evaluations include estimates of surgical procedures costs that have usually been derived by allocating operating room (OR) costs in proportion to the average duration of different procedure types. However, ORs run with average utilisation below 100%, due to idle time between procedures and at the end of the day. Longer and less predictable procedures generate greater OR idle time, for a given tolerance of schedule over-runs. Estimates of surgical procedure costs that are based on average procedure duration alone as a measure of OR resource consumption will not capture the impact of the length and variability of procedure duration on OR idle time and capacity utilisation. Objective: To demonstrate how real-world OR scheduling practices lead to different levels of resource consumption than predicted by simple micro-costing approaches based on average procedure duration, and how those differences can vary between procedures with significantly different distributions of duration. Methods: We use a discrete event simulation model, calibrated with real-world data from a single surgical centre in Belgium, to compare simulated resource consumption, including idle time, for two alternative surgical procedures for ablation for atrial fibrillation. Results: We demonstrate that simple micro-costing approaches can under-estimate effective resource consumption between 31% and 48% for a procedure with long and unpredictable duration. For a shorter and more predictable procedure the under-estimate is only 15%. Conclusion: Simple approaches to estimating procedure costs may under-estimate resource consumption and do so in a way that is biased against technologies with shorter and more predictable procedure duration. For health technology decisions where a substantial part of costs are OR resources, a more sophisticated approach, taking account of the real-world implications of the distribution of procedure durations, should be used to avoid potential bias
J50|Innovation mechanisms of fintech start-ups: insights from SWIFT Innotribe competition|The emergence of nascent forms of financial technology around the globe is driven by efforts to de-construct and reimagine business models historically embedded within financial services. Entrepre-neurial endeavors to this end are diverse. Indeed, the propensity towards complexity across the fintech landscape is considerable. Bridging as it does a diverse range of financial services, markets, innova-tions, industry participants, infrastructures and technologies. This study aims to improve the compre-hension of the global fintech landscape. It is based on the analysis of start-ups who participated in SWIFT’s Innotribe competition over a three-year period. We used cluster analysis to group 402 fintech start-up firms, and then selected representative cases to create a foundational understanding of the structure of the fintech landscape. We found that six clusters capture the variety of firms and their activities. The main findings of this work are: (1) the development of fintech clusters to classify core services, business infrastructures and underlying component technologies, which characterize the fintech landscape; (2) an analysis of how fintechs synthesize different technologies to restructure and coordinate flows of financial information through competitive and cooperative mechanisms of disin-termediation, extension of access, financialization, hybridization and personalization; (3) an analysis of related strategies for value creation connected with the competitive and cooperative mechanisms that were identified. Collectively, our results offer new insights into the diversity and range of emer-gent innovations and technologies which are transforming the financial services industry worldwide.
J50|Accounts of the future: a multiple-case study of scenarios in planning and management control processes|Purpose This paper examines the design and use of scenarios in planning and management control processes. Research approach The study is based on an exploratory case-study approach. Qualitative data has been collected between 2008 and 2011 from three energy companies operating in Italy. Findings The paper sheds light on three styles of designing and using scenarios. In the first (called ‘reactive’), scenarios provide a means for corporate actors to analyse past performance in the light of future expected performance. In the second (‘proactive’), scenarios contribute to envision different future states of the world. In the third (‘disciplined’), scenarios contribute to develop plausible, if not accurate, narratives about future outcomes. Research limitations/implications The study is comparative and exploratory. Possible areas for further work based on in depth-studies of scenarios within planning and control processes are identified. Practical implications The comparative analysis of the case-study material has implications for the ways in which flexible forms of management control can be mobilised by managers as a resource of action. It is shown that choices around the design and use of scenarios can mitigate some concerns with traditional planning and management control processes focused on the achievement of a single set of targets, but also raise new ones. Originality The paper sheds light on a scenario-based approach - called ‘disciplined flexibility’ - that avoids the restrictive nature of budgetary controls without losing the benefits of setting a plan and a target for the future. The paper outlines elements that may support the use of ‘disciplined flexibility’, but also its potential limitations
J50|Is cash king for sales compensation plans? Evidence from a large scale field intervention|The pervasive use of merchandise (i.e., non-cash) incentives in sales compensation plans is an empirical and theoretical puzzle given the supposed superiority of cash incentives in the standard theory (i.e., principal-agent models) and the scant, and contradictory empirical evidence. We conducted a large scale field intervention that switched 580 salespeople at a large frozen food manufacturer away from their cash plus “ merchandise points” bonus to a commensurate all-cash bonus. After controlling for salesperson, seasonality, year, and target effects, we estimated that sales, on average, dropped by 4.36%. Further, we estimated individual-level sales changes and effort changes to validate our incentive-effort-sales causal chain. Our results show that the top salespeople experienced the largest drops. A post-intervention survey of social and individual difference variables reveals that salespeople from households with more discretionary financial resources, and those who think more abstractly about the uses of cash income exhibited smaller reductions in effort and sales. While the absence of a control group prevents us from making strong causal inferences, this set of results nevertheless provides descriptive and suggestive evidence for separate mental accounts as the most promising explanation for the greater utility provided by merchandise incentives.
J50|The role of Yin-Yang leadership and cosmopolitan followership in fostering employee commitment in China: a paradox perspective|Purpose – Utilizing a paradox perspective, this paper investigates the leadership-followership dynamic in foreign firms in China, specifically, the extent to which Yin-Yang leadership behaviors of Japanese expatriates and cosmopolitanism of Chinese employees influence employee commitment. Design/methodology/approach – Data was collected through an online survey of Chinese employees who directly report to a Japanese supervisor in a Japanese subsidiary in China. Based on responses from 97 Chinese employees in three Japanese subsidiaries in China, we test if their cosmopolitan orientation and perceived Yin-Yang leadership behaviors of Japanese supervisors are related to employee commitment. Findings - Yin-Yang leadership and cosmopolitan followership have a positive effect on employee commitment. Further, cosmopolitanism moderates the link between Yin-Yang leadership and employee commitment such that the follower's cosmopolitanism compensates for lower levels of Yin-Yang leadership, especially a relative lack of Yin leadership behaviors. Research limitations/implications- Results suggest that Yin-Yang leadership and cosmopolitan followership work together as a two-way street of cultural adaptability to build employee commitment, highlighting the interplay between leadership and followership in multinational enterprises. Future research should attempt to further refine the Yin-Yang leadership construct, and to gain a larger sample representing multiple expatriate nationalities to corroborate the relationships found in this study.
J50|Emerging economy MNEs: how does home country munificence matter?|Multinational Enterprises (MNEs) from emerging economies (EEs) are establishing operations in advanced economies (AEs), apparently departing from traditional models of internationalization. We explore an under-explored difference between EE MNE and their AE counterparts concerning their country of origin: EEs have less munificent business environments. This leads EE MNEs to make different location choices than AE MNEs when entering AEs, specifically because they are more deterred by barriers to entry. We therefore predict EE MNEs to be relatively more deterred by distance and weak intellectual property protection and relatively more attracted by diaspora of migrants and by markets. Our empirical results are consistent with these predictions
J50|Privatization in developing countries: what are the lessons of recent experience?|This paper reviews the recent empirical evidence on privatization in developing countries, with particular emphasis on new areas of research such as the distributional impacts of privatization. Overall, the literature now reflects a more cautious and nuanced evaluation of privatization. Thus, private ownership alone is no longer argued to automatically generate economic gains in developing economies; pre-conditions (especially the regulatory infrastructure) and an appropriate process of privatization are important for attaining a positive impact. These comprise a list which is often challenging in developing countries: well-designed and sequenced reforms; the implementation of complementary policies; the creation of regulatory capacity; attention to poverty and social impacts; and strong public communication. Even so, the studies do identify the scope for efficiency-enhancing privatization that also promotes equity in developing countries
J50|Deadly combinations: how leadership contexts undermine the activation and enactment of followers’ high core self-evaluations in performance|Employees with high core self-evaluations (CSE) generally perform well in their jobs. The enactment of CSE in performance occurs within contexts, and leadership is one form of context that influences the activation and expression of CSE. Drawing on theories of CSE and leader–member exchange (LMX), we characterized the leadership context as the interaction between leader CSE and LMX quality. Examination of 173 followers and their 31 leaders in a manufacturing organization showed a positive association between follower CSE and performance when the context comprised high leader CSE and high LMX. Conversely, leadership contexts comprising high leader CSE and low LMX, or low leader CSE and high LMX, resulted in a negative relationship between follower CSE and performance. We also show that low CSE followers have relatively high performance under some circumstances. Thus, we contribute to understanding how some leadership contexts undermine high CSE followers’ performance and promote low CSE followers’ performance
J50|Social solidarity for all? Trade union strategies, labour market dualisation and the welfare state in Italy and South Korea|Political-economic analyses of trade unions in post-industrial societies have shifted away from traditional class-analytic approaches to embrace insider/outsider and producer coalition arguments based on the assumption that unions hold on to the defence of their core constituencies in the face of labour market deregulation and dualisation. Challenging this conventional wisdom, we provide an analysis of union strategies in Italy and South Korea, two most-different union movements perceived as unlikely cases for the pursuit of broader social solidarity, and we argue that in both countries unions have successively moved away from insider-focussed strategies. We show a movement towards “solidarity for all” in the industrial relations arena as well as in their social policy preferences. Furthermore, unions also explored new avenues of political agency, often in alliance with civil society organisations. We ascribe this convergent trend towards a social model of unionism to a response of unions to a “double crisis”; that is a socio-economic crisis, which takes the form of a growing periphery of the labour market associated with growing social exclusion, and a socio-political crisis, which takes the form of a increasing marginalisation of the unions from the political process pursued by right- and left-wing parties alike.
J50|Overcoming the collective action problems facing Chinese workers: lessons from four protests against Walmart|In contrast to various structural accounts of collective inaction or short-lived contention of Chinese workers, the authors take an agency-centered approach to explain how the few sustained labor protests during closure bargaining develop against long odds. They suggest that workers’ capacity to resolve collective action problems is essential to understanding why a few contending workers are able to sustain protests whereas many others fail to do so. They argue that workplace representatives and external labor activists are crucial for helping Chinese workers resolve the collective action problems that prevent the formation of sustained labor protests. Their comparative analysis of four protests against Walmart store closures—including one unusually long, one relatively sustained, and two short-lived—shows how presence and strategic capacity of workplace representatives and external labor activists shape protest duration. The authors conclude by discussing lessons learned from these cases of closure bargaining for future development of labor contention in China.
J50|What future for industrial relations in Europe?|Purpose The purpose of this paper is to perform a systematic cross-country comparison of key features of industrial relations in Europe in a context where consolidated post-war institutions are under attack on many fronts. The author discusses a number of key similarities and differences across the countries of Europe, and end by considering whether progressive alternatives still exist. Design/methodology/approach This paper draws upon academic literature and compares the contributions to this special issue in the light of common problems and challenges. Findings The trend towards the erosion of nationally based employment protection and collective bargaining institutions is widely confirmed. In most of Central and Eastern Europe, where systems of organised industrial relations were at best only partially established after the collapse of the Soviet regime, the scope for unilateral dominance by (in particular foreign-owned) employers has been further enlarged. It is also clear that the European Union, far from acting as a force for harmonisation of regulatory standards and a strengthening of the “social dimension” of employment regulation, is encouraging the erosion of nationally based employment protections and provoking a growing divergence of outcomes. However, the trends are contradictory and uneven. Originality/value This paper contributes to an updated cross-country comparative analysis of the ongoing transformations in European industrial relations and discusses still existing progressive alternatives.
J50|Explaining divergent bargaining outcomes for agency workers: the role of labour divides and labour market reforms|Under what conditions can unions successfully regulate precarious employment? We compare the divergent trajectories of collective bargaining on agency work in the Italian and German metal sectors from the late 1990s. We explain the differences by the interaction between trade unions’ institutional and associational power resources, mediated by employers’ divide-and-rule strategies and by union strategies to (re)build a unitary front. In both countries, the liberalization of agency work allowed employers to exploit labour divides, undermining unions’ associational power and preventing labour from negotiating effectively. However, while Italian unions remained ‘trapped’ in the vicious circle between weak legislation and fragmented labour, German unions were able to overcome their internal divides. The different degree of success depended on the nature of the divides within the labour movements.
J50|Institutions as constraints and resources: explaining cross-national divergence in performance management|This article compares performance management practices in call centres from four telecommunications firms in the UK, France, Denmark, and Germany. Findings show that different combinations of institutional constraints, such as strong job security protections, and participation resources supporting worker voice were influential in shaping choices among HRM policies to motivate and discipline workers. Performance management most closely approached a high involvement model where both constraints and resources were high: where worker representatives were able both to restrict management’s use of sanctions and to establish procedures that improved the perceived fairness of incentives. Findings contribute to debates concerning the role of contextual factors in the design and effectiveness of HRM.
J50|Generalized social exchange and its relevance to new era workplace relationships|To critically evaluate the relevance of social exchange theory (SET) to the contemporary workplace, Chernyak-Hai and Rabenu point out a number of factors that reshape work relationships and suggest how to apply and extend social exchange theory to understand the new era work relationships. However, in their discussion, they focus mainly on reciprocal exchange (RE) in dyadic relationships. The discussion completely overlooks another important form of social exchange, namely, generalized exchange (GE), which is increasingly relevant to contemporary organizations exactly because of the changes indicated by Chernyak-Hai and Rabenu. In this commentary, we briefly review prior investigations into GE across various social science disciplines and then point out its increasing relevance to organizations. Finally, we will discuss implications for future research in the industrial/organizational psychology (IOP) literature.
J50|Job crafting revisited: implications of an extended framework for active changes at work|Employees often self-initiate changes to their jobs, a process referred to as job crafting, yet we know little about why and how they initiate such changes. In this paper, we introduce and test an extended framework for job crafting, incorporating individuals' needs and regulatory focus. Our theoretical model posits that individual needs provide employees with the motivation to engage in distinct job-crafting strategies-task, relationship, skill, and cognitive crafting-and that work-related regulatory focus will be associated with promotion- or prevention-oriented forms of these strategies. Across three independent studies and using distinct research designs (Study 1: N = 421 employees; Study 2: N = 144, using experience sampling data; Study 3: N = 388, using a lagged study design), our findings suggest that distinct job-crafting strategies, and their promotion- and prevention-oriented forms, can be meaningfully distinguished and that individual needs (for autonomy, competence, and relatedness) at work differentially shape job-crafting strategies. We also find that promotion- and prevention-oriented forms of job-crafting vary in their relationship with innovative work performance, and we find partial support for work-related regulatory focus strengthening the indirect effect of individual needs on innovative work performance via corresponding forms of job crafting. Our findings suggest that both individual needs and work-related regulatory focus are related to why and how employees will choose to craft their jobs, as well as to the consequences job crafting will have in organizations.
J50|How do staff motivation and workplace environment affect capacity of governments to adapt to climate change in developing countries?|Government ministries are increasingly mainstreaming climate change adaptation within policies and plans. However, government staff in key implementing ministries need to be empowered to ensure effective delivery of policy goals. Motivation to act on climate change, combined with the capacity to make decisions and apply resources to programmes, is crucial. Informed by theories of motivation and workplace environments from social psychology and organisational theory, this paper reports findings from a questionnaire of government staff (103 respondents) in Malawi, Tanzania and Zambia. The questionnaire was designed using self-determination theory to investigate the role of external influences, institutional structures and resources and how these, in turn, affect staff motivation and capacities to design and implement new policies and strategies. The study finds that whilst external influences and hierarchical structures are recognised, these do not have a strong direct influence on staff motivation, but they do appear to inhibit capacities to act. The results show that lack of staff and limited government-allocated budget reduce the ability of ministries to be self-determined and set their own agendas. Instead they are dependent on donor-determined projects which may be selective in the aspects of climate change adaptation plans and policies they support and even divert focus away from government priorities.
J50|Wage differential between caste groups: Are younger and older cohorts different?|Recent literature has provided evidence that a gender and caste-based wage discrimination can exert negative economic impact on a country's development process. Given the enormous contribution of a young population to India's workforce, we examine whether there is any caste-based discrimination considering ‘demographic’ distinction. Using employment and unemployment National Sample Survey data from India for two rounds during the last two decades (1993 and 2010), we find rising wage gap between privileged and marginalized groups within younger and older cohorts across the distribution and over time. Furthermore, we decompose the wage gap using the counterfactual decomposition into endowment effect (explained by differences in characteristics) and a discrimination effect (attributable to unequal returns to covariates). We find that the discrimination effect against marginalized castes (in both cohorts) decreases, implying an increasing endowment effect across the distribution of the wage gap. This discrimination effect is more pronounced among younger compared to older cohorts.
J50|Corporation certification advantages: impacts on performance and development|B Corporations are for-profit companies meeting specific social and environmental standards. This exploratory study into B Corporations aims to enhance the understanding of the certification on organizational performance. As previous research indicates that third party labels impact financial performance and that positive corporate social performance can lead to positive financial performance, this paper first seeks to determine whether B Corporation Certification positively impacts companies’ financial performance. Second, following previous B Corporation literature, this research tests whether certification leads to positive non-financial results in the form of strategic advantages. Finally, it asks whether Certification negatively impacts organizations’ plans to develop internationally and/or by going public. While this study’s results provide little support that B Corporation Certification impacts organizations’ financial performance or growth, they do indicate that B Corporations experience positive non-financial strategic results post certification. The results of this study may be used to infer or test conclusions about socially responsible labels more broadly in the future.
J50|Labor market imperfections, markups and productivity in multinationals and exporters|This paper examines the links between a firm’s internationalization status and the type and degree of market imperfections in product and labor markets. We develop a framework for modelling heterogeneity across firms in terms of (i) product market power (price-cost markups), (ii) labor market imperfections (workers’ bargaining power during worker-firm negotiations or a firm’s degree of wage-setting power) and (iii) revenue productivity. We apply this framework to analyze whether the pricing behavior of firms in product and labor markets differs across firms that engage in different forms of internationalization using an unbalanced panel of 7,458 manufacturing firms over the period 1994-2012 in Japan. Engagement in international activities is found to matter for determining not only the type of imperfections in product and labor markets but also the degree of imperfections. Clear differences in behavior between firms that serve the foreign market either through exporting or through FDI are observed. Exporters are more likely to be characterized by imperfect competition in the product market whereas the opposite holds for multinationals. Exporters are more likely to share rents based on the bargaining power of workers whereas a firm’s wage-setting power seems to generate wage dispersion across firms with foreign subsidiaries.
J50|International Competition and Rent Sharing in French Manufacturing|The paper investigates the impact of import competition on rent-sharing between firms and employees. First, by applying recent advances in the estimation of price-costs margins to a large panel of French manufacturing firms for the period 1993â€“2007, we are able to classify each firm into labor- and product-market regimes based on the presence/absence of market power. Second, we concentrate on firms that operate in an e cient bargaining framework to study the eâ†µect of import penetration on workersâ€™ bargaining power. We find that French imports from other OECD countries have a negative eâ†µect on bargaining power, whereas the impact of imports from low wage countries is more muted. By providing firm-level evidence on the relationship between international trade and rent sharing, the paper sheds new light on the eâ†µect of trade liberalization on the labor market.
J50|The Relationship Between Union Membership and Net Fiscal Impact|This paper develops the first evidence on how individuals’ union membership status affects their net fiscal impact, the difference between taxes they pay and cost of public benefits they receive, enriching our understanding of how labor relations interacts with public economics. Current Population Survey data between 1994 and 2015 in pooled cross‐sections and individual first‐difference models yield evidence that union membership has a positive net fiscal impact through the worker‐level channels studied.
J50|Do German Works Councils Counter or Foster the Implementation of Digital Technologies?|As works councils' information, consultation and co-determination rights affect the decision process of the management, works councils play a key role in the implementation of digital technologies in establishments. However, previous research focuses on the potential of digital technologies to sub-stitute for labor and its impact on labor market outcomes of workers. This paper adds the role of industrial relations to existing literature by analyzing the impact of works councils on the implementation of digital technologies. Theoretically, the role of works councils in the digital transformation is ambiguous. Using establishment data from the IAB Establishment Survey of 2016 combined with individual employee data from the Federal Employment Agency and occupational level data about the physical job exposure, empirical evidence indicates an ambivalent position of works councils to-wards digital technologies. The sole existence of works councils leads to statistically significant lower equipment levels with digital technologies. However, works councils foster the equipment with digital technologies in those establishments, which employ a high share of workers who are conducting physical demanding job activities. Thus, this study highlights the importance of establishment-level workforce representation for the digital adoption process within Germany.
J50|The Impact of Employment Protection on the Industrial Wage Structure|This paper tests whether the job security offered by stricter employment protection legislation (EPL) undermines positive compensating wage differentials that would otherwise be paid. Specifically, we ask whether industries with relatively more need for layoffs and labour flexibility have lower wages in countries where stricter EPL protects workers from layoffs. We find this generally to be true for a large sample of industries in the major OECD countries over 1984-2005, particularly for wages of unskilled workers. However, we also find that where workers are well organised, they can take advantage of EPL to secure higher wages.
J50|Wages, Creative Destruction, and Union Networks|Do unions promote creative destruction? In this paper we apply a shift-share approach and historical unionisation data from 1918 to study the impact of changes in regional unionisation on regional wage and productivity growth and job creation and destruction during the period 2003-2012. As local regional-industrial unionisation increases, wages grow. Lay-offs through plant closure and shrinking workplaces increase, but entry and new hires are unaffected. Overall, the increased unionisation yields a positive impact on regional productivity, exceeding the wage growth, partly due to the closure of less productive firms, but also enhanced productivity of the survivors and new entrants.
J50|Productivity, wages and profits: Does firms’ position in the value chain matter?|This paper is the first to estimate the impact of a direct measure of firm-level upstreamness on productivity, wage costs and profits (i.e. productivity-wage gaps). To do so, we merged detailed Belgian linked panel data, covering all years from 2002 to 2010, to a unique data set developed by Dhyne et al. (2015), which contains accurate information on the position of (almost) each commercial firm in the value chain at each year. We rely on the methodological framework that has been pioneered by Hellerstein et al. (1999) to estimate dynamic panel data models at the firm level. Our estimates show that if upstreamness increases by one step (that is, by approximately, one standard deviation), productivity rises on average by 5%. They also indicate that productivity gains associated to upstreamness are shared almost equally between wages and profits. However, upstreamness is found to be more beneficial for workers’ wages in less competitive environments, where the price-elasticity of demand for firms’ products is typically smaller. Overall, these findings are compatible with the assertion that firms should move up the value chain to be more productive and profitable, but also that being higher in the value chain is likely to facilitate firms’ control over strategic downstream activities. Our results can also be understood through the application of the Melitz (2003) model to the value chain framework.
J50|The theoretical basis of the CGIL's analysis of the Italian economic decline|This paper deals with the Italian economic decline from a double perspective. First, it provides a reconstruction of the main Post Keynesian arguments explaining the bad macroeconomic performance of the Italian economy, starting from the end of the “economic miracle”. Second, it proposes a re-reading of the CGIL’s view, showing that is it consistent with a theoretical approach based on the fundamental assumptions and policy prescriptions of the Post Keynesian framework.
J50|Labour shares, employment protection and unions in European economies|We analyse the role that the liberalization of temporary contracts plays in labour share in some EU countries. The empirical analysis mainly relies on the EUKLEMS database and applies a difference-in-difference approach. Our results, focused on periods of different length (1996–2007 and 1996–2013), show that legislative innovations that favour the extensive use of temporary contracts negatively affect the labour share, likely because they lower employees’ average compensations. We hypothesize that these labour reforms, which lead to enduring skill deficits, thus failing to halt the erosion of the labour share of previous decades.
J50|Dismissal Laws, Innovation, and Economic Growth|We show theoretically and empirically that dismissal laws—laws that impose hurdles on firing of employees—spur innovation and thereby economic growth. Theoretically, dismissal laws make it costly for firms to arbitrarily discharge employees. This enables firms to commit to not punish short-run failures of employees. Because innovation is inherently risky and employment contracts are incomplete, dismissal laws enable such commitment. Specifically, absent such laws, firms cannot contractually commit so ex ante. The commitment provided by dismissal laws encourages employees to exert greater effort in risky, but path-breaking, projects thereby fostering firm-level innovation. We provide empirical evidence supporting this thesis using the discontinuity provided by the passage of the federal Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act. Using the fact that this Act only applied to firms with 100 or more employees, I undertake difference-in-difference and regression discontinuity tests to provide this evidence. Building on endogenous growth theory, which posits that economic growth stems from innovation, I also show that dismissal laws correlate positively with economic growth. However, other forms of labor laws correlate negatively with economic growth and swamp the positive effect of dismissal laws.
J50|The political economy of income distribution: industry level evidence from 14 OECD countries|This article presents an econometric estimation of the determinants of the wage share, using sectoral data for 14 OECD countries for the period 1970- 2014. We present estimations for the wage share of high- and low-skilled workers and within manufacturing and service industries. We augment sectoral data with input-output tables and union density data to obtain detailed estimations of the effect of technological change, globalisation and bargaining power on the wage share. We find a significant negative effect of globalisation and we discover offshoring to emerging markets to be a robust driver of this process. Technological change had an impact which differs by skill group, but theoretical issues and lack of robustness of the results cast doubt on the hypothesis of skill-biased technological change as a key factor in the overall decline in the wage share. Furthermore, we find a robust effect of institutional factors such as union density and minimum wages on the wage share, lending strong support to the political economy approach to functional income distribution.
J50|Why is the wage share falling in emerging economies? Industry level evidence|This article presents an econometric analysis of the wage share in seven emerging economies. We focus on the effect of globalisation, captured by participation in global value chains and financial integration, indicators of bargaining power of labour and technological change on the wage share. We use input-output tables that allow us to obtain detailed measures of global value chain participation, and sectoral data to distinguish the effect on high- and low-skilled workers and within manufacturing and service industries. We find a negative effect of offshoring from advanced to emerging economies, as well as negative effects of financial integration. Our findings suggest that the transmission mechanism is a reduction in labours’ bargaining power vis-à-vis capital. We find a robust positive effect of union density on the wage share but no evidence of a negative effect of technological change.
J50|Nonunion Employee Representation: Theory And The German Experience With Mandated Works Councils|Theories of how nonunion employee representation impacts firm performance, affects market equilibria, and generates externalities on labor and society are synthesized. Mandated works councils in Germany provide a particularly strong form of nonunion employee representation. A systematic review of research on the German experience with mandated works councils finds generally positive effects, though these effects depend on a series of moderating factors and some impacts remain ambiguous. Finally, key questions for empirical research on nonunion employee representation, which have previously been little analyzed in the literature, are reviewed.
J50|The welfare costs of non-marginal water pricing: evidence from the water only companies in England and Wales|The evaluation of the economic efficiency of regulatory schemes is essential for regulators and utilities. In this study it is analysed for the first time the welfare costs of non-marginal cost pricing in the water supply in England and Wales, by computing the deadweight loss of the water only companies (WoCs) that existed over the period of 1993–2009. The results indicate that the current price schemes can have substantial efficiency costs. Our estimates show that the loss of efficiency for the WoCs lies between 15 and 60 million GBP over the period 1993–2009. These amounts could have been redistributed either to the companies in terms of profits or to the consumers via price reductions. The methodology and results of this study are of great interest for both regulators and water utilities managers to evaluate the effectiveness of price regulation and make informed decisions.
J50|Impact of regulation on English and Welsh water-only companies: an input-distance function approach|The assessment of productivity change over time and its drivers is of great significance for water companies and regulators when setting urban water tariffs. This issue is even more relevant in privatized water industries, such as those in England and Wales, where the price-cap regulation is adopted. In this paper, an input-distance function is used to estimate productivity change and its determinants for the English and Welsh water-only companies (WoCs) over the period of 1993–2009. The impacts of several exogenous variables on companies’ efficiencies are also explored. From a policy perspective, this study describes how regulators can use this type of modeling and results to calculate illustrative X factors for the WoCs. The results indicate that the 1994 and 1999 price reviews stimulated technical change, and there were small efficiency gains. However, the 2004 price review did not accelerate efficiency change or improve technical change. The results also indicated that during the whole period of study, the excessive scale of the WoCs contributed negatively to productivity growth. On average, WoCs reported relatively high efficiency levels, which suggests that they had already been investing in technologies that reduce long-term input requirements with respect to exogenous and service-quality variables. Finally, an average WoC needs to improve its productivity toward that of the best company by 1.58%. The methodology and results of this study are of great interest to both regulators and water-company managers for evaluating the effectiveness of regulation and making informed decisions.
J50|Public Finance and Right-Wing Populism|We build a public finance model that explains why voters vote for right-wing populists, and also under which conditions established politicians will adopt a right-wing populist policy platform. Voters with lower private income have a stronger demand for basic public services at the expense of spending on a global good; generosity of refugee support systems, foreign aid, and environmental protection. Low income voters are thus more prone to support right-wing populists who oppose spending on such global goods. We conclude that established politicians that are challenged by right-wing populists will implement a policy with no global good spending if the relative cost of the global good is high enough. Additionally, adoption of right-wing populist policy is more likely when the economy is in a recession.
J50|The ‘healthy worker effect’: Do healthy people climb the occupational ladder?|The association between occupational status and health has been taken to reveal the presence of occupational health inequalities. However, that interpretation assumes no influence of health status in climbing the occupational ladder. This paper documents evidence of non-negligible returns to occupation status on health (which we refer as ‘healthy worker effect’). We use a unique empirical strategy that addresses the problem of reverse causality. That is, an instrumental variable strategy using the variation in average health in the migrant’s country of origin, a health measure plausibly not determined by the migrant’s occupational status. Our findings suggest that health status exerts significant effects on occupational status in several dimensions; including having a supervising role, worker autonomy, and worker influence. The effect size of health is larger than that of an upper secondary education.
J50|Does One Size Fit All? Investigating Different Empowerment Orientations in the Heterogeneous Workforce of the Swedish Retail Sector|Empowerment research and practice is guided by the idea that empowered employees perform better due to a greater sense of self-efficacy and capability. Underlying this idea, there often seem to be two tacit, unexamined assumptions: first, that employees generally would prefer an empowered workplace to a less empowered one; and second, that all employees can be empowered by means of the same measures and changes as defined by empowerment research. The main research question asked in this study is whether those aspects typically associated with structural and psychological empowerment efforts at the workplace are indeed perceived as desirable and positive by all types of employees. Employees’ attitudes toward the success of empowerment efforts, and the relevance of such attitudes, are investigated by analyzing survey data from 268 employees in the Swedish retail sector. Results indicate that age and work intensity (part-time vs. full-time) as well as cohabitation have significant impacts on how empowerment efforts are viewed by employees in the sample.
J50|The German Model of Industrial Relations: (Where) Does It Still Exist?|Using data from the representative IAB Establishment Panel, this paper charts changes in the two main pillars of the German IR model over the last 20 years. It shows that collective bargaining coverage and worker representation via works councils have substantially fallen outside the public sector. Less formalized and weaker institutions such as voluntary orientation of uncovered firms towards sectoral agreements and alternative forms of employee representation at the work-place have partly attenuated the overall erosion in coverage. Multivariate analyses indicate that the traditional German IR model (with both collective agreements and works councils) is more likely found in larger and older plants, and it is less likely in plants managed by the owner, in single and foreign-owned plants, in individually-owned firms or partnerships, and in exporting plants. In contrast, more than 60 % of German plants did not exhibit bargaining coverage or orientation or any kind of worker representation in 2015. Such an absence of the main institutional features of the German IR model is mainly found in small and medium-sized plants, in particular in the service sector and in eastern Germany, and its extent is increasing dramatically.
J50|Union Density, Productivity, and Wages|We exploit tax-induced exogenous variance in the price of union membership to identify the effects of changes in firm union density on firm productivity and wages in the population of Norwegian firms over the period 2001 to 2012. Increases in union density lead to substantial increases in firm productivity and wages having accounted for the potential endogeneity of unionization. The wage effect is larger in more productive firms, consistent with rent-sharing models.
J50|Measuring Indirect Effects of Unfair Employer Behavior on Worker Productivity - A Field Experiment|We present a field experiment in which we set up a call-center to study how the productivity of workers is affected if managers treat their co-workers in an unfair way. This question cannot be studied in long-lived organizations since workers may change their career expectations (and hence effort) when managers behave unfairly towards co-workers. In order to rule out such confounds and to measure productivity changes of unaffected workers in a clean way, we create an environment where employees work for two shifts. In one treatment, we lay off parts of the workforce before the second shift. Compared to two different control treatments, we find that, in the layoff treatment, the productivity of the remaining, unaffected workers drops by 12 percent. We show that this result is not driven by peer effects or altered beliefs about the job or the managers' competence, but rather related to the workers' perception of unfair behavior of employers towards co-workers. The latter interpretation is confirmed in a survey among professional HR managers. We also show that the effect of unfair behavior on the productivity of unaffected workers is close to the upper bound of the direct effects of wage cuts on the productivity of affected workers. This suggests that the price of an employer's unfair behavior goes well beyond the potential tit-for-tat of directly affected workers.
J50|The Motherhood Wage Penalty: A Varieties of Capitalism Approach|This paper aims to relate the issue of the Motherhood Wage Penalty to the institutional framework “Varieties of Capitalism.” Using data from the Luxembourg Income Study, we perform cross-national analyses on the discrepancy in wages between mothers with young children and females without children. The second step of the analysis entails four different measures with relevance to both the institutional framework and our applied gender focus. We find that when nations exhibit features in line with “coordinated market economies,” characterized by relatively stubborn employment protection, smaller degree of general inequality, more concentrated wage bargaining, and higher rate of unionization, mothers are relatively more penalized in monetary terms compared to “liberal market economies.” The results add valuable insight to the limited gender literature within the framework and propose follow-up questions for expanding the efforts of gendering the Varieties of Capitalism.
J50|Inequality as Lack of Co-operation in Economic Thought|This study is about the notion of co-operation by economic thinkers of the 19th century in the United Kingdom. It presents a comparison and contrast of their ideas as well as an analysis of the relationship between co-operation and economic and social inequality. Two approaches of such relationship are identified. First, an economic-centered view, found in Charles Babbage and William Stanley Jevons, where the benefits of co-operation are linked to profit sharing, the increase of productivity and the expansion of the economic system. Second, Robert Owen’s and John Stuart Mill’s ideas on co-operation, even though with different implications, are mainly socially-oriented. Here, it is possible to see a broader social concern that led them to suggest reforms that could have implications in terms of social (e.g., education and gender), and not only economic inequality. Marx’s analysis of co-operation does not belong to any of these approaches. In his view, under capitalism, the effect of some forms of co-operation may generate or reinforce inequality.
J50|Doing well by doing good: The role of Mexico's firms in achieving sustainable and inclusive growth|The private sector can be a strategic partner in the pursuit of sustainable and inclusive growth, with the ability to have a profound impact, particularly in areas such as climate change, inclusiveness, equality and good governance. Firms could contribute through three different approaches: philanthropic activities not related to the firm’s activities through which businesses seek to contribute to improving social and environmental conditions; initiatives related to the firm’s operations to diminish their negative impacts and to strengthen those that are positive; and development of innovative products and services. Particularly in the latest two approaches, firms themselves stand to benefit in terms of business opportunities, cost reduction, and consumer loyalty. This paper analyses how Mexican firms perform in terms of environmental, social, and governance practices. The paper provides evidence suggesting that contributing to sustained and inclusive growth brings several financial and productivity advantages to firms. This Working Paper relates to the 2017 OECD Economic Survey of Mexico (www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/economic-survey-mexico.htm).
J50|Public-private wage differences in the Western Balkan countries|"This paper investigates wage differences between the public and private sectors in the Western Balkan countries. As currently there are no micro data sets that are fully comparable across countries, we provide evidence based on the available macro-level data and results from recent micro-level research which typically focus on the individual countries. We find that in all Western Balkan countries the average wages in the public sector are higher than the wages in the private sector, but also that the high-skilled workers work more frequently in the public sector, therefore partially or fully ""justifying"" the wage differences. Around the begining of 2010s, wage differences were lower in Montenegro, Albania and Kosovo, where when adjusted for the differences in workers characteristics they become insignificant. The differences were more promenent in Serbia, Macedonia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, where the differences in characteristic cannot explain the gap fully, and where the public sector wage premium is positive and significant. However, public private wage differences are still very volatile and under the impact of countries' political decisions. The differences in the size of the premium is discussed in the context of previously estblished correlates: differences in the total public sector size and private sector job security, as well as different size of the public sector wage premium at the different parts of the wage distribution. As public private wage gaps have important micro and macro level implications, their trends and mechanisms should be closely monitored and investigated in future research."
J50|Codetermination: the Presence of Workers on the Board. A Depth Analysis|We show the most relevant literature regarding the corporate governance system of Codetermination, which includes the presence of workers' representatives on the board. The aim is to thoroughly analyse the topic and to fill a gap present in the current literature, the absence of an updated and extensive literature review, which analyses both the theoretical and empirical perspective. This particular analysis allows one to see a clear picture of this sensitive issue of governance, mainly present in the German world, but expanding to other countries especially in northern Europe, also as a result of the recent European Union directives.
J50|Entrepreneurial orientation of employees|Entrepreneurial orientation is a tendency of businesses to act autonomously and innovative, take risks and is taking proactive initiatives to potential market conditions There is a positive relationship between entrepreneurial orientation and business performance of the company. Although the entrepreneurial orientation commonly referred to as a feature the company and not the individual, since the people are supporting tasks within business, there are defined characteristic behaviors that define the entrepreneurial orientation of individuals. This behavior have so far examined the entrepreneurs, not the employees. This paper aims to determine the extent to which employees in the organization have developed entrepreneurial behavior (vision of their own areas of responsibility development, goal setting needed to achieve the vision, planning of specific activities, actively seeking information, persistence in its realization in spite of obstacles and actively seeking feedback about own performance), and whether employees with more developed entrepreneurial behavior more represented in private companies or in the public sector, and if they have intention to found their own company.
J50|Union Density, Productivity and Wages|We exploit tax-induced exogenous variance in the price of union membership to identify the effects of changes in firm union density on firm productivity and wages in the population of Norwegian firms over the period 2001 to 2012. Increases in union density lead to substantial increases in firm productivity and wages having accounted for the potential endogeneity of unionization. The wage effect is larger in more productive firms, consistent with rent-sharing models.
J50|Повышение уровня соответствия функций управления персоналом целям предприятия как фактор снижения оппортунизма сотрудников. Improving compliance level of personnel management functions with enteprise goals as a factor of reducing staff opportunism|Представлен методический подход к оценке соответствия функций управления персоналом и их реализации целям развития предприятия. Цель работы – разработка методических положений по оценке соответствия функций управления персоналом целям предприятия. Представлен анализ подходов к классификации функций управления персоналом. Проведен системный анализ соответствия функций управления персоналом целям предприятия. Сформулированы принципы и методы оценки соответствия функций управления персоналом целям предприятия. Разработана шкала оценки соответствия системы управления персоналом целям предприятия. Представлены результаты проведения оценки соответствия функций управления персоналом целям предприятия на 9 малых предприятиях Свердловской области. Предложены рекомендации руководителям и собственникам предприятий для повышения уровня соответствия функций управления персоналом целям предприятия. В заключение сделаны выводы относительно методических положений и результатов исследования персонала с их использованием. The paper presents a methodical approach to conformity assessment of personnel management functions and their implementation with enterprise development purposes. The purpose of the work is a development of methodical positions on conformity assessment of personal management func-tions with enterprise goals. The article presents the analysis of approaches to the classification of personnel management functions. A system analysis of compliance of personnel management functions with business goals was carried out. The author defines the principles and methods for compliance evaluation of personnel management functions with regard to enterprise goals. The paper presents rating scale for compliance assessment of personnel management system. The results of conformity evaluation for 9 small enterprises of the Sverdlovsk region are presented. The author offers recommendations for managers and company owners aimed on improving compliance of personnel management functions with business goals. Finally, conclusions are drawn regarding the methods of compliance evaluation and the results of their use in personnel research.
J50|Towards a New Paradigm of IR Strategy|In the realm of managing industrial relations (IR), organizations are handicapped in two ways: the government?s labour regulations and compliance regime, and their own inability to extricate themselves from half-baked theories and poor management practices. Research findings indicate the growth of the informal sector at the expense of the formal sector, but with low productivity, low wages and virtually no job security. And in the formal sector, data indicates rising conflict often laced with brutal violence. While organizations in the formal sector wait for labour reforms towards greater labour market flexibility that would lead to greater labour mobility and higher productivity and employment in the formal manufacturing sector, they could undertake a paradigm shift in their IR strategy. Such a paradigm shift in IR strategy would not just obviate many of the ills besetting the industrial relations scenario, but provide a competitive advantage. Based on a year-long work in a steel tube manufacturing company in western India, this paper distils the architecture of a paradigm shift in IR strategy for organizational turnaround.
J50|Outside options and wages: What can we learn from subjective assessments?|Abstract This paper studies the correlates of subjective assessments of how easy it would be for a worker to find another job as good as the present one and how easy it would be for an employer to replace a worker. First, I study the correlates of these two subjective assessments. Second, I study whether respondents who report better chances of reemployment receive higher wages and whether respondents who think they are easy to replace receive lower wages. The results are consistent with the standard job-matching model, which predicts that wages increase with better outside opportunity of the worker and fall with better outside opportunity of the employer.
J50|Redistributive Consequences of Abolishing Uniform Contribution Policies in Pension Funds|Abstract In a pension system with uniform policies for contribution and accrual, each participant has the same contribution rate and accrual rate independent of the age at the time of payment. This is not actuarially fair because the investment horizon of young participants is longer than the investment horizon of the elderly. This paper shows the presumably unintended redistributive effects of a uniform contribution system and the consequences of switching from uniform policies to an actuarially fair system. We first analyze a stylized model with three overlapping generations to show the intuition behind these effects. Then, we quantify these effects in a more detailed model with multiple overlapping generations, realistic parameters and more detailed information on the income distribution, calibrated on the Dutch funded pension system. We first use this model to show that there is a substantial transfer of income from poor to wealthy participants under a pension scheme with uniform policies: about 10 billion euros are transferred from poor to wealthy participants under the current uniform contribution policies in the Netherlands. We then calculate the gross aggregate transition effect of abolishing the uniform policy pension for an actuarially fair system to be about 37 billion euros (or about 5% of the Dutch GDP). We discuss the four main drivers of this estimate of the transition effect. For each cohort, the redistributive effects are less than 5% of their total pension.
J50|Employee Control, Work Content and Wages|Recent contributions have highlighted a technological bias in the substitution of routine work as a cause of wage inequality. Technological progress is assumed to increase returns to abstract, cognitive work and reduce those related to physical, usually routine, work activities. This article puts forward an alternative interpretation whereby wages are related to employees' control over work, which is conditioned by the institutions that represent workers' interests. We use O*NET detailed occupational level data to build two measures of control over i.) physical or tangible work activities, ii.) abstract or non-tangible work activities and one of the direct impact over firm's profits and production. These are used to contest previous interpretations of this data as a measure of task intensity and the relevance of a disaggregation between routine and non-routine work, at least for wage outcomes. We develop a simple bargaining model that suggests employee control adds to the bargaining power of workers and has a negative relation to impact, which is used to a greater extent in industries where control over work is not sufficient to increase wages, a relation that is corroborated by random slopes multilevel models estimates. A comparison of these random coefficients with industry level characteristics provides evidence that institutions such as unions and professional associations increase the odds of receiving a wage premium related to employee control, but finds very limited support for a relation between technological change and the estimated wage premia.
J50|Wage bargaining regimes and firms' adjustments to the Great Recession|The paper aims at investigating to what extent wage negotiation setups have shaped up firms’ response to the Great Recession, taking a firm-level cross-country perspective. We contribute to the literature by building a new micro-distributed database which merges data related to wage bargaining institutions (Wage Dynamic Network, WDN) with data on firm productivity and other relevant firm characteristics (CompNet). We use the database to study how firms reacted to the Great Recession in terms of variation in profits, wages, and employment. The paper shows that, in line with the theoretical predictions, centralized bargaining systems – as opposed to decentralized/firm level based ones – were accompanied by stronger downward wage rigidity, as well as cuts in employment and profits. JEL Classification: J30, J50, D22, D61
J50|Macroeconomic estimates of Italy’s mark-ups in the long-run, 1861-2012|We explore three alternative methodologies drawn from economic history literature to compute macroeconomic total-economy estimates of Italy’s mark-ups since 1861, based on the new historical national accounts presented in Baffigi (2013) and Giordano and Zollino (2015). Two key features of Italy’s history stand out: a) the increase in market power under the Fascist regime and b) the strengthening of competition since 1993. We then focus on a more limited time span (1970-2012) in order to estimate sectorial mark-ups using the model developed in Bassanetti, Torrini and Zollino (2010). Employing Istat and EU-KLEMs data, we find evidence of a reduction in mark-ups after the completion of the Single Market, with an acceleration after the inception of the European Monetary Union, owing mostly to the decrease in workers’ bargaining power rather than in firms’ margins. Moreover, we find large heterogeneity in mark-ups across sectors, with regulated services displaying weaker competition than manufacturing and market services.
J50|Labour market adjustments and reforms in Greece during the crisis: microeconomic evidence from the third wave of the wage dynamics|The recession that followed the global financial crisis and the sovereign debt crisis resulted in large falls in output and rises in unemployment across Europe. In this context, many countries implemented significant reforms of their labour market. In order to analyse the impact of labour market reforms and, in particular, to investigate, how firms adjusted to the shocks affecting them, the European System of Central Banks (ESCB) conducted a third wave of the Wage Dynamics Network (WDN3) survey in 2014-15. This paper describes the main findings of the Greek WDN3 survey. The results show that the decline in economic activity, during the period 2010-2013, had a significant negative impact on Greek firms’ activity. Greek firms reacted to the shocks affecting them by adjusting both labour input and wages and reforms seem to have made it easier for this adjustment to take place.
J50|Votes at Work in Britain: Shareholder Monopolisation and the 'Single Channel'|Why do shareholders monopolise voting rights in UK companies, and are trade unions the only way to get meaningful workplace representation? In 1967 a Labour Party policy document first coined the phrase that collective bargaining was – and should be – the 'single channel' of representation. Since then, it has been said the labour movement embraced an 'adversarial' rather than a 'constitutional' conception of corporations, neglecting legal rights to worker voice in enterprise governance. This article shows that matters were not so simple. It explains the substantial history of legal rights to vote in British workplaces, and the competition from the rival constitutional conception: employee share schemes. The UK has the oldest corporations – namely universities – which have consistently embedded worker participation rights in law. Britain has among the world's most sophisticated 'second channel' participation rights in pension board governance. Developing with collective bargaining, it had the world's first private corporations with legal participation rights. Although major plans in the 1920s for codetermination in rail and coal fell through, it maintained a 'third channel' of worker representatives on boards during the 20th century in numerous sectors, including ports, gas, post, steel, and buses. At different points every major political party had general proposals for votes at work. The narrative of the 'single channel' of workplace representation, and an 'adversarial' conception of the company contains some truth, but there has never been one size of regulation for all forms of enterprise.
J50|Measuring Indirect Effects of Unfair Employer Behavior on Worker Productivity – A Field Experiment|We present a field experiment in which we set up a call-center to study how the productivity of workers is affected if managers treat their co-workers in an unfair way. This question cannot be studied in long-lived organizations since workers may change their career expectations (and hence effort) when managers behave unfairly towards co-workers. In order to rule out such confounds and to measure productivity changes of unaffected workers in a clean way, we create an environment where employees work for two shifts. In one treatment, we lay off parts of the workforce before the second shift. Compared to two different control treatments, we find that, in the layoff treatment, the productivity of the remaining, unaffected workers drops by 12 percent. We show that this result is not driven by peer effects or altered beliefs about the job or the managers’ competence, but rather related to the workers’ perception of unfair behavior of employers towards co-workers. The latter interpretation is confirmed in a survey among professional HR managers. We also show that the effect of unfair behavior on the productivity of unaffected workers is close to the upper bound of the direct effects of wage cuts on the productivity of affected workers. This suggests that the price of an employer’s unfair behavior goes well beyond the potential tit-for-tat of directly affected workers.
J50|Wage Bargaining Regimes and Firms' Adjustments to the Great Recession|The paper aims at investigating to what extent wage negotiation set-ups have shaped up firms’ response to the Great Recession, taking a firm-level cross-country perspective. We contribute to the literature by building a new micro-distributed database which merges data related to wage bargaining institutions (Wage Dynamic Network, WDN) with data on firm productivity and other relevant firm characteristics (CompNet). We use the database to study how firms reacted to the Great Recession in terms of variation in profits, wages, and employment. The paper shows that, in line with the theoretical predictions, centralized bargaining systems – as opposed to decentralized/firm level based ones – were accompanied by stronger downward wage rigidity, as well as cuts in employment and profits.
J50|Using cost-effectiveness analysis to address health equity concerns|This articles serves as a guide to using cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) to address health equity concerns. We first introduce the “equity impact plane,” a tool for considering trade-offs between improving total health—the objective underpinning conventional CEA—and equity objectives, such as reducing social inequality in health or prioritizing the severely ill. Improving total health may clash with reducing social inequality in health, for example, when effective delivery of services to disadvantaged communities requires additional costs. Who gains and who loses from a cost-increasing health program depends on differences among people in terms of health risks, uptake, quality, adherence, capacity to benefit, and—crucially—who bears the opportunity costs of diverting scarce resources from other uses. We describe two main ways of using CEA to address health equity concerns: 1) equity impact analysis, which quantifies the distribution of costs and effects by equity-relevant variables, such as socioeconomic status, location, ethnicity, sex, and severity of illness; and 2) equity trade-off analysis, which quantifies trade-offs between improving total health and other equity objectives. One way to analyze equity trade-offs is to count the cost of fairer but less cost-effective options in terms of health forgone. Another method is to explore how much concern for equity is required to choose fairer but less cost-effective options using equity weights or parameters. We hope this article will help the health technology assessment community navigate the practical options now available for conducting equity-informative CEA that gives policymakers a better understanding of equity impacts and trade-offs.
J50|The role of leader support in facilitating proactive work behaviour: a perspective from attachment theory|Researchers have proposed that leader support helps employees behave proactively at work. Leader support can facilitate the opportunities for employees to bring about change, as well as their motivation to do so. Nevertheless, empirical studies have shown mixed effects of leader support on employees’ proactive behavior. In this study, to reconcile the inconsistent findings on the impact of leader support on employees’ proactive behavior, the authors consider the content, mediating mechanisms, and boundary conditions of leader support in shaping employees’ proactive behavior. On the basis of attachment theory, the authors propose that secure-base support from leaders (support in the form of leader availability, encouragement, and noninterference) positively predicts employees’ proactive work behavior by increasing their role breadth self-efficacy and autonomous motivation. These hypotheses are supported in an online-survey sample from U.S. participants (N = 138) and a sample from a large gas and oil company in China (N = 212). The authors further propose that the beneficial effects of secure-base support from leaders are more prominent for individuals with lower attachment security. This hypothesis was also supported: Individuals high in attachment anxiety especially benefited from leader secure-base support in terms of its effect on role breadth self-efficacy; whereas those who are high in attachment avoidance especially benefited from leader secure-base support in terms of its effect on autonomous motivation. Our study helps explain how leaders’ support motivates employees’ proactive behavior, particularly for those individuals who have lower attachment security.
J50|Close communications: hedge funds, brokers and the emergence of herding|We examine how communication, evaluation and decision-making practices among competing market actors contribute to the establishment of herding and whether this has impact on market wide phenomena such as prices and risk. Data is collected from interviews and observations with hedge fund industry participants in Europe, the United States and Asia. We examine both contemporaneous and biographical data, finding that decision making relies on an elaborate two-tiered structure of connections among hedge fund managers and between them and brokers. This structure is underpinned by idea sharing and development between competing hedge funds leading to ‘expertise-based’ herding and an increased probability of over-embeddedness. We subsequently present a case study demonstrating the role that communication between competing hedge funds plays in the creation of herding and show that such trades affect prices by introducing an additional risk: the disregarding of information from sources outside the trusted connections.
J50|The dependency diagram of a mixed integer linear programme|The Dependency Diagram of a Linear Programme (LP) shows how the successive inequalities of an LP depend on former inequalities, when variables are projected out by Fourier- Motzkin Elimination. This is explained in a paper referenced below. The paper, given here, extends the results to the Mixed Integer case (MILP). It is shown how projection of a MILP leads to a finite disjunction of polytopes. This is expressed as a set of inequalities (mirroring those in the LP case) augmented by correction terms with finite domains which are subject to linear congruences.
J50|On the association between perceived overqualification and adaptive behavior|Purpose – The purpose of this research was to offer an autonomous motivation perspective to explore the relationship between perceived overqualification and adaptive work behavior and examine job autonomy as a factor that may moderate the association. Design/methodology/approach – The hypotheses were tested in two culturally, demographically, and functionally diverse samples: Sample 1 was based on North American community college employees (N = 215); sample 2 was based on full-time workers, employed in a Chinese state-owned enterprise specializing in shipping (N = 148). Findings – In Study 1, perceived overqualification was negatively related to self-rated adaptive behavior. A follow-up Study 2 extended these findings by demonstrating that perceived overqualification was negatively related to supervisor-rated adaptive work behavior when job autonomy was low, rather than high. Implications – The results of this research offer an autonomous motivation perspective to explain why perceived overqualification relates to adaptive behavior and suggests a job design approach to encourage adaptive behaviors of people who feel overqualified – a sizable segment of the current workforce. Originality/value – This is one of the first studies to explore adaptive behavior of workers who feel overqualified – an outcome that has not been examined in this domain. Our findings further point out what can be done to encourage adaptive behaviors among overqualified employees.
J50|Ownership identity, strategy and performance: Business group affiliates versus independent firms in India|Abstract We consider whether the impact of entrepreneurial orientation on business performance is moderated by the company affiliation with business groups. Within business groups, we explore the trade-off between inter-firm insurance that enables risk-taking, and inefficient resource allocation. Risk-taking in group affiliated firms leads to higher performance, compared to independent firms, but the impact of proactivity is attenuated. Utilizing Indian data, we show that risk-taking may undermine rather than improve business performance, but this effect is not present in business groups. Proactivity enhances performance, but less so in business groups. Firms can also enhance performance by technological knowledge acquisition, but these effects are not significantly different for various ownership categories.
J50|Rule versus discretion: regulatory uncertainty, firm investment, and bureaucraticorganization|"As markets evolve, new regulatory concerns emerge. In response, policymakers institute new requirements for private businesses. Because they impose costs and generate uncertainty, these requirements may deter firm investment. To reduce regulatory uncertainty and favor investment, a principal can choose a rule-based regulatory framework. However, unlike discretion, rules do not adapt to circumstances and are thus inefficient. Using a micro-founded model, we uncover circumstances under which the ex-ante cer-tainty provided by a rule dominates the ex-post efficiency provided by delegation to an unbiased agent. We also establish when delegating to a biased agent is optimal for a policymaker. Our main results highlight that the anticipated economic responses of firms can indirectly influence the organization of the bureaucracy. As such, any attempt to evaluate firms' direct influence in the rule-making process|through lobbying or information disclosure|needs to establish the proper counter-factual that accounts for the indirect effects this paper identifies."
J50|Reputation and accountability relationships: managing accountability expectations through reputation|Accountability is said to be about the management of expectations. Empirical studies reveal considerable variation in organizational interest, intensity and investment in accountability relationships. Less is known, however, as to what explains these observed variations. Drawing on accountability and reputation-concerned literatures, this paper argues that a reputation-based perspective to accountability offers an underlying logic that explains how account-giving actors and account-holding forums actually manage these expectations, how organisations make sense of and prioritise among accountability responsibilities. Reputational considerations act as a filtering mechanism of external demands and help account for variations in degrees of interest in, and intensity of, accountability. The resulting accountability outcomes are co-produced by the reputational investment of both account-giver and account-holder, resulting in distinct accountability constellations and outcomes
J50|Transformational leadership and employee voice behavior: a Pygmalion mechanism|We theorized and examined a Pygmalion perspective beyond those proposed in past studies in the relationship between transformational leadership and employee voice behavior. Specifically, we proposed that transformational leadership influences employee voice through leaders’ voice expectation and employees’ voice role perception (i.e., Pygmalion mechanism). We also theorized that personal identification with transformational leaders influences the extent to which employees internalize leaders’ external voice expectation as their own voice role perception. In a time-lagged field study, we found that leaders’ voice expectation and employees’ voice role perception (i.e., the Pygmalion process) mediate the relationship between transformational leadership and voice behavior. In addition, we found transformational leadership strengthens employees’ personal identification with the leader, which in turn, as a moderator, amplifies the proposed Pygmalion process. Theoretical and practical implications are discussed.
J50|A new approach to automating services|While many white collar workers may feel threatened by service automation, companies that thoughtfully automate services are finding that the worries are overblown. By pairing humans and robots, companies can deliver better services for less, and jobs can become more interesting.
J50|The upside of cultural differences: towards a more balanced treatment of culture in cross-cultural management research|Purpose –This introductory paper to the Special Issue encourages scholars to look at commonly considered phenomena in international business and cross-cultural research in new ways and to theorize and explore how cultural diversity, distance, and foreignness create value for global organizations. These considerations should result in a more balanced treatment of culture in cross-cultural management research. Design/methodology/approach – The idea that there are negative consequences associated with cultural differences is pervasive in hypotheses formulation and empirical testing in international business and cross-cultural management literature, as reflected in widely used constructs such as “cultural distance”, “cultural misfit”, “foreignness”, and related concepts. Consistent with a Positive Organizational Scholarship (POS) perspective on culture and cultural differences, the authors emphasize the positive role of distance and diversity across national, cultural, institutional, and organizational dimensions. In addition, they provide an overview of the contributions to the Special Issue. Findings – Examining the positive side of culture is not only beneficial theoretically in terms of filling the existing gaps in the literature, but is also crucial for the practice of international and global business. Accordingly, the contributions to the Special Issue highlight how explicitly considering positive phenomena can help better understand when and how cultural diversity, distance, and foreignness can enhance organizational effectiveness and performance at multiple levels. They include five research papers, a Distinguished Scholar Essay by Kim Cameron, the founder of the POS movement, and an interview piece with Richard Nisbett, a pioneer researcher in culture and cognition.
J50|Cross-cultural management education rebooted: creating positive value through scientific mindfulness|Graduates of cross-cultural management (CCM) courses should be capable of both tackling international and cross-cultural situations and creating positive value from the diversity inherent in these situations. Such value creation is challenging because these situations are typically complex due to differences in cultural values, traditions, social practices and institutions, such as legal rules, coupled with variation in, for example, wealth and civil rights among stakeholders. We argue that a scientific mindfulness approach to teaching CCM can help students identify and leverage positive aspects of differences and thereby contribute to positive change in crosscultural situations. This new approach combines mindfulness and scientific thinking with the explicit goal to drive positive change in the world. We explain how the action principles of scientific mindfulness enable learners to build positive value from cultural diversity. We then describe the enactment of these principles in the context of CCM education
J50|Barriers and opportunities for robust decision making approaches to support climate change adaptation in the developing world|Climate change adaptation is unavoidable, particularly in developing countries where the adaptation deficit is often larger than in developed countries. Robust Decision Making (RDM) approaches are considered useful for supporting adaptation decision making, yet case study applications in developing countries are rare. This review paper examines the potential to expand the geographical and sectoral foci of RDM as part of the repertoire of approaches to support adaptation. We review adaptation decision problems hitherto relatively unexplored, for which RDM approaches may have value. We discuss the strengths and weaknesses of different approaches, suggest potential sectors for application and comment on future directions. We identify that data requirements, lack of examples of RDM in actual decision-making, limited applicability for surprise events, and resource constraints are likely to constrain successful application of RDM approaches in developing countries. We discuss opportunities for RDM approaches to address decision problems associated with urban socio-environmental and water-energy-food nexus issues, forest resources management, disaster risk management and conservation management issues. We examine potential entry points for RDM approaches through Environmental Impact Assessments and Strategic Environmental Assessments, which are relatively well established in decision making processes in many developing countries. We conclude that despite some barriers, and with modification, RDM approaches show potential for wider application in developing country contexts.
J50|The mismanaged soul: existential labor and the erosion of meaningful work|Meaningful work has been defined as work that is personally enriching and that makes a positive contribution. There is increasing interest in how organizations can harness the meaningfulness of work to enhance productivity and performance. We explain how organizations seek to manage the meaningfulness employees experience through strategies focused on job design, leadership, HRM and culture. Employees can respond positively to employers’ strategies aimed at raising their level of experienced meaningfulness when they are felt to be authentic. However, when meaningfulness is lacking, or employees perceive that the employer is seeking to manipulate their meaningfulness for performative intent, then the response of employees can be to engage in “existential labor” strategies with the potential for harmful consequences for individuals and organizations. We develop a model of existential labor, drawing out a set of propositions for future research endeavors, and outline the implications for HRM practitioners.
J50|Emerging market multinational companies and internationalization: the role of home country urbanization|We develop a multilevel theoretical framework for investigating the role of home country urbanization for emerging market multinational companies' (EMNCs) international expansion. We propose that more urbanized home environments directly increase EMNC's proclivity to internationalize and moderate the effects of firm intangible and tangible resources. The empirical counterpart studies 592 EMNCs from 18 different countries in 2010 and an unbalanced panel of a subsample of these firms over the period 2006–2010. Our hypotheses are confirmed in both datasets. We find that while urbanization complements firm financial resources when expanding abroad, it appears to substitute to some extent for internal R&D capabilities. Our findings further our understanding of the drivers of internationalization of EMNCs.
J50|Profit with Purpose? A Theory of Social Enterprise|When social benefits cannot be measured, an organization that selects managers based on pro-social motivation can be used to balance profits with a social purpose. This paper develops a model of social enterprise based on selection of citizen-managers to run firms with flexible missions. We analyze organizational choice between social enterprise, for-profits, and nonprofits. The paper also develops the implications of matching between founders and managers based on their preferences for the mission.
J50|Proactivity routines: the role of social processes in how employees self-initiate change|Proactive work behaviors are self-initiated, future-focused actions aimed at bringing about changes to work processes in organizations. Such behaviors occur within the social context of work. The extant literature that has focused on the role of social context for proactivity has focused on social context as an overall input or output of proactivity. However, in this paper we argue that the process of engaging in proactive work behavior (proactive goal striving) may also be a function of the social context it occurs in. Based on qualitative data from 39 call center employees in an energy-supply company, we find that in a context characterized by standardized work procedures, proactive goal striving can occur through a proactivity routine- a socially constructed and accepted pattern of action by which employees initiate and achieve changes to work processes, with the support of managers and colleagues. Our findings point to the need to view proactive work behaviors at a higher level of analysis than the individual in order to identify shared routines for engaging in proactivity, as well as how multiple actors coordinate their efforts in the process of achieving individually-generated proactive goals.
J50|Looking out or looking up: gender differences in expatriate turnover intentions|Purpose - With the steady increase in the number of female expatriates and multinational corporations’ (MNCs’) pressing need for global female talent, understanding the factors that attract and retain female expatriates is urgent. Drawing from the literatures on gender differences in (domestic) labor turnover and gender differences in social networks, we investigate gender differences in expatriates' turnover intentions. Design/methodology/approach - We collected data via a questionnaire survey from an international sample of female (N=164) and male (N=1,509) expatriates who were on a company-sponsored international assignment at the time of completing the survey. Findings - Our findings show that female expatriates’ turnover intentions are mainly explained by satisfaction with company support. In contrast, male expatriates’ turnover intentions are explained by repatriation concerns and perceived gap between within- and outside-company career-advancement opportunities, in addition to satisfaction with company support. We did not find any gender differences in the levels of turnover intention per se. Practical implications - Since males dominate the expatriate cadre of most companies, existing expatriate retention strategies are likely to be geared toward males. Companies that value and want to retain their female talent, need to gain a better understanding of what matters to female expatriates in their decisions to stay or leave the company, and adjust their expatriation and repatriation management strategies accordingly. Originality/value – Our study is one of the first to empirically test the gender differences in expatriate turnover intentions. We propose two underlying mechanisms that explain gender differences in expatriate turnover intentions: (1) social integration, and (2) career advancement. Our findings point to an important new research frontier that focuses on gender differences in the underlying mechanisms of turnover intentions rather than in the level of turnover intentions.
J50|Transfer of European technologies and their adaptations: the case of the Bengal silk industry in the late-eighteenth century|This article investigates the adaptations of Italian silk technologies to the environment of Bengal. The case is particularly interesting as the English East India Company (EEIC) invested considerable effort into making the technologies operational in the new climatic and socio-economic context. The article highlights the unequal focus on technical adaptations, although it points out that commercial and economic, and social adaptations were not completely neglected. It concludes that the key obstacle for the commercial success of the transferred technologies was the lack of attention to institutional adaptations. Institutional problems that arose were the result of lack of leadership and managerial innovations on the part of the company rather than the technology itself.
J50|Appraising the impact and role of platform models and Government as a Platform (GaaP) in UK Government public service reform: towards a Platform Assessment Framework (PAF)|The concept of “Government as a Platform” (GaaP) (O’Reilly 2009) is coined frequently, but interpreted inconsistently: views of GaaP as being solely about technology and the building of technical components ignore GaaP’s radical and disruptive embrace of a new economic and organisational model with the potential to improve the way Government operates – helping resolve the binary political debate about centralised versus localised models of public service delivery. We offer a structured approach to the application of the platforms that underpin GaaP, encompassing not only their technical architecture, but also the other essential aspects of market dynamics and organisational form. Based on a review of information systems platforms literature, we develop a Platform Appraisal Framework (PAF) incorporating the various dimensions that characterise business models based on digital platforms. We propose this PAF as a general contribution to the strategy and audit of platform initiatives and more specifically as an assessment framework to provide consistency of thinking in GaaP initiatives. We demonstrate the utility of our PAF by applying it to UK Government platform initiatives over two distinct periods, 1999-2010 and 2010 to the present day, drawing practical conclusions concerning implementation of platforms within the unique and complex environment of the public sector.
J50|Health decentralization at a dead-end: towards new recovery plans for Italian hospitals|The recent introduction by the central government of recovery plans (RPs) for Italian hospitals provides useful insights into the recentralization tendencies that are being experienced within the country’s decentralized, regional health system. The measure also contributes evidence to the debate on whether there is a long-term structural shift in national health strategy towards more centralized stewardship. The hospital RPs aim to improve the clinical, financial and managerial performance of public-hospitals, teaching-hospitals and research-hospitals through monitoring trends in individual hospitals' expenditure and tackling improvements in clinical care. As such they represent the central governments recognition of the weaknesses of the decentralization process in the health sector. The opponents of the reform argue that financial stability will be restored mainly through across-the-board reductions in hospital expenditure, personnel layoffs and closing of wards, with considerable negative effects on the most vulnerable groups of patients. While hospital RPs are comprehensive and complex, unresolved issues remain as to whether hospitals have the necessary managerial skills for the development of effective and achievable plans. Without also devising an overall plan to tackle the long-standing managerial weaknesses of public hospitals, the objectives of the hospital RPs will be undermined and the decentralization process in the health system will gradually reach a dead-end.
J50|Applying economic psychology to the problem of executive compensation|The conventional design of executive compensation plans is based on an outdated model of executive agency. Empirical work described in this article has provided a better understanding of the relationship between executives’ pay and their motivation by undertaking a detailed examination of the psychology of executive incentives. Four key points emerge. First, executives are much more risk averse than financial theory predicts. Secondly, executives are very high time discounters, thus reducing the perceived value of deferred rewards. Thirdly, intrinsic motivation is much more important than admitted by traditional economic theory. Fourthly, executives are more concerned about the perceived fairness of their awards relative to peers than in absolute amounts. Our research suggests that companies would be better off paying generous salaries, and using annual cash bonuses to incentivize desired actions and behaviors. Executives should be required to invest their bonuses in company shares until they have sufficient “skin in the game” to align their interests with shareholders. As far as possible the use of equity plans, especially complex, high-powered, performance-based plans should be kept to a minimum.
J50|Use of multicriteria decision analysis for assessing the benefit and risk of over-the-counter analgesics|Objectives : To test the ability of a multi-criteria decision analysis (MCDA) model to incorporate disparate data sources of varying quality along with clinical judgement in a benefit-risk assessment of six well-known pain-relief drugs. Methods: Six OTC analgesics were evaluated against three favourable effects and eight unfavourable effects by seven experts who specialise in the relief of pain, two in a two-day facilitated workshop whose input data and judgements were later peer-reviewed by five additional experts. Key findings: Ibuprofen salts & solubilised emerged with the best benefit-risk profile, followed by naproxen, ibuprofen acid, diclofenac, paracetamol, and aspirin. Conclusions: MCDA enabled participants to evaluate the OTC analgesics against a range of favourable and unfavourable effects in a group setting that enabled all issues to be openly aired and debated. The model was easily communicated and understood by the peer reviewers, so the model should be comprehensible to physicians, pharmacists, and other health professionals
J50|Are 'sea turtles' slower? Returnee entrepreneurs, venture resources and speed of entrepreneurial entry|We add to neglected research on how venture resources and founder experience outside the home country interplay in facilitating venture creation speed. In particular, we investigate how returnee entrepreneurs influence the role of venture resources in the speed of entrepreneurial entry. Using a novel sample of 388 new ventures covering a range of technologies in China, we find that returnees from abroad are slower in new venture entry in the home country, compared with homegrown entrepreneurs. At the same time, ventures with innovative technology and backed by foreign capital are slower to set up due to higher levels of liability of newness and liability of foreignness. However, when these firms have a returnee founder who can leverage their experience with foreign resources and technological knowhow, such negative effects on entry speed are significantly mitigated. We discuss implications for further research and practice.
J50|The digital platform: a research agenda|As digital platforms are transforming almost every industry today, they are slowly finding their way into the mainstream information systems (ISs) literature. Digital platforms are a challenging research object because of their distributed nature and intertwinement with institutions, markets and technologies. New research challenges arise as a result of the exponentially growing scale of platform innovation, the increasing complexity of platform architectures and the spread of digital platforms to many different industries. This paper develops a research agenda for digital platforms research in IS. We recommend researchers seek to (1) advance conceptual clarity by providing clear definitions that specify the unit of analysis, degree of digitality and the sociotechnical nature of digital platforms; (2) define the proper scoping of digital platform concepts by studying platforms on different architectural levels and in different industry settings; and (3) advance methodological rigour by employing embedded case studies, longitudinal studies, design research, data-driven modelling and visualisation techniques. Considering current developments in the business domain, we suggest six questions for further research: (1) Are platforms here to stay? (2) How should platforms be designed? (3) How do digital platforms transform industries? (4) How can data-driven approaches inform digital platforms research? (5) How should researchers develop theory for digital platforms? and (6) How do digital platforms affect everyday life?
J50|The welfare costs of non-marginal water pricing: evidence from the water only companies in England and Wales|The evaluation of the economic efficiency of regulatory schemes is essential for regulators and utilities. In this study it is analysed for the first time the welfare costs of non-marginal cost pricing in the water supply in England and Wales, by computing the deadweight loss of the water only companies (WoCs) that existed over the period of 1993–2009. The results indicate that the current price schemes can have substantial efficiency costs. Our estimates show that the loss of efficiency for the WoCs lies between 15 and 60 million GBP over the period 1993–2009. These amounts could have been redistributed either to the companies in terms of profits or to the consumers via price reductions. The methodology and results of this study are of great interest for both regulators and water utilities managers to evaluate the effectiveness of price regulation and make informed decisions.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J50|Impact of regulation on English and Welsh water-only companies: an input-distance function approach|The assessment of productivity change over time and its drivers is of great significance for water companies and regulators when setting urban water tariffs. This issue is even more relevant in privatized water industries, such as those in England and Wales, where the price-cap regulation is adopted. In this paper, an input-distance function is used to estimate productivity change and its determinants for the English and Welsh water-only companies (WoCs) over the period of 1993–2009. The impacts of several exogenous variables on companies’ efficiencies are also explored. From a policy perspective, this study describes how regulators can use this type of modeling and results to calculate illustrative X factors for the WoCs. The results indicate that the 1994 and 1999 price reviews stimulated technical change, and there were small efficiency gains. However, the 2004 price review did not accelerate efficiency change or improve technical change. The results also indicated that during the whole period of study, the excessive scale of the WoCs contributed negatively to productivity growth. On average, WoCs reported relatively high efficiency levels, which suggests that they had already been investing in technologies that reduce long-term input requirements with respect to exogenous and service-quality variables. Finally, an average WoC needs to improve its productivity toward that of the best company by 1.58%. The methodology and results of this study are of great interest to both regulators and water-company managers for evaluating the effectiveness of regulation and making informed decisions.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J50|Witnessing wrongdoing: The effects of observer power on incivility intervention in the workplace|Research often paints a dark portrait of power. Previous work underscores the links between power and self-interested, antisocial behavior. In this paper, we identify a potential bright side to power—namely, that the powerful are more likely to intervene when they witness workplace incivility. In experimental (Studies 1 and 3) and field (Study 2) settings, we find evidence suggesting that power can shape how, why, and when the powerful respond to observed incivility against others. We begin by drawing on research linking power and action orientation. In Study 1, we demonstrate that the powerful respond with agency to witnessed incivility. They are more likely to directly confront perpetrators, and less likely to avoid the perpetrator and offer social support to targets. We explain the motivation that leads the powerful to act by integrating theory on responsibility construals of power and hierarchy maintenance. Study 2 shows that felt responsibility mediates the effect of power on increased confrontation and decreased avoidance. Study 3 demonstrates that incivility leads the powerful to perceive a status challenge, which then triggers feelings of responsibility. In Studies 2 and 3, we also reveal an interesting nuance to the effect of power on supporting the target. While the powerful support targets less as a direct effect, we reveal countervailing indirect effects: To the extent that incivility is seen as a status challenge and triggers felt responsibility, power indirectly increases support toward the target. Together, these results enrich the literature on third-party intervention and incivility, showing how power may free bystanders to intervene in response to observed incivility.
J50|What Drives Differences in Management Practices?|"Partnering with the US Census Bureau, we implement a new survey of ""structured"" management practices in two waves of 35,000 manufacturing plants in 2010 and 2015. We find an enormous dispersion of management practices across plants, with 40 percent of this variation across plants within the same firm. Management practices account for more than 20 percent of the variation in productivity, a similar, or greater, percentage as that accounted for by R&D, ICT, or human capital. We find evidence of two key drivers to improve management. The business environment, as measured by right-to-work laws, boosts incentive management practices. Learning spillovers, as measured by the arrival of large ""Million Dollar Plants"" in the country, increase the management scores of incumbents."
J50|Turbulence, Firm Decentralization and Growth in Bad Times|"What is the optimal form of firm organization during ""bad times""? Using two large micro datasets on firm decentralization from US administrative data and 10 OECD countries, we find that firms that delegated more power from the Central Headquarters to local plant managers prior to the Great Recession out-performed their centralized counterparts in sectors that were hardest hit by the subsequent crisis. We present a model where higher turbulence benefits decentralized firms because the value of local information and urgent action increases. Since turbulence rises in severe downturns, decentralized firms do relatively better. We show that the data support our model over alternative explanations such as recession-induced reduction in agency costs (due to managerial fears of bankruptcy) and changing coordination costs. Countries with more decentralized firms (like the US) weathered the 2008–09 Great Recession better: these organizational differences could account for about 16% of international differences in post-crisis GDP growth."
J50|How do enterprises respond to a managerial accounting performance measure mandated by the state?|We study the application of Economic Value Added (EVA®) by Chinese state-owned enterprises (SOEs) following a regulatory requirement to deploy the measure. Our theoretical framing engages conceptual elements of institutional work and public accountability research to consider why key actors vary in their responses to the mandated application of EVA®. Our data derives from thirty interviews with managers in three SOEs and their oversight body (the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council). We identify two relevant dimensions associated with managers: 'accounting centricity' and 'institutional potential' and report that they drive the authenticity of actors' responses in the absence of enforcement of the mandated measure. When accounting centricity and institutional potential align to the dictates of the higher implementing body, accountability remains high notwithstanding the absence of enforcement. When these two factors do not align, accountability fails even when politicization is high and formal accountability claims are high. Where the two factors are partially present, the accountability response is mixed. Our study contributes to a refinement of the perspective advanced by prior investigations of institutionally sanctioned roll outs of accounting systems highlighting in particular, the role of human agency in explaining actor responses.
J50|Unravelling casual and temporal influences underpinning monitoring systems success: a typological approach|This paper is concerned with the causal and temporal underpinnings of Information Systems (IS) success. It uses a typological approach based on fuzzy-set Qualitative Comparative Analysis (fsQCA) and process tracing. It investigates success across multiple cases of IS adopted for monitoring the disbursement and use of resources within the European Social Fund (ESF). The study unravels the causal mechanisms and temporal pathways underpinning success in these systems. It develops a typological theory of monitoring systems success that reveals the temporal pathways embedded within individual cases, as well as broader theoretical patterns emerging across cases. Theoretical, methodological and practical implications are discussed.
J50|On the external validity of social-preference games: A systematic lab-field study|We present a lab-field experiment designed to assess systematically the external validity of social preferences elicited in a variety of experimental games. We do this by comparing behavior in the different games with a number of behaviors elicited in the field and with self-reported behaviors exhibited in the past, using the same sample of participants. Our results show that the experimental social-preference games do a poor job in explaining both social behaviors in the field and social behaviors from the past.
J50|Motivated reasoning during recruitment|This research shows how job postings can lead job candidates to see themselves as particularly deserving of hiring and high salary. We propose that these entitlement beliefs entail both personal motivations to see oneself as deserving and the ability to justify those motivated judgments. Accordingly, we predict that people feel more deserving when qualifications for a job are vague and thus amenable to motivated reasoning, whereby people use information selectively to reach a desired conclusion. We tested this hypothesis with a two-phase experiment (N = 892) using materials drawn from real online job postings. In the first phase of the experiment, participants believed themselves to be more deserving of hiring and deserving of higher pay after reading postings composed of vaguer types of qualifications. In the second phase, yoked observers believed that participants were less entitled overall, but did not selectively discount endorsement of vaguer qualifications, suggesting they were unaware of this effect. A follow-up pre-registered experiment (N = 905) using postings with mixed qualification types replicated the effect of including more vague qualifications on participants’ entitlement beliefs. Entitlement beliefs are widely seen as problematic for recruitment and retention, and these results suggest that reducing the inclusion of vague qualifications in job postings would dampen the emergence of these beliefs in applicants, albeit at the cost of decreasing application rates and lowering applicants’ confidence.
J50|Nothing is in the Air|It has often been argued that ‘there is something in the air’ which makes firms in high-density environments – such as cities or clusters – more innovative. The co-location of firms facilitates the emergence of serendipity and casual encounters which promote innovation in firms. We assess this hypothesis using data from a survey of Norwegian firms engaged in innovation partnerships. The results indicate that there may be ‘much less in the air’ than is generally assumed in the literature. The relationships conducive to innovation by Norwegian firms emerged as a consequence of purpose-built searches and had little to do with chance, serendipity, or ‘being there’.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J50|Creative disruption: the everyday innovation practices of intrapreneurs at a technology company|This article makes a contribution to disruptive innovation studies by exploring the micro-dynamics of everyday 'creative disruption' – the creative practices intrapreneurs engage in during their daily work to advance innovation projects inside organizations. Drawing on a practice-based approach and a qualitative action research case study at Thales UK, a multinational technology organization, this article asks how intrapreneurs as key innovative agents foster disruptive innovation practices in their day-to-day work. The analysis of 55 interviews, 25 diary accounts, 29 observations of innovation related events plus a number of documents and reflexive notes following the development of 6 innovation projects as they happen, shows intrapreneurs navigating organizational tensions resulting from disruptive innovation efforts by constantly developing creative disruption practices in response to contextual demands to progress their innovation projects. The results help to expand our understanding of the notion of disruptive innovation in organizations, re-framing it as a micro-level generative process. NOTE: We have the explicit permission and consent from the UK division of Thales to use its real name in disseminating our research.
J50|Resisting labour market insecurity: old and new actors, rivals or allies?|In most of the world, work has usually been precarious. For several decades, however, greater employment security was achieved in the developed economies. These gains have been increasingly eroded by neoliberal globalisation. We focus on Western Europe to examine whether trade unions are merely protectors of the remaining labour market ‘insiders’, or whether they can also represent the interests of the growing numbers of ‘outsiders’. We also examine the role of ‘new’ social movements in mobilising against insecurity. Our reflections end by considering whether and how the two modes of response offered by trade unions and social movements may be integrated.
J50|"The STEM requirements of ""non-STEM"" jobs: evidence from UK online vacancy postings and implications for skills & knowledge shortages"|"Do employers in ""non-STEM"" occupations (e.g. Graphic Designers, Economists) seek to hire STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics) graduates with a higher probability than non-STEM ones for knowledge and skills that they have acquired through their STEM education (e.g. ""Microsoft C#"", ""Systems Engineering"") and not simply for their problem solving and analytical abilities? This is an important question in the UK where less than half of STEM graduates work in STEM occupations and where this apparent leakage from the ""STEM pipeline"" is often considered as a wastage of resources. To address it, this paper goes beyond the discrete divide of occupations into STEM vs. non-STEM and measures STEM requirements at the level of jobs by examining the universe of UK online vacancy postings between 2012 and 2016. We design and evaluate machine learning algorithms that classify thousands of keywords collected from job adverts and millions of vacancies into STEM and nonSTEM. 35% of all STEM jobs belong to non-STEM occupations and 15% of all postings in non-STEM occupations are STEM. Moreover, STEM jobs are associated with higher wages within both STEM and non-STEM occupations, even after controlling for detailed occupations, education, experience requirements, employers, etc. Although our results indicate that the STEM pipeline breakdown may be less problematic than typically thought, we also find that many of the STEM requirements of ""non-STEM"" jobs could be acquired with STEM training that is less advanced than a full time STEM education. Hence, a more efficient way of satisfying the STEM demand in non-STEM occupations could be to teach more STEM in non-STEM disciplines. We develop a simple abstract framework to show how this education policy could help reduce STEM shortages in both STEM and non-STEM occupations."
J50|Liminal entrepreneuring: the creative practices of nascent necessity entrepreneurs|This paper contributes to creative entrepreneurship studies through exploring ‘liminal entrepreneuring’, i.e., the organization-creation entrepreneurial practices and narratives of individuals living in precarious conditions. Drawing on a processual approach to entrepreneurship and Turner’s liminality concept, we study the transition from un(der)employment to entrepreneurship of 50 nascent necessity entrepreneurs (NNEs) in Spain, the United Kingdom, and Ireland. The paper asks how these agents develop creative entrepreneuring practices in their efforts to overcome their condition of ‘necessity’. The analysis shows how, in their everyday liminal entrepreneuring, NNEs disassemble their identities and social positions, experiment with new relationships and alternative visions of themselves, and (re)connect with entrepreneuring ideas and practices in a new way, using imagination and organization-creation practices to reconstruct both self and context in the process. The results question and expand the notion of entrepreneuring in times of socioeconomic stress.
J50|Reference-based ranking procedure for environmental decision making: insights from an ex-post analysis|Preference elicitation is a challenging activity in any decision-making process, yet preferences are fundamental since the recommendations are meaningful and acceptable only if the Decision Maker's values are taken into account. This study proposes an ex-post application of a recent ranking method named Simple Ranking with Multiple Points (S-RMP) to support a participatory decision making process. The method has been tested on a real-world case study simulating the selection of the most suitable site for locating a new landfill. The purpose of the research is twofold: (i) to explore the applicability and relevance of the S-RMP method to support environmental decisionmaking processes and (ii) to provide guidelines for the elicitation of preference parameters of the S-RMP ranking method. The results highlight that the proposed method opens a promising line of research in the environmental decision-making domain, thanks to its ability to use heterogeneous information consistently with the increasing amount of qualitative data embedded in real decisionmaking processes.
J50|Smart and Illicit: Who Becomes an Entrepreneur and Do They Earn More?|We disaggregate the self-employed into incorporated and unincorporated to distinguish between “entrepreneurs” and other business owners. We show that the incorporated self-employed and their businesses engage in activities that demand comparatively strong nonroutine cognitive abilities, while the unincorporated and their firms perform tasks demanding relatively strong manual skills. People who become incorporated business owners tend to be more educated and—as teenagers—score higher on learning aptitude tests, exhibit greater self-esteem, and engage in more illicit activities than others. The combination of “smart” and “illicit” tendencies as youths accounts for both entry into entrepreneurship and the comparative earnings of entrepreneurs. Individuals tend to experience a material increase in earnings when becoming entrepreneurs, and this increase occurs at each decile of the distribution.
J50|Agency and institutions in organization studies|Agency and institutions are essential concepts within institutional theory. In this Perspectives issue, we draw on a select group of Organization Studies articles to provide an overview of the topic of agency and institutions. We first consider different ways of defining agency and institutions and examine their implications for institutional theory. We then analyse the relationship of actors and institutions through four lenses – the wilful actor, collective intentionality, patchwork institutions and modular individuals. Our analysis leads us to dissociate agency from individuals and view it as a capacity or quality that stems from resources, rights and obligations tied to the roles and social positions actors occupy. Roles and social positions are institutionally engineered. It is social actors qua occupants of roles and positions (not individuals) that enter the social ‘stage’ and exercise agency.
J50|Gamification: what it is, and how to fight it|‘Gamification’ is understood as the application of game systems – competition, rewards, quantifying player/user behaviour – into non-game domains, such as work, productivity and fitness. Such practices are deeply problematic as they represent the capture of ‘play’ in the pursuit of neoliberal rationalization and the managerial optimization of working life and labour. However, applying games and play to social life is also central to the Situationist International, as a form of resistance against the regularity and standardization of everyday behaviour. In this article, the authors distinguish between two types of gamification: first, ‘gamification-from-above’, involving the optimization and rationalizing of work practices by management; and second, ‘gamification-from-below’, a form of active resistance against control at work. Drawing on Autonomism and Situationism, the authors argue that it is possible to transform non-games into games as resistance, rather than transferring game elements out of playful contexts and into managerial ones. Since the original ‘gamification’ term is now lost, the authors develop the alternative conception as a practice that supports workers, rather than one used to adapt behaviour to capital. The article concludes with a renewed call for this ‘gamification-from-below’, which is an ideal form of resistance against gamification-from-above and its capture of play in pursuit of work.
J50|Preventing type 2 diabetes: systematic review of studies of cost-effectiveness of lifestyle programmes and metformin, with and without screening, for pre-diabetes|Objective Explore the cost-effectiveness of lifestyle interventions and metformin in reducing subsequent incidence of type 2 diabetes, both alone and in combination with a screening programme to identify high-risk individuals. Design Systematic review of economic evaluations. Data sources and eligibility criteria Database searches (Embase, Medline, PreMedline, NHS EED) and citation tracking identified economic evaluations of lifestyle interventions or metformin alone or in combination with screening programmes in people at high risk of developing diabetes. The International Society for Pharmaco-economics and Outcomes Research’s Questionnaire to Assess Relevance and Credibility of Modelling Studies for Informing Healthcare Decision Making was used to assess study quality. Results 27 studies were included; all had evaluated lifestyle interventions and 12 also evaluated metformin. Primary studies exhibited considerable heterogeneity in definitions of pre-diabetes and intensity and duration of lifestyle programmes. Lifestyle programmes and metformin appeared to be cost effective in preventing diabetes in high-risk individuals (median incremental cost-effectiveness ratios of £7490/quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) and £8428/QALY, respectively) but economic estimates varied widely between studies. Intervention-only programmes were in general more cost effective than programmes that also included a screening component. The longer the period evaluated, the more cost-effective interventions appeared. In the few studies that evaluated other economic considerations, budget impact of prevention programmes was moderate (0.13%–0.2% of total healthcare budget), financial payoffs were delayed (by 9–14 years) and impact on incident cases of diabetes was limited (0.1%–1.6% reduction). There was insufficient evidence to answer the question of (1) whether lifestyle programmes are more cost effective than metformin or (2) whether low-intensity lifestyle interventions are more cost effective than the more intensive lifestyle programmes that were tested in trials. Conclusions The economics of preventing diabetes are complex. There is some evidence that diabetes prevention programmes are cost effective, but the evidence base to date provides few clear answers regarding design of prevention programmes because of differences in denominator populations, definitions, interventions and modelling assumptions
J50|Care coordination in a business-to-business and a business-to-consumer model for telemonitoring patients with chronic diseases|For telemonitoring to support care coordination, a sound business model is conditional. The aim of this study is to explore the systemic and economic differences in care coordination via business-to-business and business-to-consumer models for telemonitoring patients with chronic diseases.
J50|Does it matter what workers do? The role of workers' relational agency in the hybridisation of TNC subsidiaries in China and Mexico|This article questions if the issue of hybridisation - or convergence and divergence - in the operations of global car producers is sufficiently addressed on the level of ideal typical 'productive models' or other forms of static ideal types. Arguing that there are difficulties in accounting for dynamic change and process, I suggest a shift in attention to processes of relational agency between social agents on and beyond the shop floor. Based on empirical evidence on the Chinese and Mexican subsidiaries of one of the largest global car manufacturers, I argue that in these relational processes worker agency has to be considered as a factor that shapes institutional change and variety, as well as the actual performance of shop floor institutions.
J50|LSE Department of Management response to DBEIS Green Paper, Corporate Governance Reform, November 2017|This response to the Corporate Governance Green Paper is based on the discussions at a Workshop at the London School of Economics on February 6th and 7th 2017. This was organised to obtain a better understanding of where the evidence stands on some critical aspects of corporate governance, specifically employee representation and senior executive pay, and to discuss the policy implications. We organised the workshop into sessions on board diversity (including worker membership of boards); employee consultation; employee participation and board pay; each with a focus on company productivity. We assembled a group of scholars and practitioners who have analysed a variety of experiences; UK, US, Japan, Germany, Nordic, as well as several emerging markets. This response represents a distillation of our discussions.
J50|The Effect of Teachers' Unions on Student Achievement: Evidence from Wisconsin's Act 10|This study examines the short-run impact of a weakening of teachers' unions on student achievement. In 2011, Wisconsin enacted the Budget Repair Bill, or Act 10, which significantly limited the power of teachers' unions in the state by restricting their fundraising abilities and limiting the scope of collective bargaining. Exploiting plausibly exogenous variation in the timing of exposure to Act 10 due to differences in the expiration dates of pre-existing collective bargaining agreements across school districts, I find that the law reduced average test scores on the state's standardized exam by approximately 20% of a standard deviation. Results from quantile regressions indicate that this effect was largely driven by declines in the lower half of the student achievement distribution. Lastly, the study explores plausible mechanisms behind the observed decline in achievement, and presents evidence that the law led to a significant increase in teacher turnover and a large reduction in teacher salaries.
J50|Non-Rigid Wages And Merger Profitability Reversal Under Convex Costs And Centralized Unionization|"Can a merger from duopoly to monopoly be detrimental for profits? This paper deals with this issue by focusing on the interaction between decreasing returns to labour (which imply firms' convex costs) and centralised unionisation. Firstly, it is highlighted that a wage ""non-rigidity"" result applies: the post-merger wage is higher than in the pre-merger equilibrium. Secondly, it is shown that a ""reversal result"" in relation to merger profitability actually realises when the union is sufficiently oriented towards wages. Moreover, the higher the reservation wage, the degree of product differentiation and the union's relative bargaining power, the higher the probability that merger reduces profits.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
J50|Mass Layoffs, Manufacturing And State Business Climates: Does State Policy Matter?|" type=""main"" xml:id=""coep12157-abs-0001""> This study provides the first estimates on the relationship between state public policies and job losses in the manufacturing sector. In addition, spatial model estimation is adopted to identify any effect that state policies may have on the adopting state as well as upon neighboring states. We find evidence that favorable ratings regarding some elements of a state's business climate coincide with a lower incidence of job loss. This relationship holds beyond the adopting state and is correlated with lower job losses in contiguous states. (JEL J50, J60, M50)"
J50|Skill gaps in the workplace: measurement, determinants and impacts|This paper identifies the key factors determining the correct identification of skill gaps within firms. The impact of skill gaps on average training expenditures and labour costs is also measured. The research finds that both HRM and collective bargaining arrangements are important factors in facilitating the accurate identification of skill gaps within firms.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J50|Market Interaction and Efficient Cooperation|We experimentally study causal effects of competitive market experience on efficiency levels attained in a subsequent social dilemma. We compare behavior of pairs of traders who have been market-winners with that of pairs who have been market- losers. We study both the cases where traders interacting in the social dilemma have competed with each other in the market before and where traders do not have a shared market experience. Shared market experience adversely affects efficiency in the social dilemma for both market-winner and market-loser pairs. Market-winners achieve higher efficiency levels in the social dilemma only if market experience is not shared.
J50|The political economy of income distribution: industry level evidence from Austria|Austria has experienced one of the steepest declines in the wage share in comparison to other European countries with a fall from 66.2% in its peak in 1978 to 52.8% in 2007 before the recession, and as of 2015 with a level of 55.5% it is 10.6%-point below its peak. We find that union density has had the strongest impact in Austria, explaining 85.1 percent of the average decline of the wage share (based on our estimations for the period of during 1996-2007). We also find a sizeable negative effect of intermediate imports (international outsourcing) and some negative effect of outward FDI as well as financialisation measured by household debt and financial payments (interest and dividend payments and income as a ratio to total resources of nonfinancial corporations). The negative impact of technology (measured by ICT capital intensity as a ratio to value added in the sector) is relatively smaller and not always significant. Results indicate that migration has had a very strong positive effect on the wage share. Increasing imports of capital and consumption goods have also had sizeable positive effects. The strategy of an equality-led development requires labour market policies aiming at pre-distribution as well as redistribution. These include strengthening the bargaining power of labour, ensuring higher collective bargaining coverage, enforcing gender equality, introducing and enforcing pay ratios to moderate wage inequality, and restoring the progressivity of the tax system.
J50|La reforma laboral implementada durante el segundo gobierno de Alfonso López Pumarejo|En este artículo se estudian los elementos más relevantes de la reforma laboral propuesta y puesta en práctica por el presidente Alfonso López Pumarejo durante su segunda gestión de Gobierno. La reforma fue implementada fundamentalmente a través de la Ley 6ª de 1945. Los elementos más relevantes de la misma fueron la institucionalización y regulación de los movimientos obreros para que contribuyesen de esta forma a la estabilidad del crecimiento económico y el desarrollo empresarial pretendido en ese momento por el Estado colombiano, así como el reconocimiento de un conjunto de reivindicaciones y derechos a los trabajadores urbanos, que hicieron de esta reforma la más avanzada en Colombia en términos sociales durante el siglo XX.
J50|Loss averse agents and lenient supervisors in performance appraisal|A consistent empirical literature shows that in many organizations supervisors systematically overrate their employees’ performance. Such leniency bias is at odds with the standard principal-agent model and has been explained with causes that range from social interactions to fairness concerns and to collusive behavior between the supervisor and the agent. We show that the principal-agent model, extended to consider loss-aversion and reference-dependent preferences, predicts that the leniency bias is comparatively less detrimental to effort provision than the severity bias. We test this prediction with a laboratory experiment where we demonstrate that failing to reward deserving agents is significantly more detrimental than rewarding undeserving agents. This offers a novel explanation as to why supervisors tend to be lenient in their appraisals.
J50|Employment protection and wage inequality within education groups in Europe|In this paper we employ EU-Silc microdata for 19 EU member countries in 2007 and 2012 to provide evidence on hourly wage disparities within high-, medium- and low-educated workers. Using quantile regression approaches, we look at individual and institutional determinants of earnings inequality within each cohort and across the wage distribution. Then, by focusing on the employment status (temporary/permanent) of workers, we find that remarkable differences exist in the role played by employment protection of temporary and regular jobs in shaping wage levels, depending on the group of countries, education groups and year considered, with important and group-specific policy implications.
J50|Estimating workers’ bargaining power and firms’ markup in India: Implications of reforms and labour regulations|This paper simultaneously estimates workers’ bargaining power (WBP) and firm’s markup (FMU) in Indian manufacturing industries, using state-wise three-digit industry-level panel data for the period 1980–2007. It also examines the association of WBP and FMU with industrial deregulation, trade liberalisation and labour regulations. Results of the econometric analysis suggest that WBP is negatively associated with both industrial deregulations and trade liberalisation, but there is no significant association of FMU with these reforms. Further, pro-worker amendments to selected provisions of Industrial Disputes Act 1947, but not all, seem to enhance WBP to some extent. In light of these findings, policy implications are brought out.
J50|Distributional cost-effectiveness analysis: a tutorial|Distributional cost-effectiveness analysis (DCEA) is a framework for incorporating health inequality concerns into the economic evaluation of health sector interventions. In this tutorial we describe the technical details of how to conduct DCEA, using an illustrative example comparing alternative ways of implementing the NHS Bowel Cancer Screening Programme (BCSP). The two key stages in DCEA are (A) modelling social distributions of health associated with different interventions and (B) evaluating social distributions of health with respect to the dual objectives of improving total population health and reducing unfair health inequality. As well as describing the technical methods used, we also identify the data requirements and the social value judgements that have to be made. Finally, we demonstrate the use of sensitivity analyses to explore the impacts of alternative modelling assumptions and social value judgements.
J50|Changes in healthcare professional work afforded by technology: the introduction of a national electronic patient record in an English hospital|This article considers changes in healthcare professional work afforded by technology. It uses the sociology of professionals’ literature together with a theory of affordances to examine how and when technology allows change in healthcare professional work. The study draws from research into the introduction of a national electronic patient record in an English hospital. We argue that electronic patient record affords changes through its materiality as it interacts with healthcare professional practice. Its affordances entail some level of standardisation of healthcare professional conduct and practice, curtailment of professional autonomy, enlargement of nurses’ roles and redistribution of clinical work within and across professional boundaries. The article makes a contribution to the growing literature advocating a cultural approach to the study of technological affordances in organisations and to studies that explore healthcare professional practice in conjunction with the materiality of technology. Two main lines of argument are developed here. First, that technological affordances do not solely lie with the materiality of technology nor with individual perceptions, but are cultivated and nurtured within a broader cultural–institutional context, in our case a professional context of use. Second, that technological affordance of change is realised when healthcare professionals’ (individual and collective) perceptions of technology (and of its materiality) fit with their sense of (professional) self. In this respect, the article shows the extent to which the materiality of technology plays out with professional identity and frames the level and extent to which technology can and cannot afford restructuring of work and redistribution of power across professional groups.
J50|Making fair choices on the path to universal health coverage: a prėcis|We outline key conclusions of the World Health Organisation's report 'Making Fair Choices on the Path to Universal Health Coverage (UHC)'. The Report argues that three principles should inform choices on the path to UHC: I. Coverage should be based on need, with extra weight given to the needs of the worse off; II. One aim should be to generate the greatest total improvement in health; III. Contributions should be based on ability to pay and not need. We describe how these principles determine which trade-offs are (un)acceptable. We also discuss which institutions contribute to fair and accountable choices.
J50|Depletion from self-regulation: a resource-based account of the effect of value incongruence|Value incongruence between employees and organizations has been identified as a negative work condition. An attitude-based account suggests that value incongruence gives rise to negative attitudes toward organizations and thus causes low performance. To complement this mechanism, we propose a resource-based account based on ego-depletion theory, which suggests that value incongruence consumes an individual’s regulatory resources and leads to low work performance. In support of this view, results from two survey studies and a vignette experiment reveal that value incongruence is positively associated with ego depletion, which in turn is negatively related to work performance. The mediation effect of ego depletion is independent of the attitude-based mechanism as represented by job satisfaction and affective commitment. Consistent with the affective consistency perspective, the relationship between value incongruence and ego depletion is stronger among employees high in positive affectivity, and weaker among employees high in negative affectivity. The corresponding moderated mediation analysis shows that the indirect effects of value incongruence on work performance through ego depletion vary as a function of positive and negative affectivity. This investigation unravels the self-regulatory consequence of value incongruence and shows that the resource-based mechanism of value incongruence operates differentially as a function of dispositional affectivity.
J50|Entangled stakeholder roles and perceptions in health information systems: a longitudinal study of the UK NHS N3 network|The combination of pervasive and complex technology and an increasingly challenging healthcare environment is the setting for this research study. As a longitudinal case study, the research tracks the development and implementation of a large private information systems network in the UK National Health Service (NHS). Using stakeholder theory, we unpack the story of a complex network of stakeholder roles and perceptions and how these change over time. Our findings show that favorable and unfavorable positions held by multiple stakeholder groups become entangled, where even the same focal group may adopt competing positions which undermine the adoption of the health network. As this situation develops, the policy and implementation of the broader health IT program becomes confused and destabilized. This study makes three contributions. It expands the literature on stakeholder theory within the IS domain; it extends the managerial focus of stakeholder approaches to include policy-making in the diverse multi-stakeholder setting of healthcare; it demonstrates how stakeholder analysis can be employed in IS research by adopting a broader, dynamic approach to identifying and including different stakeholder groups focusing on their varied roles and views during the course of a large scale health IT program.
J50|Why and when workplace ostracism inhibits organizational citizenship behaviors: an organizational identification perspective|Why and when do employees respond to workplace ostracism by withholding their engagement in citizenship behavior? Beyond perspectives proposed in past studies, we offer a new account based on a social identity perspective and propose that workplace ostracism decreases citizenship behavior by undermining employees’ identification with the organization. We also theorize that perceived job mobility influences the extent to which employees identify with the organization when being ostracized. These hypotheses were examined in two time-lagged studies conducted in China. The proposed hypotheses were supported by results in Study 1, and findings were generally replicated in Study 2, where effects of other known mediators (i.e., organization-based self-esteem, job engagement, and felt obligation towards the organization) and moderators (i.e., collectivism, power distance, and future orientation) suggested by previous perspectives were controlled. Results of Study 2 provided further support of the hypothesized directional effect of workplace ostracism on citizenship behavior via organizational identification. Our studies support the identification perspective in understanding workplace ostracism and also strengthen the application of this perspective in understanding workplace aggression broadly.
J50|Indicators-based spatial SWOT analysis: supporting the strategic planning and management of complex territorial systems|Optimizing the multiple uses of land represents a challenge for today's governments and land managers. In particular, protected area planning should satisfy the demand for multiple land uses, while offering optimal protection of our natural resources. The present research aims at providing park's managers, as well as other stakeholders and decision makers, with a scientifically sound and practical approach to zoning protection levels and supporting the strategic planning phase in nature conservation. This paper thus proposes and tests the development of an indicators-based spatial Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities and Threats (SWOT) analysis for a complex territorial system with exceptional multiple values. As a result, key conservation priorities and warning spots are identified to support the subsequent decision-making phase. The innovative value of the research stems not only from the integrated methodological approach based on the combination between spatial analysis, indicators systems and the traditional SWOT analysis, but also from the contextual characteristics and physical extension of the area under investigation. Moreover, the integrated and innovative framework proposed in the paper has also international significance, thanks to the possibility of replicating the research strategy and methodological approach in other contexts.
J50|Home country institutions and the internationalization of state owned enterprises: a cross-country analysis|National institutions shape the ability of civil society and minority shareholders to monitor and influence decision-makers in listed state owned enterprises (SOEs), and thereby their strategies of internationalization. We argue that the weaker are such controls, the more likely such decision makers pursue self-serving motives, and thus shy away from international investment. Listed SOEs’ strategies will thus be more similar to those of wholly privately owned enterprises (POEs) when these controls are more effective. Building on Williamson's (2000) hierarchy of institutions, we examine how home country institutions exerting normative, regulatory, and governance-related controls affect the comparative internationalization levels of listed SOEs and POEs. Based on a matched sample of 153 majority state owned and 153 wholly privately owned listed firms from 40 different countries, we confirm that, when home country institutions enable effective control, the internationalization strategies of listed SOEs and POEs converge.
J50|Challenges to ethical publishing in the digital era: a journal editor’s response to the limited mind reading skills of academic authors|No abstract is available for this item.
J50|Realising the richness of psychology theory in contingency-based management accounting research|Psychology theory has been employed extensively in contingency-based management accounting research, but there has been little consideration of how it could be utilised more fruitfully. After analysing prior research, particularly studies published in Management Accounting Research, I identify and discuss five ways to develop the use of psychology theory in contingency-based management accounting research: (1) stronger linkages between individual and organisational-level studies, (2) a more dynamic perspective on relations between management accounting practices and psychological processes, (3) greater use of field studies in contrast to surveys, (4) examination of the interdependencies between management accounting practices and other types of information, and (5) a greater focus on the role of emotions.
J50|The healthcare complaints analysis tool: development and reliability testing of a method for service monitoring and organisational learning|Background Letters of complaint written by patients and their advocates reporting poor healthcare experiences represent an under-used data source. The lack of a method for extracting reliable data from these heterogeneous letters hinders their use for monitoring and learning. To address this gap, we report on the development and reliability testing of the Healthcare Complaints Analysis Tool (HCAT). Methods HCAT was developed from a taxonomy of healthcare complaints reported in a previously published systematic review. It introduces the novel idea that complaints should be analysed in terms of severity. Recruiting three groups of educated lay participants (n=58, n=58, n=55), we refined the taxonomy through three iterations of discriminant content validity testing. We then supplemented this refined taxonomy with explicit coding procedures for seven problem categories (each with four levels of severity), stage of care and harm. These combined elements were further refined through iterative coding of a UK national sample of healthcare complaints (n= 25, n=80, n=137, n=839). To assess reliability and accuracy for the resultant tool, 14 educated lay participants coded a referent sample of 125 healthcare complaints. Results The seven HCAT problem categories (quality, safety, environment, institutional processes, listening, communication, and respect and patient rights) were found to be conceptually distinct. On average, raters identified 1.94 problems (SD=0.26) per complaint letter. Coders exhibited substantial reliability in identifying problems at four levels of severity; moderate and substantial reliability in identifying stages of care (except for ‘discharge/transfer’ that was only fairly reliable) and substantial reliability in identifying overall harm. Conclusions HCAT is not only the first reliable tool for coding complaints, it is the first tool to measure the severity of complaints. It facilitates service monitoring and organisational learning and it enables future research examining whether healthcare complaints are a leading indicator of poor service outcomes. HCAT is freely available to download and use.
J50|From pyramids to diamonds: legal process offshoring, employment systems, and labor markets for lawyers in the United States and India|In this article, the authors argue that offshoring of legal work from the United States has contributed to the fracturing of the longestablished internal labor market arrangements in large U.S. law firms. Drawing on evidence from the United States and India on legal employment, the growth of offshoring, and the rapidly changing nature of work that is offshored, the authors contend that the changes in employment systems in law firms are likely to be permanent, in contrast to other researchers who suggest they are temporary adjustments to the financial crisis. As U.S. law firms are dismantling their internal labor market systems, Indian law firms are partially recreating them.
J50|Labor unrest and incipient collective bargaining in China|In this paper, we argue that both labor unrest and collective bargaining are increasing in China. Using McAdam’s political process theory, we argue that Chinese workers are striking more and offensively in support of their economic demands. We identify the state’s interests in promoting collective bargaining, and through an analysis of union and employers organizations, attempt to predict the future trajectory of collective bargaining in China. Using new data about strikes, we confirm our argument that strikes in China are increasing. Based on very limited past and current research, we create a taxonomy of baseline collective bargaining in China against which future developments can be compared.
J50|Key challenges and meta-choices in designing and applying multi-criteria spatial decision support systems|There is an increasing use of multi-criteria spatial decision support systems in recent years for dealing with problems that have a spatial distribution of consequences. This growth might be explained by the widespread recognition that there are multiple and conflicting objectives to be considered in spatial planning (e.g. minimizing pollution to air, water and soil, increasing the acceptance of the projects, reducing implementation costs), by new requirements to consider societal values in the evaluation and to increase participation in decision processes, as well as by the crucial role that the spatial dimension plays in such problems. However, we argue in this paper that there are key challenges confronted by DSS designers who are developing such systems and by DSS practitioners who are employing them to support decision making. These challenges impose important meta-choices to designers and practitioners, which may lead to different contents of the evaluation model and to distinctive outcomes of the analysis. In this paper, we present and discuss these key challenges and the associated meta-choices. The contribution that we aim to provide to both researchers and practitioners can be summarized as follows: (i) an increased awareness about choices to be made in the design and implementation of these decision support systems; (ii) a better understanding about the available alternatives for each choice, based on recent developments in the literature; and (iii) a clearer appraisal about the inherent trade-offs between advantages and disadvantages of each alternative.
J50|Does ethnic conflict impede or enable employee innovation behavior? The alchemic role of collaborative conflict management|Purpose The main objective of the study is to investigate whether a societal context of ethnic conflict influences employee innovation behavior in the work domain, and whether a collaborative conflict management style adopted by supervisors plays a moderating role. Design/methodology/approach Drawing on the conflict, organizational behavior and innovation literature, the study examines the main and interaction effects of employee sensitivity to ethnic conflict, organizational frustration, and collaborative conflict management style of supervisors on employee engagement with colleagues to innovate products, services, and job processes. Hypotheses are tested using hierarchical regression analysis, controlling for ethnic diversity in workgroups. Findings Employee innovation behavior is greatest when employee sensitivity to ethnic conflict is high, organizational frustration is low, and when supervisors are perceived to be highly collaborative in managing conflict, regardless of whether the workgroup is ethnically homogenous or diverse. Research limitations/implications The research findings expand our knowledge of the effects of sociopolitical conflict on employee behavior and the role of collaborative conflict management. Future research can address limitations including self-reports, cross-sectional design, and single country setting. Practical implications The findings suggest that employee innovation behavior can be enhanced through developing collaborative conflict management skills of those in leadership positions. Originality/value This is the first study to empirically examine the influence of ethnic conflict on employee innovation behavior, and is of value to businesses operating in conflict settings.
J50|From stakeholders analysis to cognitive mapping and Multi Attribute Value Theory: an integrated approach for policy support|One of the fundamental features of policy processes in contemporary societies is complexity. It follows from the plurality of points of view actors adopt in their interventions, and from the plurality of criteria upon which they base their decisions. In this context, collaborative multicriteria decision processes seem to be appropriate to address part of the complexity challenge. This study discusses a decision support framework that guides policy makers in their strategic decisions by using a multi-method approach based on the integration of three tools, i.e., (i) stakeholders analysis, to identify the multiple interests involved in the process, (ii) cognitive mapping, to define the shared set of objectives for the analysis, and (iii) Multi Attribute Value Theory, to measure the level of achievement of the previously defined objectives by the policy options under investigation. The integrated decision support framework has been tested on a real world project concerning the location of new parking areas in a UNESCO site in Southern Italy. The purpose of this study was to test the operability of an integrated analytical approach to support policy decisions by investigating the combined and synergistic effect of the three aforementioned tools. The ultimate objective was to propose policy recommendations for a sustainable parking area development strategy in the region under consideration. The obtained results illustrate the importance of integrated approaches for the development of accountable public decision processes and consensus policy alternatives. The proposed integrated methodological framework will, hopefully, stimulate the application of other collaborative decision processes in public policy making.
J50|Voluntary corporate social responsibility reporting: a study of early and late reporter motivations and outcomes|Neo-institutional logics for the early adoption of innovations are often argued as more authentic than for late adopters. To what extent might this be so in relation to corporate social responsibility reporting (CSRR)? We specifically focus on neo-institutionalist perspectives with an emphasis on isomorphism (DiMaggio and Powell, 1983) to illustrate alternative motivations, and verify our hypotheses using a mixed methods approach (survey data and field evidence from five organizations). We find that the rationale for early reporters entails a financial pragmatism that is absent in current debates surrounding corporate social responsibility (CSR). We also show that normative and coercive isomorphism interplay among early adopters to drive their adoption decision over time, and these facilitate the generation of different strategic postures to placate key external stakeholders. This contrasts with prior studies that have mainly argued for mimetic and normative isomorphism to dominate the decision to implement CSRR amongst adopters. Finally, we argue that late reporters choose not to engage earlier as (ironically) their strategic proximity to the phenomena being reported is intrinsically close, meaning most internal and external stakeholders assume the proper functioning of the phenomena being reported, and therefore do not demand it. This rationale for mimetic isomorphism is unique and its narrative more positive than that normally ascribed to it in the prior literature. Firms are subsequently less inclined to opportunistically validate or signal their sustainability ethos using formal reporting systems, and only do so superficially to engage in practices
J50|The origins of failure: seeking the causes ofdesign–reality gaps|The theory of design–reality gaps is an extant framework to explain failure of information systems in developing nations. This paper problematizes the nature of failure, with a particular focus on situations in which well-implemented systems, apparently corresponding to users’ views of reality, still fail to meet the expectations of their key stakeholders. To extend existing theory on this phenomenon, I advance a diagnostic model to identify the root causes of design–reality gaps. The model is illustrated through a case study of the Ration Card Management System in Kerala, South India: by capturing the causal chains underlying design–reality gaps, the model sets to trace the origins of failure, and the processes through which it is ultimately determined. The model I propose is both explanatory and normative, as it elicits causes of failure and serves as a basis to combat them.
J50|Management Practices, Workforce Selection, and Productivity|We study the relationship among productivity, management practices, and employee ability using German data combining management practices surveys with employees' longitudinal earnings records. Including human capital reduces the association between productivity and management practices by 30%-50%. Only a small fraction is accounted for by the higher human capital of the average employee at better-managed firms. A larger share is attributable to the human capital of the highest-paid workers, that is, the managers. A similar share is mediated through the pay premiums offered by better-managed firms. We find that better-managed firms recruit and retain workers with higher average human capital.
J50|Management Practices, Workforce Selection, and Productivity|We study the relationship among productivity, management practices, and employee ability using German data combining management practices surveys with employees' longitudinal earnings records. Including human capital reduces the association between productivity and management practices by 30%-50%. Only a small fraction is accounted for by the higher human capital of the average employee at better-managed firms. A larger share is attributable to the human capital of the highest-paid workers, that is, the managers. A similar share is mediated through the pay premiums offered by better-managed firms. We find that better-managed firms recruit and retain workers with higher average human capital.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J50|The ethics of Dieselgate|No abstract is available for this item.
J50|Testing best practices to reduce the overconfidence bias in multi-criteria decision analysis|This paper explores the effectiveness of several methods to reduce the overconfidence bias when eliciting continuous probability distributions in the context of multicriteria decision analysis. We examine the effectiveness of using a fixed value method (as opposed to the standard fixed probability method) and the use of counterfactuals and hypothetical bets to increase the range of the distributions and to correct possible median displacements. The results show that the betting procedure to correct the median is quite effective, but the methods to increase the range of estimates have only a have small, but positive effect.
J50|Where is the future of China’s biogas? Review, forecast, and policy implications|This paper discusses the history and present status of different categories of biogas production in China, most of which are classified into rural household production, agriculture-based engineering production, and industry-based engineering production. To evaluate the future biogas production of China, five models including the Hubbert model, the Weibull model, the generalized Weng model, the H–C–Z model, and the Grey model are applied to analyze and forecast the biogas production of each province and the entire country. It is proved that those models which originated from oil research can also be applied to other energy sources. The simulation results reveal that China’s total biogas production is unlikely to keep on a fast-growing trend in the next few years, mainly due to a recent decrease in rural household production, and this greatly differs from the previous goal set by the official department. In addition, China’s biogas production will present a more uneven pattern among regions in the future. This paper will give preliminary explanation for the regional difference of the three biogas sectors and propose some recommendations for instituting corresponding policies and strategies to promote the development of the biogas industry in China.
J50|Public policy to promote entrepreneurship: a call to arms|Abstract We debate the motivation for and effectiveness of public policies to encourage individuals to become entrepreneurs. Reviewing established evidence we find that most Western world policies do not greatly reduce or solve any market failures but instead waste taxpayers’ money, encourage those already intent on becoming entrepreneurs, and mostly generate one-employee businesses with low-growth intentions and a lack of interest in innovating. Most policy initiatives that would have the effect of promoting valuable entrepreneurship would not be recognizable as such, because they would primarily address other market failures: A central-payer health care would remove healthcare-related distortions affecting employment choices; greater STEM education would produce more engineers of which some start valuable new firms; and labor market reform to encourage hiring immigrants in jobs they have been educated for would reduce inefficient allocation of talent to entrepreneurship.
J50|Whose side are you on? Exploring the role of perspective taking on third-party’s reactions to workplace deviance|We introduce perspective taking as an antecedent of third-party reactions to different forms of workplace deviance. Varying the perspective taken by third-parties (perpetrator; other’s perspective) and the type of workplace deviance (moderate organizational deviance; severe interpersonal deviance), we show that third-parties who take the perpetrator’s perspective perceive the incident as less of a moral violation, make less internal, and more external attributions for the perpetrator’s behavior, which in turn reduces endorsement of punishment. Findings were consistent across the four studies and not affected by the target (organization or individual) or the severity of the deviance. The mediation analysis was supported by the instrumental variable method (Studies 1 and 2) and the concurrent double randomization design (Studies 3a and 3b).
J50|A relational model of perceived overqualification: the moderating role of interpersonal influence on social acceptance|Theories of perceived overqualification have tended to focus on employees’ job-related responses to account for effects on performance. We offer an alternative perspective and theorize that perceived overqualification could influence work performance through a relational mechanism. We propose that relational skills, in the form of interpersonal influence of overqualified employees, determine their tendency to experience social acceptance and thus engage in positive work-related behaviors. We tested this relational model across two studies using time-lagged, multi-source data. In Study 1, the results indicated that for employees high on interpersonal influence, perceived overqualification was positively related to self-reported social acceptance, whereas for employees low on interpersonal influence, the relationship was negative. Social acceptance, in turn, was positively related to in-role job performance, interpersonal altruism, and team member proactivity evaluated by supervisors. In Study 2, we focused on peer-reported social acceptance and found that the indirect relationships between perceived overqualification and supervisor-reported behavioral outcomes via social acceptance were negative when interpersonal influence was low and nonsignificant when interpersonal influence was high. The implications of the general findings are discussed.
