J51|Unions and Firms' Investments. A Unified View|In this paper, we present a simple model in which a unionized and non-unionized firm optimally make investment decisions given their labor productivity. By allowing workersâ€™ organizations to have positive effects on labor effort, we find that the classic hold-up problem does not necessarily survive. We also derive conditions under which rent-seeking by unions may actually encourage firmsâ€™ investments.
J51|Corrupcion, costos y politicas. El caso argentino|El tema de la corrupción es un tópico frecuentemente mencionado en todos los medios públicos y privados y pareciera no haber dudas respecto de su significado. Sin embargo, esa certeza se diluye cuando se pretende profundizar en el análisis y surge la duda respecto de que debe entenderse por corrupción Un criterio bastante generalizado parece entender que se trata de un abuso que, para obtener beneficios privados, realiza una persona o entidad respecto del poder que le han encomendado. No resulta tan fácil definir la corrupción, salvo en las situaciones más evidentes, dado que los comportamientos de los implicados varían y, en general, se ocultan de la vista de la población. En el presente la población de muchos países de elevados niveles de ingresos parecen aceptar como normal la existencia de corrupción entre su clase política. Lo que no puede dejar de ignorarse es que la corrupción se convierte en una ruptura de lo que constituye el fundamento mismo de nuestra sociedad. Destruye el “bien común” para convertirlo en prenda de triunfo de una persona o grupo. Estos individuos pretenden incluso modificar el significado del término corrupción ignorando que es corrupto todo acto que tiende a destruir lo común en beneficio privado, destruyendo también los fundamentos mismos de la sociedad.
J51|Why Unions: Understanding How Unions Overcome the Free-Rider Problem|This paper provides evidence for why individuals join unions instead of free-riding. I model membership as legal insurance. To test the model, I use the incidence of news stories concerning allegations against teachers in the UK as a plausibly exogenous shock to demand for such insurance. I find that, for every five stories occurring in a region, teachers are 2.2 percentage points more likely to be members in the subsequent year. These effects are larger when teachers share characteristics with the news story and can explain 45 percent of the growth in teacher union membership between 1992 and 2010.
J51|Welfare-enhancing trade unions in an oligopoly with excessive entry|Trade unions are often argued to cause allocative inefficiencies and to lower welfare. We analyze whether this evaluation is also justified in a Cournot-oligopoly with free but costly entry. If input markets are competitive and output per firm declines with the number of firms (business stealing), there is excessive entry into such oligopoly. If trade unions raise wages above the competitive level, output and profits per firm decline, which could deter entry and thus improve welfare. We find that an increase in the union's bargaining power raises welfare if the (inverse) demand curve is (sufficiently) concave. We also show that collective bargaining loosens the linkage between business stealing and excessive entry.
J51|Dissonant Works Councils and Establishment Survivability|Using subjective information provided by manager respondents on the stance taken by the works council in company decision making, this paper investigates the association between a measure of works council dissonance or disaffection and plant closings in Germany, 2006-2015. The potential effects of worker representation on plant survivability have been little examined in the firm performance literature because of inadequate information on plant closings on the one hand and having to assume homogeneity of what are undoubtedly heterogeneous worker representation agencies on the other. Our use of two datasets serves to identify failed establishments, while the critical issue of heterogeneity is tackled via manager perceptions of works council disaffection or otherwise. The heterogeneity issue is also addressed by considering the wider collective bargaining framework within which works councils are embedded, and also by allowing for works council learning. It is reported that works council dissonance is positively associated with plant closings, although this association is not found for establishments that are covered by sectoral agreements. Taken in conjunction, both findings are consistent with the literature on the mitigation of rent seeking behavior. Less consistent with the recent empirical literature, however, is the association between plant closings and dissonance over time, that is, from the point at which works council dissonance is first observed. Although the coefficient estimate for dissonance is declining with the length of the observation window, it remains stubbornly positive and highly statistically significant. Finally, there is evidence that establishments with dissonant works councils are associated with a much higher probability of transitioning from no collective bargaining to sectoral bargaining coverage over the sample period than their counterparts with more consensual works councils.
J51|Trade Exposure and the Decline in Collective Bargaining: Evidence from Germany|We analyze the effect of the increase in trade exposure induced by the rise of China and the transformation of Eastern Europe on collective bargaining coverage of German plants in the period 1996–2008. We exploit cross-industry variation in trade exposure and use trade flows of other high-income countries as instruments for German trade exposure. We find that increased import exposure has led to an increase in the probability of German plants leaving industry-wide bargaining agreements, accounting for about one fifth of the overall decline in the German manufacturing sector. The effect is most pronounced for small and medium-sized plants.
J51|Union Reform, Performance Pay, and New Teacher Supply: Evidence from Wisconsin's Act 10|This study examines the impact of performance pay on teacher selection. I exploit a shift toward performance pay in Wisconsin induced by the enactment of Act 10, which gave school districts autonomy to redesign their compensation schemes. Following the law, half of Wisconsin school districts eliminated salary schedules and started negotiating pay with individual teachers based on performance. Comparing the quantity of teaching degrees in Wisconsin institutions before and after Act 10, and relative to those in similar states, I find that Act 10 led to a 20\% increase in teaching degrees. This effect was entirely driven by selective universities.
J51|The Origins of the Swedish Wage Bargaining Model|That export-led industry sets the wage norm for the whole economy, acting as the “wage leader”, is a celebrated part of the Swedish wage bargaining and labour market model. Export- led wage leadership is assumed to lead to controlled, non-inflationary wage increases, as wages are set with international competition in mind. This paper maps the origins of this export industry wage leadership model, showing that the conventional cross-class alliance story focusing on the 1930s does not square with the facts. Going through the central trade union wage bargaining protocols from 1939 to 1959, I show that industry wage leadership was non-existent in the 1930s. In fact, wage formation at the time was quite decentralized. Instead, industry wage leadership was created only in the 1950s. The driving force behind it was not a cross-class alliance between workers and employers in export industry against home market workers, but rather the integration of the trade union wage policy into a Social Democratic macroeconomic project.
J51|The Power Resource Theory Revisited:What Explains the Decline in Industrial Conflicts in Sweden?|This paper revisits the Power Resource Theory (PRT) by testing one of its more influential claims: the relation between the strength of the labor movement and the reduction of industrial conflicts. Using panel data techniques to analyze more than 2,000 strikes in 103 Swedish towns we test whether a shift in the balance of power towards Social Democratic rule was associated with fewer strikes. The focus is on the formative years between the first general election in 1919 and 1938, when Sweden went from a country of fierce labor conflicts to a state of industrial peace. We find that Social Democratic power reduced strikes, but only in towns where union presence was strong. We do not see any tangible concessions in terms of increased social spending by local governments after a left-wing victory as predicted by PRT. Instead the mechanism leading to fewer strikes appears to be related to corporatist explanations.
J51|Labor-Market Concentration and Labor Compensation|This paper estimates the effect of labor-market concentration on labor compensation across the U.S. private sector since 2000. We distinguish between concentration in local labor markets versus local product markets, guarding against bias from confounded product-market concentration. Analysis extends beyond wages to rates of employment-based health insurance coverage. Estimates suggest negative effects of labor-market concentration on labor compensation. This comes through both reducing the human-capital level of those in the market and reducing pay conditional on human-capital level. Higher product-market concentration exacerbates and higher unionization rates mitigates these effects.
J51|Disability and the Unionized Workplace|"The employment of people with disabilities has received significant attention, but little is known about how unions affect their employment experiences. To address this, we analyze monthly U.S. Current Population Survey (CPS) data from 2009 through 2017 and find that the unionization rate declined more rapidly among employees with disabilities. The results are not due to demographic or occupational factors, but to the lower rate at which people with disabilities are hired into unionized jobs. This lower hiring rate more than offsets the greater job retention of unionized workers with disabilities. Given that employers generally control hiring, it appears they are particularly reluctant to hire people with disabilities into jobs with union protections. Overall, in the union context, workers with disabilities appear more likely to be ""last hired,"" but less likely to be ""first fired."" We also find that a union wage premium of 29.8% for workers with disabilities is greater than the 23.9% premium for workers without disabilities. There remains a pay gap of -5.7% between union workers with and without disabilities, compared to a -10.1% pay gap between non-union workers with and without disabilities. Exploratory data reveal that both union coverage and disability status increase the likelihood of requesting accommodations, supporting the voice model of unions. Overall the results indicate that while unions appear to help workers with disabilities in the U.S., unionized positions are becoming less available to workers with disabilities."
J51|Dissonant Works Councils and Establishment Survivability|Using subjective information provided by manager respondents on the stance taken by the works council in company decision making, this paper investigates the association between a measure of works council dissonance or disaffection and plant closings in Germany, 2006-2015. The potential effects of worker representation on plant survivability have been little examined in the firm performance literature because of inadequate information on plant closings on the one hand and having to assume homogeneity of what are undoubtedly heterogeneous worker representation agencies on the other. Our use of two datasets serves to identify failed establishments, while the critical issue of heterogeneity is tackled via manager perceptions of works council disaffection or otherwise. The heterogeneity issue is also addressed by considering the wider collective bargaining framework within which works councils are embedded, and also by allowing for works council learning. It is reported that works council dissonance is positively associated with plant closings, although this association is not found for establishments that are covered by sectoral agreements. Taken in conjunction, both findings are consistent with the literature on the mitigation of rent seeking behavior. Less consistent with the recent empirical literature, however, is the association between plant closings and dissonance over time, that is, from the point at which works council dissonance is first observed. Although the coefficient estimate for dissonance is declining with the length of the observation window, it remains stubbornly positive and highly statistically significant. Finally, there is evidence that establishments with dissonant works councils are associated with a much higher probability of transitioning from no collective bargaining to sectoral bargaining coverage over the sample period than their counterparts with more consensual works councils.
J51|Creative Destruction, Social Security Uptake and Union Networks|Does the creative destruction induced by unions entail increased social security uptake? Creative destruction implies the closures of less productive workplaces, and if the regional benefits from this process is not large enough, the displacements caused by workplace closures cause increased social security uptake. In this paper we apply a shift-share approach and historical unionisation data from 1918 to study the impact of regional unionisation changes in Norway on regional social security uptake during the period 2003-2012. As regional unionisation increases, inflows to regional unemployment and disability decrease, but the outflow to retirement increases.
J51|Automation and Occupational Wage Trends: What Role for Unions and Collective Bargaining?|Routine-biased technological change has emerged as a leading explanation for the differential wage growth of routine occupations, such as manufacturers or office clerks, relative to less routine occupations. Less clear, however, is how the effects of technological advancement on occupational wage trends vary across political-institutional context. This paper investigates the extent to which collective bargaining agreements and union coverage shape the relative wage growth of occupations at higher risk of automation. Using data from the Luxembourg Income Study and the U.S. Current Population Survey, I measure the ‘routine task intensity’ of occupations across 15 OECD Member States and the 50 United States from the 1980s onward. Findings suggest that bargaining coverage is more consequential for the wage growth of high routine occupations relative to less routine occupations, and that high routine occupations lose coverage at a faster rate when bargaining coverage at the national level declines. As a result, declines in bargaining coverage within a country are associated with declining relative wage growth for occupations at higher risk of automation. Estimates suggest that had union coverage in the U.S. not declined from 1984 levels, the earnings of high routine occupations might have grown at the same rate as low pay occupations between 1984 and 2015, rather than experiencing a relative wage decline. However, the findings also suggest that gains in the relative wage growth may increasingly come at the cost of reduced employment shares of high routine occupations.
J51|Consumption dispersion between white-collar and blue-collar workers and rising market concentration in the USA: 1984-2011|The relationship between consumption inequality (between two groups) and market concentration has hitherto been absent from the literature. This paper argues that consumption dispersion between white-collar and blue-collar workers has caused increased market concentration in the USA in a direct and long-term structural manner. Using data from the Consumption Expenditure Survey (CES) and the St. Louis Fed's FRED datasets, the argument is empirically analyzed based on yearly data for the period 1984-2011 in the USA. The results confirm the existence of a long-term relationship of causality. Applying a vector auto regressive (VAR) model to the data, we find that the variance in market concentration markup due to consumption dispersion starts to rise after the fourth period and reaches 41% in the tenth period.
J51|Are Labor Unions Important for Business Cycle Fluctuations: Lessons from Bulgaria (1999-2016)|In this paper we investigate the quantitative importance of collective agreements in explaining uctuations in Bulgarian labor markets. Following Maffezzoli (2001), we introduce a monopoly union in a real-business-cycle model with government sector. We calibrate the model to Bulgarian data for the period following the introduction of the currency board arrangement (1999-2016), and compare and contrast it to a model with indivisible labor and no unions as in Rogerson and Wright (1988). We find that the sequential bargaining between unions and firms produces an important internal propagation mechanism, which fits data much better that the alternative framework with indivisible labor.
J51|Plädoyer für eine neue Tarifpolitik: Kritische Situationsanalyse und Diskussion einer alternativen Gestaltungsvariante|Es gibt gute Gründe, die jahrzehntelang eingespielten Muster der Tarifpolitik kritisch zu hinterfragen. Für einen besonders problematischen Aspekt liefert das aktuelle Jahr 2019 ein gutes Beispiel: Die Ergebnisse von Tarifvertragsverhandlungen weisen aus betriebswirtschaftlicher Sicht ein kontraproduktives zeitliches Muster auf. Die höchsten Tarifabschlüsse werden nämlich oftmals in Jahren getätigt, in denen sich die Wachstumsraten der Wirtschaft deutlich reduzieren. Unternehmen bräuchten in dieser Phase eigentlich eine Kostenentlastung. Stattdessen gehen sie mit sockelwirksam erhöhten Personalkosten in eine Abschwungphase. Diese kontraproduktive Antizyklik kann potenziell zu einer Gefährdung der Arbeitsplätze in einzelnen Betrieben führen. Die Zahl der Betriebe in Kurzarbeit belegt dies deutlich. Weitere problematische Aspekte der üblichen tarifpolitischen Mechanismen sind: Kosten und Störpotenzial von Arbeitskämpfen, Belastung des öffentlichen Lebens und des Betriebsfriedens durch Streiks, Inflexibilität von Tarifverträgen, Kompliziertheit und Antiquiertheit von Verhandlungsritualen, finanzielle Überforderung einzelner Unternehmen durch Betriebsferne der Tarifverträge. Die Diskussion aller Aspekte führt zur Schlussfolgerung, dass die Suche nach alternativen Mechanismen in der Tarifpolitik sinnvoll ist. Es wird dazu ein Lastenheft entwickelt. Im Ergebnis wird ein neues Paradigma in der Tarifpolitik vorgeschlagen und diskutiert, das im Dauerbetrieb stärker durch eine betriebswirtschaftlich sinnhafte Zyklik, Standardisierung, Automatisierung und Einfachheit geprägt ist. Im Kern besteht der Ansatz aus zwei Komponenten. Alle Beschäftigten erhalten zunächst in jedem Jahr automatisch einen Ausgleich für die Inflationsrate. Dies schafft Kaufkraftstabilität. In einem nächsten Schritt wird die Gesamtbelegschaft dann zu einem langfristig vereinbarten Prozentsatz automatisch am Vorjahresgewinn des eigenen Unternehmens beteiligt. Dieses zweite Element sichert eine höhere Flexibilität der Personalkosten und führt zu betriebsnäheren Tarifergebnissen. Im Detail sind dabei eine Fülle von Einzelfragen zu diskutieren, unter anderem muss eine Lösung für nicht gewinnorientierte Organisationen gefunden werden.
J51|Are There Gains to Joining a Union? Evidence from Mexico|Union density in Mexico has been in decline since the 1980s. This article provides evidence on the worker compensation gains (losses) made by males upon joining (leaving) a union. These are estimated using a nationally representative labour market survey covering 2005q1–2016q1. The transitions between non‐union and union status are investigated using a difference‐in‐difference estimator. The findings suggest that joining a union is associated with modest wage gains, contrary to what the literature has shown for most industrialized nations. However, in contrast to this, some union leavers are found to experience a decrease in wages. This article also contributes to the wider literature by providing the first estimates of the longitudinal gain (loss) associated with joining (leaving) a union with respect to non‐wage benefits. The findings show joining (leaving) a union increases (decreases) the probability of being in receipt of legally guaranteed benefits such as bonuses and paid holidays. This suggests that although union density may be in decline, unions still have an important role to play in voicing worker's preferences with respect to compensation and ensuring that employers comply with the law.
J51|The development of the German labour market after World War II|Labour market developments have Germany undergone two shocks: German reunification in the early 1990s, and the Hartz reforms in the early 2000s. They separated the German labour market into the traditional rather corporatist labour market segment, characterised by a high degree of coordination, and a new, less regulated labour market segment. The latter is characterised by low wages and precarious working conditions. A precariat living under conditions of high uncertainty developed. All these developments are mainly the result of legal changes in Germany - changes which, with respect to employment creation, were unneeded.
J51|The interplay between trade unions and the social security system in an aging economy|This paper investigates how demographic change affects the financial sustainability of a defined benefit pay-as-you-go social security system in an environment with collective bargaining on the labor market. Temporary equilibrium analysis shows that the contribution rate decreases, if the old-age dependency ratio rises. The government balances the social security budget by aiming indirectly at a higher level of employment. In the intertemporal equilibrium the opposite applies. The government increases the contribution rate due to additional effects of demographic change on capital accumulation and labor demand. In contrast to a perfect labor market scenario, the imposed financing burden from an aging society is overcompensated by favorable labor market effects on the social security budget.
J51|The interplay between trade unions and the social security system in an aging economy|This paper investigates how demographic change affects the financial sustainability of a pay-as-you-go social security system in an environment with collective bargaining on the labor market. Partial equilibrium analysis shows that the contribution rate or the benefit level decreases, if the old-age dependency ratio rises. The government balances the social security budget by aiming indirectly at a higher level of employment. In general equilibrium the opposite applies. The government increases the contribution rate (defined benefit) or the benefit level (defined contribution) due to additional effects of demographic change on capital accumulation and labor demand. In contrast to a perfect labor market scenario, the imposed financing burden from an aging society is overcompensated by favorable labor market effects on the social security budget.
J51|Distributional effects of minimum wages: Can unions expect a double dividend? A theoretical exercise from a supply-side view|In this short communication, it is recalled that unions traditionally follow a policy of pushing higher average wages and at the same time propose a compression of the structure of wages and salaries, which follows the theory of some sort of equity. Considering a steep downfall of union density in many, if not all, OECD countries, the actual good condition for minimum wage policy comes as no surprise. Despite the fact that unions do not like the intervention of labor market policy at the cost of tariff autonomy, it can be shown that minimum wages are capable of serving both the above-discussed objectives of unions, but only the average wage rate cannot be increased. In addition, the distribution of wages will decrease, ceteris paribus. However, it is not clear whether minimum wages will be able to increase the overall wage quota in the economy. Here, this fact is theoretically explored in depth.
J51|Why Unions Survive: Understanding How Unions Overcome The Free-Rider Problem|This paper provides evidence for why individuals join unions instead of free-riding. I model membership as legal insurance. To test the model, I use the incidence of news stories concerning allegations against teachers in the UK as a plausibly exogenous shock to demand for such insurance. I find that, for every five stories occurring in a region, teachers are 2.2 percentage points more likely to be members in the subsequent year. These effects are larger when teachers share characteristics with the news story and can explain 45 percent of the growth in teacher union membership between 1992 and 2010.
J51|International outsourcing and trade union (de-)centralisation|We study the effects of centralised versus decentralised wage setting in a unionsed duopoly where firms can outsource parts of input production to foreign subcontractors. We show that decentralised (as opposed to centralised) wage setting allows trade unions to capture a larger share of the rents generated by international outsourcing. Consequently, the equilibrium degree of outsourcing is lower under decentralised wage setting, which benefits unions if they are sufficiently employment oriented. We identify situations in which both firms and unions prefer decentralised over centralised wage setting. Thus, international outsourcing opportunities is a potential driver of trade union decentralisation.
J51|Assessing recent reforms and policy directions in France: Implementing the OECD Jobs Strategy|The OECD actively supports countries with the implementation of the OECD Jobs Strategy through the preparation of labour market chapters in the OECD Economic Surveys. This paper provides an overview of the analytical work carried out in the context of the 2019 Economic Survey for France. The paper consists of a preliminary assessment of the French labour market reforms since 2017 related to the tax and benefit system, employment protection, and collective bargaining. These reforms are broadly in line with the recommendations of the OECD Jobs Strategy. They are likely to contribute to enhanced employment and living standards of low-skilled workers and reduce labour market duality. However, a close monitoring will be necessary to assess whether their implementation has the desired effects and additional measures are needed.
J51|Automation and occupational wage trends|Routine-biased technological change has emerged as a leading explanation for the differential wage growth of routine occupations, such as manufacturers or office clerks, relative to less routine occupations. Less clear, however, is how the effects of technological advancement on occupational wage trends vary across political-institutional context. This paper investigates the extent to which collective bargaining agreements and union coverage shape the relative wage growth of automatable occupations. Using data from the Luxembourg Income Study and the United States Current Population Survey, I measure the ‘routine task intensity’ of occupations across 15 OECD Member States and the 50 United States from the 1980s onward. Findings suggest that bargaining coverage is more consequential for the wage growth of high routine occupations relative to less routine occupations, and that high routine occupations lose coverage at a faster rate when bargaining coverage at the national level declines. As a result, declines in bargaining coverage within a country are associated with declining relative wage growth for automatable occupations. Estimates suggest that had union coverage in the United States not declined from 1984 levels, the earnings of high routine occupations might have grown at the same rate as low pay occupations between 1984 and 2015, rather than experiencing a relative wage decline. However, the findings also suggest that gains in the relative wage growth may increasingly come at the cost of reduced employment shares of automatable occupations.
J51|Downstream competition and profits under different input price bargaining structures|In a vertically related duopoly with input price bargaining, this paper re-examines the downstream firms’ profitability under different market competition degrees. Downstream firms earn highest profits with semi-collusion whose level depends on product differentiation and relative parties’ bargaining power. Holding fixed the upstream suppliers’ bargaining power, the more the products are differentiated, the higher the downstream firms’ collusive level that maximize profits, regardless of the negotiations’ structure. On the other hand, holding fixed the product differentiation degree: 1) with uncoordinated bargaining, the higher the upstream suppliers’ bargaining power is, the lower the downstream firms’ collusive level is; 2) with upstream firms’ bargaining coordination, a U-shaped relation exists between the upstream firms’ power and the downstream firms’ collusive level that maximizes their profits.
J51|La pratique de la contractualisation interne hospitalière: vers une nouvelle gestion publique<BR>[The practice of hospital internal contracting: towards a new public management]|The interest of the internal contracting resides certainly in its use like instrument of administrative and financial regulation of the health, social and medico-social establishments, because it constitutes an element of technical and financial viability of a health mutual, but more still as a management and modernization tool. Internal contracting is thus the mode that allows the matching between costs and quality in the hospital field; remaining the indispensable tool for the introduction and adaptation of new public management in public bodies.
J51|Is Declining Union Membership Contributing to Low Wages Growth? Discussion|As union membership is declining, it is natural to ask whether this decline results in slower wage growth. The paper by James Bishop and Iris Chan (2019) studies this question in the context of the recent slowdown in wage growth in Australia and argues the answer is a clear “No”. It is a pleasure to discuss this paper, which not only adds to the discussion about the recent slowing in wage growth in Australia but makes some interesting contributions to the academic literature on unions as well.
J51|Is Declining Union Membership Contributing to Low Wages Growth?|The union membership rate has declined steadily in Australia since the 1950s. Some have suggested that this decline has caused a fall in the bargaining power of workers, which in turn has contributed to low wages growth in recent years. We test this hypothesis using a newly available source of micro data, covering all enterprise agreements federally registered between 1991 and 2017. We find that changing unionisation patterns are unlikely to account for much of the recent low wages growth. This conclusion reflects three key results. First, there has been no decline in the share of employees covered by enterprise agreements negotiated with union involvement even as union membership has declined. Second, the 'union wage growth premium' in the private sector has been stable over time. Third, spillover effects from union involvement in enterprise agreement negotiations onto wage outcomes in other enterprise agreements exist, but have not changed materially over time.
J51|Trade Exposure and the Decline in Collective Bargaining: Evidence From Germany|We analyze the effect of the increase in trade exposure induced by the rise of China and the transformation of Eastern Europe on collective bargaining coverage of German plants in the period 1996-2008. We exploit cross-industry variation in trade exposure and use trade flows of other high-income countries as instruments for German trade exposure. We find that increased import exposure has led to an increase in the probability of German plants leaving industry-wide bargaining agreements, accounting for about one fifth of the overall decline in the German manufacturing sector. The effect is most pronounced for small and medium-sized plants.
J51|Are labor unions important for business cycle fluctuations: lessons from Bulgaria (1999-2016)|In this paper we investigate the quantitative importance of collective agreements in explaining uctuations in Bulgarian labor markets. Following Maffezzoli (2001), we introduce a monopoly union in a real-business-cycle model with government sector. We calibrate the model to Bulgarian data for the period following the introduction of the currency board arrangement (1999-2016), and compare and contrast it to a model with indivisible labor and no unions as in Rogerson and Wright (1988). We find that the sequential bargaining between unions and firms produces an important internal propagation mechanism, which fits data much better that the alternative framework with indivisible labor.
J51|Cognitive Ability, Union Membership, and Voter Turnout|No abstract is available for this item.
J51|The Structural Dynamics of Income Distribution:Technology, Wages and Profits|In the last four decades, an increasingly skewed income distribution has favored capital at the expense of labour and has been coupled with ever growing inequalities. Merging a Neo-Schumpeterian approach to innovation with a Post-Keynesian theoretical framework, this work contributes to the analysis of the structural determinants of functional income distribution. Building on Pianta and Tancioni (2008), we propose a simultaneous model on wage and profit dynamics identifying technological change, offshoring strategies and role of trade unions as key factors which shape the power relations between capital and labour. On the empirical ground, we perform an industry-level analysis extending and improving the Sectoral Innovation Database (SID), which accounts for 38 manufacturing and service sectors for six major European countries (France, Germany, Italy,Netherlands, Spain and United Kindgom) from 1994 to 2014. We find that, despite the structural asymmetries between industries? patterns of evolution, labour productivity growth and product innovation have a positive impact on both distributive components, while a rather negative effect of process innovation on wages is detected. Offshoring processes generally emerge as profit-enhancing while represent a reliable firms? weapon to reduce labour costs, although a remarkable heterogeneity arises when the technological nature of offshoring strategies is accounted for; finally, union density tends to be positively associated with wage dynamics, suggesting the relevance of labour market institutions in conditioning the patterns of income distribution.
J51|Ajustements de l'emploi et des salaires : quels compromis en temps de crise ? Une analyse quantitative et qualitative à partir de l'enquête REPONSE 2010-2011|Since 2008 in France, the establishments implemented wage, employment and working time adjustments to deal with the effects of the economic crisis. This paper aims at understanding the way social actors have negociated wage and employment adjustments. Did personal representatives influence managerial decisions in terms of adjustment ? Were they involved in concessions bargaining by relying on cross referencing of the REPONSE 2010-2011 survey (provided by French Ministry of Labour) on French industrial relations between 2008 and 2010 and of case studies conducted in French establishments between 2012 and 2014. Our analysis allows underlying different kinds of concession bargaining which depend on the nature of industrial relations and of the impact of economic downturn on companies' activity. We also show that concessions may have some more or less durable effects on the employment relation. Finally, our analysis sheds light on the implications of recent reforms in collective bargaining in France, which may facilitate unbalanced concession bargaining in favour of employer
J51|Unions and Inequality Over the Twentieth Century: New Evidence from Survey Data|It is well-documented that, since at least the early twentieth century, U.S. income inequality has varied inversely with union density. But moving beyond this aggregate relationship has proven difficult, in part because of the absence of micro-level data on union membership prior to 1973. We develop a new source of micro-data on union membership, opinion polls primarily from Gallup (N ≈ 980, 000), to look at the effects of unions on inequality from 1936 to the present. First, we present a new time series of household union membership from this period. Second, we use these data to show that, throughout this period, union density is inversely correlated with the relative skill of union members. When density was at its peak in the 1950s and 1960s, union members were relatively less-skilled, whereas today and in the pre-World War II period, union members are equally skilled as non-members. Third, we estimate union household income premiums over this same period, finding that despite large changes in union density and selection, the premium holds steady, at roughly 15–20 log points, over the past eighty years. Finally, we present a number of direct results that, across a variety of identifying assumptions, suggest unions have had a significant, equalizing effect on the income distribution over our long sample period.
J51|The Long-Run Effects of Teacher Collective Bargaining|We analyze how exposure to teacher collective bargaining affects long-run outcomes for students, exploiting the timing of state duty-to-bargain law passage in a cross-cohort difference-in-difference framework. Among men, exposure to a duty-to-bargain law in the first 10 years after passage depresses annual earnings by $2,134 (3.93 percent), decreases weekly hours worked by 0.42, and reduces employment and labor force participation. The earnings estimate implies that current duty-to-bargain laws reduce earnings by $213.8 billion annually. Effects grow with time since law passage, are largest among nonwhites, and are not evident for women. Duty-to-bargain laws reduce male noncognitive skills, supporting the labor market findings.
J51|The Labor Market for Teachers Under Different Pay Schemes|Compensation of most US public school teachers is rigid and solely based on seniority. This paper studies the labor market effects of a reform that gave school districts in Wisconsin full autonomy to redesign teacher pay schemes. Following the reform, some districts switched to flexible compensation and started paying high-quality teachers more. Teacher quality increased in these districts relative to those with seniority pay due to a change in workforce composition and an increase in effort. I estimate a structural model of this labor market to investigate the effects of counterfactual pay schemes on the composition of the teaching workforce.
J51|Capital Structure and a Firm’s Workforce|While businesses require funding to start and grow, they also rely on human capital, which affects how they raise funds. Labor market frictions make financing labor different than financing capital. Unlike capital, labor cannot be owned and can act strategically. Workers face unemployment costs, can negotiate for higher wages, are protected by employment regulations, and face retirement risk. I propose using these frictions as a framework for understanding the unique impact of a firm’s workforce on its capital structure. For instance, high leverage often makes managing labor more difficult by undermining employees’ job security and increasing the need for costly workforce reductions. But firms can also use leverage to their advantage, such as in labor negotiations and defined benefit pensions. This research can help firms account for the needs and management of their workforce when making financing decisions.
J51|Unions and Wage Inequality: The Roles of Gender, Skill and Public Sector Employment|We examine the changing relationship between unionization and wage inequality in Canada and the United States. Our study is motivated by profound recent changes in the composition of the unionized workforce. Historically, union jobs were concentrated among low-skilled men in private sector industries. With the steady decline in private sector unionization and rising influence in the public sector, unionization is now five times higher in the public than the private sector in both countries. Though the public sector represents only 15-20% of employment, half of unionized workers are in the public sector. Accompanying these changes was a remarkable rise in the share of women among unionized workers. Currently, approximately half of unionized employees in North America are women. While early studies of unions and inequality focused on males, recent studies examine both and reveal striking gender differences. A consistent - and puzzling - finding is that unions reduce wage inequality among men but not among women. In both countries we find striking differences between the private and public sectors in the effects of unionization on wage inequality. These differences have become more pronounced over time. At present, unions reduce economy-wide wage inequality by less than 10% in both countries. However, union impacts on wage inequality are much larger in the public sector. Once we disaggregate by sector the effects of unions on male and female wage inequality no longer differ. The key differences in union impacts are between the public and private sectors - not between males and females.
J51|Inter-Industry Wage Inequality: Persistent differences and turbulent equalization|Persistent inter-industry wage differentials are an enduring puzzle for neoclassical economics. This paper applies the classical theory of ‘real competition’ to inter-industry wage differentials. Theoretically, we argue that competitive wage determination can be decomposed into equalizing, dispersing and turbulently equalizing factors. Empirically, we show graphically and econometrically for 31 U.S. industries in 1987-2016 that wage differentials, like regulating profit rates, are governed by turbulent equalization. Furthermore, we apply a fixed effects OLS as well as a hierarchical Bayesian inference model and find that the link between regulating profit rates and wage differentials is positive, significant and robust.
J51|Workers of the world unite (or not?) The effect of ethnic diversity on the participation in trade unions|This paper advances the hypothesis that workers participate less in trade unions in more ethnically fragmented societies. This hypothesis dates back at least to Marx and Engels who first suggested that increased ethnic and racial antipathies among workers undermine class consciousness and weaken the unity of the working class in the United States. Building on a set of innovative instruments derived from biogeography and more precisely the parasite-stress theory of values and sociality (Fincher and Thornhill, 2008), our analysis seeks to exploit exogenous sources of variations in ethnic diversity and establish a convincing relationship between ethnic diversity and trade union density across countries. In turn, our analysis investigates the above mentioned relationship by using the European Social Survey (ESS) dataset and in particular a sample of migrants of different ancestry residing in ESS countries. Consistent with the prediction of the theory, both layers of the empirical analysis provide evidence of a strong, negative and highly significant relationship between ethnic diversity and the decision of the workers to participate in trade unions. Obtained empirical findings remain highly robust across a number of alternative empirical specifications and estimation techniques.
J51|Unions and Inequality Over the Twentieth Century: New Evidence from Survey Data|It is well-documented that, since at least the early twentieth century, U.S. income inequality has varied inversely with union density. But moving beyond this aggregate relationship has proven difficult, in part because of the absence of micro-level data on union membership prior to 1973. We develop a new source of micro-data on union membership, opinion polls primarily from Gallup (N â‰ˆ 980,000), to look at the effects of unions on inequality from 1936 to the present. First, we present a new time series of household union membership from this period. Second, we use these data to show that, throughout this period, union density is inversely correlated with the relative skill of union members. When density was at its peak in the 1950s and 1960s, union members were relatively less-skilled, whereas today and in the pre-World War II period, union members are equally skilled as non-members. Third, we estimate union household income premiums over this same period, finding that despite large changes in union density and selection, the premium holds steady, at roughly 15-20 log points, over the past eighty years. Finally, we present a number of direct results that, across a variety of identifying assumptions, suggest unions have had a significant, equalizing effect on the income distribution over our long sample period.
J51|Dissecting between-plant and within-plant wage dispersion - Evidence from Germany|We analyze the most important drivers of the recent rise in overall German wage dispersion and pin down the relative contribution of central establishment and worker characteristics. Moreover, we separately investigate the drivers of between as well as within establishment wage dispersion. Using rich linked employer-employee data for the German manufacturing sector between 1996 and 2010, we explicitly account for the role of a plant’s collective bargaining regime, its technological status and its export behavior. In order to disentangle the contribution of each single variable to the rise in wage dispersion, relative to other variables, requires a rich and comprehensive framework. To this end we apply a state-of-the-art decomposition method which is based on recentered influence function (RIF) regressions. We find that the decline in collective bargaining coverage as well as changes in the skill- and occupation-related wage structure are main sources of increased overall wage dispersion. Regional employment shifts, differences between collectively covered and uncovered plants and increased sorting play a key role for changes in between establishment wage dispersion, while the technology intenstiy of a plant is the most important driver of within plant wage inequality
J51|Optimal Income Taxation in Unionized Labor Markets|This paper extends the Diamond (1980) model with labor unions to study optimal income taxation and to analyze whether unions can be desirable for income redistribution. Unions bargain with firms over wages in each sector and firms unilaterally determine employment. Unions raise the efficiency costs of income redistribution, because unemployment benefits and income taxes raise wage demands and thereby generate involuntary unemployment. Optimal unemployment benefits and optimal income taxes are lower in unionized labor markets. We show that unions are socially desirable only if they represent (low-income) workers whose participation is subsidized on a net basis. By creating implicit taxes on work, unions alleviate the labor-market distortions caused by income taxation. Numerical simulations demonstrate that optimal taxes and transfers are much less redistributive in unionized labor markets than in competitive labor markets.
J51|Has CEFTA Increased Members’ Mutual Trade? Evidence with an Enlarged Set of Plausibly Exogenous Instruments|The objective of the paper is to measure the effect of the Central European Free Trade Agreement (CEFTA) in its today’s composition on members’ mutual trade. Special consideration is given to CEFTA endogeneity stemming from members’ will to form a trade bloc as a vehicle to approximate EU sooner and prevent further misunderstandings in the Balkan. We use a Conditional Mixed Process estimator whereby CEFTA is instrumented by a set of variables measuring democracy and governments’ negotiation will. The recent Conley et al. (2012) method is used to deal with only plausibly exogenous instruments. The 1996-2015 period is covered. Results suggest that CEFTA played quantitatively large and statistically significant role for its members. When endogeneity is considered, the effect of CEFTA on its members’ mutual trade is found even higher by 50% to 61%. This may indirectly suggest that CEFTA trading power has been drawn not only from countries’ GDPs and proximity, but also from their governments’ will to establish level playing field for cooperation and approach the EU quicker. However, if instruments’ strict exogeneity cannot be secured by the means of argument or statistical tools, then results suggest that CEFTA effect’s amplification may be rather driven, at least partially, by the correlation between the instrument and trade shocks.
J51|Calmfors and Driffill revisités : analyse de l'hétérogénéité institutionnelle et macroéconomique en Europe|Aux divergences institutionnelles des marchés du travail européens s’ajoutent d’importants écarts de performance macroéconomique. Une hypothèse intéressante est celle d’une courbe en cloche reliant la centralisation des négociations salariales aux salaires réels et au chômage, proposée par Calmfors et Driffill (1988). À partir des bases de données ICTWSS et OCDE, nous identifions trois profils de marché du travail selon leur degré de centralisation et leurs performances (centralisé, intermédiaire et décentralisé). Nous agrégeons les principales composantes institutionnelles de la dispersion des pays sous forme d’un indicateur de centralisation sur lequel nous régressons le salaire réel et le taux de chômage. La courbe en cloche qui apparaît s’avère non seulement robuste, mais également pertinente pour analyser les trajectoires des pays, notamment la décentralisation allemande. Les mauvaises performances de certains pays européens, comme l’Italie, semblent liées à l’absence de choix entre deux modes de négociation opposés.
J51|Calmfors and Driffill revisited : Analysis of European ,Institutional and Macroeconomic Heterogeneity|The European labor market incorporates a great variety of institutional frameworks and divergent macroeconomic performances. The hump-shaped curve hypothesis of Calmfors and Driffill is interesting in its linkage of centralization of wage bargaining processes to real wages and unemployment. From the ICTWSS and OECD databases, we identify three labor market profiles according to their degrees of centralization (decentralized, centralized and intermediate). We aggregate the main institutional components of the dispersion of countries into a centralization indicator on which we regress real wages and unemployment rate. The hump-shaped relationship that results from our analyses is robust and pertinent to country trajectories over the years, especially to German decentralization. The poor macroeconomic performance of some European countries after the 2008 financial shock appears to be linked to the countries’ consistent intermediate levels of centralization that result in a manifestation of the negative effects of both centralized and decentralized models.
J51|What drives the four decades-long decline in labour’s share of income?|Alexander Guschanski and Ozlem Onaran (2018) of the University of Greenwich Political Economy Research Centre provide evidence that changes in bargaining power, in particular the fall in union density and welfare state retrenchment, lie at the core of rising income inequality between labour and capital. The research challenges the established consensus that inequality is an unavoidable outcome of technological change or globalisation, and shows the importance of labour market institutions and social protection policies. The results of their recent project, funded by the Institute for New Economic Thinking, will be presented at the Royal Economics Society Annual Conference.
J51|Wage Adjustment Policies In Russian Firms|Wage adjustments for employees are a reaction mechanism to changing market conditions and form a significant part of pay policy. Though various attempts to explore wage levels and wage differentials have been made, wage adjustment policies remain an understudied topic. This paper analyses the determinants of wage adjustments based on data from Russian enterprises 2015–17. The analysis is based on detailed data from an employer survey which covers more than 5,000 firms in both the public and private sector. The study adopts probit models to identify the reasons which determine wage revisions, depending on internal employer characteristics and external labour market conditions. The results are in line with previous research on the topic (Bayo-Moriones et al., 2016) and suggest that both internal and external factors influence wage adjustments. A wage adjustment is a reflection of the ability to pay meaning that revisions are often made by successful firms with high employee turnover. Institutional frameworks, especially trade union activity, affects the firm’s decision to adjust wages despite the general opinion on the insignificance of unions in Russia. This study contributes to the limited literature by analysing the determinants of wage policies depending on the firm’s characteristics. This is the first study of its kind based on extensive Russian data.
J51|Wage Differentials by Bargaining Regime in Spain (2002-2014): An Analysis Using Matched Employer-Employee Data|This research examines wage differentials associated to different collective bargaining regimes in Spain and their evolution over time based on matched employer-employee microdata. The primary objective is to analyse the wage differentials associated to the presence of a firm-level agreement and how they have evolved, taking into account the changes in the economic cycle and the recent labour reform of 2012. The second objective of the study is to examine the impact on wages of an absence of a collective agreement. This regime has become more prevalent due to the regulatory changes associated to the labour reform. From the evidence obtained it may be concluded that, although the higher wages observed in company-level agreements are systematically explained by the better characteristics of firms with labour agreements, there is a positive wage premium that favours workers mostly in the middle and upper-middle end of the wage distribution. This premium has remained relatively stable over time and does not seem to have been affected by the reform, although a degree of cyclical evolution cannot be ruled out. With respect to the impact on wages of the absence of a collective agreement, the results suggest that this level of bargaining, which is still fairly scarce, despite displaying an increasing trend, is associated, on average, to comparatively low wages, and, consequently, to higher wage flexibility. The principal explanatory cause for this wage differential is the existence of a negative wage premium for workers of firms covered by sectoral agreements, particularly those at the lower end of the distribution.
J51|Worker Representation and Temporary Employment in Germany: The Deployment and Extent of Fixed-Term Contracts and Temporary Agency Work|This study examines the potential impact of works councils and unions on the deployment of fixed-term contracts and agency temps. We report inter al. that works councils are associated with a higher number of temporary agency workers when demand volatility is high while the opposite holds for fixed-term contracts. These disparities likely reflect differences in function, with agency work being more directed toward the protection of a shrinking core and fixed-term contacts being as much a port of entry as a buffer stock. We are also able to identify the number of new hires with a fixed-term contract as well as the number of FTC conversions (into regular employment) and renewals, the correlates of which flows are broadly consistent with the stock data.
J51|State Substitution for the Trade Union Good: The Case of Paid Holiday Entitlements|The literature on the union wage premium is among the most extensive in labour economics but unions' effects on other aspects of the wage-effort bargain have received much less attention. We contribute to the literature through a study of the union premium in paid holiday entitlements, using large-scale survey data for the UK. We find that the union premium on paid holidays is substantially larger than the union premium on wages. However, the premium fell with the introduction of a statutory minimum entitlement to paid leave. This is indicative of the difficulties that unions have faced in protecting the most vulnerable employees, and symptomatic of their decreasing regulatory role in the UK labour market.
J51|Where Does Profit Sharing Work Best? A Meta-Analysis on the Role of Unions, Culture, and Values|In this article we re-examine the relationship between group-based profit sharing and productivity. Our meta-regression analysis of 313 estimates from 56 studies controls for publication selection and misspecification biases and investigates the impact of firm level unionisation and national differences in values and culture. Profit sharing is positively related to productivity on average, with a stronger relationship where there is higher unionisation and in countries where honesty is less highly valued and there are higher levels of individualism. The latter two results suggest profit sharing works best in settings where cooperation does not naturally occur. The positive effect of profit sharing on productivity is larger in cooperative firms and in transition economies.
J51|Labour Immigration and Union Strength|To what extent is labour mobility in the European Union a threat to the strength of unions? We argue that the combination of cheap labour, workforce heterogeneity, and low unionization among labour immigrants' is a potential challenge for unions. The challenge will be particularly severe if immigrant competition affects natives' propensity to unionize. We examine this claim using Norwegian administrative data in a natural experiment framework. The 2004 EU expansion led to a rapid increase in labour migration to the construction sector. Licensing demands, however, protected some workers from immigrant competition. Comparisons of protected and exposed workers reveal negative labour market effects of the EU expansion for exposed workers, but no effect on union membership. Our results question important theories of unionization and are relevant for research on immigration, political behaviour and collective action.
J51|Wage floor rigidity in industry-level agreements: Evidence from France|This paper examines empirically the dynamics of wage floors defined in industry-level wage agreements in France. It also investigates how industry-level wage floor adjustment interacts with changes in the national minimum wage (NMW hereafter). For this, we have collected a unique dataset of approximately 3200 industry-level wage agreements containing about 70,000 occupation-specific wage floors in 367 industries over the period 2006Q1-2017Q4. Our main results are the following. Wage floors are quite rigid, adjusting only once a year on average. They mostly adjust in the first quarter of the year and the NMW shapes the timing of industry-level wage bargaining. Inflation but also changes in past aggregate wage increases and in the real NMW are the main drivers of wage floor adjustments. Elasticities of wage floors with respect to these macro variables are 0.6, 0.4 and 0.3 respectively. Inflation and the NMW have both decreasing but positive effects all along the wage floor distribution.
J51|Wages, Creative Destruction, and Union Networks|Do unions promote creative destruction? In this paper we apply a shift-share approach and historical unionisation data from 1918 to study the impact of changes in regional unionisation on regional wage and productivity growth and job creation and destruction during the period 2003-2012. As local regional-industrial unionisation increases, wages grow. Lay-offs through plant closure and shrinking workplaces increase, but entry and new hires are unaffected. Overall, the increased unionisation yields a positive impact on regional productivity, exceeding the wage growth, partly due to the closure of less productive firms, but also enhanced productivity of the survivors and new entrants.
J51|Unions and Wage Inequality: The Roles of Gender, Skill and Public Sector Employment|We examine the changing relationship between unionization and wage inequality in Canada and the United States. Our study is motivated by profound recent changes in the composition of the unionized workforce. Historically, union jobs were concentrated among low-skilled men in private sector industries. With the steady decline in private sector unionization and rising influence in the public sector, half of unionized workers are now in the public sector. Accompanying these changes was a remarkable rise in the share of women among unionized workers. Currently, approximately half of unionized employees in North America are women. While early studies of unions and inequality focused on males, recent studies find that unions reduce wage inequality among men but not among women. In both countries we find striking differences between the private and public sectors in the effects of unionization on wage inequality. At present, unions reduce economy-wide wage inequality by less than 10%. However, union impacts on wage inequality are much larger in the public sector. Once we disaggregate by sector the effects of unions on male and female wage inequality no longer differ. The key differences in union impacts are between the public and private sectors – not between males and females.
J51|Unions, Two-Tier Bargaining and Physical Capital Investment: Theory and Firm-Level Evidence from Italy|In this paper we present a search and matching model in which firms invest in sunk capital equipment. By comparing two wage setting scenarios, we show that a two-tier bargaining scheme, where a fraction of the salary is negotiated at firm level, raises the amount of investment per worker in the economy compared to a one-tier bargaining scheme, in which earnings are entirely negotiated at sectoral level. The model's main result is consistent with the positive correlation between investment per worker and the presence of a two-tier bargaining agreement that we find in a representative sample of Italian firms.
J51|Wage differentials by bargaining regime in Spain (2002-2014). An analysis using matched employer-employee data|This research examines wage differentials associated to different collective bargaining regimes in Spain and their evolution over time based on matched employer-employee microdata. The primary objective is to analyse the wage differentials associated to the presence of a firm-level agreement and how they have evolved, taking into account the changes in the economic cycle and the recent labour reform of 2012. The second objective of the study is to examine the impact on wages of an absence of a collective agreement. This regime has become more prevalent due to the regulatory changes associated to the labour reform. From the evidence obtained it may be concluded that, although the higher wages observed in company-level agreements are systematically explained by the better characteristics of firms with labour agreements, there is a positive wage premium that favours workers mostly in the middle and upper-middle end of the wage distribution. This premium has remained relatively stable over time and does not seem to have been affected by the reform, although a degree of cyclical evolution cannot be ruled out. With respect to the impact on wages of the absence of a collective agreement, the results suggest that this level of bargaining, which is still fairly scarce, despite displaying an increasing trend, is associated, on average, to comparatively low wages, and, consequently, to higher wage flexibility. The principal explanatory cause for this wage differential is the existence of a negative wage premium for workers of firms covered by sectoral agreements, particularly those at the lower end of the distribution.
J51|Adoption of High Performance Work Organization, trade unions and employment redundancy in India|Following Osterman’s research framework of High Performance Work Organizations (HPWOs), the author, using his data sets from the three surveys conducted in India in 2001 and in 2011-2012, examined the adoption and diffusion of HPWOs in India and the factors behind them. It was found that HPWOs spread in India between 2000 and 2011, showing the regional variations in the diffusion and the contributing factors behind the adoption. The opposition of the trade unions against the HPWOs would become less significant once a single HPWO practice was introduced in the workplace. While the HPWOs did not show any significant association, the analysis suggests that trade unions affect managerial decisions to a greater degree than India’s restrictive labor law against employment downsizing.
J51|Economic Growth in the EU: Is Flexicurity a Help or a Hindrance?|In the light of the recent economic crisis, flexicurity has permeated many European Union (EU) policies with the hope that more flexible labour markets alongside modern social security systems and active learning can reinvigorate economic growth. This paper employs a variant of the Solow growth model to examine the impact that flexicurity had on economic growth in 27 EU Member States for the years 2000 to 2015. Using principal components to capture the multi-faceted concept of flexicurity, the results reveal that, in isolation, flexicurity failed to provide any growth stimulus. Lifelong learning, active labour market policy and modern security systems proved However, incorporating the role of the social partners and trust into the model provided a more positive picture of the flexicurity-growth relationship.
J51|The illusion of patient capital: evidence from pension investment policy in the Netherlands|This paper takes issue with the popular idea that the involvement of labor unions within occupational pension funds would hinder short-term profit-maximizing strategies that instead characterizes private pension schemes in Anglo-Saxon countries. The aim is to contribute to demystifying this myth by looking at private pension institutions under the assumption that deregulated financial markets are not neutral and engender a network of power relationships which goes beyond direct market participants. The thesis of this paper is that the high profitability generated by speculative investments leads to a new political compromise between firms and organized labor, insofar as the buying and selling of easily liquidated assets by occupational pension funds guarantees high net-salary levels and generous pensions, without undermining the competitiveness of the firm – at least in the short run. On the other hand, however, it dramatically increases the intrinsic risk of a pension system that, in fact, depends on the state of health of global finance. Finally, we test our hypothesis by examining the investment strategies in the Netherlands, where occupational pension funds have been historically embedded within the structure of neo-corporative interest mediation.
J51|Voluntary Quits: Do Works Councils Matter? An Analysis of the Reform of the German Works Constitution Act 2001|Most of the literature on the effects of German works councils does not deal with the issue of potential endogeneity of works council existence. Exploiting exogenous variation in works council authority stemming from a 2001 reform of the German Works Constitution Act, I apply a regression difference-in-difference using establishment panel data. I find that increasing works council size and the introduction of one full-time councilor causally reduces the number of voluntary quits by about 30 %. This decline is driven entirely by collective voice effects and there is no evidence for monopoly effects in place. Similar to the findings of previous research, the effect is significant only in establishments which are subject to a collective agreement. The results suggest that the effectiveness of works councils either heavily relies on the support of unions, or that works councils mainly serve as a guardian of collective agreements.
J51|Benevolent Mediation in the Shadow of Conflict|Before the start of a negotiation, the negotiating parties may try to affect the disagreement outcome of the negotiation by making socially-wasteful investments, such as purchasing weapons or asking for legal opinions. The incentives to make such investments depend on how the negotiation is conducted. We study the problem of a benevolent mediator who wishes to minimize pre-negotiation wasteful investments. Or main result is that the mediator should favor the strongest player, who has the lowest incentive to make wasteful investments. This result is robust to different specifications of the information available to the mediator. We therefore highlight a conflict between fairness and efficiency arising in negotiations.
J51|Will Robots Automate Your Job Away? Full Employment, Basic Income, and Economic Democracy|Will the internet, robotics and artificial intelligence mean a 'jobless future'? A recent narrative says tomorrow's technology will fundamentally differ from cotton mills, steam engines, or washing machines. Automation will be less like post-WW2 demobilisation for soldiers, and more like the car for horses. Driverless vehicles will oust truckers and taxi drivers. Hyper-intelligent clouds will oust financial advisers, doctors, and journalists. We face more 'natural' or 'technological' unemployment than ever. Government, it is said, must enact a basic income, because so many jobs will vanish. Also, maybe robots should become 'electronic persons', the subjects of rights and duties, so they can be taxed. This narrative is endorsed by prominent tech-billionaires, but it is flawed. Everything depends on social policy. Instead of mass unemployment and a basic income, the law can achieve full employment and fair incomes. This article explains three views of the causes of unemployment: as 'natural', as stemming from irrationality or technology, or as caused by laws that let people restrict the supply of capital to the job market. Only the third view has any credible evidence to support it. After WW2, 42% of UK jobs were redundant (actually, not hypothetically) but social policy maintained full employment, and it can be done again. Unemployment is driven by inequality of wealth and of votes in the economy. Democratic governments should reprogramme the law: for full employment and universal fair incomes. The owners of the robots will not automate your job away, if we defend economic democracy.
J51|Estimating an Equilibrium Job Search Model for the German Labour Market|We structurally estimate an equilibrium search model using German administrative data and use this for counterfactual analyses of a uniform minimum wage. The model with worker and firm heterogeneity does not restrict the sign of employment effects a priori and allows for different job offer arrival rates for the employed and the unemployed. We find that unemployment is a non-monotonic function of the minimum wage level. Effects differ strongly by labour market segment. Cross-segment variation of the estimated effects is mostly driven by firm productivity levels rather than by search frictions or the opportunity cost of employment.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J51|Optimal Income Taxation in Unionized Labor Markets|This paper extends the Diamond (1980) model with labor unions to study optimal income taxation and to analyze whether unions can be desirable for income redistribution. Unions bargain with firms over wages in each sector and firms unilaterally determine employment. Unions raise the efficiency costs of income redistribution, because unemployment benefits and income taxes raise wage demands and thereby generate involuntary unemployment. Optimal unemployment benefits and optimal income taxes are lower in unionized labor markets. We show that unions are socially desirable only if they represent (low-income) workers whose participation is subsidized on a net basis. By creating implicit taxes on work, unions alleviate the labor-market distortions caused by income taxation. Numerical simulations demonstrate that optimal taxes and transfers are much less redistributive in unionized labor markets than in competitive labor markets.
J51|Strikes, employee workplace representation, unionism, and industrial relations quality in European establishments|This paper investigates the relationship between different types of workplace representation and strikes using the 2009 European Company Survey. It also examines the role of the workplace climate, union organization, and collective bargaining. Our principal finding is that works councils are associated with reduced strike activity. But this result is sensitive to the union status of work councilors: where union members make up a majority of works councilors any beneficial effect of the entity on strike incidence is no longer evident in the data. Not only do union-dominated works councils experience greater strike activity than their counterparts with minority union membership, but also more strikes than establishments with union workplace representation where union members are in a minority. Dissonance between the parties, as indexed by degree of divergence between the opinions of employer and employee representative survey respondents as to the state of industrial relations at the workplace, is associated with elevated strike activity. If our measure of dissonance is exogenous, this result suggests that industrial relations quality may be key to strike reduction independent of workplace representation. Finally, there is some indication that union density at the workplace is directly associated with strike incidence, as well as evidence that strikes are more likely when collective bargaining occurs at higher than company level.
J51|The Sources of the Union Wage Gap: The Role of Worker, Firm, Match, and Jobtitle Heterogeneity|Using matched employer-employee-contract data for Portugal – a country with near-universal union coverage – we find evidence of a sizable effect of union affiliation on wages. Gelbach's (2016) decomposition procedure is next deployed to ascertain the contributions of worker, firm, match, and job-title heterogeneity to the union wage gap. Of these the most important is the firm fixed effect, followed at some distance by union workers gaining from elevated job titles and/or more generous promotion policies. For its part, unobserved worker quality plays only a very weak role, while there is even less suggestion that improved match quality bolsters the union premium.
J51|Unions, Two-Tier Bargaining and Physical Capital Investment: Theory and Firm-Level Evidence from Italy|In this paper we present a search and matching model in which firms invest in sunk capital equipment. By comparing two wage setting scenarios, we show that a two-tier bargaining scheme, where a fraction of the salary is negotiated at firm level, raises the amount of investment per worker in the economy compared to a one-tier bargaining scheme, in which earnings are entirely negotiated at sectoral level. The model's main result is consistent with the positive correlation between investment per worker and the presence of a two-tier bargaining agreement that we find in a representative sample of Italian firms.
J51|The Power Resource Theory Revisited: What Explains the Decline in Industrial Conflicts in Sweden?|This paper revisits the Power Resource Theory by testing one of its more influential claims: the relation between the strength of the labor movement and the reduction of industrial conflicts. Using panel data techniques to analyze more than 2,000 strikes in 103 Swedish towns we test whether a shift in the balance of power towards Social Democratic rule was associated with fewer strikes. The focus is on the formative years between the first general election in 1919 and the famous Saltsjöbaden Agreement in 1938, the period when Sweden went from a country of fierce labor conflicts to a state of industrial peace. The spatial dimension provides new possibilities to test the theory. We find that Social Democratic power reduced strike activity, but only in towns where union presence was strong. Powerful unions in themselves did not reduce local strike activity. On the contrary, we find that the rise of the Social Democratic Party in municipal governments offset about 45 percent of the estimated effect of growing union presence on industrial conflicts. We do not see any significant tangible concessions in terms of increased social spending by local governments after a left-wing victory as predicted by Power Resource Theory. Instead the mechanism leading to fewer strikes appears to be related to corporatist explanations.
J51|Convenio Colectivo, Sindicatos y Dispersión Salarial: Evidencia de Argentina|En este trabajo proveemos evidencia empírica acerca del efecto de la negociación colectiva y los sindicatos sobre los salarios y su dispersión para Argentina. Para ello, utilizamos una reciente y novedosa encuesta de hogares y la metodología de descomposiciones. Nuestros resultados muestran que la cobertura por convenio colectivo aumenta principalmente los salarios de los cuantiles inferiores. De esta forma, disminuye la varianza salarial impacatando principalmente sobre la cola izquierda de la distribución salarial. Adicionalmente, la medida de afiliación sindical también presenta resultados en esta dirección.
J51|Concentration and Other Wage Determinants|This research presents evidence on how the impact of industry concentration and unionism affect the Portuguese wage levels. The influence of employer association is also considered. We use sector information - two-digit level disaggregation of “Classificação das Actividades Económicas” -, and control for other wage determinants, as usually done in earnings functions regressions. Dependent variables are logarithms of the mean sector wages considered for each case. Some statistical distribution indicators are also used to provide possible insights on the impact of skill composition and dispersion - eventually reflecting good assignment of people to jobs and/or tasks - on productivity and, thus, production.
J51|Pollution, green union and network industry|"In this paper the authors investigate whether and how, in a network industry, the intensity of network effects affect the total pollution under the presence of a union interested to ""local"" environmental damages (e.g. polluting production processes damaging workers' health and the local environment where workers live). Under monopoly, it is shown that network effects tend to increase, on the one hand, the investments in the cleaning technology but, on the other hand, the polluting output, so that their effects on the total pollution are theoretically ambiguous. In particular, the authors find that total pollution is reduced (resp. increased) with increasing network effects intensity if the market is sufficiently large (resp. small). Moreover the pollution-reducing result of the increasing network effect is more likely when the existing network effects, the union's environmental concerns and the technological efficiency are sufficiently large. These findings are qualitatively confirmed also under different union's preferences, Government's environmental standard and Cournot duopoly, and thus offer interesting empirical as well as policy implications."
J51|An Institutional Approach to Trade Unions’ Density. The Case of Legal Origin and Political Ideology|Which institutions may be important in terms of trade unions’ density and how significant they are? However, trade unions’ status is very different among states, they are still a very meaningful component of labor markets. In this paper we contribute to the debate on the institutions, which may affect the outcome of trade unions in different legal systems. Firstly, we draw on theoretical underpinnings of trade unions’ activity and density. Then, we conduct an empirical analysis of the relationships between trade union density in a particular country, its legal origin and government’s ideology. In this way the paper enriches an underexploited niche in institutional research devoted to labor market issues.
J51|Flexibility in Wage Setting Under the Threat of Relocation|Relocation of production to countries with low labour costs has induced increased labour market flexibility, which has been praised as a silver bullet for economic growth and low unemployment. Within a unionised oligopoly framework, in which a multinational firm has the option to relocate its production to a foreign country, we analyse the welfare implications of both centralised and flexible wageâ€ setting regimes. For very low foreign wages, wage flexibility leads to higher welfare than a rigid centralised regime. In contrast, for â€˜intermediateâ€™ wage levels in the foreign country, an industryâ€ wide uniform wage leads to higher social welfare than flexible wages.
J51|Labour market institutions in small Pacific island countries: Main guidelines for labour market reforms|This report consists of a comprehensive overview of labour market institutions in the small Pacific island countries in order to propose recommendations to improve the performance of their labour markets. We pay particular attention to three countries: Fiji, Palau and Papua New Guinea. We focus on the main pillars of labour market institutions, as employment protection legislation, minimum wage, and labour organization. The analysis considers the possibilities for institutional change in the next future. The main guidelines for eventual reforms are discussed, for the region as a whole and for the above three countries.
J51|Foreign Ownership and Intra-Firm Union Density in Germany|From a theoretical viewpoint the relationship between foreign ownership and unionization is ambiguous. On the one hand, foreign owners have better opportunities to undermine workers' unionization. On the other hand, workers of foreign-owned firms have an increased demand for the protection provided by unions. Which of the two opposing influences dominates can vary according to moderating circumstances. This study shows that firm size and industry-level bargaining play a moderating role. The relationship between foreign ownership and unionization is negative in larger firms whereas it is positive in smaller firms. Coverage by industry-level collective bargaining makes a positive relationship both stronger and more likely.
J51|Changes in Bargaining Status and Intra-Plant Wage Dispersion in Germany. Much Ado about Nothing?|A number of studies have reported that union decline is associated with rising overall wage inequality, not least in Germany where the phenomenon has been linked to economic resurgence. The present paper takes an unconventional approach to this potential source of rising inequality by examining intra-plant wage dispersion in the wake of establishments exiting from or entering into collective bargaining. Our estimation strategy hinges upon the identification of comparable groups of establishments and on both short-run and medium- to long-term changes in the wage structure. Using two main empirical strategies, we report at most a modest widening effect on dispersion for plants abandoning collective agreements. The converse does not apply for those establishments joining collective agreements. These two effects cast doubt on some of the more exaggerated claims as to the importance of deunionization to wage inequality.
J51|Firm Size and Union Threat Effects across Genders: Evidence from NLSY79|It is evident that both male and female workers in medium/larger establishments receive not only higher wages but also have a higher probability of participating in benefit programs than those in smaller establishments. This reinforces the well-documented ‘size’ effect. Further, the firm size wage effects are much larger for men than women. The union wage effect decreases with establishment size for both genders. This supports the argument that large nonunion firms pay higher wages to discourage the entrance of unions (i.e., the ‘threat’ effect argument). In addition, the union wage premium is higher for males across firm sizes relative to females. This implies that unions in the large establishments may have a role to play in achieving a narrowing of the gender union wage gap. Further, given the presence of noticeable gender differences in estimated union effects on the different components of the compensation structure, unions should not treat both genders similarly with respect to wages and benefits.
J51|Sources of the Union Wage Gap: Results from High-Dimensional Fixed Effects Regression Models|We estimate the impact of union density on wages using matched employer-employee contract data for Portugal. We extend omitted variable bias decomposition procedure of Gelbach (2016) to obtain the contribution of worker, firm, and job-title heterogeneity to the union wage premium. The principal result is the dominance of the allocation or workers among firms with different wage policies. The unobserved skills of union workers have a modest impact on wages; unions do not place their members into higher job-titles along the job career hierarchy; the wage cushion enables firms to partially undo the bargained wage; and, while fringes matter, matching does not.
J51|Endogenous technology, matching, and labor unions: Does low-skilled immigration affect the technological alignment of the host country?|In recent years, Germany and other European countries face the strongest immigration flow in their history. Experts unanimously agree that one of the core factors of a successful social integration is the labor market participation of the new arrivals. This paper investigates the impact of low-skilled immigration on a unionized economy with labor market frictions. It especially examines how immigration affects the technology choice of firms and, thereby, the technological alignment of the host country. The labor market is characterized by heterogeneity on both sides of the market. Within this framework, it can be shown that low-skilled immigration encourages firms to invest more in a basic technology, which leads to a deterioration of the technology level in the whole economy. It can be further shown that policies, which improve the access of already existing low-skilled immigrants to the labor market counteract the effect that is triggered by an increase in low-skilled immigration.
J51|When unionisation is profitable for firms in network industries|In an industry characterised by the presence of network effects, this paper investigates a duopolistic game in which firms may choose whether to bargain over wages and employment with unions or to face a competitive labour market (i.e. without unions). If unions are sufficiently risk-averse, it is shown that the presence of strong network effects makes unionisation the Pareto-efficient sub-game perfect Nash equilibrium outcome for firms. The issue of entry is also investigated.
J51|The interplay between trade unions and the social security system in an aging economy|The paper investigates the impacts of demographic change on the financial sustainability of a pay-as-you-go social security system in an economy with unemployment caused by trade unions. Using a simple two-period overlapping generations approach, it can be shown that the trade union behavior with respect to wage setting may have favorable effects on per capita contributions, if labor demand is sufficiently inelastic with respect to the wage rate. In contrast, if firm's labor demand reacts more sensitive to changes in the wage rate, the behavior of the trade union may amplify the imposed burden of demographic change on the social security system.
J51|Reward effects and incentive effects on the labor market: Empirical evidence for European countries|In this investigation, a political economy model of the labor market is proposed, where unions offer their (old and new) affiliates the combinations between the average real wage level and the standard deviation of wages or salaries. Globalization and other forces, however, have made it recently more difficult to the unions to pursue their policy in the backdrop of a declining union density. This has been established empirically for selected European countries. In an econometric exercise, we have also tested directly the impact of changes in real wages, minimum wage rate, and the effect of 90 to 10 decile ratio on the change in the degree of affiliation, which the unions were able to achieve in the recent past.
J51|On the distributional effects of minimum wages: A note|In this note, we recall that unions traditionally pursue a policy of pushing higher average wages and, at the same time, for a compression of the structure of wages and salaries, which is some sort of equity. Given the precipitous fall of union density in many, if not all, OECD countries, the actual good climate for minimum wage policy comes at no surprise. Despite the fact that unions do dislike the intervention of labor market policy to the detriment of tariff autonomy, we can show that minimum wages are capable of serving both of the above-mentioned goals of unions and also help increase the overall wage quota in the economy. Hence, It can be concluded that the unions have a double dividend when inviting policy makers to pursue a policy of minimum wages: both the average wage rate can be increased and the dispersion of wages be lowered, ceteris paribus.
J51|Wage flexibility of older workers and the role of institutions - evidence from the German LIAB data set|High and rigid wages are a threat for employment, especially for older workers. While wage levels of job stayers in many countries are not decreasing in late working life, little is known about the evolution of wage flexibility over the lifecycle. Using the German LIAB data set, this paper investigates the age pattern of wage flexibility with respect to permanent and transitory shocks to firm productivity. Works councils are found to have an important effect on wage flexibility of older workers.
J51|Do Labor Market Institutions Matter for Fertility?|Using annual data for 20 OECD countries over the period 1961-2014, we study whether labor market institutions (LMIs) not targeted to maternity impact the total fertility rate (TFR). We distinguish between employment rigidities (ER) and real wage rigidities (RWR), since the former reduces and the latter amplifies the response of the business cycle to shocks. Panel regressions and principal component analysis reveal that ER, such as employment protection and union strength, increase TFR. On the other hand, RWR, proxied by the centralization of wage bargaining and unemployment benefits, reduce TFR. We also find evidence that unemployment volatility reduces fertility whereas wage volatility raises fertility. Thus, to the extent that labor market institutions affect unemployment and wage volatility, they may also affect fertility. We complement our analysis with a DSGE model that incorporates households' fertility decision as well as unemployment and wage rigidities. We find that downward wage rigidities amplify real contractions in response to negative demand shocks and lead to large drops in employment and fertility.
J51|Burnout Dimensions with Work-Family Conflict among Hotel Employees Flow Experience as Mediating Role|"""Objective – It is a known fact that hotel employees are constantly working in a demanding work environment. The gruelling demand of the day-to-day operations and stress will eventually lead to the burnout dimensions (exhaustion and disengagement). This may have adverse effects to their relationship with their family members. Interestingly, Malaysian’s cultural dimension – collectivism; may explain this in a rather interesting discussion. Previous studies had revealed fascinating findings of a relationship between the burnout dimensions with work-family conflict (WFC) and how flow mediates the relationship between burnout dimensions with WFC Methodology/Technique – A primary survey of 233 hotel employees in Kuching, Malaysia revealed that indeed there is a correlation between the relationships and that flow mediates the variables. Findings – The results obtained from this study suggest the importance of hotel organizations in utilizing some proactive actions to promote flow experience among their employees. This article also discloses the practical implications and provides suggestions for future research in the similar field of study. Novelty – The research provides supported suggestions for proactive action to eliminate burnout at workplace."""
J51|Organized interests and foreign-educated professionals: The case of the associations for physicians and nurses in Sweden|The role and importance of employee organizations (i.e., unions) on policies concerning international migration have been studied extensively for decades. However, we know very little about the strategies of the organized interests of health care professionals. This paper will contribute to previous research, both internationally and in the Swedish context, on issues concerning the (re-)action of professional organizations towards migration reforms that might endanger the profession's control over their segment of the labor market. Through a study of the associations representing the two largest licensed health care professions in Sweden – physicians and nurses – the study investigates if, and how, they try to limit the competition in the labor market against reforms that are promoting increased mobility and international migration. The conclusions are mixed, suggesting that the long-term goals of professional associations are more important than strategies that might reduce the competition of foreign-educated practitioners in the short run.
J51|Can a Marginally Distorted Labor Market Improve Capital Accumulation, Output and Welfare?|This paper sets up an intertemporal two-sector general equilibrium model where capital and labor are complements in production and where the labor market initially functions as a competitive spot market in both sectors of the economy. The purpose is to analyze how the introduction of a marginal distortion on the labor market in one sector of the economy (here represented by the formation of a trade with a bargaining power marginally above zero) affects factor prices, the allocation of per-worker capital between the unionized and non-unionized sectors of the economy, aggregate saving, capital accumulation, output and welfare. It is shown that if the output elasticity w.r.t. capital is larger (smaller) in the unionized sector than in the non-unionized sector of the economy, then the formation of a weak trade union leads to a reallocation of capital and labor in such proportions that the per-worker capital stock increases (decreases) in the non-unionized part of the economy. This leads to a higher (lower) non-union wage, a reduced (increased) interest rate and an increase (decrease) in aggregate saving. The savings effect implies that the steady-state capital stock and the steady-state aggregate output both increase (decrease). It is also shown that if the output elasticity w.r.t. capital is larger (smaller) in the unionized sector than in the non-unionized sector of the economy, and if the steady-state capital stock initially exceeds the Golden Rule capital stock, then the formation of a weak trade union has a negative (positive) effect on the steady-state welfare.
J51|The Impact of Unionization Costs when Firm-selection Matters|How does an increase in unionization costs, i.e. costs which arise when workers are organized by a union, affect the productivity distribution of active firms, wage inequality and welfare? In this paper, we build a model with costly, endogenous unionization, heterogeneous firms as well as free market entry/exit. If unionization costs are rel- atively low (high), we find that an increase in these costs decreases (increases) average productivity and welfare decreases (increases). Additionally, we find a hump-shaped relationship between unionization costs and wage inequality. These results suggest that policies aiming to reduce unionization could worsen economic performance.
J51|Regular versus lump-sum payments in union contracts and household consumption|We use information on monthly wage increases set by collective agreements in Italy and exploit their variation across sectors and over time in order to examine how household consumption responds to different types of positive income shocks (regular tranches versus lump-sum payments). Focusing on single-earner households, we find evidence of consumption smoothing in accordance with the Permanent-Income Hypothesis, since total and food consumption do not exhibit excess sensitivity to anticipated regular payments. Consumption does not respond at the date of the announcement of income increases either, as these are known to compensate workers for the overall loss in their wages' purchasing power. However, consumption responds, albeit a little, to transitory and less anticipated one-off payments, as the expenditures on clothing & shoes increase upon the receipt of the lump-sum payments. This behaviour is consistent with bounded rationality as consumers do not consider the lump-sum as part of the overall wage inflation adjustment. JEL Classification: D12, E21, J51
J51|Strikes, Employee Workplace Representation, Unionism, and Trust: Evidence from Cross-Country Data|This paper investigates the determinants of industrial conflict in companies, using a multi-country workplace inquiry for 2009 and 2013 and various measures of strike activity. The principal goal is to address the effect of formal workplace representation on strikes, distinguishing in the first instance between works councils on the one hand and broadly equivalent trade union based entities on the other. The role of unionism is also central to this inquiry, not only with respect to the degree to which workplace representation is union dominated but also and more familiarly perhaps through workplace union density and the level at which collective bargaining is conducted. Attention is also paid to the quality of industrial relations, as reflected in dissonance, namely divergent assessments of managers and employee workplace representatives as to the state of industrial relations. Although country effects do matter, it is reported that works councils are associated with reduced strike activity. However, any such effect is sensitive in particular to the union status of work councilors and time. There is also some indication that collective bargaining at levels higher than the company can exacerbate strike activity but this effect does not persist, possibly because of decentralization and the development of hybrid bargaining structures. For its part, good industrial relations appears key to strike reduction, independent of workplace representation.
J51|How Asymmetrically Increasing Joint Strike Costs Need Not Lead to Fewer Strikes|Abstract The joint costs model states that increasing union and firm strike costs lead to fewer strikes. This paper shows that strike incidence need not decrease when joint strike costs increase. The innovation is to raise union and firm joint strike costs in an asymmetric way. The results indicate that increasing either party’s strike costs can have ambiguous effects on strike incidence. This ambiguity explains why higher strike costs need not always lead to fewer strikes, and thus accounts for the mixed success observed in studies that empirically test the joint costs model with strike incidence data.
J51|Changes in the German Wage Structure: Unions, Internationalization, Tasks, Firms, and Worker Characteristics|This paper provides a comprehensive assessment of the quantitative importance of the factors associated with the rise in male wage inequality in Germany over the period 1995–2010. In contrast to most previous contributions, we rely on the German Structure of Earnings Surveys (GSES) which allow us to focus on hourly wages (rather than daily earnings) uncensored by the social security contributions threshold. We consider a large number of covariates including personal characteristics, measures of internationalization, task composition, union coverage, industry, region, and firm characteristics. Our results suggest that recent changes in the distribution of hourly wages in Germany look different from the polarizing patterns found for the US, and that most of the observed rise in inequality was associated with compositional effects of de-unionization and personal characteristics. We also find some moderate effects linked to internationalization, firm heterogeneity and regional convergence, but these were much smaller.
J51|Workplace Employee Representation and Industrial Relations Performance: New Evidence from the 2013 European Company Survey|Using cross-country data from the European Company Survey, we investigate the relationship between workplace employee representation and management perceptions of the climate of industrial relations, sickness/absenteeism, employee motivation, and staff retention. For a considerably reduced subset of the data, a fifth indicator – strike activity – is also considered alongside the other behavioral outcomes. From one perspective, the expression of collective voice through works council-type entities may be construed as largely beneficial, especially when compared with their counterpart union agencies either operating alone or in a dominant position. However, if heightened distributional struggles explain these differential outcomes in workplace employee representation, it should not go unremarked that the influence of formal collective bargaining is seemingly positive.
J51|Union Density, Productivity, and Wages|We exploit tax-induced exogenous variance in the price of union membership to identify the effects of changes in firm union density on firm productivity and wages in the population of Norwegian firms over the period 2001 to 2012. Increases in union density lead to substantial increases in firm productivity and wages having accounted for the potential endogeneity of unionization. The wage effect is larger in more productive firms, consistent with rent-sharing models.
J51|Foreign Ownership and Intra-Firm Union Density in Germany|From a theoretical viewpoint the relationship between foreign ownership and unionization is ambiguous. On the one hand, foreign owners have better opportunities to undermine workers' unionization. On the other hand, workers of foreign-owned firms have an increased demand for the protection provided by unions. Which of the two opposing influences dominates can vary according to moderating circumstances. This study shows that firm size and industry-level bargaining play a moderating role. The relationship between foreign ownership and unionization is negative in larger firms whereas it is positive in smaller firms. Coverage by industry-level collective bargaining makes a positive relationship both stronger and more likely.
J51|Comparing micro-evidence on rent sharing from two different econometric models|The extent to which employers share rents with their employees is typically assessed by estimating the responsiveness of workers’ wages on firms’ ability to pay. This paper compares rent-sharing estimates using such a wage determination regression with estimates based on a productivity regression that relies on standard firm-level input and output data. Using a large matched firm-worker panel data sample for French manufacturing, we find that the respective industry distributions of the rent-sharing estimates are correlated and slightly overlap, but are significantly different on average. Precisely, if we only rely on the firm-level information, we obtain an average rent-sharing estimate of roughly 0.30 for the productivity regression and 0.17 for the wage determination regression. When we also take advantage of the worker-level information to control for unobserved worker ability in the model of wage determination, we find as expected a lower average value of 0.10.
J51|The Twin Track Model of Employee Voice: An Anglo-American Perspective on Union Decline and the Rise of Alternative Forms of Voice|We present a simple framework for analyzing decline in union voice in the Anglo-American world and its replacement by non-union, often direct, forms of worker voice. We argue that it is a decline in the in-flow to unionisation among employers and workers, rather than an increase in the outflow rate, that accounts for this decline. We show how union decline is predicted by experience good and cost-disease models of trade unionism and is linked to specific institutional and policy constraints on union organizing in the Anglo-American world. We show how the co-existence of union and non-union forms of worker voice is predicted by transaction cost economics, while the growth in non-union forms of worker voice is aided by declining costs of employers ''making'' voice mechanisms. We draw on ''spurt'' theories of unionisation to help understand factors underpinning union decline, including falling costs of employer opposition to unionisation as density falls, as discuss possibilities for ''bottom-up'' growth in union-like forms of worker voice implied by ''spurt'' theories.
J51|Employee Downsizing and Accounting Choices: Evidence from Japan|While employee downsizing is an important economic phenomenon at least in countries with inflexible employment practices, little is known about accounting practices around downsizing. The literature proposes two competing hypotheses regarding accounting practices around labor negotiations: earnings management hypothesis and informative accounting practice hypothesis. This study investigates accounting choices around employee downsizing, using data from Japan, where employee downsizing is constrained by social norms and case laws. Specifically, it focuses on accounting conservatism, which informs employees of firms’ real economic conditions, and discretionary accruals, which represents opportunistic management behaviors. We find that downsizing firms report more conservative earnings in years during and after downsizing than non-downsizing firms do. However, we find no evidence suggesting that managers engage in income-decreasing earnings management around downsizing. These results are consistent with informative accounting practice hypothesis, in which managers make accounting choices to inform their employees of the firm’s real economic conditions.
J51|Labor Market Institutions and Employment Fluctuations in Dynamic General Equilibrium Models|No abstract is available for this item.
J51|The Dilemma of Labor Unions: Local Objectives vs Global Bargaining|Multinational enterprises are able to improve their disagreement profits by setting up foreign production facilities, with adverse consequences for negotiated wages and union utilities. In this paper, we take a new angle at this issue and analyze whether unions can improve their situation by cooperating internationally. By shifting the focus from firms to unions as the active players, we aim at explaining why unions find it hard to respond to the detrimental shift in bargaining position as a result of globalization and why there is so little evidence for union cooperation within multinational production networks. Our results show that cooperation is clearly beneficial for unions if their preferences regarding wages and employment are similar across countries. If these preferences differ, however, potential production relocations by multinationals create winners and losers among unions, and these distributional effects may impede cooperation.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J51|Social preferences, accountability, and wage bargaining|Abstract We experimentally test preferences for employment in a collective wage bargaining situation with heterogeneous workers. We vary the size of the union and introduce a treatment mechanism transforming the voting game into an individual allocation task. Our results show that highly productive workers do not take employment of low productive workers into account when making wage proposals, regardless of whether only union members determine the wage or all workers. The level of pro-social preferences is small in the voting game, but it increases if the game becomes an individual allocation task. We interpret this as an accountability effect.
J51|Labor Unions and Occupational Safety: Event-Study Analysis Using Union Elections|This study examines the dynamic relationship between union elections and occupational safety among manufacturing establishments. Data on union elections come from the National Labor Relations Board, and data on workplace inspections and accident case rates come from the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. The results indicate that union elections improved occupational safety. First, workplace inspections trended upwards before the election, then decreased immediately after the election, due almost entirely to employee complaints. Second, accident case rates were relatively stable before the election, then trended downwards after the election, due to accidents involving days away from work, job restrictions, and job transfers. These effects are evident regardless of the election outcome. Based on the value of statistical injury, the improvement in occupational safety is equivalent to an increase in the hourly wage between $0.47 and $2.62.
J51|Fiscal devaluation and economic activity in the EU|In the aftermath of the global financial crisis, a fiscal devaluation (hereafter: FD), understood as a shift in taxation from labor to consumption, has been debated as a possible tool of restoring competitiveness in peripheral countries of the Euro area. We contribute to this debate. Based on a set of panel and spatial panel models for the EU 27 over the period 1995 – 2014, we find that FD increases value added in exports, improves net exports, accelerates GDP and employment growth, and decelerates labour costs growth. These effects are nonlinear: stronger in the members of the Euro area and weaker in countries with either more coordinated or more centralised wage bargaining process, or more generous unemployment benefits. Most importantly, FD turns out not to be a beggar thy neighbour policy, at least in the EU. In our sample ‘cooperative effect’ of unilateral FD, which is beneficial for neighbouring countries, dominates by far ‘competitive effect’, which goes at the expense of other countries’ competitiveness. Admittedly, FD implemented in one country can benefit other countries, provided that they are strongly integrated in global value chains. These findings are robust to changes in the estimation methods, the sample composition, the set of explanatory variables and the selection of a spatial weight matrix.
J51|Bankruptcy and the Cost of Organized Labor: Evidence from Union Elections|Unionized workers are entitled to special treatment in bankruptcy court. This can be detrimental to other corporate stakeholders in default states, with unsecured creditors standing to lose the most. Using data on union elections covering several decades, we employ a regression discontinuity design to identify the effect of worker unionization on bondholders in bankruptcy states. Closely won union elections lead to significant bond value losses, especially when firms approach bankruptcy, have underfunded pension plans, and operate in non-RTW law states. Unionization is associated with longer, more convoluted, and costlier bankruptcy court proceedings. Unions further depress bondholders' recovery values as they are assigned seats on unsecured creditors' committees.
J51|Jevons’s Ideal Role for Labor Unions as a Form of Co-operation|This research examines the ideas about labor unions found in William Stanley Jevons's works. I focus on the collaborative role Jevons envisioned for these organizations as part of a broader cooperative vision between workers and capitalists. Even though Jevons was not a supporter of labor unions and regarded them as monopolies with limited power to increase wages, on the one hand, and with great potential for generating dead losses of wages due strikes, on the other, he did not consider indispensable their elimination as long as they were guided to co-operate with business. This study concludes that there is more than one form of co-operation in Jevons’s thought. One explicit, from capitalist to workers, via profit sharing, and a second one, implicit, through the collaboration of workers to capitalists via their participation in labor organizations different than traditional labor unions. A major implication of this scheme is that both forms of co-operation have to be present for it to be beneficial for both classes. The latter, however, would not ensure that they are equally beneficiated.
J51|Inequality as Lack of Co-operation in Economic Thought|This study is about the notion of co-operation by economic thinkers of the 19th century in the United Kingdom. It presents a comparison and contrast of their ideas as well as an analysis of the relationship between co-operation and economic and social inequality. Two approaches of such relationship are identified. First, an economic-centered view, found in Charles Babbage and William Stanley Jevons, where the benefits of co-operation are linked to profit sharing, the increase of productivity and the expansion of the economic system. Second, Robert Owen’s and John Stuart Mill’s ideas on co-operation, even though with different implications, are mainly socially-oriented. Here, it is possible to see a broader social concern that led them to suggest reforms that could have implications in terms of social (e.g., education and gender), and not only economic inequality. Marx’s analysis of co-operation does not belong to any of these approaches. In his view, under capitalism, the effect of some forms of co-operation may generate or reinforce inequality.
J51|Understanding Wage Floor Setting in Industry-Level Agreements: Evidence from France|This paper examines empirically how industry-level wage floors are set in French industry-level wage agreements and how the national minimum wage (NMW) interacts with industry-level wage bargaining. For this, the authors use a unique dataset containing about 50,000 occupation-specific wage floors in 365 French industries over the period 2007-2015. They find that the NMW has a significant impact on the seasonality and on the timing of the wage bargaining process. Inflation, past sectoral wage increases and real NMW increases are the main drivers of wage floor adjustments; elasticities of wage floors with respect to these macro variables are 0.6, 0.4 and 0.2 respectively. Wage floor elasticities to inflation and to the NMW both decrease along the wage floor distribution but are still positive for all levels of wage floors.
J51|Labour market and collective bargaining in Iceland: sharing the spoils without spoiling the shares|Iceland has high living standards, low poverty, high inclusiveness and one of the most sustainable pension systems. It is the most highly unionised country in the OECD and, in the past, successful social pacts have protected the lowest paid workers during crises, and on occasion helped fight inflation. Nevertheless, Iceland experiences recurrent bursts of social tensions and labour unrest that often result in large wage awards, particularly in times of economic boom. Iceland is prone to accentuated economic cycles, and the pro-cyclical nature of collective bargaining aggravates these harmful dynamics. Social partners often have disagreements over what has been agreed in the past and they can have differing views on the state of the economy. Trust among the social partners has been undermined and wage co-ordination is low. There is a large number of unions, many of them very small, and wage demands are often not consistent with macroeconomic stability. Labour unrest frequently originates in the public sector as wages lag behind the private sector. Fostering trust and increasing wage co-ordination would make collective bargaining more effective and help sustain the benefits of the system for future generations. A technical committee should be established to provide reliable and impartial information to wage negotiators. Wage negotiations could start with “wage guidelines” issued by the major labour and employer confederations. State mediator should have greater powers in order to improve wage co-ordination and support the “wage guidelines”. This working paper relates to the 2017 OECD Economic Survey of Iceland (http://www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/economic-survey-iceland.htm).
J51|A game-theoretic approach to the choice of union-oligopoly baargaining agenda|This paper investigates the selection of the bargaining agenda in a unionized industry with decentralized negotiations for different competition modes. The firms choose the agenda (Right-to- Manage, RTM vs. Efficient Bargaining, EB), considering alternative timing of the bargaining game in the case of mixed duopoly. In fact, the EB (RTM) firm can be either Stackelberg wage follower (leader) or Stackelberg output leader (follower). It is developed a two-stage game in which the typology as well as the timing of the negotiations is endogenous. It is shown that, in pure strategies, no equilibria arise for a wide set of the parameters EÖ space while RTM appears as the unique equilibrium agenda for a different, large combination of the parameters; moreover, multiple, asymmetric equilibria emerge in a limited area of the parameters EÖ space. These results are in sharp contrast to the received literature in which EB can arise as an industry bargaining institution in equilibrium.
J51|Firms Controlled by Owners and Managerial Firms: The 'Strategic' Trade Policy Game Revisited|This paper re-examines the strategic trade policy issue by considering a bargaining process over managerial contracts and different firms’ organizational structures; that is, either family ownership or atomistic shareholders whose board of directors delegate output choice to managers keep control over the firm. We show that, in contrast to the traditional results, a plethora of Nash equilibria emerges and the implementation of trade policies in both countries may be efficient (i.e. national social welfares are higher than under free trade) in the presence of a bargaining process in a sales delegation game. Such equilibria depend on the manager's bargaining power as well as the degree of product competition. The paper’s findings suggest that trade policy-makers should also take into account the ownership structure and the corresponding organizational form of the exporting firms. Imprese controllate dai proprietari e imprese manageriali: una rivisitazione del gioco della politica commerciale strategica Questo articolo riesamina il tema della politica commerciale strategica di due paesi esportatori in un terzo mercato in presenza di diverse strutture organizzative delle imprese, considerando, da un lato, imprese in cui il controllo è esercitato dai membri di una famiglia e, dall’altro lato, imprese con azionariato diffuso i cui consigli di amministrazione delegano la scelta dei livelli di produzione a manager, con un processo di negoziazione fra proprietari e manager sui contratti di quest’ultimi. Contrariamente ai risultati tradizionali, si dimostra che in presenza di un processo di negoziazione in un gioco di delega manageriale delle scelte produttive emerge una pletora di equilibri di Nash rispetto alle scelte di intervenire con politiche commerciali oppure di ‘laissez faire’ e l'attuazione delle politiche commerciali in entrambi i paesi può essere efficiente (cioè, i livelli di benessere sociale nazionali sono più alti di quelli in regime di libero commercio). Tali equilibri dipendono sia dal potere contrattuale del manager che dal grado di concorrenza tra prodotti. I risultati del lavoro suggeriscono che, in caso di intervento, i decisori delle politiche commerciali debbano prendere in considerazione sia la struttura di proprietà che la corrispondente forma organizzativa delle imprese esportatrici.
J51|Can Trade Unions Increase Social Welfare? An R&D Model with Cash-in-Advance Constraints|Economic growth crucially depends on the level of R&D investment, as well as on the existing labour market institutions (LMI); the latter might shape the amount of profit obtained by each firm and its incentives to continuously innovate. This paper proposes a novel analysis combining a Schumpeterian growth model with cash-in-advance (CIA) constraints on R&D to study the impact of trade unions on economic growth and social welfare. Two main results arise: one the one hand, economic growth is always decreasing in trade union’s markup and interest rate. However, in terms of social welfare, although Friedman rule appears to be optimal across all the considered scenarios, free labour market can be suboptimal below a specific threshold level of economic growth, depending on whether there is over or underinvestment in R&D. Hence, by demanding a wage above the perfect competition equilibrium, trade unions can have a positive impact on welfare through a reallocation of labour among sectors. This relationship seems to be stronger for countries with lower labour share and higher rents in the intermediate sector. This latter case highlights the redistributive effect of trade unions, contributing for a decrease in inequality between monopolists and workers. Therefore, for the case of the Eurozone, a “common” labour market setting might be more “inefficient” than a common monetary policy.
J51|Dynamic collective bargaining. Frictional effects under open-shop industrial relations|A dynamic Stackelberg game analyzes collective bargaining between a trade union (leader) and a firm (follower) in a monopoly union model. Frictional effects (FE) for the firm encompass symmetric adjustment costs linked to the number of hired and fired workers, plus a wage-dependent term (assuming wage-dependent hiring costs and wage discrimination against newcomers). The union faces marginally increasing costs in firings and marginally decreasing benefits from hirings. The two-part FE for the firm, the FE for the union, or both jointly considered differently affect employment and wages. Interestingly, standard adjustment costs increase hirings, even while the union reduces wages.
J51|Labour market institutions in small Pacific island countries: Main guidelines for labour market reforms|This report consists of a comprehensive overview of labour market institutions in the small Pacific island countries in order to propose recommendations to improve the performance of their labour markets. We pay particular attention to three countries: Fiji, Palau and Papua New Guinea. We focus on the main pillars of labour market institutions, as employment protection legislation, minimum wage, and labour organization. The analysis considers the possibilities for institutional change in the next future. The main guidelines for eventual reforms are discussed, for the region as a whole and for the above three countries.
J51|Employee representation in japanese family and non-family SMEs|This paper analyzes differences in the effects of employee representations between family firms and non-family firms. First, managers from non-family firms have a more favorable response towards unions as organizations than managers from family firms. Managers from family firms tend to regard unions as harmful to their management, because unions may bring in outsiders, to the detriment of the management. Second, voice-oriented employee associations tend to exist more in non-family firms than in family ones. Third, these associations have a voice effect suppressing turnover rates in non-family firms, though not in family ones.
J51|Employment Conditions in Traditional Sector: A Study of Spinning Mill Workers in Kozhikode, Kerala|Spinning mill industry, one of the labour intensive traditional sectors in Kerala plays an important role in absorbing rural unskilled labour force. Even though these medium and large scale industries had existed since the late 19th century and initiated the industrialisation process of the state, the present situation is gloomy. This sector faces several problems both in the management level and at the employment level. The present paper tries to critically evaluate the inherent labour problems.
J51|(Local) Wage Settings and (International) Entry Deterrence|The present paper investigates the use of national wage settings as a mechanism to deter entry via foreign direct investment (FDI) in a unionized monopoly industry. A union which sets centralized wages in a multi-unit firm can both decentralize and change the agenda to prevent the market entry of a non-unionized firm. The adoption of the efficient bargaining agenda is especially effective to deter entry because it lowers the fixed-cost threshold the entrant can bear. Moreover, through side-payments, the incumbent and the union can have common interests in modifying the wage setting to reach outcomes that is Pareto-superior to duopoly. However, if the union cedes “too much power” and becomes “too weak”, internal conflicts with the incumbent firm may arise.
J51|Union Density, Productivity and Wages|We exploit tax-induced exogenous variance in the price of union membership to identify the effects of changes in firm union density on firm productivity and wages in the population of Norwegian firms over the period 2001 to 2012. Increases in union density lead to substantial increases in firm productivity and wages having accounted for the potential endogeneity of unionization. The wage effect is larger in more productive firms, consistent with rent-sharing models.
J51|The Twin Track Model of Employee Voice: An Anglo-American Perspective on Union Decline and the Rise of Alternative Forms of Voice|"We present a simple framework for analyzing decline in union voice in the Anglo-American world and its replacement by non-union, often direct, forms of worker voice. We argue that it is a decline in the in-flow to unionisation among employers and workers, rather than an increase in the outflow rate, that accounts for this decline. We show how union decline is predicted by experience good and cost-disease models of trade unionism and is linked to specific institutional and policy constraints on union organizing in the Anglo-American world. We show how the coexistence of union and non-union forms of worker voice is predicted by transaction cost economics, while the growth in non-union forms of worker voice is aided by declining costs of employers ""making"" voice mechanisms. We draw on ""spurt"" theories of unionisation to help understand factors underpinning union decline, including falling costs of employer opposition to unionisation as density falls, as discuss possibilities for ""bottom-up"" growth in union-like forms of worker voice implied by ""spurt"" theories."
J51|Berufs- und Spartengewerkschaften. Neue Akteure und Perspektiven der Tarifpolitik|Seit den fruehen 2000er Jahren beobachten wir einen zunehmenden Einfluss von Berufs- und Spartengewerkschaften. Diese Verbaende sind prominente Beispiele fuer die neue Unuebersichtlichkeit der Arbeitsbeziehungen. Der Band behandelt in sozialwissenschaftlicher Perspektive die in Wissenschaft und oeffentlichkeit kontrovers diskutierten Fragen der wesentlichen Folgen: Veraendert der Wandel von Berufsverbaenden zu Berufsgewerkschaften und ihre damit verbundene Zielverschiebung nachhaltig die etablierten Strukturen der Interessenvertretung? Fuehrt ihre Tarifpolitik zu einem hoeheren Streikniveau in der traditionell arbeitskampfarmen Bundesrepublik? Nimmt ihr Einfluss auf die Funktions-, insbesondere die Stabilitaetsbedingungen der Arbeitsbeziehungen, vor allem die Tarifpolitik, nicht nur kurz-, sondern auch langfristig zu? Werden weitere Berufsgewerkschaften entstehen? Welche Konsequenzen hat die nunmehr gegebene Gewerkschaftskonkurrenz fuer die etablierten Gewerkschaften?
J51|Optimal inflation to reduce inequality|A popular argument in favour of price stability is that the inflation-tax burden would disproportionately fall on the poor because wealth is unevenly distributed and portfolio composition of poorer households is skewed towards a larger share of money holdings. We reconsider the issue in a DSGE model characterized by limited participation to the market for interest bearing assets (LAMP). We show that a combination of higher inflation and lower income taxes reduces inequality. When we calibrate the share of constrained agents to fit the wealth Gini index for the US, the optimal inflation rate is above 4%. This result is robust to alternative foundations of money demand equations. (Copyright: Elsevier)
J51|Mining Surplus: Modeling James A. Schmitz'S Link Between Competition And Productivity|James A. Schmitz documents, in a well‐known case study (Journal of Political Economy 113 (2005), 582–625), a dramatic rise in productivity in the American and Canadian iron‐ore industry following an increase in competition from Brazil. Prior to the increased competition, the industry was not competitive. Economic profits were divided between business and unions. Schmitz attributes the increase in productivity to a change in work practices in the industry, as old negotiated union work rules were abandoned or modified. This research formalizes a mechanism through which a rise in competition can lead to increased productivity in the iron‐ore industry.
J51|Wage gap and dispersion in a partially unionized structure in Turkey|Abstract In this paper, we estimate the magnitude of the union–nonunion wage differential and the effect of unions on wage dispersion in the case of Turkey. Using the newly available, individual-level microdata for Turkey in 2004 and 2008, we find out that union membership does have a positive wage differential and this differential is higher at lower quantiles. Furthermore, it seems that the unions systematically reduce the variance of wages for the relevant period, though the magnitudes of the effects are smaller when we control for the work force characteristics.
J51|When union’s activity matters: The impact of union centralization on economic growth in OECD countries|It is nowadays accepted that labor market institutions matter in the economic development. However, empirical studies on unions’ effect are not univocal. Besides traditional indicators of unions’ presence, this paper uses a new indicator to estimate a growth equation using a recent panel dataset on OECD countries. We provide new insight on the impact of unions on the longrun performance of OECD economies. It is shown that a bargaining coverage lower than average and a high degree of union centralization can be harmful to growth. Our study makes the case for new indicators that capture more accurately the bargaining systems.
J51|Recent developments of Italy’s industrial relations system|The article reviews the recent developments of Italy’s industrial relations system, covering both bargaining rules and outcomes. An increasing fragmentation is observable in collective bargaining at the national level, with the spread of new agreements amongst small and recently created associations of workers and employers, leading to lower labor costs. The role of decentralized bargaining has remained secondary and subordinate to the provisions decided at the national level, although several - gradually more generous tax breaks have been introduced in order to encourage the diffusion of firm-level wages. Giving decentralized bargaining a greater role in setting wages and in labour organization would allow for a better alignment of wage growth and increases in productivity, relaxing some of the rigidity in national bargaining, especially in terms of the duration of agreements and of the automatic indexing mechanisms, which risk making inflation more persistent.
J51|Call my Rep! How Unions Overcame the Free-Rider Problem|This paper proposes an explanation of why union membership has been increasing in some occupations, despite the opportunity to freeride on traditional union benefits. I model membership as legal insurance whose demand increases with the perceived risk of allegations. Using media reports on allegations against teachers as shocks to perceived risk, I find for every five reports occurring in a region, teachers are 2.5 percentage points more likely to be members in the subsequent year. These effects are larger when teachers share characteristics with the news story and explain 45 percent of the growth in teacher union membership since 1992.
J51|Rules Rather than Discretion: Teacher Hiring and Rent Extraction|"Because of data limitations, there is little empirical research on how firms conduct hiring and the merits of different recruitment strategies. In this paper, I take advantage of a unique setting that allows me to compare the quality (value-added to student achievement) of the teachers hired in a discretionary proce3ss led by the teachers' union in Mexico with those hired on the basis of a screening rule. My results show that the teachers' union selects applicants of a considerably lower quality than those selected using a standardized test, despite the fact that the test has no power to predict teacher quality. I find evidence that the results are not explained by the self-selection of high-quality teachers to follow the test-based process. The combination of these results indicates that the teachers selected through the discretionary process are from the bottom of the distribution of applicant quality. My analysis also reveals that joint committees of state officials and union representatives allocate teachers hired in this way to schools in more ""desirable"" localities, but with similar pre-treatment trends in outcomes. Findings are consistent with standard models of rent extraction."
J51|Regular versus Lump-Sum Payments in Union Contracts and Household Consumption|We use information on monthly wage increases set by collective agreements in Italy and exploit their variation across sectors and over time in order to examine how household consumption responds to different types of positive income shocks (regular tranches versus lump-sum payments). Focusing on single-earner households, we find evidence of consumption smoothing in accordance with the Permanent-Income Hypothesis, since total and food consumption do not exhibit excess sensitivity to anticipated regular payments. Consumption does not respond at the date of the announcement of income increases either, as these are known to compensate workers for the overall loss in their wages' purchasing power. However, consumption responds, albeit a little, to transitory and less anticipated one-off payments, as the expenditures on clothing&shoes increase upon the receipt of the lump-sum payments. This behaviour is consistent with bounded rationality as consumers do not consider the lump-sum as part of the overall wage inflation adjustment.
J51|Organized labor and loan pricing: A regression discontinuity design analysis|This paper provides new evidence on the effect of unionization on the cost of bank loans. By using a regression discontinuity design, we establish a causal relation between new unionization and bank loan pricing. Relative to firms in which unions barely lose elections, firms in which unions barely win elections experience an increase in the spread of the newly originated loans. Further tests suggest that the effect of labor unions on the loan spread arises through the channel of reducing the recovery rate of banks in bankruptcy rather than increasing firms' default risk.
J51|Technical efficiency, unions and decentralized labor contracts|This paper explores the link between the presence of unions in the workplace, the adoption of decentralized labor agreements and technical efficiency, using a large sample of Italian manufacturing firms. We apply the Data Envelopment Analysis, and its robust version based on bootstrap theory, to get reliable estimates of technical efficiency at the firm level in a standard first stage. We devote particular attention to the specific technology adopted, by distinguishing 20 different sector frontiers, as well as to the presence of outliers. The obtained efficiency scores are analyzed in a second stage applying a truncated regression model estimated via Maximum Likelihood, following the Simar and Wilson (2007, 2011) methodology. Our results highlight that the presence of workplace unionization decreases the level of technical efficiency, while aspects limiting the unions’ power such as a strong exposure to international markets, high debt levels or the prevalence of flexible assets partially reduce the negative effect. However, when firms adopt decentralized labor contracts agreements, the effect on efficiency is positive and partially compensates the negative unions’ effect.
J51|Unions, collective relations laws and R&D investment in emerging and developing countries|Many scholars argue that workforce unionization leads to a reduction in R&D investment because unions appropriate a share of the returns to successful inventive efforts. On the other hand, it is widely acknowledged that unions may encourage investment in R&D because of increased cooperation between workers and management. Our empirical analysis on cross-country firm- level data from 23 emerging and developing countries reveals a negative association between workforce unionization and firms’ R&D investment. This association is particularly pronounced when unions are protected by strong collective relations laws, supporting the notion that strong unions ‘tax’ the returns to successful inventions. Our findings have implications for policy makers who seek to improve emerging countries’ chances of catching up to the technological frontier, and for firm leaders concerned about the appropriation of returns to their R&D investments.
J51|Should Low-Wage Workers Care About Where They Work? Assessing the Impact of Employer Characteristics on Low-Wage Mobility|This paper studies the importance of employer-specific determinants of intra-firm low-wage mobility in Germany. To address the initial conditions problem and the endogeneity of employer retention, we model intra-firm low-pay transitions using a trivariate Probit model that accounts for selection into low-wage employment and non-random employer drop-out. Using data from the LIAB Linked Employer?Employee panel, our results indicate that for male workers from the service sector, the probability of escaping low-pay increases with employer size. This contrasts with female workers from the service sector, who rather benefit from collective bargaining coverage and local works councils. These findings are consistent with internal labour markets being an important ingredient of male within-firm wage growth, whereas the removal of asymmetric information appears to be more relevant in explaining female workers' wage transitions.
J51|Employment security and workers’ moonlighting behavior in Ghana|Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to determine the effect of employment security on moonlighting in Ghana as a means to inform policy on enforcing issues of employment security. Design/methodology/approach - The paper followed the work of Shishko and Rostker (1976) by applying their approach to the sixth round of the Ghana Living Standards Survey data. The paper created an employment index from four variables and used the ordered logit as the main estimation technique. Findings - The findings indicated that, as a person with a single job becomes more secured in employment, the likelihood of moonlighting is decreased by 0.03, while for those with two and three or more jobs, the likelihood of moonlighting increased by 0.0297 and 0.0008, respectively, with increasing employment security. This implies that, workers can be made to stick to single jobs by providing them with higher levels of employment security, but once they take on two or more jobs, providing them with employment security will engender the tendency to increase their moonlighting behavior the more. Originality/value - With the current harsh economic conditions in the country and the urgent need for multiple jobs (moonlighting) as a risk coping mechanism, little has been done on the role employment security plays as a catalyst or otherwise. This paper fills the gap by employing a comprehensive index on employment security in the case of Ghana.
J51|Szakszervezeti Potyázás: A Magyar És A Brit Eset| Az 1990-es évek elején, ahogy az európai országokban általában, mind Magyarországon, mind az Egyesült Királyságban illegálissá vált a zárt üzem. Az adatok az 1999 és 2008 közötti időszakra vonatkozóan teszik lehetővé a potyautasok arányának meghatározását a két országban: a potyautas-arány Magyarországon 52 százalék körül alakul, az Egyesült Királyságban körülbelül 19 százalék. Jelen írás célja, hogy feltárja a potyautas-aránybeli különbségek lehetséges okait, illetve lehetőség szerint összehasonlítsa a magyar és a brit potyautasok jellemzőit. A tanulmány legfőbb megállapítása ezzel kapcsolatban, hogy a szakszervezetek elérhetősége, eredményessége és a csatlakozási költségek fontos szerepet játszanak abban, hogy a magyar munkavállalók nagyobb arányban válnak potyázókká, mint brit társaik ---------------------------------------------At the beginning of the 1990s compulsory membership became illegal across the European countries, as well as in Hungary and in the United Kingdom. Data permit calculation of the proportion of free-riders in the two countries between 1999 and 2008. The free-rider ratio is around 52 percent in Hungary and about 19 percent in the United Kingdom. This paper aims to explore possible reasons of the differences in free-rider rates and to compare characteristics of Hungarian and British free-riders. The main findings of this study is that union availability, union efficiency and joining costs play an important role in the higher proportion of Hungarian free-riders than their British counterparts.
J51|Funkcjonowanie samorządów pracowniczych w wybranych krajach realnego socjalizmu / Workers’ Self-Management in the Selected Countries of the Real Socialism Socio-Economic System|The aim of the article is to present the attempts of establishing institutions of a system of worker’s self-management in the selected countries of the so-called real socialism system in Eastern Europe. The analysis considers three of those countries, namely Yugoslavia, Poland and Hungary, whose experiences in participation of the employees’ implementation were the most significant. Particular attention was paid to the evolution of socialist regimes approach to workers’ self-management. The paper tries to answer the question whether workers’ self-management posed a threat to the socialist regimes persistence. The research method used in the study is an indepth survey and analysis of literature and legal acts.
J51|The Impact of the National Minimum Wage on Industry-Level Wage Bargaining in France|Cet article est une étude empirique portant sur les ajustements des salaires minima de branche en France et sur leur interaction possible avec les hausses du SMIC (salaire minimum interprofessionnel de croissance). Nous avons construit pour cette étude une base de données contenant près de 48 000 salaires minima de branche associés à des postes spécifiques dans plus de 340 branches sur la période 2006-2014. Nous obtenons que le SMIC a un effet significatif sur la saisonnalité et le calendrier des négociations de branche. L’inflation, les hausses de salaire dans la branche et les hausses de SMIC (en termes réels) sont les principaux déterminants des hausses des minima de branche et les élasticités des minima de branche par rapport à ces variables sont respectivement de 0.6, 0.3 et 0.25. Les élasticités des minima de branches par rapport à l’inflation ou au SMIC diminuent le long de la distribution des minimas mais restent positives pour tous les niveaux de minima.
J51|Unions and the economic basis of attitudes|Unions make differences to employee satisfaction that correspond to their effects on individual economic advantage. Panel data reveal how changes in economic circumstance and changes in job satisfaction are linked to changes in union coverage. When individuals move into a union covered job they receive a wage mark-up and express enhanced pay satisfaction. Conversely, those moving from a union covered job on average lose any mark-up and have significantly reduced satisfaction. Similar findings emerge for working hours. On average individuals prefer shorter hours, something they tend to (not to) achieve on moving into (out of) a unionized job, resulting in higher (lower) satisfaction. Switching into union coverage lowers satisfaction with job security, even though coverage has no effect on the risk of unemployment. This is because covered employees suffer greater costs of re-employment for a given level of unemployment risk, partly due to loss of the union mark-up.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J51|Estimating the Wage Premium of Collective Wage Contracts: Evidence from Longitudinal Linked Employer–Employee Data|Using a large-scale linked-employer-employee data set from western Germany, this paper presents new evidence on the wage premium of collective bargaining contracts. In contrast to previous studies, we seek to assess the extent to which differences in wages between workers in covered and uncovered firms arise from the non-random selection of workers and firms into collective bargaining coverage. By measuring the relative wage changes of workers employed in firms that change contract status, we obtain estimates that depart considerably from previous results relying on cross-sectional data. Results from analysing separate transitions show that leaving industry-level contracts is associated with subsequent wage losses. However, the results from a trendadjusted difference-in-difference approach indicate that the particularly the transitions to no-coverage appear to be associated with negative shocks. Overall, our findings provide no evidence of a 'true' wage effect of leaving wage bargaining, once differences in pre-transition wage growth are accounted for.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J51|Entry Threats and Inefficiency in ‘Efficient Bargaining’|We examine whether the outcome of bargaining over wage and employment between an incumbent firm and a union remains efficient under entry threat. The workers\' reservation wage is not known to the entrant, and entry is profitable only against the high reservation wage. The entrant observes the pre-entry price, but not necessarily the wage agreements. When wage is not observed, contracts feature over-employment. Under separating equilibrium the low type is over-employed, and under pooling equilibrium the high type is over-employed. But when wage is observed, pooling equilibrium may not always exist, and separating equilibrium does not involve any inefficiency.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J51|Fairness Considerations in Labor Union Wage Setting – A Theoretical Analysis|We consider a theoretical model in which unions not only take the outside option into account, but also base their wage-setting decisions on an internal reference, called the fairness reference. Wage and employment outcomes and the shape of the aggregate wage-setting curve depend on the weight and the size of the fairness reference relative to the outside option. If the fairness reference is relatively high compared to the outside option, higher wages and lower employment than in the standard model will prevail. If hit by an adverse technology shock, the economy will then react with a stronger downward adjustment in employment, whereas real wages are more rigid than in the standard model. With a low fairness reference the opposite results are obtained. An increase in the fairness weight amplifies the deviations of wages and employment from those of the standard model. It also leads to an increase in the degree of real wage rigidity if the fairness reference is high and an increase in the degree of real wage flexibility if the fairness reference is low. Thus, higher wages go hand in hand with more pronounced wage stickiness.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J51|Cameron’s information disaster in the referendum of 2016: an exit from Brexit?|Abstract The BREXIT referendum of June 23, 2016, represents a rather surprising decision by the UK electorate and it is a historical result with implications for the UK, Europe and the world economy. It can be shown that a major information blunder by the Cameron government forms part of the explanation of the referendum result: The 16 page info brochure that government sent out to households did not contain a single key finding of the Treasury study on the economic effects of EU membership on the UK and the cost of BREXIT, respectively. While prior to the Scottish referendum of 2014 the Cameron government conveyed key economic insights to households, before the BREXIT vote the government did not give the Treasury’s finding that a 10 % output loss was to be expected as a long run BREXIT effect – had households obtained this information, the referendum would have been 52 % in favor of Remain. Thus there is a new, very convincing argument for a second referendum. Also, US perspectives are emphasized.
J51|Sick pay reforms and health status in a unionised labour market|We theoretically analyse the effects of sick pay and employees’ health on collective bargaining, assuming that individuals determine absence optimally. If sick pay is set by the government and not paid for by firms, it induces the trade union to lower wages. This mitigates the positive impact on absence. Moreover, a union may oppose higher sick pay if it reduces labour supply sufficiently. Better employee health tends to foster wage demands. If the union determines both wages and sick pay, we identify situations in which it will substitute wages for sick pay because adverse absence effects can be mitigated.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J51|La influencia de la iglesia y la prensa en el movimiento obrero de Popayán: 1900- 1950|En 1900 Popayán había perdido el empuje que la había caracterizado como centro económico del occidente del país el siglo anterior, esta desaceleración económica vino acompañada de otras particularidades como su afinidad con el partido conservador y la iglesia, lo cual ayudó a configurar un movimiento obrero especial, de poco alcance y visibilidad nacional, y muy ligado a corrientes políticas. El objetivo del presente texto es determinar la conexión de la iglesia y la prensa en la configuración del movimiento obrero en Popayán. El periodo de análisis es la primera mitad del siglo XX, no sólo por acotar el tema, sino también porque es un periodo pionero en cuestión sindical.
J51|The Impact of the National Minimum Wage on Industry-Level Wage Bargaining in France|This paper examines empirically how industry-level wage floors are set in French industry-level wage agreements and how the national minimum wage (NMW) interacts with industry-level wage bargaining. For this, we use a unique dataset containing about 48,000 occupation-specific wage floors, in more than 340 French industries over the period 2006-2014. We find that the NMW has a significant impact on the seasonality and on the timing of the wage bargaining process. Inflation, past sectoral wage increases and real NMW increases are the main drivers of wage floor adjustments; elasticities of wage floors with respect to these macro variables are 0.6, 0.3 and 0.25 respectively. Wage floor elasticities to inflation and to the NMW both decrease along the wage floor distribution but are still positive for all levels of wage floors.
J51|The effects of international migration on native workers’ unionization in Austria|We analyze the effects of increased immigration of foreign workers on the unionization rates of native workers in Austrian firms over the period 2002–2012. Our results suggest that lower union density of natives’ in firms with more foreign workers is driven not by natives leaving unions, but by the different composition of turnover depending on the share of foreigners in the firm.
J51|The political economy of twin deficits and wage setting centralization|This paper contributes to the literature on current account imbalances. Econometric analysis of the paper finds evidence that wage centralization, in a cross-section of industrialized economies, significantly improve current accounts through reducing budget deficits. To explain this empirical finding, the paper provides a political economy framework in which the government follows preferences of N-sector workers (majority rule). An increase in public and so, current account deficits by issuing external public debt leads to real appreciation of the currency. As between-sector mobility is constrained by friction in the labor market, wages in N-sector rises. The opposite happens if the government improves the two balances by rising its saving. Thus, N-sector workers relatively support (oppose) more a rise (reform) in the two deficits. Centralization of wage bargaining moderates the benefit and costs from such twin-deficit policies by reducing the responsiveness of sectoral wage with respect to sectoral prices. Thus, the more centralized is the wage determination, the less N-sector workers support (oppose) a rise (reform) in the two deficits. Correspondingly, more centralized wage bargaining reduces the government's political incentive (cost) to deteriorate (reform) the external balance through the fiscal balance.
J51|Social insurance with Chinese characteristics: The role of communist party in private firms|This paper studies the inter-correlation among the Communist Party of China (CPC), unionization, and social insurance in a sample of Chinese private firms. We find that both Party branch and unionization are positively associated with insurance coverage. We further present evidence that Party branch and unionization are complements in association with better coverage of social insurance. When the Party–union complementarity is taken into account, Party branch alone is no longer positively associated with social insurance, while the correlation between unionization and insurance declines significantly. Our results suggest that the role of the CPC is overlooked in the literature on labor relations in China.
J51|Do firms' political connections depress the union wage effect? Evidence from China|Our paper reconciles the debated literature on the role of the Chinese unions by exploring the heterogeneous effects of unionization on wages in firms with and without political connections. We utilize a survey of 1268 firms in 12 cities to verify our hypothesis that wages increase due to unionization, but this union wage effect is significantly depressed by firms' political connections. Through a detailed analysis of the mechanism behind the empirical results, we conclude that unions increase workers' wages by strengthening the bargaining power of workers, while this bargaining power can be weakened by firms' political connections. Our main conclusion is robust to a series of robustness checks. Moreover, the results from quantile regressions inform us that the union wage effect and the role of political connections may vary along with the firms' wage distribution. Our findings suggest that the solution to further increase wages for low-wage workers and reduce wage inequality is to make the labor union an independent organization which can freely bargain with firms in terms of workers' wages and benefits, rather than an agency subordinate to the government whose role can be affected by the government support and undermined largely by firms' political connections.
J51|Unions, innovation and cross-country wage inequality|This study explores the macroeconomic effects of labor unions in a two-country R&D-based growth model in which the market size of each country determines the incentives for innovation. We find that an increase in the bargaining power of a wage-oriented union leads to a decrease in employment in the domestic economy. This result has two important implications on innovation. First, it reduces the rates of innovation and economic growth. Second, it causes innovation to be directed to the foreign economy, which in turn causes a negative effect on domestic wages relative to foreign wages in the long run. We also derive welfare implications and calibrate our model to data in the US and the UK to quantify the effects of labor unions on social welfare and wage inequality across countries. Our calibrated model is able to explain about half of the decrease in relative wage between the US and the UK from 1980 to 2007. Furthermore, the decrease in unions׳ bargaining power leads to quantitatively significant welfare gains in the two countries.
J51|Optimal monetary policy in a New Keynesian model with heterogeneous expectations|In a world where expectations are heterogeneous, what is the design of the optimal policy? Are canonical policies robust when heterogeneous expectations are considered or would they be associated with large welfare losses? We aim to answer these questions in a stylized simple New Keynesian model where agents׳ beliefs are not homogeneous. Assuming that a fraction of agents can form their expectations by some adaptive or extrapolative schemes, we focus on an optimal monetary policy by second-order approximation of the policy objective from the consumers׳ utility function. We find that the introduction of bounded rationality in the New Keynesian framework matters. The presence of heterogeneous agents adds a new dimension to the central bank׳s optimization problem—consumption inequality. Optimal policies must be designed to stabilize the cross-variability of heterogeneous expectations. In fact, as long as different individual consumption plans depend on different expectation paths, a central bank aiming to reduce consumption inequality should minimize the cross-sectional variability of expectations. Moreover, the traditional trade-off between the price dispersion and aggregate consumption variability is also quantitatively affected by heterogeneity.
J51|Lower coverage but stronger unions? Institutional changes and union wage premia in Central Europe|In this paper we use the national samples from the European Structure of Earnings Survey (ESES) to analyze the evolution of the wage premium of firm- and industry-level agreements in the Czech Republic, Hungary, and Poland (the CE3) around the time of their accession to the EU. We find that despite a generalized reduction in union coverage in these countries, the union wage premium after accession to the EU became bigger and statistically more significant for Poland and Hungary, particularly for industry-level agreements. We interpret these findings in terms of the institutional reforms that occurred in the CE3 between 2002 and 2006. These reforms, which were prompted by the EU Commission's requirements for EU accession, increased the social partners' ability to bargain and enforce wage agreements, and made industry-level unions more effective in guaranteeing the protections provided by labor standards. Results are less conclusive for the Czech Republic, probably due to factors that attenuate the effect of bargaining coverage upon wages, e.g. a smaller effect of institutional reforms, a greater use of mandatory extension mechanisms, the more radical firm restructuring during transition in that country.
J51|How to counter union power? Equilibrium mergers in international oligopoly|We re-examine the common wisdom that cross-border mergers are the most effective merger strategy for firms facing powerful unions. In contrast, we obtain a domestic merger outcome whenever firms are sufficiently heterogeneous (in terms of productive efficiency and product differentiation). A domestic merger unfolds a “wage-unifying” effect which limits the union's ability to extract rents. When products become sufficiently homogeneous, then cross-border mergers are the unique equilibrium. However, they may be either between firms with the same cost efficiency or with different cost efficiencies. Social welfare is never higher under a domestic merger outcome than under a cross-border merger outcome.
J51|Gradual collective wage bargaining|This paper presents an alternative implementation of firm-level collective wage bargaining, where bargaining proceeds as a finite sequence of sessions between a firm and a union of variable size. We investigate the impact of such a ‘gradual’ union on the wage-employment contract in an economy with concave production. In a static framework, the resulting equilibrium is equivalent to the efficient bargaining outcome. In a dynamic framework with search frictions, we demonstrate that gradual collective wage bargaining coincides with all-or-nothing bargaining when bargaining takes place in fictitious time before production.
J51|Unions in a frictional labor market|A labor market with search and matching frictions, where wage setting is controlled by a monopoly union that follows a norm of wage solidarity, is found vulnerable to substantial distortions associated with holdup. With full commitment to future wages, the union achieves efficient hiring in the long run, but hikes up wages in the short run to appropriate rents from firms. Without commitment, in a Markov-perfect equilibrium, hiring is too low both in the short and the long run. The quantitative impact is demonstrated in an extended model with partial union coverage and multiperiod union contracting.
J51|The rise and fall of unions in the United States|Union membership in the United States displayed a ∩-shaped pattern over the 20th century, while income inequality sketched a ∪. A model of unions is developed to analyze these facts. There is a distribution of productivity across firms in the economy. Firms hire capital, plus skilled and unskilled labor. Unionization is a costly process. A union chooses how many firms to organize and the union wage. Simulation of the model establishes that skill-biased technological change, which affects the productivity of skilled labor relative to unskilled labor, can potentially explain the observed paths for union membership and income inequality.
J51|Politics in the Family. Nepotism and the Hiring Decisions of Italian Firms| In this paper we investigate the effect of family connections to politicians on individuals' labor market outcomes. We combine data for Italy over almost three decades from longitudinal social security records on a random sample of around 1 million private sector employees with the universe of around 500,000 individuals ever holding political office, and we exploit information available in both datasets on a substring of each individual's last name and municipality of birth in order to identify family ties. Using a diff-in-diff analysis that follows individuals as their family members enter and leave office, and correcting for the measurement error induced by our fuzzy matching method, we estimate that the monetary return to having a politician in the family is around 3.5 percent worth of private sector earnings and that each politician is able to extract rents for his family worth between one fourth and one full private sector job per year. The effect of nepotism is long lasting, extending well beyond the period in office. Consistent with the view that this is a technology of rent appropriation on the part of politicians, the effect increases with politicians' clout and with the resources available in the administration where they serve.
J51|Politics in the family: Nepotism and the hiring decisionsof Italian firms|In this paper we investigate the effect of family connections to politicians on individuals’ labor market outcomes. We combine data for Italy over almost three decades from longitudinal social security records on a random sample of around 1 million private sector employees with the universe of around 500,000 individuals ever holding political office, and we exploit information available in both datasets on a substring of each individual’s last name and municipality of birth in order to identify family ties. Using a diff-in-diff analysis that follows individuals as their family members enter and leave office, and correcting for the measurement error induced by our fuzzy matching method, we estimate that the monetary return to having a politician in the family is around 3.5 percent worth of private sector earnings and that each politician is able to extract rents for his family worth between one fourth and one full private sector job per year. The effect of nepotism is long lasting, extending well beyond the period in office. Consistent with the view that this is a technology of rent appropriation on the part of politicians, the effect increases with politicians’ clout and with the resources available in the administration where they serve.
J51|Micro-evidence on product and labor market regime differences between Chile and France|Purpose - – Institutions, social norms and the nature of industrial relations vary greatly between Latin American and Western European countries. Such institutional and organizational differences might shape firms’ operational environment in general and the type of competition in product and labor markets in particular. The purpose of this paper is to identify and quantify industry differences in product and labor market imperfections in Chile and France. Design/methodology/approach - – The authors rely on two extensions of Hall’s econometric framework for estimating price-cost margins by nesting three labor market settings (LMS) (perfect competition (PC) or right-to-manage bargaining, efficient bargaining (EB) and monopsony). Using an unbalanced panel of 1,737 firms over the period 1996-2003 in Chile and 14,270 firms over the period 1994-2001 in France, the authors first classify 20 comparable manufacturing industries in six distinct regimes that differ in the type of competition prevailing in product and labor markets. The authors then investigate industry differences in the estimated product and labor market imperfection parameters. Findings - – Consistent with differences in institutions and in the industrial relations system in the two countries, the authors find regime differences across the two countries and cross-country differences in the levels of product and labor market imperfection parameters within regimes. Originality/value - – This study is the first to compare the type and the degree of industry-level product and labor market imperfections inferred from consistent estimation of firm-level production functions in a Latin American and a Western European country. Using firm-level output price indices, the microeconomic production function estimates for Chile are not subject to the omitted output price bias, as is often a major drawback in microeconometric studies of firm behavior.
J51|Performance related pay, productivity and wages in Italy: a quantile regression approach|Purpose - – The purpose of this paper is to analyse the role of performance-related pay (PRP) on productivity and wages of Italian firms. Design/methodology/approach - – A unique data set for the Italian economy, obtained from the ISFOL Employer and Employee Surveys (2005, 2007, 2010), is used to estimate the relationship between PRP, labour productivity and wages, also controlling for an ample set of covariates. The authors performed standard quantile regressions (QRs) to investigate heterogeneity in associations of PRP with labour productivity and wages. In a second stage, the endogeneity of PRP was taken into account by using instrumental variable QR techniques. Findings - – The econometric estimates suggests that PRP are incentive schemes that substantially lead to efficiency enhancements and wage gains. These findings are confirmed for firms under union governance and suggest that well-designed policies, that circumvent the limited implementation of PRP practices, would guarantee productivity improvement and wage premiums for employees. Research limitations/implications - – The main limitation of the findings concerns PRP data, that do not offer statistical information on different types of schemes, at group or individual level. Originality/value - – This paper is the first to investigate, on a national scale for the Italian economy, the role of PRP on both productivity and wages, in order to shed light on the efficiency and distributive implications, whereas most of the studies of related literature are restricted to one of those aspects.
J51|Collective bargaining systems and macroeconomic and microeconomic flexibility: the quest for appropriate institutional forms in advanced economies|Abstract This paper addresses the design of the machinery of collective bargaining from the perspective of microeconomic and macroeconomic flexibility. In the former context, somewhat greater attention is given over to enterprise flexibility than external adjustment. In the latter context, close attention is also paid to changes in collective bargaining along the dimensions of bargaining coverage, structure, and coordination. Support is adduced for the German, contemporary Scandinavian, and British models. The role of trust in securing micro and macro flexibility also receives attention, suggesting that the polder or Dutch model might also be expected to populate the firmament of fit-for-purpose collective bargaining arrangements. JEL Classification: Microeconomics/Institutions (D02), Institutions and the Macroeconomy (E02), Employment/Unemployment/Wages (E24), Income Distribution (E25), Macroeconomic Policy Objectives (E61), Labor Economics Policies (JO8) Trades Unions (J51), Collective Bargaining (J52), Labor-Management Relations (J53), Public Policy (J58), Comparative Analysis of Economic Systems (P51)
J51|To be or not to be? Risk attitudes and gender differences in union membership|Attracting membership while stifling freeriding and heterogeneous preferences among potential members is critical for trade union success. Women are generally seen as less inclined to join trade unions, particularly at the onset of the labor movement. We highlight a previously neglected explanation for this: the importance of risk and gender differences in assessment hereof. We study matched employer-employee data from two industries around the year 1900 where union membership was associated with different levels of risk: the Swedish cigar and printing industries. We find that the gender gap in membership was larger in the high-risk environment (cigar) and smaller in the low-risk environment (printing). Women were not hard to organize but avoided risks and uncertain returns.
J51|Welfare-enhancing Trade Unions in an Oligopoly with Excessive Entry|If input markets are competitive and output per firm declines with the number of firms (business stealing effect), there will be excessive entry into a Cournot oligopoly for a homogeneous commodity. However, input markets are often imperfectly competitive and the price of labor is determined by collective bargaining. The resulting rise in wages reduces output and profits and can deter entry. We analyze under which conditions greater bargaining power by the trade union reduces entry and raises welfare. Furthermore, we show that collective bargaining loosens the linkage between business stealing and excessive entry.
J51|Sick Pay Reforms and Health Status in a Unionised Labour Market|We theoretically analyse the effects of sick pay and employees' health on collective bargaining, assuming that individuals determine absence optimally. If sick pay is set by the government and not paid for by firms, it induces the trade union to lower wages. This mitigates the positive impact on absence. Moreover, a union may oppose higher sick pay if it reduces labour supply sufficiently.Better employee health tends to foster wage demands. If the union determines both wages and sick pay, we identify situations in which it will substitute wages for sick pay because adverse absence effects can be mitigated.
J51|A quantile correlated random coefficients panel data model|We propose a generalization of the linear quantile regression model to accommodate possibilities afforded by panel data. Specifically, we extend the correlated random coefficients representation of linear quantile regression (e.g., Koenker, 2005; Section 2.6). We show that panel data allows the econometrician to (i) introduce dependence between the regressors and the random coefficients and (ii) weaken the assumption of comonotonicity across them (i.e., to enrich the structure of allowable dependence between different coefficients). We adopt a “fixed effects” approach, leaving any dependence between the regressors and the random coefficients unmodeled. We motivate different notions of quantile partial effects in our model and study their identification. For the case of discretely-valued covariates we present analog estimators and characterize their large sample properties. When the number of time periods (T) exceeds the number of random coefficients (P), identification is regular, and our estimates are N-consistent. When T=P, our identification results make special use of the subpopulation of stayers – units whose regressor values change little over time – in a way which builds on the approach of Graham and Powell (2012). In this just-identified case we study asymptotic sequences which allow the frequency of stayers in the population to shrink with the sample size. One purpose of these “discrete bandwidth asymptotics” is to approximate settings where covariates are continuously-valued and, as such, there is only an infinitesimal fraction of exact stayers, while keeping the convenience of an analysis based on discrete covariates. When the mass of stayers shrinks with N, identification is irregular and our estimates converge at a slower than N rate, but continue to have limiting normal distributions. We apply our methods to study the effects of collective bargaining coverage on earnings using the National Longitudinal Survey of Youth 1979 (NLSY79). Consistent with prior work (e.g., Chamberlain, 1982; Vella and Verbeek, 1998), we find that using panel data to control for unobserved worker heterogeneity results in sharply lower estimates of union wage premia. We estimate a median union wage premium of about 9 percent, but with, in a more novel finding, substantial heterogeneity across workers. The 0.1 quantile of union effects is insignificantly different from zero, whereas the 0.9 quantile effect is of over 30 percent. Our empirical analysis further suggests that, on net, unions have an equalizing effect on the distribution of wages.
J51|UK Trades Unions and the Problems of Collective Action|This paper looks at the financial resources of trades unions in the UK, both updating previous work and attempting to understand the management of first and second order collective action problems. First order problems refer to the problems of initiating collective action and second order problems refer to the management of collective action organisations. Unions are 'cost disease' organisations in which expenditure outstrips inflation but revenue may not. Their economic model cannot survive without some form of external subsidy. Both aggregate and case study data â€“ from the largest UK union, Unite â€“ are presented to illustrate the cost disease problem and to suggest options for its management.
J51|Understanding Wage Floor Setting in Industry-Level Agreements: Evidence from France|This paper examines empirically how industry-level wage floors are set in French industry-level wage agreements and how the national minimum wage (NMW) interacts with industry-level wage bargaining. For this, we use a unique dataset containing about 50,000 occupation-specific wage floors in 365 French industries over the period 2007-2015. We find that the NMW has a significant impact on the seasonality and on the timing of the wage bargaining process. Inflation, past sectoral wage increases and real NMW increases are the main drivers of wage floor adjustments; elasticities of wage floors with respect to these macro variables are 0.6, 0.4 and 0.2 respectively. Wage floor elasticities to inflation and to the NMW both decrease along the wage floor distribution but are still positive for all levels of wage floors.
J51|Gender Differences in the Union Wage Premium? A Comparative Case Study|Trade unions have transformed from male-dominated organisations rooted in manufacturing to majority-female organisations serving predominantly white-collar workers, often in the public sector. Adopting a comparative case study approach using nationally representative linked employer-employee surveys for Norway and Britain we examine whether, in keeping with a median voter model, the gender shift in union membership has resulted in differential wage returns to unionisation among men and women. In Britain, while only women receive a union wage premium, only men benefit from the increased bargaining power of their union as indicated by workplace union density. In Norway, on the other hand, although a union wage premium arises from individual union membership for men and women in male-dominated unions, in workplaces where the union is female-dominated women benefit more than men from the increased bargaining power of the union as union density rises. The findings suggest British unions continue to adopt a paternalistic attitude to representing their membership, in contrast to their more progressive counterparts in Norway.
J51|Men, Women and Unions|The paper re-examines the question of why unions might have declined despite the 'influx' of women, their risk-averse constituents, into British workplaces. It argues that given unions' role in minimising risk, membership should have been boosted. The paper reviews different strands of the literature and conducts empirical analyses using panel data from WERS. The results obtained suggest that men have been deserting unions and that there is an inverse link between membership and the share of women in workplaces. The paper ponders if better management of gender relations may improve unions' fate.
J51|The effects of international migration on native workers' unionisation in Austria|We analyze the effects of increased immigration of foreign workers on the unionisation rates of native workers in Austrian firms over the period 2002â€“2012. Our results suggest that lower union density of nativesâ€™ in firms with more foreign workers is driven not by natives leaving unions, but by the different composition of turnover depending on the share of foreigners in the firm.
J51|Explaining Cross-National Variation in Workplace Employee Representation|Across Europe, there are many differing opinions on whether workplace employee representation should be encouraged or discouraged. Yet there is very little evidence on the variations in workplace employee representation across Europe or the reasons for this. We use a workplace survey covering 27 EU countries to show that its incidence is strongly and independently correlated with the degree of centralization in a country's industrial relations regime and the extent of legislative support. Industry rents are also important in explaining trade union presence, but are unimportant in the case of works councils. Turning to the effects of workplace employee representation, we find support for the exit-voice model - traditionally associated with Anglo-Saxon regimes - whereby worker representation is associated with poorer perceptions of the employment relations climate and with lower voluntary quit rates.
J51|The effects of international migration on native workers’ unionization in Austria|We analyze the effects of increased immigration of foreign workers on the unionization rates of native workers in Austrian firms over the period 2002–2012. Our results suggest that lower union density of natives’ in firms with more foreign workers is driven not by natives leaving unions, but by the different composition of turnover depending on the share of foreigners in the firm.
J51|A Sequential Decomposition of the Drop in Collective Bargaining Coverage|Union representation has been in strong decline in most OECD countries with potentially important consequences for wages. What drives this decline? We try to answer this question by developing and implementing a detailed Fairlie decomposition approach. Using linked employer-employee data from the German Structure of Earnings Survey for 2001 and 2006, we document a sharp drop in collective bargaining coverage that amounts to 17 percentage points for males and 20 percentage points for females in West, and 8 and 14 percentage points, respectively, in East Germany. We find that neither changes in the characteristics nor changes in the coefficients associated with the characteristics as a whole provide an explanation for the drop in collective bargaining coverage. The drop in coverage is the result of an unexplained time trend.
J51|Interlocking cross-ownership in a unionised duopoly: when social welfare benefits from “more collusion”|Abstract The present study analyses the effects of two-sided cross-ownership structures in a Cournot duopoly with firm-specific monopolistic unions. Since such mutual cross-participations imply a lower degree of competition, the conventional wisdom is that consumer surplus and social welfare, despite the increase in industry profits, are harmed. By contrast, when the labour market is unionised, we show the counterintuitive result that both consumer surplus and social welfare increase with the share of mutual cross-participation. Interestingly, this occurs not only when unions are wage-aggressive but even if they are fairly “risk-averse”. Therefore, a rather paradoxical conclusion—which may have anti-trust policy implications—is that the interlocking cross-ownership ensuring the highest profit (i.e. the “most” collusive mutual cross-participation) may be socially preferred when there are unions in oligopoly industries. Finally, it is shown that, even though details change, the results also hold qualitatively under differentiated products, price competition and triopoly.
J51|Is Price Competition More Efficient than Quantity Competition? A Reversal with Unionized Oligopolists|Abstract In the context of union-duopoly decentralized bargaining, we argue that, prior to the realization of any employment and production plans, firms and unions may collectively decide about their bargaining agenda. That is, whether they will subsequently negotiate about only wages (“Right-to-Manage”) or about both wages and employment (“Efficient Bargains”). We show that under price competition in the product market the equilibrium bargaining agendas always involve only wages. Under quantity competition, however, and provided that the union bargaining power is low enough, one firm/union pair agrees on Efficient Bargains while the other pair agrees on Right-to-Manage. Thus, if sufficient product differentiation among firms exists, then social welfare can be higher under quantity competition than under price competition; the role of unions is critical for this result.
J51|China in the World Economy|After several decades of widely admired success in raising its gross national product (GNP) and becoming the world’s second largest economy behind the United States, doubts have recently emerged about the sustainability of China’s impressive economic success unless it undertakes major reforms and changes its growth model. Opinions vary, however, about China ever attaining the same level of growth that had been achieved in past decades, particularly since the 1978-79 reforms. Sometimes, expressing the present realities and forecasting the future is affected by the measures used, the observer’s expectations, and perceptions of what can or cannot be done to deal with current issues and problems. Often, it is a matter of perceiving the glass as half full or half empty. For some observers, the growth model, adopted since 1978-79, has been extremely successful in gaining the objectives sought, To others, that model resulted in many unintended consequences such as a wide disparity in incomes and excessive emphasis and reliance on manufacturing and exports at the expense of the service sector and domestic consumption. What cannot be disputed, nevertheless, is the fact that millions of Chinese have been lifted out of poverty, and incomes per capita have substantially increased. Instead of depending on foreign assistance, China is now an aid- giver and a major player in world economic affairs. This paper examines the current economic status of China, its transition from one of the poorest countries in the world, to become a middle income country despite the fact that it has a huge population of 1.3 billion people, and the imbalances that have emerged and have to be corrected to ensure sustained economic growth.
J51|Unions and Wage Determination: Can Monopsonist Unions Reduce Unemployment?|"This paper extends the standard closed shop union model of wage determination by introducing endogeneity of union membership. The labor market outcome with endogenous membership may differ when unions behave monopsonisticaly relative to the case where they are ""membership-takers"", resulting in higher or lower wages (more or less favorable contract curve in efficient bargaining) according to the form union´s utility function and/or implicit decision process value union size. Some notes are added highlighting the role of membership fees in the membership function determination of a union that works as a nonprofit organization."
J51|Deregulation of temporary agency employment in a unionized economy: Does this really lead to a substitution of regular employment?|There have been continuous deregulation efforts concerning temporary agency employment in almost all European countries aiming at an increasing flexibility in the European labor markets. This paper theoretically investigates the effects of a legal deregulation of temporary agency employment on wage setting and the employment structure in a unionized economy with labor market frictions. Multiple-worker firms bargain simultaneously with temporary agencies and labor unions to determine the respective labor costs. It is shown that there is a hump-shaped relationship between the degree of legal deregulation of temporary agency employment and the rate of temporary employment used in the production process. Temporary agency employment may even decrease despite its deregulation. Furthermore, regular employment monotonically increases, while individual workers and labor unions suffer from deregulation due to declining wages and a reduction in labor union's utility.
J51|Welfare-Enhancing Trade Unions in an Oligopoly with Excessive Entry|If input markets are competitive and output per firm declines with the number of firms (business stealing effect), there will be excessive entry into a Cournot oligopoly for a homogeneous commodity. However, input markets are often imperfectly competitive and the price of labor is determined by collective bargaining. The resulting rise in wages reduces output and profits and can deter entry. We analyze under which conditions greater bargaining power by the trade union reduces entry and raises welfare. Furthermore, we show that collective bargaining loosens the linkage between business stealing and excessive entry.
J51|The Impact of Organization Costs when Firm-selection Matters|How does an increase in organization costs (i.e. costs which arise when labor unions organize firm's workforces) affect the industry struc-ture, wage inequality and welfare? In the present paper, we build a model with costly and endogenous unionization, heterogeneous firms as well as free market entry/exit. In such a setting, we show that the share of low-productive firms operating in the market decreases (in-creases) in organization costs if those costs are relatively low (high). If more low-productive firms are active in the market, consumption and hence welfare decline because prices are, on average, higher (vice versa). As such, an increase in organization costs and thus a decline in unionization rates could be welfare-reducing. In addition, we find a hump-shaped relationship between organization costs and wage in-equality. These results suggest that a policy aiming to reduce union-ization by an increase in organization costs can but not necessarily have to be an improvement of the economic performance.
J51|Faculty Preferences over Unionization: Evidence from Open Letters at Two Research Universities|What determines employee preferences for unionizing their workplaces? A substantial literature addresses this question with surveys on worker attitudes and pay. Unionization drives at the Universities of Minnesota and Washington have given rise to open letters of support or opposition from over 1,000 faculty at Washington and support from over 200 at Minnesota. Combining these expressions with publicly available data on salary, job titles, department affiliation, research productivity, teaching success, and political contributions from over 5,000 faculty, we provide new estimates of the determinants of faculty preferences for unionization at research universities. We find that faculty with higher pay and greater research productivity are less supportive of unionization, even after controlling for job title and department. Attitudes matter as well: after accounting for pay and productivity, faculty in fields documented elsewhere to have more politically liberal participants are more likely to support unionization.
J51|Not so dissatisfied after all? The impact of union coverage on job satisfaction|The links between unionization and job satisfaction remain controversial. In keeping with the existing literature we find statistically significant negative correlations between unionization and overall job satisfaction. However, failure to account for fixed unobservable differences between covered and uncovered employees leads to a systematic underestimate of the effects of coverage on both overall job satisfaction and satisfaction facets for both union members and non-members. Once one accounts for these differences between covered and uncovered employees, union coverage is positively and significantly associated with satisfaction with pay and hours of work. Examination of the pay satisfaction effect indicates this is apparent for employees who attain coverage in the same job and for those who become covered when switching employers, but the effect is not apparent for job switchers who remain with the same employer. Furthermore, the ‘new’ coverage effect on pay satisfaction dissipates over time.
J51|Trades unions, real wages and full employment|A core proposition of Keynes’s General Theory is that money wages do not determine real wages or employment at the aggregate level in a closed economy. What then is the macroeconomic role of trades unions in the determination of real wages and employment? What are the mechanisms through which bargaining power takes effect? The paper argues that trades unions play important roles in countering employer monopsony as well as in determining the non-wage terms and conditions of employment and the incidence of risk between capital and labour. In the former role, it is the money wage that is relevant, while the latter role is a factor in the determination of aggregate real income and profit, yet the aggregate real wage itself and the wage share are residuals. Trades unions have the potential to support the promotion of full employment with price stability as part of a policy of demand management through the adoption of co-ordinated wage bargaining institutions.
J51|Explaining Cross-National Variation in Workplace Employee Representation|Across Europe, there are many differing opinions on whether workplace employee representation should be encouraged or discouraged. Yet there is very little evidence on the variations in workplace employee representation across Europe or the reasons for this. We use a workplace survey covering 27 EU countries to show that its incidence is strongly and independently correlated with the degree of centralization in a country's industrial relations regime and the extent of legislative support. Industry rents are also important in explaining trade union presence, but are unimportant in the case of works councils. Turning to the effects of workplace employee representation, we find support for the exit-voice model – traditionally associated with Anglo-Saxon regimes – whereby worker representation is associated with poorer perceptions of the employment relations climate and with lower voluntary quit rates.
J51|Gender Differences in the Union Wage Premium? A Comparative Case Study|Trade unions have transformed from male-dominated organisations rooted in manufacturing to majority-female organisations serving predominantly white-collar workers, often in the public sector. Adopting a comparative case study approach using nationally representative linked employer-employee surveys for Norway and Britain we examine whether, in keeping with a median voter model, the gender shift in union membership has resulted in differential wage returns to unionisation among men and women. In Britain, while only women receive a union wage premium, only men benefit from the increased bargaining power of their union as indicated by workplace union density. In Norway, on the other hand, although a union wage premium arises from individual union membership for men and women in male-dominated unions, in workplaces where the union is female-dominated women benefit more than men from the increased bargaining power of the union as union density rises. The findings suggest British unions continue to adopt a paternalistic attitude to representing their membership, in contrast to their more progressive counterparts in Norway.
J51|Schoene, neue Arbeitswelt – ist der Arbeitsvertrag dafuer zu „altbacken“? (The employment contract – Too old fashioned for the brave new employment world?)|Der Beitrag wendet sich gegen die These, dass in Abkehr von dem Ausgangspunkt des zweiseitigen Vertrags „multipolare Arbeitsbeziehungen“ fuer eine juristische Betrachtungsweise gewaehlt werden sollen. Neue Organisationsformen der Arbeit duerfen nicht zu Nachteilen fuer den Arbeitnehmer fuehren. Die Arbeitsorganisation wird vom Arbeitgeber vorgegeben. Der Arbeitnehmer hat keinen Einfluss darauf. Die Organisationsform ist Ausdruck der strukturellen Ungleichgewichtslage zwischen Arbeitgeber und Arbeitnehmer. Aufgabe des Arbeitsrechts ist es, die Ungleichgewichtslage zu beseitigen und nicht sie als Ausgangspunkt zu nehmen und so zu akzeptieren. (This article criticizes the argument that in labour law analyses, the bipolar contract should be abandoned as a starting point in favour of multipolar employment relations.. Modern employment relations in multipolar organisations could be used to evade the given legal protection of the employee. Work organisation is the prerogative of the employer and employees have no influence over it.. It is the function of labour law to secure workers’ rights in this situation on the basis of the bipolar contract and not to weaken their position by accepting new organizational forms of work.)
J51|Arbeitsrecht in der vernetzten Arbeitswelt (Labour law in an interconnected digital working world)|Der vorliegende Beitrag untersucht aus arbeitsrechtlicher Perspektive das Phaenomen, dass in der vernetzten Arbeitswelt der Zugriff auf Arbeitskraft seltener im Rahmen des traditionellen Normalarbeitsverhaeltnisses erfolgt und stattdessen zunehmend externe Arbeitskraefte im Rahmen von Netzwerkorganisationen eingesetzt werden. Es wird die These entwickelt, dass es zu kurz greifen wuerde, diesen Wandel unter der fuer das Arbeitsrecht derzeit typischen bipolaren Perspektive zu analysieren, und dass arbeitsrechtliche Begrifflichkeiten und Grundstrukturen im Hinblick auf mehrpolige Rechtsbeziehungen und interorganisationale Fragestellungen weiterzuentwickeln sind. Konzeptionelle Defizite der Regulierung des drittbezogenen Personaleinsatzes werden herausgearbeitet. Ausgehend von den in den Grundrechten wurzelnden staatlichen Schutzpflichten und dem im Rechtsstaatsprinzip wurzelnden Kohaerenzgebot werden ein Leitbild fuer die vernetzte Arbeitswelt entworfen und Schlussfolgerungen fuer eine systematische Entwicklung des Rechts der externen Arbeitskraefte gezogen. (This paper adopts a labour law perspective to analyse the more frequent external deployment of labour than conventional employment in network organisations. We argue that it is insufficient to analyse this phenomenon from the bipolar perspective dominant in the traditional concept of labour law. Instead it is necessary to develop a concept and structure of (labour) law with regard to multipolar relations and inter-organisational problems. The paper analyses the conceptual deficits of the current regulation of triangular labour deployment strategies. It then develops guiding principles for the deployment of labour in an interconnected digital working world. It does so by focusing on the duty of States to protect human rights and the principle of coherent regulation. In the light of these principles, we draw practical conclusions for the regulation of the use of external labour.)
J51|Steigende Schutzdefizite im Arbeitsrecht? (Growing lack of protection in labour law?)|Der Einsatz von „Fremdbelegschaften“ hat wenig mit wachsender Vernetzung von Unternehmen zu tun. Die rechtliche Entkoppelung von arbeitsvertraglicher Beziehung und Arbeitsort wirft Probleme auf, die sich bei den einzelnen Gruppen der Fremdbelegschaften unterschiedlich stellen. Leiharbeitnehmer haben neben ihrer Vertragsbeziehung zum Verleiher zahlreiche arbeitsrechtliche Rechte und Pflichten zum Entleiher, die sich unter dem Leitbegriff eines partiellen Arbeitsverhaeltnisses zusammenfassen lassen. Ihre faktische Schlechterstellung gegenueber Stammbeschaeftigten haengt mit gesetzlich zugelassenen Billigtarifen und einer isolierten Arbeitssituation zusammen, die eine gemeinsame Interessenvertretung erschwert. Bei der zweiten Gruppe – den aufgrund Werk- oder Dienstvertrags in den Betrieb Kommenden – lassen sich die rechtlichen Probleme gleichfalls bewaeltigen, die die Nichtzugehoerigkeit zur „eigentlichen“ Belegschaft mit sich bringt. Ihre schlechtere Lage haengt damit zusammen, dass sie im besten Falle den Tarifen einer „Billig-Branche“ unterliegen, meist aber zu jenen 42 % der Beschaeftigten gehoeren, die nicht mehr durch Tarifvertraege geschuetzt sind. Bei den Soloselbstaendigen als der dritten Gruppe muss man unterscheiden. Wer sein Einkommen im Wesentlichen vom Einsatzbetrieb bezieht, wird als arbeitnehmeraehnliche Person qualifiziert und kann sich deshalb auf bestimmte arbeitsrechtliche Normen wie das Bundesurlaubsgesetz berufen, bleibt andererseits aber vom Kuendigungsschutzgesetz und von der Betriebsverfassung ausgeschlossen. Tarifvertraege sind moeglich, aber faktisch nicht durchsetzbar. Liegt wegen Fehlens eines beherrschenden Auftraggebers keine Arbeitnehmeraehnlichkeit vor, kann sich der Betroffene nur auf zivilrechtliche Schutznormen berufen, die zwar eine intensive Vertragsinhaltskontrolle, aber keinerlei Bestandsschutz gewaehren. Hinter dem Begriff der Crowdworker als vierter Gruppe verbergen sich sehr unterschiedliche Rechtsbeziehungen; soweit fuer auslaendische Plattformen gearbeitet wird, ist selbst der zivilrechtliche Schutz in Frage gestellt. Im Vergleich dazu sind die Probleme jener Beschaeftigten, deren Arbeit von einem anderen Konzernunternehmen als dem Vertragsarbeitgeber gesteuert wird, von relativ geringer Dimension. Ein einheitliches „Modell“ fuer den Umgang mit Fremdbelegschaften kann es nicht geben; die unbestreitbaren Schutzdefizite haben ihre Ursachen nicht in den Schwierigkeiten der „Ankoppelung“ an den Einsatzbetrieb, sondern in der Stellung der Betroffenen auf dem Arbeitsmarkt. (There is no necessary linkage between the use of a so-called external workforce and the increased interconnectedness of organisations. Within the external workforce, we have to distinguish four groups which are less protected than workers in a standard employment relationship. The coordination problems between an external and internal workforce are normally solved in a satisfactory way. Temporary agency workers have many legal links to the enterprise, which together can be considered to be a partial employment relationship. Workers sent to the plant by their employers on the basis of a contract of services keep their rights as employees in the relationship to their employer. In addition, there are also legal links to the company where the worker is deployed. The absence of a contract with the enterprise where the work is done is not the real cause of the weak position of these two kinds of workers. It is rather their position in the labour market and their difficulty in joining trade unions and their lack of access to the improved working conditions of collective agreements. Self-employed workers with no employees are often in a still worse condition, protected only by civil law. If they work more or less exclusively for one enterprise, some labour law rules apply comprising annual leave and the (theoretical) possibility to conclude collective agreements. However, they cannot invoke the rules against unfair dismissal and they are not integrated into the system of works councils. The situation of crowdworkers varies according to the task they have to fulfil. If they are self-employed persons without employees, they will often be protected only by civil law which guarantees an intensive control of contract clauses but does not protect against the termination of the relationship. To improve their position is a question for labour market policy too. The concept of creating a uniform model to cover external workforces is misleading because it neglects the real reasons for decreasing employment protection.)
J51|Entgrenzung von Organisation und Arbeit? Interorganisationale Fragmentierung als Herausforderung für Arbeitsrecht, Management und Mitbestimmung. Einleitung zum Schwerpunktheft|Die Artikel des Schwerpunktheftes setzen an verschiedenen inhaltlichen Dimensionen und Ebenen dieser Fragmentierung an: Auf der Arbeitsebene ist der Beitrag von Gabriele Fassauer und Silke Geithner angesiedelt, der die inner-organisatorische Bewaeltigung von Co-Konfiguration durch Auftragsmanager behandelt. Auf Basis der Taetigkeitstheorie beleuchten die Autorinnen die Co-Konfiguration zwischen Kunden und Produzenten, indem sie die Grenzarbeit von Auftragsmanagern im Zentrum interorganisationaler Leistungserstellung sichtbar machen, um den Anforderungen von Kunden, Zulieferern und den unternehmensinternen Arbeitsgruppen gerecht zu werden. Die Mitbestimmungspraxis von Betriebsraeten im Umgang mit quasi-externalisierter Arbeit ist Gegenstand von gleich zwei Aufsaetzen mit je unterschiedlicher Blickrichtung. Der Artikel von Markus Hertwig, Johannes Kirsch und Carsten Wirth zielt auf die Erkundung des Umgangs des Betriebsrats mit Onsite-Werkvertraegen in strukturationstheoretischer Perspektive. Fuer die Ernaehrungs- und Getraenkeindustrie zeigen sie verschiedene Praktiken auf, die in verschiedenen Typen des Umgangs von Betriebsraeten mit Onsite-Werkvertraegen verdichtet werden, die zwischen Kooperation und Konfrontation, zwischen Ablehnung und Akzeptanz angesiedelt sind. Karina Becker thematisiert aus einer sozialkritischen Perspektive den Gesundheits- und Arbeitsschutz fuer Werkvertragsbeschaeftigte in der Pflege. Dabei interessiert sie sich insbesondere fuer die rechtlichen Sekundaermachtpotenziale der Betriebsraete sowie deren etwaige Verschiebungen innerhalb des Feldes des Arbeits- und Gesundheitsschutzes. Auf diese Weise wird die Reichweite staatlicher Mindestschutzvorschriften im Betrieb bzw. im Haushalt als Verhandlungsgegenstand der Mitbestimmung thematisiert. Auf der Mesoebene zwischen Organisationen und (arbeits-)rechtlichem Rahmen setzen Isabell Hensel, Jochen Koch, Eva Kocher und Anna Schwarz mit einer interdisziplinaeren Einordnung online vermittelter Arbeitsauftraege und Werke an. Sie deuten neue Formen der Arbeitserbringung („Crowdworking“) in ihrer Vielgestaltigkeit, d.h. auch und gerade hinsichtlich von Potenzialen, die jenseits einer allfaelligen Prekarisierung angesiedelt sein koennen. Hierbei greifen sie zum einen auf die Organisations- und Managementtheorie zurueck, zum anderen benutzen sie das Arbeitsrecht, um das Spektrum von Crowdworking in einem Regelkreis aus Autonomie und Kontrolle, Flexibilitaet und Stabilitaet zu ordnen. Auf der Makroebene diskutiert Andreas Buecker die Regulierung der multipolaren Arbeitsbeziehungen und insbesondere des sog. drittbezogenen Personaleinsatzes, indem er bestehende Quellen des Arbeitsrechts (AEntG, MiloG, ArbSchG, BetrVG) auf Anwendbarkeit prueft, um regulative Luecken zu praezisieren. Zugleich thematisiert er die Rolle von Leitbildern im Diskurs der Rechtsfortbildung. Im Ergebnis argumentiert er fuer eine Fortentwicklung des Arbeitsrechts, um ueber den klassischen bipolaren Arbeitnehmerbegriff hinaus auch mehrpolige Rechtsbeziehungen erfassen zu koennen und die Betroffenen nicht schutzlos zu stellen. Hieran knuepfen zwei Debattenbeitraege an, um die derzeitige Konstruktion des Arbeitsrechts auf den Pruefstand zu stellen. Ebenso wie Buecker setzen sowohl Christiane Brors als auch Wolfgang Daeubler am grundsaetzlich bestehenden sozialen Schutzbedarf in mehrpoligen Arbeitsbeziehungen an, blicken aber gleichsam etwas optimistischer in die Zukunft. Brors haelt das zweipolige Arbeitsverhaeltnis nach wie vor fuer den richtigen Anker, um den Schutz abhaengig Beschaeftigter zu gewaehrleisten und zeigt auf, dass bestehende Ansaetze, insbesondere im Rahmen des Rechts der Leiharbeit, ausbaufaehig sind. AEhnlich sieht es Daeubler, der gleichermassen im Arbeitsrecht wie im Recht der Selbststaendigen ausbaufaehige Konstruktionen sieht. Deutlich wird dabei aber, dass gerade im letzteren Bereich der Gesetzgeber gefragt sein koennte, ueber den Typus der arbeitnehmeraehnlichen Person den Schutz von Selbststaendigen zu verbessern. Darueber hinaus macht Daeubler deutlich, dass gerade beim Crowdsourcing ein Problem in der Internationalitaet der Rechtsbeziehung liegen koennte.
J51|Onsite-Werkvertraege und Industrielle Beziehungen: Praktiken der Betriebsraete zwischen Ablehnung und Akzeptanz (Onsite-subcontracting and industrial relations: Practices of works councils between rejection and acceptance)|Mit Onsite-Werkvertraegen koennen vielfaeltige negative Konsequenzen fuer die Arbeitsbedingungen der Beschaeftigten und fuer die Interessenvertretung verknuepft sein. Deshalb fragen wir, wie Betriebsraete mit der Verbreitung von Onsite-Werkvertraegen in den Kernbereichen der Wertschoepfung umgehen und welche Praktiken der Interessenvertretung im Prozess des Outsourcings entwickelt werden. In diesem Beitrag zeigen wir auf Basis einer strukturationstheoretischen Analyse von insgesamt zwoelf Fallstudien aus dem Verarbeitenden Gewerbe und dem Einzelhandel, dass sich zwei grundlegende Handlungsmuster (Ablehnung oder Akzeptanz) herausbilden. Diese Handlungsmuster differenzieren sich weiter nach den grundlegenden Sicht , Handlungs und Legitimationsweisen der Betriebsraete in die vier Typen‚ ‚Ablehnung – Unsicherheit‘, ‚Ablehnung – Konfrontation‘, ‚Akzeptanz – Kooperation‘ und ‚Akzeptanz – Ausgestaltung‘ aus. Die Betriebsraete ueben dabei Einfluss aus, ohne jedoch alle negativen Konsequenzen aufheben zu koennen. Dies hat Folgen fuer das Erwerbssystem als Ganzes. (Onsite-subcontracting can produce multiple negative consequences for employment conditions and interest representation. Therefore, we ask how works councils position themselves towards onsite-subcontracting and how they intervene in the process of outsourcing. Based on a structurationist analysis of twelve case studies in the manufacturing sector and in retailing, we identify two major patterns of action (rejection and acceptance). The patterns of action can be differentiated into four types of works council behaviour: ‘rejection – uncertainty, ‘rejection – confrontation’, ‘acceptance – co-operation’ and ‘acceptance – arrangement’. Furthermore, works councils exert influence to a varying degree but they cannot offset all negative consequences. This has implications for the overall employment system.)
J51|Tarifvertraege und die Lohnluecke zwischen Maennern und Frauen: Empirische Evidenz aus Zerlegungsanalysen (Collective wage agreements and the gender pay gap: Empirical evidence from decomposition analyses)|Der Beitrag untersucht mit LIAB-Daten fuer die Jahre 2000 bis 2010, wie sich der Gender Pay Gap bei Vollzeitbeschaeftigten im Zeitablauf entwickelt hat. Dabei wird zwischen dem nicht-tarifgebundenen Bereich der Wirtschaft und dem Bereich mit Flaechentarifvertraegen differenziert. Die Befunde zeigen, dass die Lohnluecken zu Beginn des Betrachtungszeitraums in beiden Bereichen aehnlich ausfielen, dann aber auseinandergedriftet sind – inzwischen ist die Lohnluecke im tarifgebundenen Bereich deutlich niedriger. Eine Juhn-Murphy-Pierce-Zerlegung verdeutlicht, dass ein Grossteil der Unterschiede in der geschlechtsspezifischen Lohnluecke zwischen beiden Bereichen auf nicht beobachtbare Faktoren zurueckgeht: Entweder gibt es in Betrieben ohne Tarifvertrag staerker ausgepraegte Unterschiede in den unbeobachtbaren produktivitaetsrelevanten Merkmalen von Maennern und Frauen, oder aber in diesen Betrieben wird staerker diskriminiert. Eine ergaenzende branchenspezifische Analyse bestaetigt, dass der Gender Pay Gap in den meisten Sektoren im Regime mit Flaechentarifvertraegen geringer ausfaellt. (The article uses LIAB data for the years 2000 to 2010 to analyse the gender pay gap in Germany among full-time workers. It does so by differentiating between the sections of the economy that are not covered by collective agreements and those covered by sectoral collective agreements. The results show that the gap was roughly of the same size at the beginning of the time period, but drifted apart afterwards. Meanwhile the gap is much smaller in the section of the economy covered by collective agreements. A Juhn-Murphy-Pierce decomposition between both regimes reveals that much of the difference in gender pay gaps is due to unobservable factors. On the one hand, unobserved productivity differences between men and women working under collective contracts might be smaller. On the other hand wage discrimination might be less severe under collectively negotiated contracts. An additional analysis by economic sector shows that the gender pay gap is lower under collective bargaining coverage in most industries.)
J51|Interorganisationale Netzwerke und tarifpolitische Fragmentierung: Hebt Mehr-Arbeitgeber-Beschaeftigung die Tarifeinheit aus den Angeln? (Inter-organisational networks and the fragmentation of collective bargaining: Do multi-employer work arrangements undermine ‘Tarifeinheit’?)|Der Aufsatz stellt die Auswirkungen einer netzwerkfoermig reorganisierten Wertschoepfung auf das System der Tarifpolitik zur theoretischen und empirischen Diskussion. Im Vordergrund steht die These, nach der eine solche (Re-)Organisation interorganisational segmentierte Belegschaften schafft, und zwar auch in den traditionellen Kernzonen industrieller Wertschoepfung. Von diesem Prozess werden verschiedene Dimensionen des etablierten Tarifsystems beruehrt: (1) Im Hinblick auf die Kollektivakteure entstehen neuartige Vertretungsluecken und -konkurrenzen, (2) die Prozesse der Aushandlung sind aufgrund der Vervielfaeltigung der Verhandlungsbeziehungen von einem Auseinanderfallen von Regelfindung und -durchsetzung betroffen und (3) die Ergebnisse der Tarifpolitik verschieben sich neben der Absenkung von Verguetungen und der Entstehung tariflicher Parallelwelten in Richtung von Regelambiguitaet und Regelkonflikt. Fasst man diese Entwicklungen unter dem Oberbegriff tarifpolitischer Fragmentierung zusammen, wird deutlich, dass Tarifeinheit in ihren organisationsbezogenen Grundlagen herausgefordert wird, was netzwerkadaequate Handlungsoptionen der Sozialpartner jenseits etablierter Praktiken erforderlich werden laesst. (This article puts the networked form of value creation and its impact on the German collective bargaining system centre stage. Here, we are primarily concerned with the hypothesis that a network-based reorganisation of value creation creates interorganisationally segmented workforces, even within the traditional core of manufacturing. This process affects various dimensions of the established collective bargaining system: (1) With respect to the collective actors, new representation gaps and representational competition emerge, (2) negotiation processes are marked by a gap between rule definition and rule enforcement because of the multiplication of relationships, and (3) apart from wage reduction and parallel wage standards, collective bargaining outcomes move in the direction of rule ambiguity and rule conflict. Summarising these developments in wage-setting arrangements under the term ‘fragmentation”, it becomes obvious that the organisational foundations of ‘Tarifeinheit’ are challenged. This triggers a need for social partners to develop network-adequate responses beyond traditional practices in collective bargaining.)
J51|Berufs- und Spartengewerkschaften. Zur Kritik des Tarifeinheitsgesetzes (Professional unions. A critique of the Collective Agreement Unity Act)|Seit den fruehen 2000er Jahren wandeln sich einige Berufsverbaende zu Berufsgewerkschaften und etablieren sich als unabhaengige Tarifpartner im Verkehrs- und Gesundheitssektor. Der Beitrag behandelt zunaechst ihre wesentlichen gemeinsamen Merkmale. Im Mittelpunkt steht das 2015 in Kraft getretene Tarifeinheitsgesetz, welches das abgeschaffte Prinzip der Tarifeinheit wieder einfuehrt („ein Betrieb, eine Gewerkschaft“). Unsere umfassende Kritik argumentiert nicht, wie es ueblicherweise der Fall ist, aus juristischer Sicht, sondern aus der Perspektive der Arbeitsbeziehungen. Sie erfolgt auf drei Ebenen: Probleme der Praktikabilitaet der Verfahren, der breitere Kontext der Gewerkschaftsentwicklung, befuerchtete, aber unrealistische Konsequenzen fuer das System der Arbeitsbeziehungen. (Since the early 2000s some professional associations have changed into professional unions and have established themselves as independent bargaining partners in the transport and health sectors. The paper begins by presenting the most important common characteristics of such professional unions. It focuses on the Collective Agreement Unity Act which came into force in 2015 and re-establishes the abolished principle of bargaining unity (‘one company, one union’). Our comprehensive critique does not take the usual legal perspective but rather an industrial relations one. It is based on three levels: Practical problems of the applicability of procedural rules, the broader context of trade union development, feared but unrealistic consequences for the system of employment relations.)
J51|Konfliktpartnerschaft – still alive. Veraenderter Konfliktmodus in der verarbeitenden Industrie (Conflict partnership – still alive. The changed conflict mode in the manufacturing industry)|Die deutschen industriellen Beziehungen haben sich in den letzten drei Jahrzehnten strukturell in drei Welten der Arbeitsbeziehungen segmentiert. Zugleich hat sich der Konfliktmodus in der ersten Welt, die durch die exportorientierte Industrie gepraegt ist, stark modifiziert: Durch komplexe Systeme der feinjustierten Interessenverarbeitung ist der oeffentlich wahrnehmbare Grosskonflikt die Ausnahme geworden, dezentrale Konflikte sind dagegen der Regelfall. Mit Bezug auf das von Mueller-Jentsch pointierte Konzept der Konfliktpartnerschaft wird die These vertreten, dass auch mit diesem veraenderten Konfliktmodus weiterhin von einer Konfliktpartnerschaft, die ein spezifischer Modus der Sozialpartnerschaft ist, in der exportorientierten Industrie gesprochen werden koenne. (Over the last three decades, the German industrial relations have segmented into three worlds of labour relations. At the same time the conflict mode in the first world, which is dominated by the export-oriented industry, has changed. Due to the complex system of adjusted knowledge processing, big, publicly observable conflicts are rather the exception whereas decentralised conflict solutions are the rule. According to Mueller-Jentsch’s concept of conflict partnership it is argued here that despite the changed environment and conflict modes, the term conflict partnership is still an appropriate mode in the export-oriented economy.)
J51|Traditionelle und neue intermediaere Akteure in den Arbeitswelten hochqualifizierter Solo-Selbststaendiger (Traditional and new intermediary actors in the labor markets of the highly-skilled solo self-employed)|Auf dem Arbeitsmarkt laesst sich eine wachsende Anzahl hochqualifizierter Solo-Selbststaendiger beobachten, fuer die angenommen wird, dass sie ihre Arbeitsbedingungen individuell aushandeln. In jedem Fall zeichnet sich deren Verguetung durch eine vergleichsweise hohe Heterogenitaet aus. Gleichzeitig laesst sich eine Verschiebung im Gefuege kollektiver Interessenvertretungsorgane beobachten, die sich darin zeigt, dass neben Gewerkschaften neue intermediaere Akteure (z.B. Agenturen, Genossenschaften) relevant werden. Vor diesem Hintergrund ist das Ziel des vorliegenden Beitrags, die Rolle traditioneller und neuer intermediaerer Akteure in den Aushandlungen der Arbeitsbedingungen, wie der Verguetung, von hochqualifizierten Solo-Selbststaendigen zu eruieren. Die empirische Basis des Beitrags bildet eine qualitative Studie mit Solo-Selbststaendigen sowie Vertretern/innen von Gewerkschaften, Berufsverbaenden, Agenturen und Genossenschaften in den Branchen Filmwirtschaft, IT-Dienstleistungen und Medizin. In der Analyse der Interviews wird deutlich, dass die hochqualifizierten Solo-Selbststaendigen ihre Verguetung nicht per se individuell aushandeln. Vielmehr wird die Aushandlung von Arbeitsbedingungen durch traditionelle und neue intermediaere Akteure gepraegt, die Beratungsangebote fuer Solo-Selbststaendige bereithalten und die Entwicklung und Verbreitung von Standards foerdern. (Solo self-employed people in Germany represent a growing part of the flexible workforce in knowledge-intensive services with highly heterogeneous income situations. This article challenges the common assumption that their working conditions are negotiated individually by exploring the role of traditional intermediary actors (unions, professional associations) and new intermediary actors (staffing agencies, cooperatives) in pay determination. The empirical basis is a qualitative interview study of solo-self-employed and representatives of unions, professional associations, staffing agencies and cooperatives in film, IT and medicine. The analysis illuminates the contribution of traditional and new intermediary actors to individual negotiations, but also to the development and diffusion of collective standards.)
J51|Industrieangestellte – Neue Initiativen der Interessenvertretung in der internen Tertiarisierung (White collar workers: New initiatives of interest representation)|Industrieangestellte nehmen an Zahl und Bedeutung zu. Nicht nur stellen sie inzwischen die Haelfte der Beschaeftigten in den Kernbranchen der Industrie, sie besetzen auch wichtige Positionen in den betrieblichen Hierarchien mit hohem Primaermachtpotenzial. Die Mobilisierung und Organisierung von Industrieangestellten als Waehler, Kompetenztraeger und Mitglieder entscheidet deshalb ueber die Zukunftsfaehigkeit der Interessenvertretungen in den Industriebranchen. Waehrend frueheren angestelltenpolitischen Ansaetzen der Gewerkschaften wenig Erfolg beschieden war, sind in juengerer Zeit von Gewerkschaften und Betriebsraeten neue Initiativen der Angestelltenpolitik entwickelt worden. Diese werden im vorliegenden Beitrag anhand betrieblicher Fallbeispiele untersucht. Die Initiativen haben unterschiedliche thematische Schwerpunkte; gemeinsam ist ihnen jedoch, dass darin die Betriebsraete neue Formen der Rekrutierung und der Arbeitsteilung in den Gremien entwickeln und dass sie Laboratorien neuer Formen der Beteiligung von Beschaeftigten einrichten. Interessenvertretungen gewinnen an Bedeutung als Berater und Helfer zur Selbsthilfe. Gewerkschaftliche Organisationswirkungen stehen und fallen mit der Rolle der Gewerkschaft in lokalen Konflikten und ihrer Organisierungsstrategie. (White collar workers in the German manufacturing sector have outpaced blue collar workers in number and they usually have positions with higher power resources in occupational hierarchies. Therefore it is of crucial importance for the future organisational power of unions and works councils to attract, mobilise and organise them as voters, as a resource with competencies and experience and as members. While former attempts to develop white collar policies have had little success, unions and works councils today have created new initiatives which will be analysed in this paper by focusing on the plant level. The initiatives are characterised by different topics like safeguarding of jobs, wages, health or working time flexibility. However, common denominators of the initiatives are new forms of recruitment, new divisions of work in works council committees and new forms of employee participation created in the course of the initiatives. Works councils are gaining importance by playing roles as consultants of employees and as supporters of the individual capability of the workers to defend their interests. Union organising can be successful if the union plays a central role in local conflicts and if it focuses on a strategy of organising.)
