J59|Early counselling of displaced workers - effects of collectively funded job search assistance|Employment Security Agreements, which are elements of Swedish collective agreements, offer a unique opportunity to study very early job search counselling of displaced workers. These agreements provide individual job search assistance to workers who are dismissed due to redundancy, often as early as during the period of notice. Compared to traditional labor market policies, the assistance provided is earlier and more responsive to the needs of the individual worker. In this study, I investigate the effects of the individual counseling and job search assistance provided through the Employment Security Agreement for Swedish blue-collar workers on job finding and subsequent job quality. The empirical strategy is based on the rules of eligibility in a regression discontinuity framework. I estimate the effect for workers with short tenure, who are dismissed through mass-layoffs. My results do not suggest that the program has an effect on the probability of becoming unemployed, the duration of unemployment, or income. However, the results indicate that the program has a positive effect on the duration of the next job.
J59|Lump-sum severance grants and the duration of unemployment|The well-known positive relationship between the unemployment benefit level and unemployment duration can be separated into two potential sources; a moral hazard effect, and a liquidity effect pertaining to the increased ability to smooth consumption. The latter is a socially optimal response due to credit and insurance market failures. These two effects are difficult to separate empirically, but the social optimality of an unemployment insurance policy can be evaluated by studying the effect of a non-distortionary lump-sum severance grant on unemployment durations. In this study, I evaluate the effects on unemployment duration and subsequent job quality of a lump-sum severance grant provided to displaced workers, by means of a Swedish collective agreement. I use a regression discontinuity design, based on the strict age requirement to be eligible for the grant. I find that the lump-sum grant has a positive effect on the probability of becoming unemployed and the length of the completed unemployment duration, but no effect on subsequent job quality. My analysis also indicates that spousal income is important for the consumption smoothing abilities of displaced workers, and that the grant may have a greater effect in times of more favorable labor market conditions.
J59|The Past and the Future of Employee Voice: Shenzhen's High Technology Industry|Can a nation's technology future be linked to its past? This article discusses employee voice, as defined in terms of discretionary and constructive behaviour that challenge the status quo, within the innovative, fast growing high technology industry in China. It provides insight into factors shaping employee voice in this under-researched knowledge-intensive sector of China that has emerged rapidly since the economic reform. It suggests the notion of employee voice among the highly skilled knowledge workforce can only be understood in terms of technological convergence and cultural divergence.
J59|Top Decision-Making Bodies in Large Companies: Gender Quota Shows Initial Impact on Supervisory Boards ; Executive Board Remains a Male Bastion|The gender quota for supervisory boards that has been mandatory since January 2016 has shown an initial impact. According to DIW Berlin’s Women Executives Barometer, at the end of 2016, there were more women on the supervisory boards of the 106 companies subject to the statutory quota than one year before. Their proportion increased by a solid four percentage points to more than 27 percent. And in the other groups of companies studied, the number of female supervisory board members also rose. However, the calculations based on the top 200 companies also showed that in companies in which the supervisory board already consisted of one-third women, the proportion hardly increased or did not increase at all. The gap between supervisory and executive boards has also widened because growth in the latter has flattened. Women represent only 6,5 percent of the executives at companies subject to the quota — even fewer than in the DAX 30 (11 percent) and the average of the 200 highest performing companies in Germany (eight percent). In companies with government-owned shares, the momentum has decreased significantly — they run the risk of losing their function as role models. To forestall a tightening of the law, companies should ensure more balanced gender representation on all executive levels.
J59|Spitzengremien großer Unternehmen: Geschlechterquote zeigt erste Wirkung in Aufsichtsräten – Vorstände bleiben Männerdomänen|The gender quota for supervisory boards that has been mandatory since January 2016 has shown an initial impact. According to DIW Berlin’s Women Executive Barometer, at the end of 2016 there were more women on the supervisory boards of the 106 companies subject to the statutory quota than one year before. Their proportion increased by a solid four percentage points to more than 27 percent. And in the other groups of companies studied, the number of female supervisory board members also rose. However, the calculations based on the top 200 companies also showed that in companies in which the supervisory board already consisted of one-third women, the proportion hardly increased or did not increase at all. The gap between supervisory and executive boards has also widened because growth in the latter has flattened. Women represent only six percent of the executives at companies subject to the quota – even fewer than in the DAX 30 (11 percent) and the average of the 200 highest performing companies in Germany (eight percent). In companies with government-owned shares, the momentum has decreased significantly – they run the risk of losing their function as role models. To forestall a tightening of the law, companies should ensure more balanced gender representation on all executive levels. Die seit Januar 2016 verbindliche Geschlechterquote für Aufsichtsräte in Deutschland zeigt eine erste Wirkung: Dem Managerinnen- Barometer des DIW Berlin zufolge waren in den unter die Quotenregelung fallenden 106 Unternehmen Ende 2016 deutlich mehr Frauen in den Kontrollgremien vertreten als ein Jahr zuvor. Ihr Anteil stieg um gut vier Prozentpunkte auf mehr als 27 Prozent. Auch in den anderen Unternehmensgruppen legte der Anteil der Aufsichtsrätinnen zu. Die Berechnungen auf Basis der Top-200-Unternehmen zeigen zudem, dass in Unternehmen, in denen der Aufsichtsrat bereits zu einem Drittel mit Frauen besetzt ist, der Anteil anschließend kaum bis gar nicht mehr steigt. Die Schere zwischen den Aufsichtsräten und Vorständen öffnet sich indes weiter, denn in letzteren ist die Dynamik nach wie vor sehr schwach: In den unter die Quote fallenden Unternehmen sind im Durchschnitt nur 6,5 Prozent Frauen in den Vorstandsetagen vertreten – noch weniger als in den DAX-30 (gut elf Prozent) und den 200 umsatzstärksten Unternehmen (acht Prozent). In den Unternehmen mit Bundesbeteiligung hat sich die Dynamik deutlich abgeschwächt – sie drohen ihre Vorbildfunktion einzubüßen. Um möglichen Gesetzesverschärfungen zuvorzukommen, sollten Unternehmen auf allen Führungsebenen für ein ausgeglicheneres Geschlechterverhältnis sorgen.
J59|THE DIGITAL REVOLUTION AND JOB POLARISATION: AN INSTITUTIONAL, ECONOMIC, AND SOCIAL ISSUE The last decades were marked by processes of in-depth changes: globalisation, the collapse of the communist systems in Central and Eastern Europe, a new post-industrial transition, and the economic and financial crisis brought along also the crisis of “sovereign debts”. All these occurred on the background of rapid digitalisation, computerisation, and automation processes of the economic sectors, the highest risks being born by the labour market and the main production factor: the human factor. Thus, as opposed to the previous stages, the gap between the economic and social risks to become higher in the absence of institutional reform and changes targeted mainly at institutions with impact on the labour market. The present paper intends to present the main issues with respect to economic and social aspects relevant to the process of resuming economic growth and to ensuring the sustainability of medium- and long-term development|No abstract is available for this item.
J59|Corporate Boards of Large Companies: More Momentum Needed for Gender Parity|Germany’s large corporations still have a long way to go before achieving balanced representation of men and women on their boards. At the end of 2015, the share of women on the executive boards of the top 200 companies in Germany was a good six percent, an increase of less than one percentage point over 2014. The share of women on the supervisory boards of these top 200 companies was almost 20 percent although growth there has slowed. The DAX 30 performed slightly better in terms of women’s representation: the proportion of women on the executive boards of these companies was just under ten percent at the close of 2015 and the equivalent figure for supervisory boards was almost 27 percent. (In both cases, this represented an increase of more than two percentage points). Of the over 100 companies obliged to comply with a statutory 30-percent share of women for all new supervisory board appointments from January 2016, almost 28 percent had already met this quota by the end of 2015. Just under one-third of the companies had achieved a share of at least 20 percent but still less than 30 percent of female supervisory board members and were therefore well on their way to fulfilling the quota. Almost half of all DAX 30 companies met the quota. However, it is highly unlikely that the lion’s share of the remaining companies will follow these trailblazers voluntarily in the near future since 22 percent of the top 200 and 24 percent of TecDAX companies, as well as over one-third of SDAX companies, currently either have no female supervisory board members at all or at most one in ten. Moreover, the share of women on executive boards is extremely low in all the companies analyzed in the present study. Germany’s companies still have a long and difficult path ahead of them in order to achieve increased representation of women on their corporate boards. This makes it all the more imperative to adopt a coordinated approach to improve the career prospects of women by means of stringent framework conditions, also encompassing fiscal and family policy.
J59|Spitzengremien großer Unternehmen: mehr Schubkraft für eine ausgewogene Repräsentation von Frauen und Männern nötig|Germany’s large corporations still have a long way to go before achieving balanced representation of men and women on their boards. At the end of 2015, the share of women on the executive boards of the top 200 companies in Germany was a good six percent, an increase of less than one percentage point over 2014. The share of women on the supervisory boards of these top 200 companies was almost 20 percent although growth there has slowed. The DAX 30 performed slightly better in terms of women’s representation: the proportion of women on the executive boards of these companies was just under ten percent at the close of 2015 and the equivalent figure for supervisory boards was almost 27 percent. (In both cases, this represented an increase of more than two percentage points). Of the over 100 companies obliged to comply with a statutory 30-percent share of women for all new supervisory board appointments from January 2016, almost 28 percent had already met this quota by the end of 2015. Just under one-third of the companies had achieved a share of at least 20 percent but still less than 30 percent of female supervisory board members and were therefore well on their way to fulfilling the quota. Almost half of all DAX 30 companies met the quota. However, it is highly unlikely that the lion’s share of the remaining companies will follow these trailblazers voluntarily in the near future since 22 percent of the top 200 and 24 percent of TecDAX companies, as well as over one-third of SDAX companies, currently either have no female supervisory board members at all or at most one in ten. Moreover, the share of women on executive boards is extremely low in all the companies analyzed in the present study. Germany’s companies still have a long and difficult path ahead of them in order to achieve increased representation of women on their corporate boards. This makes it all the more imperative to adopt a coordinated approach to improve the career prospects of women by means of stringent framework conditions, also encompassing fiscal and family policy. Eine ausgewogene Repräsentation von Männern und Frauen in den Spitzengremien großer Unternehmen in Deutschland bleibt in weiter Ferne. In den Vorständen der 200 umsatzstärksten Unternehmen lag der Frauenanteil Ende vergangenen Jahres bei gut sechs Prozent – ein Anstieg von weniger als einem Prozentpunkt gegenüber dem Vorjahr. Die Aufsichtsräte waren zu fast 20 Prozent mit Frauen besetzt, allerdings hat sich die Dynamik abgeschwächt. Etwas besser war die Situation in den 30 größten börsennotierten Unternehmen: Im DAX-30 lag der Frauenanteil Ende 2015 in Vorständen bei knapp zehn Prozent (plus gut zwei Prozentpunkte) und in Aufsichtsräten bei fast 27 Prozent (plus gut zwei Prozentpunkte). Von den gut 100 Unternehmen, die ab 2016 bei Neubesetzungen ihres Aufsichtsrats Frauen bis zu einem Anteil von mindestens 30 Prozent berücksichtigen müssen, hatten fast 28 Prozent diese Quote Ende des Jahres 2015 bereits erfüllt. Knapp ein Drittel der Unternehmen waren mit einem Anteil von 20 bis unter 30 Prozent Aufsichtsrätinnen auf dem Weg dorthin. In der DAX-30-Gruppe erreichte nahezu die Hälfte der Unternehmen die Zielgröße. Dass die Masse der anderen Unternehmen den Vorreitern in absehbarer Zeit auf freiwilliger Basis folgt, ist unwahrscheinlich: Denn in 22 Prozent der Top-200- und 24 Prozent der TecDAX- sowie über einem Drittel der SDAX-Unternehmen ist derzeit entweder gar kein Aufsichtsratsmitglied oder höchstens jedes zehnte eine Frau. Der Anteil von Frauen in Vorständen ist zudem in allen untersuchten Unternehmensgruppen extrem gering. Der Weg zu mehr Frauen in Spitzengremien bleibt also lang und mühsam. Umso dringender ist eine Politik aus einem Guss, die durch stringente Rahmenbedingungen, auch in der Steuer- und Familienpolitik, die Karrierechancen von Frauen verbessert.
J59|Weg zu mehr Frauenanteilen in Spitzengremien bleibt lang und mühsam: Acht Fragen an Elke Holst|No abstract is available for this item.
J59|Zwischen den Welten: Hybride Arbeitsverhaeltnisse in den Kulturberufen (Between worlds: Hybrid employment in the cultural industries)|Der vorliegende Beitrag untersucht Arbeitsverhaeltnisse der Kultur- und Kreativberufe. Es gibt einige empirische Anhaltspunkte, dass sich hier eine neue Stufe der Flexibilisierung von Arbeit vollzieht, die als Erwerbshybridisierung zu beschreiben ist. Die Frage ist, unter welchen beschaeftigungs- und arbeitspolitischen Bedingungen und in welchen empirischen Formen sie auftritt sowie welche Arbeitswirklichkeiten sich damit verbinden. Argumentiert wird, dass die Aufteilung von Erwerbsformen nach sozialversicherungspflichtig versus selbstaendig nur mehr zu kurz greift und dass sich in den Kulturberufen hybride Arbeitsverhaeltnisse entwickeln, die sich als Grenzgaenge zwischen Erwerbsformen und Arbeitsverhaeltnissen manifestieren. Exemplarisch diskutiert wird dieses Problem am Beispiel der Designbranche. Empirische Basis ist eine umfassende, qualitative Studie ueber kuenstlerisch-kreative Arbeit im arbeitsgesellschaftlichen Strukturwandel, die eine Feldstudie von zwei Feldern der Designbranche umfasst: Kommunikations- und Modedesign. Deutlich wird an diesem Beispiel, dass sich das Phaenomen der Erwerbshybridisierung korrespondierend mit der institutionellen Umwelt ausbildet, dass es daher zu strukturell differenzierten Grenzgaengen kommt und dass damit Herausforderungen fuer die Interessenpolitik im Kulturbereich verbunden sind. (This article examines labour relations in the creative industries. There is some empirical evidence to suggest that a new level of work flexibility is emerging in the creative industries, which can be described as employment hybridisation. The question is which labour conditions and industrial relations lead to hybrid employment patterns and which work realities are connected with them. I will argue that in the cultural industries hybrid employment patterns evolve that occur as boundaries between self-employment and employed working conditions. This argument is illustrated with examples from the design industry. The empirical basis is a comprehensive, qualitative study of artistic and creative work, including a field study of two fields in the design industry: communications and fashion design. It is clear from this example that the phenomenon of employment hybridisation corresponds with the institutional environment. Thus, there are structurally differentiated border crossings. Finally, this poses a challenge for industrial relations in the cultural sector.)
J59|Work-Related Identity of Clinical Research Sector Employees in Poland Against Professional Transformation of the Industry|Purpose: Established professions and knowledge workers identify more with their professional groups than with their organisations. The purpose of the study was to find what kind of work-related identities are shown by clinical research sector employees in Poland, what is the intensity of those identities and which one is dominant.
J59|Executive Board and Supervisory Board Members in Germany’s Large Corporations Remain Predominantly Male|The executive boards of large corporations in Germany continue to be in men’s hands: at the close of 2014, a good five percent of executive board members at the top 200 companies in Germany were women. This is equivalent to an increase of one percentage point over 2013, which is evidence of the rather sluggish development in this area. DAX 30 companies recorded the largest proportion of female board members at a good seven percent, while the lowest share was recorded for MDAX companies (less than three percent). The representation of women on supervisory boards was better: at the end of 2014, a good 18 percent of board members were women in the top 200 companies; DAX 30 companies displayed above-average results for female board members at just below 25 percent. At a little under 14 percent, SDAX companies displayed not only the lowest percentage of women, but also the lowest increase over 2013 (0.6 percentage points). Both on executive and supervisory boards, female chairpersons remain the exception. Following the law passed by the federal government cabinet last year on equality for women and men in managerial positions, both at private companies and in the civil service, female representation, at least on supervisory boards, is likely to improve. The gender quota introduced in this legislation will come into effect on January 1, 2016. Companies with government-owned shares will also be affected by the quota regulation. Here, female representation on the supervisory boards and executive boards at the end of 2014 was just under 24 and just under 15 percent, respectively.
J59|Weiterhin kaum Frauen in den Vorständen großer Unternehmen: auch Aufsichtsräte bleiben Männerdomänen|The executive boards of large corporations in Germany continue to be in men’s hands: at the close of 2014, a good five percent of executive board members at the top 200 companies in Germany were women. This is equivalent to an increase of one percentage point over 2013, which is evidence of the rather sluggish development in this area. DAX 30 companies recorded the largest proportion of female board members at a good seven percent, while the lowest share was recorded for MDAX companies (less than three percent). The representation of women on supervisory boards was better: at the end of 2014, a good 18 percent of board members were women in the top 200 companies; DAX 30 companies displayed above-average results for female board members at just below 25 percent. At a little under 14 percent, SDAX companies displayed not only the lowest percentage of women, but also the lowest increase over 2013 (0.6 percentage points). Both on executive and supervisory boards, female chairpersons remain the exception. Following the law passed by the federal government cabinet last year on equality for women and men in managerial positions, both at private companies and in the civil service, female representation, at least on supervisory boards, is likely to improve. The gender quota introduced in this legislation will come into effect on January 1, 2016. Companies with government-owned shares will also be affected by the quota regulation. Here, female representation on the supervisory boards and executive boards at the end of 2014 was just under 24 and just under 15 percent, respectively. Die Vorstände großer Unternehmen in Deutschland befinden sich nach wie vor fest in Männerhand: Ende 2014 lag der Frauenanteil in den Vorständen der Top-200-Unternehmen in Deutschland bei gut fünf Prozent. Das entspricht einem Plus von einem Prozentpunkt gegenüber dem Vorjahr und damit einer sehr geringen Dynamik. Die DAX-30-Unternehmen konnten mit gut sieben Prozent den höchsten Frauenanteil verzeichnen, am geringsten war er mit noch nicht einmal drei Prozent bei den MDAX-Unternehmen. Häufiger sind Frauen in den Aufsichtsräten vertreten: In den Top-200-Unternehmen waren Ende des Jahres 2014 gut 18 Prozent Frauen; die DAX-30-Unternehmen schnitten mit einem Frauenanteil von knapp 25 Prozent überdurchschnittlich ab. Die SDAX-Unternehmen wiesen mit knapp 14 Prozent nicht nur den kleinsten Frauenanteil auf, sondern mit 0,6 Prozentpunkten auch den geringsten Zuwachs gegenüber dem Vorjahr. Wie in den Vorständen haben Frauen auch in Aufsichtsräten nur in Ausnahmefällen den Vorsitz inne. Mit dem vom Bundeskabinett im vergangenen Jahr verabschiedeten Gesetz für die gleichberechtigte Teilhabe von Frauen und Männern an Führungspositionen in der Privatwirtschaft und im öffentlichen Dienst dürfte sich die Besetzung zumindest von Aufsichtsratsposten durch Frauen beschleunigen. Die Quotenregelung soll ab 1. Januar 2016 gelten. Vom Gesetz betroffen wären auch Unternehmen mit Bundesbeteiligung. Hier lag der Frauenanteil im Aufsichtsrat Ende 2014 bei knapp 24 Prozent und in den Vorständen bei knapp 15 Prozent.
J59|A North-South Trade Model of Offshoring and Unemployment|This paper analyzes a North-South trade model with offshoring and unemployment due to union wage setting. A reduction in the cost of offshoring decreases employment in the North except possibly if there is little offshoring initially. If the scale of Northern firms also falls, then each Northern agent’s welfare declines. Unions have an incentive to reduce their own bargaining power by strategically delegating wage negotiation so as to cushion the negative employment effects. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
J59|Facial Attractiveness and Lifetime Earnings: Evidence from a Cohort Study|We use unique longitudinal data to document an economically and statistically significant positive correlation between the facial attractiveness of male high school graduates and their subsequent labor market earnings. There are only weak links between facial attractiveness and direct measures of cognitive skills and no link between facial attractiveness and mortality. Even after including a lengthy set of characteristics, including IQ, high school activities, proxy measures for confidence and personality, family background, and additional respondent characteristics in an empirical model of earnings, the attractiveness premium is present in the respondents’ mid-30s and early 50s. Our findings are consistent with attractiveness being an enduring, positive labor market characteristic. © 2015 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
J59|Salarios reales, desempleo y productividad en España|Este artículo estudia la relación entre los salarios reales y sus determinantes en la economía española durante el período 1980-2000, mediante la técnica de análisis de series temporales. Nuestro objetivo es analizar en qué medida la evolución de los salarios está influida por los desajustes del mercado de trabajo, medidos por la tasa de desempleo, así como por variables de negociación, como la productividad. Los resultados muestran un nulo efecto del desempleo sobre la evolución de los salarios reales, los cuales crecen de acuerdo con los incrementos de la productividad con una elasticidad positiva, aunque inferior a la unidad. ***** This paper studies the relationship between real wages and their determinants in the Spanish economy during the period 1980-2000 by means of the time series methodology. Our aim is to analyze to what extent the evolution of wages is influenced by the disequilibrium in the labour market, measured by the unemployment rate, as well as by bargaining variables such as productivity. The results show that there is no effect of unemployment on the evolution of real wages, which rise according to increases in productivity, with a value of the elasticity less than one.
J59|Women Still the Exception on Executive Boards of Germany's Large Firms: Gradually Increasing Representation on Supervisory Boards|The trend toward more women on the corporate boards of German companies continued in 2013, albeit on a small scale. The share of women on the supervisory boards of the 200 largest companies increased by more than two percentage points, and thus at a somewhat higher rate than in recent years, to just over 15 percent. The corresponding share of women on executive boards virtually stagnated at a low level of just over four percent. These findings are revealed in DIW Berlin's latest Female Executive Barometer. In the DAX 30 companies there was even a decrease in the share of women on executive boards. The shares of female executives in MDAX, SDAX, and TecDAX companies also remained low. The development in companies with government-owned shares was limited as well. Moreover, women chairing corporate boards are still very much the exception in all the groups of companies studied. This applies to both supervisory and executive boards. The findings clearly indicate that increasing the share of women on corporate boards is not a self-sustaining process, that progress is slow, and that substantial efforts are still required. In order to achieve equal representation of both genders in these posts in the foreseeable future, more drastic changes are needed. In Germany, public companies could play a pioneering role, which is not the case at present. Companies in Germany and their interest associations can look to the Nordic countries for examples of firms that achieve substantial increases in the number of women on corporate boards without mandatory state regulation. Comparing European countries, however, we see that the share of women on corporate boards increased fastest in countries with a mandatory women's quota.
J59|Frauen sind in Vorständen großer Unternehmen in Deutschland noch immer die Ausnahme: Moderat steigende Anteile in Aufsichtsräten|The trend toward more women on the boards of directors of German companies continued in 2013, albeit on a small scale. The share of women on the supervisory boards of the 200 largest companies increased by more than two percentage points, and thereby at a somewhat higher rate than in recent years, to just over 15 percent. The corresponding share of women on executive boards virtually stagnated at a low level of just over four percent. These findings are revealed in DIW Berlin's latest Female Executive Barometer. In the DAX 30 companies there was even a decrease in the share of women on executive boards. The shares of female executives in MDAX, SDAX, and TecDAX companies also remained low. The development in companies with government- owned shares was limited as well. Moreover, women chairing boards of directors are still very much the exception in all the groups of companies studied. This applies to both supervisory and executive boards. The findings clearly indicate that increasing the share of women on corporate boards is not a self-sustaining process, that progress is slow, and that substantial efforts are still required. In order to achieve equal representation of both genders in these posts in the foreseeable future, more drastic changes are needed. In Germany, public companies could play a pioneering role, which is not the case at present. Companies in Germany and their interest groups can look to the Nordic countries for examples of firms that achieve substantial increases in the number of women on corporate boards without mandatory state regulation. Comparing European countries, however, we see that the share of women on corporate boards increased the fastest in countries with a mandatory women's quota. Der Trend zu mehr Frauen in Spitzengremien in Deutschland hat sich 2013 fortgesetzt, allerdings in geringem Ausmaß. In den Aufsichtsräten der größten 200 Unternehmen stieg der Frauenanteil um mehr als zwei Prozentpunkte auf gut 15 Prozent und damit etwas stärker als in den vergangenen Jahren, während er in den Vorständen auf niedrigem Niveau bei gut vier Prozent nahezu stagnierte. Das geht aus dem aktuellen Managerinnen-Barometer 2014 des DIW Berlin hervor. In den DAX-30-Unternehmen war der Frauenanteil in den Vorständen sogar rückläufig. Auch bei den MDAX-, SDAX- und TecDAX-Unternehmen bleiben die Frauenanteile gering. Ebenfalls zurückhaltend war die Entwicklung in Unternehmen mit Bundesbeteiligung. Zudem sind Frauen als Vorsitzende von Spitzengremien in allen untersuchten Unternehmensgruppen nach wie vor der große Ausnahmefall - in Aufsichtsräten und in Vorständen. Die Ergebnisse verdeutlichen, dass der Anstieg des Frauenanteils in Spitzengremien kein Selbstläufer ist, sich lediglich in kleinen Schritten vollzieht und auch weiterhin erhebliche Anstrengungen nötig sind. Für eine egalitäre Postenbesetzung in absehbarer Zeit sind deutlich stärkere Veränderungen erforderlich. In Deutschland könnten die öffentlichen Unternehmen eine Vorreiterrolle einnehmen, von der sie derzeit aber noch weit entfernt sind. Unternehmen in Deutschland und ihre Interessenorganisationen können aber durchaus auch Vorbilder in den nordischen Ländern finden, die auch ohne staatliche Vorgaben zu deutlich mehr Frauen in Top-Gremien gelangen. Im europäischen Vergleich stieg der Frauenanteil im höchsten Entscheidungsgremium allerdings am schnellsten in Ländern mit einer Frauenquote.
J59|Social Exchange Concept As A Methodological Framework For Employment Relations Analysis|The goal of the paper is to suggest the methodological framework of social exchange for analysis of employment relations. Our literature review revealed confusion concerning the definition of social exchange in the context of labor processes and employee-organization relations. The latter are complex and imply all elements of reciprocal and negotiated exchange as well as economic and social forms of exchange. We focus on rules and means of exchange as well as power-dependence relations during the work process. The concept of “psychological contracts” that embodies the social exchange approach in empirical studies is also under consideration. Methodological limitations of current concepts and measures based on exchange methodology are discussed. The authors argue that deepening and specification of key parameters of social exchange approach could be very analytically productive in sociological research of employment relations seen as employee-employer mutual obligations.
J59|Ist die Einkommenspolarisierung gestiegen? - Alternative Messkonzepte und ihre Ergebnisse für Selbständige und abhängig Beschäftigte in Deutschland|Eine Zunahme der Einkommenspolarisierung erfährt in der öffentlichen Diskussion eine wachsende Aufmerksamkeit. Eine Polarisierung der Einkommen ist hinsichtlich des strukturellen Zusammenhangs von Wirtschaft und Gesellschaft von großer Relevanz. Doch schrumpft die Mittelschicht aufgrund einer Polarisierung der Einkommensverteilung wirklich? Während empirische Studien ein einstimmiges Bild einer steigenden Polarisierung ab 2000 aufzeigen, sind diese Ergebnisse aufgrund unterschiedlicher Polabgrenzungen umstritten. Die vorliegende Arbeit will sich insbesondere mit den Unterschieden und der Aussagefähigkeit alternativer Messkonzepte auseinandersetzen, um damit eine methodisch klare Aussage und Strukturierung der Ergebnisse zur Einkommenspolarisierung in Deutschland vorzunehmen zu können. Dafür werden Ergebnisse für verschiedene Armuts- und Reichtumsgrenzen auf Basis des Haushaltsnettoäquivalenzeinkommens sowie eine Auswahl an Polarisierungsindizes präsentiert. Neben einer Analyse der Einkommen aller Vollzeiterwerbstätigen soll zusätzlich die wichtige Gruppe der Selbständigen untersucht werden, da auch aufgrund einer hohen Einkommensheterogenität innerhalb dieser Gruppe eine ausgeprägte Polarisierung der Einkommen und damit deutliche Ergebnisse erwartet werden. Die Ergebnisse dieser Analyse auf Basis des Sozio-oekonomischen Panels (SOEP) zeigen unabhängig von der Wahl der Armuts- und Reichtumsgrenze und für jeden vorgestellten Polarisierungsindex übereinstimmend eine Zunahme der Einkommenspolarisierung seit Ende der neunziger Jahre in Deutschland.
J59|Sustainable HRM: Bridging theory and practice through the ‘Respect Openness Continuity (ROC)’-model|Although the academic debate on the link between Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and HRM is relatively young, it is generating increasing interest. We suggest that sustainable HRM is a next, innovative and promising domain for theory building, research and practice in the field of HRM. It nonetheless poses several new challenges. To date, the literature on this topic is inconsistent, and the field therefore lacks clear lines, fine-tuning and conceptual/practical maturity. In this context, the ‘Respect Openness Continuity (ROC)’-model is introduced. This model proceeds from the proposition that sustainable HRM forms a subsequent stage in the tradition of HRM thinking. In recent years, mainstream HRM has been strongly identified with strategic HRM thinking. In developing a model for sustainable HRM, various theoretical viewpoints beyond the strategic HRM tradition are explored and assessed for their potential contributions to a framework for sustainable HRM that can bridge theory and practice.
J59|Neoclassical Economics and Federal Policies|In the United States, commentators and politicians demonstrate a deep-rooted persistent adherence to a neoclassical model of the labor market, where a minimum wage increase is seen as an inevitable cause of unemployment, as it is assumed to occur at a point where the labor market was initially in equilibrium. The work of the Minimum Wage Study Commission (1981) uncovered the small size of the unemployment inflation effect, and the new minimum wage research also has corroborated this. Seen against these findings, the persistent rhetoric of sizeable â€œunemployment effectsâ€ of minimum wage increases simply shows the power of employers in a capitalist system. This paper suggests that counteracting the rhetoric is best done by recognizing the agency of the minimum wage worker and portraying this worker not as one who may â€œsuffer unemploymentâ€ under a wage increase but who chooses to work fewer hours if hourly wages and benefits become sufficient.
J59|Slightly More Women in Germany's Corporate Boardrooms: Especially in DAX 30 Companies|Despite the commitment that has been expressed by German companies to bringing more women into top management, at the end of 2012, only four percent of all seats on the executive boards and just under 13 percent on the supervisory boards of the top 200 companies in Germany were occupied by women. This corresponds to an increase of one percentage point on the previous year in both cases. Nevertheless, at the end of 2012, women held almost eight percent of seats on the executive boards of the DAX 30 (up 4.1 percentage points on the previous year) and over 19 percent of seats on DAX 30 supervisory boards (up 3.7 percentage points) - which may well be attributable at least in part to the public attention focused on these companies. In companies with government-owned shares, which are often smaller than the DAX 30 or the top 200 companies, the representation of women was somewhat higher at over 11 percent on executive boards and almost 20 percent on supervisory boards. Overall, employee representatives still make up the majority of women on supervisory boards. In none of the company groups studied had the strong predominance of men declined significantly. At the start of the period under investigation. the number of women on the boards was too low and the impetus for change was too weak. Within Europe, Germany is ranked sixth in terms of the percentage of women in the top-level decision-making bodies of listed companies. On the one hand, this is indicative of even more severe difficulties faced by women seeking executive positions in other countries . On the other hand, it should be noted that German firms rank relatively high because only the supervisory boards of the DAX 30 are taken into account in the European comparison. This focus on supervisory boards of DAX companies is too narrow, however, for an accurate assessment of women's opportunities in corporate boardrooms.
J59|Frauenanteil in Topgremien großer Unternehmen in Deutschland nimmt geringfügig zu: DAX-30-Unternehmen mit größerer Dynamik|Despite companies' commitment to more women in top-level management, at the end of 2012 only four percent of all seats on the executive boards and 12.9 percent on the supervisory boards of the top 200 companies in Germany were occupied by women. This corresponds to an increase of one percentage point on the previous year in both cases. Nevertheless, at the end of the year, the proportion of women on the executive boards of the DAX 30 companies, which are at the center of public interest, was 7.8 percent (up 4.1 percentage points on the previous year) and 19.4 percent on supervisory boards (up 3.7 percentage points). In companies with government-owned shares, which are often smaller than the DAX 30 companies or the top 200 companies, the representation of women was somewhat higher at 11.2 percent on executive boards and 19.9 percent on supervisory boards. Overall, employee representatives still make up the majority of women on the supervisory boards. In none of the company groups studied had the dominance of men been challenged. Initially, the number of women was too low and the dynamics of change not powerful enough. Within Europe, Germany is ranked sixth in terms of percentage of women in the top-level decision-making bodies of listed companies. On the one hand, this reflects the fundamental difficulties faced by women, in other countries, too, as far as taking up executive positions is concerned. On the other hand, they are ranked relatively high because only the supervisory boards of the DAX 30 companies are taken into account for the European comparison. This focus on supervisory boards of DAX companies for evaluating women's opportunities in corporate boardrooms is too short sighted, however. Trotz der Selbstverpflichtung der Wirtschaft zu mehr Frauen in Führungspositionen waren 2012 nur vier Prozent aller Vorstandsund fast 13 Prozent aller Aufsichtsratssitze in den Top-200-Unternehmen in Deutschland von Frauen besetzt. Dies entspricht einem Anstieg von jeweils einem Prozentpunkt gegenüber dem Vorjahr. Bei den DAX-30-Unternehmen, die im Fokus des öffentlichen Interesses stehen, lag der Frauenanteil Ende des Jahres immerhin bei fast acht Prozent in den Vorständen (+4,1 Prozentpunkte gegenüber dem Vorjahr) und bei gut 19 Prozent in den Aufsichtsräten (+3,7 Prozentpunkte). Bei den meist kleineren Unternehmen mit Bundesbeteiligung lag der Anteil mit gut elf Prozent Frauen in den Vorständen und fast 20 Prozent in den Aufsichtsräten etwas höher. Insgesamt stellen die Arbeitnehmervertreterinnen nach wie vor die Mehrheit unter den Frauen in den Aufsichtsräten. In keiner der untersuchten Unternehmensgruppen konnte das Überwiegen der Männer aufgebrochen werden. Dazu war das Ausgangsniveau zu niedrig und die Dynamik zu gering. Im europäischen Vergleich nimmt Deutschland hinsichtlich des Frauenanteils im höchsten Entscheidungsgremium von börsennotierten Unternehmen den sechsten Rang ein. Dies belegt einerseits, dass auch in anderen Ländern grundsätzliche Schwierigkeiten für Frauen bestehen, in Leitungspositionen zu gelangen. Andererseits geht die recht günstige Positionierung auch darauf zurück, dass für den europäischen Vergleich einzig die Aufsichtsräte der DAX-30-Unternehmen herangezogen werden. Die Fokussierung auf Aufsichtsräte von DAX-30-Unternehmen zur Beurteilung der Chancen von Frauen in den Spitzengremien großer Unternehmen greift jedoch zu kurz.
J59|Unfolding the growing confidence in Latin American unions: a longitudinal analysis|The relevance of unions in labour dynamics has been widely explored. However, little attention has been given to the relationship between society, broadly considered, and unions. Drawing on this perspective, this paper offers a longitudinal analysis (2004-2009) of the social confidence in unions in 17 Latin American (LA) countries. Despite the different union specificities in these countries, we focus on the most important common aspects of these unions, through a historical lens. This analysis allows us to develop some hypotheses about the tenets of the growing level of confidence in unions. We test them through a double-level empirical regression model based on Latin Barometer surveys and national economic indicators. The economic perception and the political and trustful orientations of the citizens play an important role in their confidence orientation towards unions.
J59|Going beyond the zero-sum game: Flexisecurity as a tool for worker advancement in the Asia-Pacific region|No abstract is available for this item.
J59|El Ajuste al Equilibrio a Largo Plazo de los Salarios en España|This paper provides empirical evidence about the relationship between wages and their determinants in the Spanish economy from a macroeconomic perspective, as well as about the adjustment speed back to long run equilibrium, estimating an error correction mechanism by non-linear methods. The results reveal that the unemployment rate and the bargaining variables have nox effect on the evolution of wages. The variable that explains the evolution of wages in the long term is prices, with wages showing slightly inflationary behavior. In the short term, wages are explained by their past values, reflecting a nominal inertia.
J59|'Make-or-Buy' of Peripheral Services in Manufacturing: Evidence from Spanish Plant-Level Data|In this paper we empirically explore the 'make-or-buy' decisions of peripheral services in manufacturing plants using detailed information on a data set from a new plant-level survey from 926 plants distributed in all manufacturing industries in Spain. In particular, survey respondents are asked how their contracting practices of peripheral services had changed in the last three years. The answer to this question is informative of the changes in the importance of backward integration for each of the plants interviewed. Using other information provided in the survey, we relate reported changes in backward integration to changes in other relevant plant characteristics. We show that increases in outsourcing of services are positively correlated with increases in the plant's market share as well as increases in product market competition and product prices. These findings are robust to controlling for whether plants belong to single-plant or multi-plant firms. This result is consistent with the view that market size limits the degree of specialization at the plant level in the Spanish manufacturing industry.
J59|Polarisierung von Arbeitseinkommen im internationalen Vergleich – Empirische Befunde|Eine wachsende Einkommenspolarisierung und die damit verbundene Einkommensspreizung erfahren in der öffentlichen Diskussion eine steigende Aufmerksamkeit. Eine Zunahme der Polarisierung der Einkommen ist nicht nur hinsichtlich des gesellschaftlichen Zusammen-hangs und des Empfindens von Ungerechtigkeit von enormer Bedeutung, sondern auch unter wohlfahrtstheoretischen Aspekten und der Frage nach dem strukturellen Zusammenhang von Wirtschaft und Gesellschaft von großer Relevanz. Bei einem Anstieg der Polarisierung verändert sich die Form der Verteilung derart, dass sowohl der obere als auch der untere Rand quantitativ an Masse gewinnt, während die Mitte der Verteilung zurückgeht. Damit stellt die Polarisierung eine spezielle Form der Ungleichheit dar. Erst seit den neunziger Jahren entstanden neue Maße, die den Unterschied zwischen Ungleichheit und Polarisierung berücksichtigen. Die Studien, die sich mit Einkommenspolarisierung befassen, beziehen sich auf die Verteilung von Einkommen auf der Haushaltsebene. Die Polarisierung von individuellen Arbeitseinkommen ist bislang nicht thematisiert worden. Diese Lücke schließt der Beitrag durch die Analyse der Polarisierung von Arbeitseinkommen unter Berücksichtigung von makroökonomischen Einflüssen. Dazu wird ein international vergleichbarer Datensatz für die 27 Länder der Europäischen Union verwendet (Working Conditions Survey (EWCS)), wodurch ein breites Spektrum verschiedener Einkommensverteilungen zur Verfügung steht. Neben der Form der Verteilung soll überprüft werden, ob Arbeitsmarktbedingungen wie Mindestlöhne mit dem Grad der Polarisierung in Zusammenhang gebracht werden können.
J59|Inclusion And Integration Of The Disabled Into The Labor Market Against The Background Of The New Regulations In Germany|"The aim of the article is to present new regulations introduced by the Third Book of the Social Code in Germany that concern a reform of the labor market's active instruments gathered under the name ""Instumentenreform"". One of the main objectives of the reform is to improve the quality of programs and projects that activate the unemployed, but also to make efforts to include in the labor market groups that have not been activated in such a way so far. One of such groups are the disabled trained and employed in Invalids' Cooperatives. One of the further, and at the same time new, criteria for all organizations and institutions receiving and applying for funds to realize programs of the labor market and vocational trainings is the introduction and certification of the quality management system. The aim of the paper is to compare the activity of Invalids' Cooperatives in Poland and Germany. This aim will be carried out by analyzing the regulations and as far as possible the data available (the regulations became effective in two stages: in April 2012, and since 01.01.2013 onwards). The findings of the article have been collected in the form of a description of the situation and forecast for 2013."
J59|The Impact of Single Agents on Gender Equity in Organizations – The Case of Austrian Equal Opportunity Active Works Councillors|The aim of this article is to explore the influence of single agents on gender equity in organizations. In our qualitative study, we focus on works councillors as equal opportunity agents in large profit organizations in Austria, because of their unique institutional position regarding organizational change in the direction of gender equity. This study is based on the concept of social positioning within the theory of structuration (Giddens 1992). We organize our empirical material along Stones’ (2005) conception of the ‘quadripartite nature of structuration’, including external and internal structures, activities and outcomes. In the discussion of reasons for the rather limited impact equal opportunity active works councillors have on gender equity, we emphasize the constitutive approach of co-determination and a liberal concept of equal opportunity policies. Accordingly, works councillors broadly accept gendered structures in organizations and mainly deal with obvious, unfair (formal) procedures or individual cases of discrimination as the outcomes of these structures.
J59|Sense of deservingness: What are the entitlement beliefs of students in their anticipatory psychological contract?|Without taking the entitlement beliefs and reasons therefore into account when examining the psychological contract of an individual, a full view on the psychological contract and its expected consequences cannot be achieved. Therefore the purpose of the paper was to explore and substantiate themes associated with perceived entitlements and utilise this information to develop a structural model of the anticipatory psychological contract. The findings suggests that there are certain factors that determine an individual’s entitlement beliefs, and in turn that individual’s entitlement beliefs will influence the level of expectation of that individual regarding future employment. By fully comprehending the effects of the entitlement beliefs on the anticipatory psychological contract of prospective employees the organisation may minimise the occurrence of psychological breach or violation, which may decrease new employee turnover.
J59|Metodologí­a para empalmar la ECH y los convenios colectivos|In 2005 a system of collective bargaining that defines minimum wages by industry and job categories within industries was re-implemented in Uruguay. In this document we describe in detail a methodology that combines wage data from Uruguay's Household Survey with administrative data on minimum wages by industry to get a measure of compliance with those mandatory minimums for the period 2007-2011. The main difficulty of this type of exercise is that both data sources use different classification of job categories and industries. Overcoming this difficulty implies a careful job of case by case matching. The matching exercise assigned a specific minimum wage for 73.5% of workers in 2007-2008 and around 88% for 2009-2011.
J59|Cumplimiento de los acuerdos alcanzados en los Consejos de Salarios en Uruguay entre 2007-2011|Despite the importance of collective bargaining in the economic sphere, there is little empirical evidence on the evaluation of it as an effective instrument for fixation of minimum wages. Furthermore, existing studies on deviations between wages actually paid and agreed, focus on analyzing the extent to which wages actually paid are adjusted or exceed those agreed, but not to the extent that they are breached. Precisely, this paper focuses on the potential detours down the wages actually paid. Considering the lower awards by category, we find that the level of noncompliance shows a downward trend, although small in magnitude, for the period 2007-2011: went from 16.6% in 2007 to 14% in 2011.
J59|Reciprocal preferences and the unraveling of gift-exchange|We elicit reciprocal preferences in a firm-worker gift-exchange setting and relate them to actual behavior in a repeated gift-exchange game. We find that only a small minority of 10 percent of workers is materially selfish whereas 90 percent exhibit reciprocal preferences. However, the intensity of reciprocal preferences is weak in the sense that firms maximize profits by not relying on gift-exchange but by offering the lowest possible wage. Workers behavior in the repeated gift-exchange game is predicted by their elicited preferences, but the correlation between preferences and behavior is imperfect. Together with profit maximizing behavior of firms these observations can explain the observed unraveling of gift-exchange over time in our experiment and some recent field experiments.
J59|Top-Level Management in Large Companies: Persistent Male-Dominated Structures Leave Little Room for Women|The aim of recruiting more women into top-level management positions in business is attracting increasing interest among the general public and policy-makers alike. Calls for a quota for women and the widely publicized appointment of four women to the executive boards of DAX 30 companies in 2011 still does not detract from the fact that women continue to play a marginal role in the most important economic decision-making processes in Germany's largest companies. Again in 2011, only three percent of executive board members in Germany's top 200 companies were women. In the same year, women held an 11.9 percent share of seats on supervisory boards, and over two-thirds of them were employees' representatives. There has been barely any change in the top 200 companies in comparison with previous years. The proportion of women in high-ranking positions in MDAX and SDAX companies is similarly low. The percentage of women in the prominent DAX 30 companies was 3.7 percent in 2011, which represents an increase of 1.5 percentage points from the previous year. In companies with government-owned shares- some of which are considerably smaller-8.2 percent of executive board members and 17.7 percent of supervisory board members are women. This goes to prove that women are also far from achieving gender equality in the boardroom. In comparison with 2010, the percentage of exclusively male supervisory boards even significantly increased: by 8.8 percentage points to 23.6 percent in 2011. The growing realization among policy-makers, business, and civil society that greater gender diversification in the boardroom is needed has yet to lead to the breakthrough hoped for in the appointment of women to executive and supervisory boards.
J59|Spitzengremien großer Unternehmen: Hartnäckigkeit männlicher Strukturen lässt kaum Platz für Frauen|Das Ziel, mehr Frauen in Spitzengremien der Wirtschaft zu berücksichtigen, findet sowohl in der Öffentlichkeit als auch in der Politik immer stärkere Beachtung. Die Forderungen nach einer Frauenquote und die öffentlichkeitswirksame Bestellung von vier Frauen in die Vorstände der DAX-30-Unternehmen im Jahr 2011 können gleichwohl nicht darüber hinwegtäuschen: Frauen sind an den maßgeblichen wirtschaftlichen Entscheidungsprozessen in großen Unternehmen Deutschlands weiterhin kaum beteiligt. Im Vorstand der Top-200-Unternehmen waren Frauen auch 2011 wieder mit nur drei Prozent vertreten. In den Aufsichtsräten lag ihr Anteil 2011 bei 11,9 Prozent, darunter waren mehr als zwei Drittel Vertreterinnen der Arbeitnehmerschaft. Im Vergleich zu den Vorjahren hat sich in den Top-200-Unternehmen kaum etwas verändert. In den MDAXund SDAX-Unternehmen ist der Frauenanteil ebenfalls sehr niedrig. In den im Fokus der Öffentlichkeit stehenden DAX-30-Unternehmen nahm der Frauenanteil 2011 gegenüber dem Vorjahr um 1,5 Punkte auf 3,7 Prozent zu. In den - zum Teil deutlich kleineren - Beteiligungsunternehmen des Bundes sind Frauen in den Vorständen mit 8,2 Prozent und im Aufsichtsrat mit 17,7 Prozent ebenfalls noch weit von einer geschlechterparitätischen Führung entfernt. Im Vergleich zum Vorjahr ist hier sogar der Anteil der rein männlich besetzten Aufsichtsräte deutlich gestiegen: um 8,8 Prozentpunkte auf 23,6 Prozent. Die wachsende Einsicht von Politik, Wirtschaft und Zivilgesellschaft in die Notwendigkeit einer größeren geschlechtlichen Diversifizierung von Führungsgremien hat bislang noch nicht zum erhofften Durchbruch bei den Besetzungen von Vorständen und Aufsichtsräten geführt.
J59|Kultur in der europaeischen betrieblichen Mitbestimmung: eine oder viele?|Auf unseren Beitrag Solidaritaet in der europaeischen betrieblichen Mitbestimmung als theoretische Herausforderung – ein kultursoziologischer Loesungsvorschlag in Heft 4 der Industriellen Beziehungen 2011 haben Stefanie Huertgen, Hermann Kotthoff und Guglielmo Meardi mit vielfaeltigen, anregenden und produktiven Kritiken reagiert. Dafuer sind wir ihnen ebenso dankbar wie den Herausgeberinnen und Herausgebern der Industriellen Beziehungen, die uns die Gelegenheit zu einer Replik eingeraeumt haben. Im Folgenden gehen wir auf die drei Kritikpunkte an unserem Beitrag ein, die den Kern unserer These und ihre Begruendung betreffen: Erstens argumentieren Huertgen und Kotthoff, wir analysierten die Deutungsmuster und Handlungspraktiken der Arbeitnehmervertreter vor allem als nationale. Dies sei einem Gegenstand unangemessen, der in Wirklichkeit durch eine viel komplexere, regionale, nationale und europaeische Verwobenheit der Akteure gekennzeichnet sei. Huertgen wendet zweitens ein, dass die nationalen Selbstdeutungen der Akteure in Wirklichkeit mehr oder minder ausgepraegte Verschleierungen eines Standortegoismus seien, der durch europaweite Prozesse der Verbetrieblichung der Interessenpolitik (Co-Management, Eurokorporatismus o. AE.) erzwungen worden sei. Das Handeln der Akteure sei daher als Teil einer europaweiten Veraenderung der betrieblichen Arbeitnehmervertretung zu interpretieren. In der Kritik steht drittens unser methodologisches Vorgehen. Die methodologische Differenz zwischen Huertgens und unserer Position besteht in der unterschiedlichen Beantwortung der Frage, wann Aussagen als soziale Konstruktionen betrachtet werden (sollten) und was daraus folgt. Abschliessend greifen wir den Vorschlag von Meardi und Kotthoff auf, Forschungsfelder zu bestimmen und zu praezisieren, die sich aus unserer Argumentation ergeben. Wir plaedieren dafuer, weniger ueber (institutionelle) Modelle und mehr ueber Praktiken der Arbeitnehmervertretung in Europa zu forschen.
J59|La negociación salarial en Uruguay: un modelo para analizar sus efectos|The main objective of this work was matching categories that emerge from collective bargaining with the industries surveyed by the Encuesta Continua de Hogares (ECH). This tool is useful to assess, among others, the effects of wage changes on average wages and wage differentials and the effective compliance with the agreements reached. Having made a match of nearly 60% of private employees, it is found that the percentage of workers with wages below the minimum agreed would be between 12.1% and 17.4% in 2006. As expected, the characteristics of workers with wages below the minimum are the following: the grade of compliance is higer outside the capital, among younger, decreases with the educational level and with the size of the company, not showing a close link to sex but the situation would be worse for women. Also, the average gap failure of 27% would indicate that the problem is of considerable magnitude. Finally, from a simulation exercise, it emerges that carrying out policies to promote greater compliance with the minimum agreed (both policies that promote greater formalization and greater control in formal enterprises), would achieve an increase in average income, particularly in the lower tail of the distribution, reducing wage dispersion.
J59|The Impact of Union Corruption on Union Membership|This paper examines the relationship between union corruption actions and union membership. State-level data from the Office of Labor-Management Standards, and other sources, are utilized over two study periods (1974-2000 and 2001- 2008) to test three hypotheses, including the union corruption hypothesis, as pos­sible explanations for the decline in union membership in the United States over time. Although our initial findings suggest a negative relationship exists between union corruption and membership, after removing the possibility of simultaneous equations bias, we find that changes in corruption do not influence changes in union membership in our sample.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J59|Hat eine freiwillige Mitgliedschaft in Berufsverbänden einen Effekt auf das Einkommen von Freiberuflern? – Eine Panelanalyse für Deutschland|Welchen kausalen Effekt erfahren Freiberufler durch eine freiwillige Berufsverbandsmitgliedschaft auf ihr Erwerbseinkommen? Diese Frage soll durch die Schätzung von Fixed-Effects-Modellen für Männer und Frauen im Rahmen einer mikroökonometrischen Evaluation mit Daten des Sozio-oekonomischen Panels (SOEP) von 1985 bis 2009 beantwortet werden. Es werden positive kausale Effekte einer freiwilligen Mitgliedschaft auf das Einkommen von Freiberuflern sichtbar: für Männer betragen sie kurzfristig 1,84 %, mittelfristig 2,72 % und langfristig 4,12 %, für Frauen betragen die Effekte mittelfristig 5,18 %. Das soziale Kapital, das durch die Mitgliedschaft in Berufsverbänden gebildet wird, bewirkt also eine Einkommenssteigerung.
J59|Solidaritaet in der europaeischen betrieblichen Mitbestimmung als theoretische Herausforderung – ein kultursoziologischer Loesungsvorschlag (Solidarity in Company-level Codetermination in European Multinationals as a Theoretical Challenge: A Cultural-sociological Approach)|Transnationale Unternehmenspolitiken und neue, insbesondere europaeische Gremien der betrieblichen Arbeitnehmervertretung erfordern, dass sich Arbeitnehmervertreter aus unterschiedlichen Systemen Industrieller Beziehungen miteinander verstaendigen. Um dies vor dem Hintergrund unterschiedlicher kultureller Grundlagen der Interessenvertretung adaequat untersuchen zu koennen, muss die Forschung zur Organisation von Arbeitnehmerinteressen kultursoziologisch erweitert werden. Exemplarisch fuehren wir eine solche konzeptionelle Erweiterung am Themenfeld Solidaritaet durch. Begriff und Praxis der Solidaritaet rekurrieren auf die aehnlichkeit der Lage von Arbeitnehmern wie ihre Konkurrenz untereinander und die daraus erwachsende Notwendigkeit einer wechselseitigen Unterstuetzung im Kampf um bessere Arbeits- und Lebensbindungen. Wir entfalten anhand empirischer Daten die These, dass Aufrufe zur Solidaritaet nicht nur an der chronischen Diskrepanz zwischen Reden und Handeln und den dieser Diskrepanz zugrunde liegenden Interessenunterschieden scheitern, sondern auch daran, dass unterschiedliche Solidaritaetskonzepte, Handlungsbedingungen und -grenzen in der europaeischen Verstaendigung unzureichend aufeinander bezogen werden. (Both threats posed by transnational management strategies and the newly existing European level of workplace interest representation call for employee representatives to cooperate across cultures and national institutional systems. Intercultural communication and action in industrial relations raises new obstacles for actors but also new questions for research on this topic. In this paper we argue that research should broaden its focus towards cultural aspects within industrial relations. Therefore, a cultural sociological approach is applied in order to investigate communication and action regarding transnational solidarity in European workplace representation. The concept of solidarity focuses on the similarity of the social situation as well as on the competition among workers and underlines the need for mutual support in the struggle for better working and living conditions of working and live. Our main thesis is that failures of calls for solidarity do not only stem not only from existing differences of interest and power asymmetries but also from different meanings applied to solidarity. Both the meaning of solidarity and strategies in order to achieve solidarity are connected to with specific cultural “realms of experience” provided by different systems of industrial relations across Europe. The thesis will be developed from empirical data from Western Germany and Central Eastern Europe.)
J59|Innovation and Cultural Divide in Electric Power Generation Industry|Today the energy sector is involved into the process of active search of innovative solutions. The emphasis there is on achieving a breakthrough in two basic areas — energy efficiency and use of renewable energy sources. Large corporations demonstrate high innovation performance focusing not only on the development of new technologies, but of particular importance — on restructuring of the organizational and governance mechanisms. Herein lies a profound contradiction, constraining the transformation of the industry. It refers to among the majority of employees belonging to middle and lower echelons a preconceived attitude towards innovation. It becomes apparent that the modernization of the Russian energy sector and the transition to an innovation-oriented path of development are possible only subject to the introduction of effective mechanisms of industry governance. Note: Downloadable document is in Russian.
J59|La reforma de la contratación en el mercado de trabajo: entre la flexibilidad y la seguridad|El actual debate sobre la reforma laboral pendiente en España se centra demasiado en el abaratamiento del despido o las modalidades de contratación como únicas formas de flexibilizar el mercado de trabajo. Este tipo de propuestas, además, choca con la percepción de una fuerte pérdida de seguridad de los trabajadores. En este trabajo nos planteamos cómo conciliar una mayor flexibilidad del mercado laboral sin una pérdida de la seguridad de los trabajadores. Para hacerlo revisamos qué sugiere la teoría, con qué evidencia empírica contamos y cuáles son las experiencias internacionales de las que podemos aprender para así poder hacer planteamientos serios de reformas laborales basados en evidencias y no en ocurrencias. Finalmente proponemos una línea de trabajo de la reforma del mercado de trabajo que no renuncia ni a la mejora de la flexibilidad ni a asegurar el empleo de los trabajadores.
J59|Considerations Concernant L’Assurance De La Representativite Du Citoyen Europeen Dans La Situation Economique Actuelle|The participation of the social partners to the European governance, lately possessing a great „potential” in democratic terms,should stimulate definitively. The current experience demonstrates that the possibility to point out the benefits, but also the limits of such implication. Nevertheless it’s true; the rules for such potential it should express (especially in the legislative procedure) must be consistent with the base principles of the democracy and the legitimacy for achieving the goal to represent a lot of voices.
J59|Career Management in the Psychiatric Hospital Socola Iasi|Career can also be studied as a mix between the individual and organizational elements. The job perception and the attitude of the individual depend on the compatibility between what is desirable (skills, needs, preferences) and what the job offers (motivation, constraints, opportunities, in short, rights and obligations). Career orientation is a relatively stable pattern of talents, values, attitudes and occupational activities. Career has been analyzed as a dynamic process with double dimension: - External: the objective sequence of positions that the individual crosses during his active life - Internal: the interpretation that the individual gives the individual experiences of its objectives in terms of subjectivity.
J59|Manager Race and the Race of New Hires| Using personnel data from a large U.S. retail firm, we examine whether the race or ethnicity of the hiring manager affects the racial composition of new hires. We exploit manager turnover to estimate models with store fixed effects and store-specific trends. First, we find that all nonblack managers-that is, whites, Hispanics, and Asians-hire more whites and fewer blacks than do black managers. This is especially true in the South. Second, in locations with large Hispanic populations, Hispanic managers hire more Hispanics and fewer whites than do white managers. We also examine possible explanations for these differential hiring patterns. (c) 2009 by The University of Chicago. All rights reserved.
J59|Creating the ‘Neo-Lisbon’ Economy|The chapter advocates Lisbon-oriented policies such as an increasing educational attainment and participation in education and training, higher investment in human capital and mobility. However, these supply-side orientated policies must be complemented with measures relating to organisational effectiveness which strongly influence the dynamism of the economy and the quality of working life through their impact on productivity. This is a source of major concern since the knowledge-based economy is fundamentally about the behaviour of organizations rather than individuals. The rational and efficient solution to problem of low productivity is to make work-base learning workable, which requires an organizational design and setting of workplaces consistent with the creation and diffusion of tacit and informal knowledge.
J59|Workplace Flexibility and Institutions in Europe. A Tale of Two Countries|This paper studies the determinants of the joint adoption of employment, wage and working time flexibility in workplaces, paying attention to the existence of complementarities. To better understand the role of country-specific institutional features, we compare the adoption of flexibility in Italy and Great Britain, two EU countries characterized by quite different product and labour market regulation. Empirical analysis based on establishment-level data shows that the probability of adopting any forms of flexibility is highly influenced by both firm characteristics and institutional variables, mainly by employment protection, union power and firm-level bargaining. Country-specific patterns also emerge: in Italy employment and wage flexibility are complement and they are both substitute for time flexibility; in Great Britain the flexibility mix is less clear cut. These results suggest that both policy makers and social partners should be aware that incentives or restrictions to specific forms of flexibility are likely to produce effects also on the use of other flexible work arrangements.
J59|Reforms, Macroeconomic Policy and Economic Performance in Germany|The conventional diagnosis of Germany’s poor economic performance focuses on supply-side weaknesses and the need for more vigorous reforms to make low-skill labour markets more flexible. We question this on both theoretical and empirical grounds. In an extended version of a New Keynesian model shifts in aggregate demand can move the economy along a range of constant-inflation medium-run unemployment equilibria. The evolution of the real exchange rate and the external balance help to identify whether aggregate supply or aggregate demand shifts have been dominant in accounting for changes in unemployment. We provide some prima facie evidence for Germany and the UK that aggregate demand factors have played an important role in sustaining growth in the UK and weakening it in Germany over the medium run. We show that Germany has a relatively strong record in implementing OECD recommended reforms but the expected employment effects in low-skill service sectors appear disappointing and poverty has increased. By contrast, it is in high productivity sectors including services that the German economy has performed well, especially in exports. Here labour markets are not flexible in the conventional sense: codetermination, vocational training, and coordinated wage bargaining are important. We pursue the implications of these claims for the design and political economy of reforms in Germany.
J59|Turkiye’nin Avrupa Birligine Giris Surecinin CRD Yontemi ile Degerlendirilmesi|Turkiye'nin AB’ne uyelik surecinde Turkiye'nin olasi stratejilerinin yani sira AB'nin olasi stratejileri de yer almaktadir. AB toplulugunda Turkiye'nin topluluga uye olmasini isteyen taraflar ile uye olmasini istemeyen taraflar arasinda catisma yasanmaktadir. Bu iki zit fikrin bir arada bulunabilmesi icin her iki tarafi da memnun edecek bir uzlasi ortaminin saglanmasi gereklidir. Bu calismada Turkiye'nin AB'ye giris surecinin CRD yontemi kullanilarak yorumlanmasi amaclanmistir. Burada ilk olarak, catisan fikirlerin olusturdugu gereksinimler belirlenerek bu gereksinimlerin olusturdugu ortak amac belirlenmistir. CRD'da her ok icin varsayimlar gelistirilerek zayif ya da gecersiz olan varsayimlari kirmak icin fikirler (eklemeler) yaratilmistir. Sonuc olarak en iyi ekleme secilerek bu catisma cozume ulastirilmistir. Bunun yaninda uye ulkelerin Turkiye’nin uyelik surecini degerlendirmesini olanakli kilacak ortak bir CRD diyagrami olusturulmustur.
J59|Improving Employment Prospects in the Slovak Republic: Building on Past Reforms|While employment growth has accelerated, allowing unemployment to fall significantly since 2005, many low-skilled workers are still unemployed and the duration of unemployment spells is still long. The introduction of an in-work benefit for workers in low-income households, subject to a minimum of hours worked, could lower barriers to higher employment which result from a relatively high tax wedge on lowskill workers, as would the elimination of poverty traps in the pension system. Measures to improve mobility of workers across regions, notably housing policy reform, would lower long unemployment durations, as would the provision of more training to the unemployed. Impediments to higher labour market participation of young women and older workers need to be removed. Améliorer les perspectives d'emploi en République Slovaque : faire fond sur les réformes passées Si la croissance de l’emploi s’est accélérée, permettant un recul notable du chômage depuis 2005, néanmoins il y a encore beaucoup de travailleurs peu qualifiés au chômage et la durée des épisodes de chômage reste longue. L’introduction d’une prestation liée à l’exercice d’une activité pour les travailleurs appartenant à des ménages à faible revenu, sous réserve d’un volume minimum d’heures travaillées, pourrait abaisser les obstacles à l’augmentation de l’emploi qui résultent du fait que le coin fiscal qui pèse sur les revenus des travailleurs peu qualifiés est relativement élevé, et l’élimination des trappes à pauvreté que crée le système de pension devrait avoir le même effet. Des mesures visant à accroître la mobilité des travailleurs entre régions, notamment avec une réforme de la politique du logement, permettraient de réduire les durées de chômage, de même qu’une offre accrue de formation à l’intention des chômeurs. Les éléments qui font obstacle à une plus forte participation des femmes jeunes et des travailleurs seniors à l’activité devraient être supprimés.
J59|Do Race, Age, and Gender Differences Affect Manager-Employee Relations? An Analysis of Quits, Dismissals, and Promotions at a Large Retail Firm|Using data from a large U.S. retail firm, we examine how differences in race, age, and gender between a manager and a subordinate affect the subordinate’s rate of quits, dismissals, and promotions. We find that these demographic differences can have statistically significant and sometimes large effects on employment outcomes. This is especially true of differences in race and ethnicity, which consistently produce significant effects and which produce the largest effects. In general, demographic differences tend to produce adverse effects on employment outcomes (i.e., higher quit and dismissal rates, and lower promotion rates). But in three striking cases, where traditionally lower-status managers are supervising traditionally higher-status employees, differences produce favorable effects for employees.
J59|Democracia y cultura organizacional en las cooperativas. El caso del cooperativismo de trabajo asociado andaluz|In this paper we have attempted to identify the characteristics of the democratic system in a sample of 36 Andalusian associated labour cooperatives, approaching the matter from a psychosocial point of view. Our research has clearly shown that the workers and the least educated members are the least involved in the governance of their organisations. Involvement in the governance of the cooperative is also closely related to the development of an appropriate organisational culture. The results of this study have enabled us to empirically deconstruct the concept of cooperative democracy, which could help to improve human resource management within this type of organisations.
J59|An Analysis of Quits, Dismissals, and Promotions at a Large Retail Firm|Using data from a large U.S. retail firm, we examine how differences in race, age, and gender between a manager and a subordinate affect the subordinate’s rate of quits, dismissals, and promotions. These differences can have statistically significant and sometimes large effects— especially differences in race and ethnicity. In most cases, these differences produce adverse effects—i.e., higher quit and dismissal rates, and lower promotion rates. But in three cases, where traditionally lower-status managers supervise higher-status employees, differences produce favorable effects. With respect to race, this means having a different-race manager hurts black and Hispanic employees, but helps white employees.
J59|Tax cuts and employment: Evidence from Finnish linked employer-employee data|We analyse taxes and employment in a system of firm-level labour demand and industry-level regional labour supply, using linked employer-employee data from Finland in 1990- 2003. We show that virtually all of the wage tax burden is borne by employers since wages fully adjust. Labour demand also responds with short lags within a year or two to cuts in taxes and labour costs. A unit decrease in wage tax rate (2.2% lower taxes) leads to an average long-run employment improvement of 0.8%, while an equivalent cut in social security payments has effects that are nearly twice as low. Tax cuts thus explain a substantial part of the recent improvement in employment since the deep recession of the early 1990s (besides the release of firms liquidity constraints). Nearly half of the tax revenue loss due to wage tax cuts is paid back in the form of higher employment and lower unemployment costs. Tax cuts with emphasis on low-wage, low-productivity firms may appear undesirable, as tax cuts cure employment of low- skilled workers especially in skill-intensive firms.
J59|Una estimación macroeconómica de los determinantes salariales en España (1980-2000)|Este trabajo aporta nueva evidencia empírica sobre la relación a corto y largo plazo entre los salarios y sus determinantes para la economía española durante el periodo 1980-2000, así como sobre la velocidad de ajuste al equilibrio de largo plazo, mediante un modelo de corrección del error. Se pretende analizar en qué medida la evolución de los salarios se ve influida por la tasa de desempleo y los precios, junto a variables de negociación como la productividad, los impuestos directos que gravan las rentas salariales y las cotizaciones sociales. Según el contraste realizado, la variable que explica la evolución salarial a largo plazo son los precios, mostrando los salarios un comportamiento ligeramente inflacionista. Por lo que respecta a la relación de corto plazo, los salarios vienen explicados por sus valores retardados, poniendo de manifiesto la presencia de una importante inercia nominal. Además, existe un efecto nulo del desempleo y de las variables de negociación.
J59|The Determinants Of Lateness: Evidence From British Workers|Using a sample of male and female workers from the 1992 Employment in Britain survey, we estimate a generalised grouped zero‐inflated Poisson regression model of employees' self‐reported lateness. Lateness is higher for males, private sector workers and in service industries. Reflecting theoretical predictions from both psychology and economics, we model lateness as a function of incentives, the monitoring of, and sanctions for, lateness within the workplace, job satisfaction and attitudes to work. Various aspects of workplace incentive and disciplinary policies turn out to affect lateness; however, controlling for these, an important role for job satisfaction remains.
J59|La regulación del trabajo por cuenta propia o autónomo: el estado de la cuestión|This study provides a general overview of the development of self-employment based on the analysis of the shift from paid to self-employment and looks at the factors leading to its growth from a socio-economic viewpoint. The study will then assess the various means of providing freelance work, placing special emphasis on so-called subcontracted self-employed workers, who are gradually assuming an increasingly prominent role. Finally, and from the perspective of the social protection of this type of worker, the study will look at accidents at work and occupational illnesses in self-employment as well as the new regulations concerning coverage for temporary disability.
J59|Las empresas sociales: ¿nuevas formas de Economía Social en la creación de servicios y empleos?|Since the 1990s we have witnessed how the notion of “social enterprises” has emerged in most European countries under the combined pressure of a growth in the need for people and in the need for jobs. These new enterprises generally take the form of associations or cooperatives, which are encouraged by Spanish and European public policies as they are considered to be “new sources of employment” and sources of “social cohesion”. In the changes undergone by Western societies, the rising number of these “social” enterprises resulting from the development of the economic activity brought about by voluntary organizations in order to provide services to the community, shows that the old distinction between market activities, carried out by cooperatives, and non-market activities, carried out by mutual societies and associations, is becoming increasingly irrelevant.
J59|L’interaction vie professionnelle/vie familiale dans le modèle à double carrière (The professional life / private life interaction in the double carreer model)|L’étude contemporaine des rapports sociaux entre hommes et femmes est centrée sur les différentes approches envisageables de la gestion vie professionnelle/vie privée. D’ailleurs, ils ne vivent pas les différentes étapes de leur cheminement professionnel et privé selon le même calendrier. Les trajectoires féminines sont tendanciellement davantage morcelées, moins linéaires que celles de leurs homologues masculins. La problématique pour la femme active est la conciliation idéalement introuvable de sa vie professionnelle et de sa vie privée. Ainsi s’esquissent trois profils féminins aux stratégies différenciées : celles qui revendiquent le cumul carrière et famille comme l’idéal de l’époque actuelle, celles qui construisent ou subissent une vie professionnelle sans famille et, catégorie majoritaire, les femmes qui, entre temps partiel et alternance famille/métier, composent avec les contraintes de leur double charge. Face à la nécessité de réaménager les temps sociaux collectifs, à titre d’exemple, il est fait référence à diverses expériences, notamment en Italie, lesquelles ambitionnent la conciliation acceptable des horaires des services publics et privés avec les besoins de la femme active. The contemparary study of social relations between men and women is focused on the available different approaches for the management of professional life/ private life. Women’s trajectories seem to be much less linear than men’s ones. The problem for active women is the impossible perfect conciliation between professional life and private life. Three womens profiles are highlighted, each having a different strategy : those who claim the simultaneous leading of a professional life and a private life as an ideal for the present time ; those who build, or are subjected to, a professional life without a family ; and, largest category, the women who, thanks to part-time jobs and family/profession alternance, compose with their double charge constraints. According to the necessary reorganisation of collective social times, diverse experiences are presented, especially in italy, wich try to conciliate between the opening hours of public and private services and the active women needs.
J59|High Performance Work Systems, Industrial Relations and Pay Policies in Europe|The present study uses data for workplaces in all sectors of ten European countries to investigate whether firms that have introduced new forms of work organisation are more likely to use variable pay schemes. Also the role played by institutional forces and employees’ representatives is investigated. New regimes of work organisation are characterised by both new work practices – such as teams, job rotation, multitasking and flat hierarchies – and higher levels of direct participation by employees. We find that, in general, schemes of variable pay are more likely to be introduced where new work practices are in place. The presence of employees’ representatives increases the probability of variable pay, but only when they co-operate with the management in decision-making.
J59|Explaining the Desire for Local Bargaining: Evidence from a Finnish Survey of Employers and Employees|No abstract is available for this item.
J59|Une typologie de la formalisation de l'éthique en entreprise: l'analyse de contenu de 50 documents|The study of corporate ethics reported in this article sheds light on the content and status of 50 formal ethical statements in large France based companies. Content analysis (with SPAD.T software) reveals potentially divergent view among companies as to the primary nature and purpose of a corporate ethics document. On the one hand, codes contain detailed rules and guidelines devoted to employee conduct. Their objective is to make sure that employees strictly abide by the firm's rules. These documents allow to convey standards setting apart which is good or bad. On the other hand, values statements and corporate principles are shorter documents based on the idea of common trust and including an outline of the company's social responsibilities to a wide range of stakeholders.
J59|L'instrumentalisation des valeurs:une ressource stratégique pour l'entreprise?La démarche du groupe Fournier|"Cet article s'intéresse au phénomène d'instrumentalisation des valeurs fondamentales de l'entreprise comme force d'homogénéisation. Ce besoin semble répondre à la nécessité de construire une identité sociale. La démarche du groupe Fournier est explicitée dans le cadre d'une approche ""Ressources"". L'analyse des conditions de réussite de cette démarche met en évidence la nécessité pour l'entreprise de parvenir à maintenir une cohérence d'ensemble de sa politique générale et de réduire l'inévitable tension entre l'idéal et le réel."
J59|Earnings Instability and Earnings Inequality of Males in the United States: 1967-1991| Although much research has focused on recent increases in annual earnings inequality in the United States, the increases could have come from either of two sources: the distribution of lifetime earnings could have become more unequal or the receipt of lifetime earnings could have become more unstable. Based on an analysis of the 1968-92 Panel Study of Income Dynamics, we find that lifetime earnings inequality increased during the early 1980s and that earnings instability increased during the 1970s. We also examine how these trends are related to changes in the distribution of wages and hours and the returns to education. Copyright 2001 by University of Chicago Press.
J59|La formalisation de l'éthique:un outil stratégique pour l'entreprise?|La formalisation éthique prend l'aspect d'un document de référence rédigé par l'entreprise énonçant ses valeurs, principes et croyances. L'analyse des politiques éthiques des grandes entreprises montre qu'elle devient une nouvelle dimension de la politique d'entreprise complétant la stratégie. L'étude de cette instrumentalisation sera suivie par une analyse critique.
J59|Sindicalismo: o fim do contra poder?<BR>[Unionism: the end of a balanced power?]|Departing from a stable industrial relationship, supported by logic of economic massification and the correspondent legal framework, it is our objective to approach the new industrial relations environment, emerging from the modifications on the enterprise organisation models, towards the new challenges they are facing by the end of the 20th century, while unions have not been able to follow this evolution and maintain, in most of the cases, a tipical Wellfare State like behaviour. The paradigm of the enterprise as the labour conflict environment by excellence seems to be overshot and the moment has come to find new social understanding, based on a labour relationship more adequate to a changing society. In this paper, we deal with the factors we believe to be more significant for the understanding of new management concepts and of the subjacent labour relations, with particular emphasis to the new unionism opportunities.
