J70|Implementing (Un)fair Procedures? Favoritism and Process Fairness when Inequality is Inevitable|We study allocation behavior when outcome inequality is inevitable but a fair process is feasible, as in selecting one person from several candidates for a job or award. We show that allocators may be influenced by inappropriate criteria, impeding the implementation of a fair process. We study four interventions to induce process fairness without restricting the allocator’s decisions: Increasing the transparency of the allocation process; providing a private randomization device; allowing the allocator to delegate to a public randomization device; and allowing the allocator to avoid information on inappropriate criteria. All interventions except transparency have positive effects, but differ substantially in their impact.
J70|When Correspondence Studies Fail to Detect Hiring Discrimination|Based on a correspondence study conducted in France, we show that fictitious low-skilled applicants in the private sector are half as likely to be called back by the employers when they are of North African rather than French origin. By contrast, the origin of the fictitious applicants does not impact their callback rate in the public sector. We run a survey revealing that recruiters display similarly strong negative discriminatory attitudes towards North Africans in both sectors. We set out a model explaining why differences in discrimination at the stage of invitation for interviews can arise when recruiters display identical discriminatory attitudes in both sectors. The estimation of this model shows that discrimination at the invitation stage is a poor predictor of discrimination at the hiring stage. This suggests that many correspondence studies may fail to detect hiring discrimination and its extent.
J70|Do Workers Discriminate against Female Bosses?|I hire 2,700 workers for a transcription job, randomly assigning the gender of their (fictitious) manager and provision of performance feedback. While praise from a manager has no effect, criticism negatively impacts workers' job satisfaction and perception of the task's importance. When female managers, rather than male, deliver this feedback, the negative effects double in magnitude. Having a critical female manager does not affect effort provision but it does lower workers' interest in working for the firm in the future. These findings hold for both female and male workers. I show that results are consistent with gendered expectations of feedback among workers. By contrast, I find no evidence for the role of either attention discrimination or implicit gender bias.
J70|School Segregation and Racial Gaps in Special Education Identification|We use linked birth and education records from Florida to investigate how the identification of childhood disabilities varies by race and school racial composition. Using a series of decompositions, we find that black and Hispanic students are identified with disabilities at lower rates than are observationally similar white students. Black students are over-identified in schools with relatively small shares of minorities and substantially under-identified in schools with large minority shares. We find similar gradients among Hispanic students but opposite patterns among white students. We provide suggestive evidence that these findings are unlikely to stem from differential resource allocations, economic characteristics of students, or achievement differences. Instead, we argue that the results are consistent with a heightened awareness among school officials of disabilities in students who are racially and ethnically distinct from the majority race in the school.
J70|A Political Economy of Social Discrimination|From burqa ban to minaret ban, from right to detain suspected illegal immigrants to restricting the help to migrants, the number of social laws specifically targeting a tiny proportion of citizens has raised in recent years across Western democracies. These symbolic policies, we show, are far from being innocuous: they can have far reaching consequences for large parts of the population. By raising the salience of certain social traits (e.g., Muslim identity) these laws can create a labour market loaded in favor of the majority (e.g., the non-Muslims), yielding higher unemployment rates and spells for minority citizens. These deleterious effects arise even absent any form of bias against, or uncertainty about, minority workers. Instead they are fully driven by social expectations about behavior and are best understood as a form of social discrimination. Importantly, we establish conditions under which a plurality of the citizenry demands the implementation of symbolic policies anticipating their labor market consequences. We further highlight that the implementation of symbolic policies is always associated with less redistribution and can be coupled with lower tax rates. We discuss several policy recommendations to limit the possibility of social discrimination arising.
J70|Who works for whom and the UK gender pay gap?|This study reports novel facts about the UK gender pay gap. We use a large, longitudinal, representative and employer employee linked dataset for the years 2002-16. Men’s average log hourly wage was 22 points higher than women’s in this period. We ask how much of this gap is accounted for by the differences in whom men and women worked for; how much is explained by the relative wage premiums that firms paid their employees, after adjusting for the influence of other factors, such as occupations and tenure? The answer is less than 1 percentage point, or about one eighteenth of the adjusted hourly gender pay gap. We also find that the allocation of men and women to occupations was as unimportant as how workers were allocated to firms. These results show that in the United Kingdom what happens within firms and occupations is far more important than what jobs men and women have. Therefore, attention should focus on why men and women within UK firms tend to receive different rates of pay.
J70|Implementing (Un)fair Procedures? Favoritism and Process Fairness when Inequality is Inevitable|We study allocation behavior when outcome inequality is inevitable but a fair process is feasible, as in selecting one person from several candidates for a job or award. We show that allocators may be influenced by inappropriate criteria, impeding the implementation of a fair process. We study four interventions to induce process fairness without restricting the allocator’s decisions: Increasing the transparency of the allocation process; providing a private randomization device; allowing the allocator to delegate to a public randomization device; and allowing the allocator to avoid information on inappropriate criteria. All interventions except transparency have positive effects, but differ substantially in their impact.
J70|Community cohesion and assimilation equilibria|We study the assimilation behavior of a group of migrants who live in a city populated by native inhabitants. We conceptualize the group as a community, and the city as a social space. Assimilation increases the productivity of migrants and, consequently, their earnings. However, assimilation also brings the migrants closer in social space to the richer native inhabitants. This proximity subjects the migrants to relative deprivation. We consider a community of migrants whose members are at an equilibrium level of assimilation that was chosen as a result of the maximization of a utility function that has as its arguments income, the cost of assimilation effort, and a measure of relative deprivation. We ask how vulnerable this assimilation equilibrium is to the appearance of a “mutant” – a member of the community who is exogenously endowed with a superior capacity to assimilate. If the mutant were to act on his enhanced ability, his earnings would be higher than those of his fellow migrants, which will expose them to greater relative deprivation. We find that the stability of the pre-mutation assimilation equilibrium depends on the cohesion of the migrants' community, expressed as an ability to effectively sanction and discourage the mutant from deviating. The equilibrium level of assimilation of a tightly knit community is stable in the sense of not being vulnerable to the appearance of a member becoming better able to assimilate. However, if the community is loose-knit, the appearance of a mutant will destabilize the pre-mutation assimilation equilibrium, and will result in a higher equilibrium level of assimilation.
J70|School-age bullying, workplace bullying and job satisfaction: Experiences of LGB people in Britain|Using a data set that contains information on retrospective school-age bullying, as well as on workplace bullying in the respondents’ present job, the outcomes of this study suggest that bullying, when it is experienced by sexual orientation minorities tends to persist over time. According to the estimations, it seems that school-age bullying of LGB people is associated with victims’ lower educational level and occupational sorting into non-white-collar jobs, especially for gay/bisexual men. In addition, the outputs suggest that for both gay/bisexual men and lesbian/bisexual women, school-age bullying is positively associated with workplace bullying and negatively associated with job satisfaction. Additional results suggest a negative association between workplace bullying and job satisfaction. However, the outcomes show a positive association between the existence of an LGBT group in the workplace and job satisfaction.
J70|Gender Quotas or Girls' Networks? Evidence from an Italian Research Selection|This article investigates the role of the gender composition of selection committees and the role of connections in promoting women in research activities. Exploiting a newly collected data set on recruitment processes to entry-level research positions in a leading Italian research centre operating mainly in the hard sciences, the study finds that bias against women manifests itself at non-tenured entry level and is attenuated by the presence of a woman on the selection committee. However, the most important predictor for recruitment in the study is previous connections with the research centre, a mechanism which, due the lower density of network links with the institute among female candidates, operates as a selection device discriminating against women. The results suggest that gender of the committee members, network structure and type of recruitment must all be taken into account in approaching recruitment policy and that very early stages of scientific careers are crucial for addressing gender bias in research.
J70|Job Market Signaling through Occupational Licensing|A large literature demonstrates that occupational licensing is a labor market friction that distorts labor supply allocation and prices. We show that an occupational license serves as a job market signal, similar to education. In the presence of occupational licensing, we find evidence that firms rely less on observable characteristics such as race and gender in determining employee wages. As a result, licensed minorities and women experience smaller wage gaps than their unlicensed peers.
J70|Discrimination at the Intersection of Age, Race, and Gender: Evidence from a Lab-in-the-field Experiment|We use a laboratory experiment with randomized resumes and eyetracking to explore the effects of race on employment discrimination over the lifecycle. We show race discrimination against prime-age black job applicants that diminishes into middle age before re-emerging for older applicants. Screeners mechanically process black and white resumes similarly, but spend less time on younger black resumes, suggesting they use negative heuristics or taste-based discrimination. Screeners demonstrate levels-based statistical discrimination, believing that younger black applicants have worse computer skills and more gaps in their job histories. We find no evidence that screeners believe black applicants have worse previous experience. Screeners demonstrate variance-based statistical discrimination against black applicants of all ages, suggesting that screeners perceive the stronger history signals for white applicants, with this type of discrimination disproportionately affecting older applicants. We find suggestive evidence that the signal sent by high school attended is weaker for younger black applicants compared to younger white applicants, and we find no evidence that the signal strength of the applicant’s address varies by race. Evidence from the CPS and an additional study supports the external validity of our experiment, particularly for female job applicants. Results are robust to different controls and specification choices.
J70|Who works for whom and the UK gender pay gap?|This study reports novel facts about the UK gender pay gap. We use a large, longitudinal, representative and employer-employee linked dataset for the years 2002-16. Men’s average log hourly wage was 22 points higher than women’s in this period. We ask how much of this gap is accounted for by the differences in whom men and women worked for; how much is explained by the relative wage premiums that firms paid their employees, after adjusting for the influence of other factors, such as occupations and tenure? The answer is less than 1 percentage point, or about one eighteenth of the adjusted hourly gender pay gap. We also find that the allocation of men and women to occupations was as unimportant as how workers were allocated to firms. These results show that in the United Kingdom what happens within firms and occupations is far more important than what jobs men and women have. Therefore, attention should focus on why men and women within UK firms tend to receive different rates of pay.
J70|Gender differences in Okun's law across the Italian regions|This article provides the estimation of a basic version of the Okun law in the Italian regions, distinguishing between male and female unemployment rate. It shows that relevant differences exist across the regions, concerning not only the size of the Okun coefficients, but also the different sensitivity of male and female unemployment rate to GDP growth. While in Northern regions, the change of female unemployment is more sensitive to the variation of GDP as compared to the male unemployment, the opposite occurs in the Southern regions (characterized by lower GDP and higher unemployment rates), where the Okun coefficient is insignificant for women in several cases.
J70|Have your cake and eat it too: real effort and risk aversion in schoolchildren|There is a large body of evidence documenting gender differences in preferences and their effects on a range of behaviours (including health and risky behaviours) and choices (including education, labour market, savings, marriage, and fertility). A key issue in order to mitigate some of the undesirable effects of these differences (the tendency for boys to engage in more risky behaviours or for girls to avoid choices that might instead benefit them) is establishing how soon such differences arise. Gender differences in competitiveness and risk aversion have been widely documented both in the lab and the field (Falk et al, 2015), and more recently adapting experiments normally performed with adults to children (Samak, 2013; Harbaugh et al., 2002). We advance this literature with a study of primary school children which consists of an innovative two-stage task game addressing both effort and risk: in the first stage a real effort task allows children to accumulate points playing a video game, and in the second they play a lottery game in which probabilities are presented visually. The two-stage task game is designed in order to avoid both the valuation and the probability problems that children normally face in such tasks. Our findings confirm the existence of gender differences in risk aversion once controlling for performance in a gender neutral task in schoolchildren, and contribute a visual way of using lotteries with children that yields results consistent with rational behaviour
J70|Male-Female wage gap and informal employment in Bangladesh: A quantile regression approach|This article undertakes an examination of Bangladesh’s latest available Quarterly Labour Force Survey 2015-2016 data to draw indepth insights as regards gender wage gap and wage discrimination in Bangladesh labour market. Mean wage decomposition shows that an average woman in Bangladesh earns 12.2 per cent lower wage than man, and about half of the wage gap can be explained by labour market discrimination against women. Quantile Counterfactual Decomposition shows that women are subjected to higher wage penalty at the lower deciles of the wage distribution with the wage gap varying between 8.3 per cent to 19.4 per cent at different deciles. We established that at lower deciles a significant part of the gender wage gap is on account of the relatively larger presence of informal employment. Conditional quantile estimates further reveals that formally employed female workers earn higher wage than their male counterparts at the first decile but suffer from wage penalty at the top deciles.
J70|Earnings outcomes in metropolitan and regional labour markets? A gender-based analysis for New South Wales and Victoria|It is generally accepted that the key characteristics of labour markets in Australian capital cities differ from those of the labour markets in the rest of Australia although labour market policy is typically conducted at the national level without taking regional differences into account. Gender issues have frequently been highlighted in the many analyses of urban Australian labour markets. Other studies have focused on the urban-regional dichotomy of the labour market. However, although studies of labour market features and outcomes in Australia have focused on issues related to location or gender, they rarely address both. This paper seeks to establish if discrimination by gender differs between regional and urban communities in the Australian context. The conceptual framework used in this research is in the tradition of human capital analysis. We first analyse, separately, determinants of hourly wage rates and weekly incomes by gender in Australian metropolitan cities and regional areas. We then utilise the Blinder-Oaxaca procedure, to decompose the mean outcome differences between men and women within a region into that part that is ?explained? by gender differences in endowments and that part which remains unexplained by such differences and which therefore provides a measure of discrimination. The data is drawn from individual level confidentialised unit record files (CURF) data of the 2006 Australian Census. Gender-based analysis is conducted for each region, Sydney, regional NSW, Melbourne and regional Victoria, with a view to discerning if the impact of the determinants vary spacially. The research confirmed that gender plays an important role in influencing labour market outcomes. The research also identified a number of factors that impact on both hourly wages and weekly earnings and assessed how these factors impacted differently for men and women across metropolitan and regional areas. The results indicate that, in general, differences exist between men and women in hourly wage rate and weekly income earned. The determinants of these differences varied between metropolitan cities and regional areas. With respect to issues of gender discrimination in employment, the use of the Blinder-Oaxaca decomposition technique confirmed the presence of discrimination against women in all regions. Wage discrimination is more pronounced in metropolitan areas whilst discrimination in weekly earnings is more important in non-metropolitan areas. The latter discrimination is likely to reflect both fewer job opportunities for women and a lower ownership of income earning assets by women.
J70|L'union fait la force? Evidence for Wage Discrimination in Firms with High Diversity|Measuring the economic impact of coworkers from different countries of origin sparked intense scrutiny in labor economics, albeit with an uncomfortable methodological limitation. Most attempts involved metrics that eliminate most of the economically relevant distances among different countries of origin. The typical examples of such metrics are diversity indicators that divide the firm's workforce into blacks and whites, foreigners and natives, non-Europeans and Europeans, etc. We propose an entirely novel approach. It is based on the conversion of the qualitative information on individuals' countries of origin into an aggregate firm-level diversity indicator, built on the United Nations Development Programme's Human Development Index (HDI), a standard harmonized measure of cross-country variations that is available for virtually all the countries in the world. By resorting to rich matched employer-employee panel data for Belgium, we use this new aggregate measure to estimate state-of-the-art firm-level wage equations, which control for a wide range of observable and time-invariant unobservable factors, including variations in labor productivity between firms and within firms over time. Our results suggest that the majority of firms do not discriminate against foreigners. Yet, we find that firms with high diversity largely discriminate against them. The wage discrimination in high-diversity firms could be alleviated through a stronger presence of collective bargaining and/or efforts to de-cluster foreigners from low-HDI countries in these firms.
J70|School-Age Bullying, Workplace Bullying and Job Satisfaction: Experiences of LGB People in Britain|Using a data set that contains information on retrospective school-age bullying, as well as on workplace bullying in the respondents' present job, the outcomes of this study suggest that bullying, when it is experienced by sexual orientation minorities tends to persist over time. According to the estimations, it seems that school-age bullying of LGB people is associated with victims' lower educational level and occupational sorting into non-white-collar jobs, especially for gay/bisexual men. In addition, the outputs suggest that for both gay/bisexual men and lesbian/bisexual women, school-age bullying is positively associated with workplace bullying and negatively associated with job satisfaction. Additional results suggest a negative association between workplace bullying and job satisfaction. However, the outcomes show a positive association between the existence of an LGBT group in the workplace and job satisfaction.
J70|A Short Note on Discrimination and Favoritism in the Labor Market|We extend Becker’s model of discrimination by allowing firms to have discriminatory and favoring preferences simultaneously. We draw the two-preference parallel for the marginal firm, illustrate the implications for wage differentials, and consider the implied long-run equilibrium. In the short-run, wage differentials depend on relative preferences. However, in the long-run, market forces drive out discriminatory but not favoring firms.
J70|Late 19th and Early 20th Century Native and Immigrant Body Mass Index Values|When traditional measures for health and economic welfare are scarce or unreliable, height and the body mass index (BMI) are now well-accepted measures that reflect net nutrition during economic development. To date, there is no study that compares 19th century BMIs of immigrants and US natives. Individuals in the New South and West had high BMIs, while those in the upper South and Northeast had lower BMIs. Immigrants from Europe had the highest BMIs, while immigrants from Asia were the lowest. African-Americans and mixed-race individuals had greater BMIs than fairer complexioned whites. After accounting for occupational selection, workers in agricultural occupations had greater BMIs. Close proximity to rural agriculture decreased the relative price of food, increased net nutrition, and was associated with higher BMIs.
J70|Board Quotas and Director-Firm Matching|We study the impact of board gender quotas on the labor market for corporate directors. We find that the annual rate of turnover of female directors falls by about a third following the introduction of a quota in France in 2011. This decline in turnover is more pronounced for new appointments induced by the quota, and for appointments made by firms that regularly hire directors who are members of the French business elite. By contrast, the quota has no effect on male director turnover. The evidence suggests that, by changing the director search technology used by firms, the French quota has improved the stability of director-firm matches.
J70|Gender differences in competitive positions: Experimental evidence on job promotion|This paper analyzes gender differences in access to competitive positions. We implement an experiment where workers can apply for a job promotion by sending a signal to their employer. We control for gender differences in anticipation of discrimination in a treatment where a computer randomly recruits. Discriminatory behavior by the employer is isolated in a treatment where workers cannot send signals. We find that gender disparity among promoted workers is highest when workers can apply for promotion and employers recruit. Strikingly, the gender composition in competitive position is balanced in the absence of a signaling institution. When signaling is possible, we observe that female workers who do not request a promotion are discriminated against.
J70|Discrimination as favoritism: The private benefits and social costs of in-group favoritism in an experimental labor market|We examine both the private benefits and spillover costs of labor market favoritism in a unique laboratory experiment design. Our data show that both employment preference and wage offers favor in-group members. Workers positively reciprocate towards in-group employers by choosing higher effort in a gift-exchange game. Thus, favoritism can be privately rational for employers. However, unemployed subjects are allowed to burn resources (at a cost to themselves), and we document significantly increased resource destruction when unemployment can be attributed to favoritism towards others. This highlights a significant spillover and often ignored cost of favoritism, and it points to one possible micro-foundation of some antisocial behavior.
J70|Measuring discrimination using principles of stochastic dominance|This note develops a new approach to measuring discrimination. A partial ordering of discrimination patterns is proposed that is consistent with the properties of second-degree stochastic dominance (SSD), which are related to changes in the distributions of either the reference (advantaged) or comparison (disadvantaged) group, while keeping the other group's distribution unchanged. Furthermore, a corresponding summary index is derived. This index provides a complete ordering to rank discrimination patterns and also satisfies the principles of SSD.
J70|The right look: Conservative politicians look better and voters reward it|Since good-looking politicians win more votes, a beauty advantage for politicians on the left or on the right is bound to have political consequences. We show that politicians on the right look more beautiful in Europe, the United States and Australia. Our explanation is that beautiful people earn more, which makes them less inclined to support redistribution. Our model of within-party competition predicts that voters use beauty as a cue for conservatism when they do not know much about candidates and that politicians on the right benefit more from beauty in low-information elections. Evidence from real and experimental elections confirms both predictions.
J70|Gender Wage Gap at the Top, Job Inflexibility and Product Market Competition|Research show that women are disadvantaged in inflexible occupations. We show that this will imply that female managers are on average more skilled than male managers. Due to the higher hurdles faced by women, only the most skilled among them will pursue a management career. This implies that female managers will, on average, be more beneficial for the firm when product market competition is intense. Using detailed matched employee-employer data, we find that (i) more intense product market competition leads to relatively higher wages for female managers and (ii) the share of female managers is higher in firms in more competitive industries.
J70|The Educated Underdog Becomes the Ultimate Superstar|We fi…nd an inverted relation between a player'’s birthday and the likelihood of receiving the Ballon d'’Or (awarded to the best football player in the world). We develop a multi-period skill formation model with selection into elite education. We show that those born late (underdogs) need to work harder to be selected for elite educational programs. However, those born too late will not make the cut-off. Those born late –– but not too late –– will thus end up with the highest skill levels as adults (educated underdogs). We use detailed data on the performance of elite Swedish football players to illustrate our model. These data provide strong support for the predictions of the model.
J70|Native-Migrant Differences in Trading Off Wages and Workplace Safety|Applying propensity score reweighting to Italian administrative data covering the period 1994-2012, we study the conditional distributions of injuries by wage of native and foreign workers and distinguish between the component that is explained by observable characteristics and the component that is instead attributable to the immigrant status. Our analyses highlight some stylized facts. Besides a substantial gap in wage and injury risk that cannot be attributed to differences in the characteristics, foreign workers face higher levels of risk by the same level of wages. The gap is significantly above the level predicted by their observable characteristics by remunerations that are close to the minimum wage level set by collective bargaining. After this threshold, injury rates decline, but less steeply for foreign workers than their observable characteristics would predict. We show that the hedonic wage model could explain the first result as a corner solution whereby workers with low wage potential are forced to accept higher levels of risk due to the lower bounds on minimum wage. The second results could simply be explained by assuming different utility functions for natives and foreigners. We also show that the hedonic wage model is compatible with the marked reduction in injury rates and in the gap that we observe in the recession years.
J70|The Relative Returns to Education, Experience, and Attractiveness for Young Workers|Understanding employer preferences for characteristics of young workers is crucial to designing effective policies to reduce youth unemployment in developing countries. We conduct a randomized resume audit study, simultaneously examining the returns to education, experience, and physical attractiveness among young workers applying for entry-level jobs in a developing country context. Employers do not value college experience without a degree. Postsecondary vocational training increases the likelihood of a callback, but only for blue-collar occupations typically offered only to male workers. Work experience is valued across most occupations; however, among service-sector jobs with in-person customer interactions, attractive applicants receive 23 percent more callbacks, swamping the returns to experience. Our results can guide policymakers in the design of labor market programs to reduce youth unemployment as well as help young workers make optimal choices to ease their school-to-work transition.
J70|Top earnings inequality and the gender pay gap: Canada, Sweden, and the United Kingdom|This paper explores the consequences of the under-representation of women in top jobs for the overall gender pay gap. Using administrative annual earnings data from Canada, Sweden, and the United Kingdom, it applies the approach used in the analysis of earnings inequality in top incomes, as well as reweighting techniques, to the analysis of the gender pay gap. The analysis is supplemented by classic O-B decompositions of hourly wages using data from the Canadian and U.K. Labour Force Surveys. The paper finds that recent increases in top earnings led to substantial “swimming upstream” effects, therefore accounting for differential progress in the gender pay gap across time periods and a growing share of the gap unexplained by traditional factors.
J70|Economic Consequences of Political Persecution|We analyze the effects of persecution and labor market discrimination during the communist regime in the former Czechoslovakia using a representative life history sample from the Survey of Health, Ageing and Retirement in Europe. We find strong effects of persecution and dispossession on subsequent earnings, with most severe implications of job loss due to persecution on earnings in subsequent jobs and on career degradation. Accumulated long-term effects in the form of initial retirement pensions paid during the communist regime are even greater. These pension penalties disappear by 2006 largely as a result of compensation schemes implemented by democratic governments after 1989. We use unique administrative data on political rehabilitation and prosecution to instrument for the endogenous variables. Finally, we survey transitional justice theory and document reparations programs in other countries.
J70|Polarization and Persistence in the Japanese Labor Market|This study analyzes the persistence of regular and non-regular employment status in Japan for workers that change jobs. In particular, we investigate two hypotheses behind this persistence. The first is the dependence of the employment status in the current job on that in the previous job. The second is the dependence of the employment status in the current job on that in the initial job, which is called first job effects. While both types of dependence are empirically verified, the former is shown to be quantitatively more substantial. Therefore, the serially dependent structure of employment status matters critically to the segmentation of the labor market in Japan.
J70|Wage Profiles in the Japanese Dual Labor Market|This study examines the dual structure of wage formation in regular and non-regular employment sectors in Japan. By using data from a series of surveys conducted in the Tokyo metropolitan area during 2002--2014, two sectoral wage functions and an employment status determination function are estimated simultaneously. The estimated results reveal several facts regarding the new era of the Japanese dual labor market. While the wages of regular workers rise with years of tenure and external experience, those of non-regular workers increase only with the latter. The wage increases owing to experience are of a similar magnitude between employment statuses (except for female regular workers), and the firm-size and educational-background premiums exist only in the regular employees' wages. The study also shows that the slopes of regular workers' wage-tenure profiles have been rather stable for more than 10 years since the early 2000s.
J70|LGBTI in OECD Countries: A Review|This paper presents an overview of the socio-economic situation of lesbians, gay men, bisexuals, transgender and intersex people (LGBTI), primarily in OECD countries. After investigating the size of this population, the paper zooms in on attitudes toward LGBTI, LGBTI rights and perceived discrimination among LGBTI. It goes on to discuss the empirical strategies used to identify whether LGBTI fare worse than non-LGBTI and provides a systematic review of survey-based and experimental evidence on such an “LGBTI penalty” and its causes. This exploration points to substantial hurdles for LGBTI. In particular, (i) low legal recognition of same-sex couples hampers partnership stability and children’s well-being; (ii) LGBTI are bullied at school and suffer academically; (iii) LGBTI face hiring and wage discrimination; (iv) LGBTI show higher rates of physical and mental health problems, in particular due to social rejection. The paper concludes by reviewing anti-discrimination policies and defining critical avenues for future research.
J70|Trust and Trustworthiness in College: An Experimental Analysis|We use experimental data to examine the effect of ethnicity (foreign, indigenous, and mestizo) and gender on trust and trustworthiness in Peru. Comparing to the foreign group, we find that the indigenous group is more trusted (positive discrimination), while the mestizo group is less trustworthy (negative discrimination). Likewise, subjects reciprocate more when a male acts as their counterpart. We further analyze whether cognitive ability, the Big Five Personality Traits, and the social dominance orientation scale (SODS) can predict trust and trustworthiness. We find that the Cognitive Reáection Test score is positively correlated with trust, while the cumulative college GPA is negatively correlated with trustworthiness. We find that neuroticism is correlated with trusting behavior, while the SODS is (negatively) correlated with the trustworthiness ratio.
J70|The Influence of the Economic Situation on Employment and its Structure in the Central and Eastern European Countries|The Central and Eastern European countries suffered from a decrease in professional activity and increases in unemployment, income inequality, and underemployment. In most of the countries in the region, it was decided to increase labour market flexibility, adopting a Western European model of labour market functioning. The effects of deregulation (flexibility increase) for the labour market depend to a great extent on the economic situation. The paper attempts to answer the question of the degree to which changes in the employment level and structure can be explained by changes in the economic situation. The article verified two hypotheses: “the employment level reacts to changes in the economic situation; however, this reaction in the Central and Eastern European countries is more severe than the average reaction in the European Union” (H1) and “changes in the economic situation decide to a greater extent the employment level in the groups experiencing discrimination (women, youngest and oldest people) more than for employees in general” (H2). The research encompassed 11 Central and Eastern European countries (Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Croatia, Latvia, Lithuania, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Slovenia and Slovakia) on the basis of statistical data published by Eurostat for the period of 2004 to 2015. Data analysis was performed using the correlation coefficient and coefficient of determination. In the majority of the examined countries, a statistically significant correlation occurs between changes in GDP and total employment level; furthermore, the influence of changes in GDP on the employment level is greater than the European Union’s average. The data do not indicate discrimination against certain groups (women, young people, people in pre-retirement age), changes in the employment levels of the aforementioned groups are less dependent on the economic situation than the changes in total employment.
J70|Women in forestry sector in Bulgaria|This paper aims to characterize the employment rate, performance as well as economic and social work conditions for women in forestry sector in Bulgaria. It also aims to characterize the impact of factors affecting competitiveness and productivity corresponding to females employment, such as: formation of wages; education and training, insurable earnings for women in the sector, etc. At the end, some conclusions and policy recommendations are drown. The study is based on literature and legal framework survey, as well as on statistical analysis and individual interviews.
J70|High Performing Peers and Female STEM Choices in School|Women have historically been underrepresented in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) jobs. There are concerns that the persistence of this gap over time is in part due to path dependence and the historical lack of high-performing women in these fields. This paper uses administrative data from China to examine the extent to which the presence of high-performing peers in mathematics affects the likelihood that women choose a science track during high school. Results indicate that exposure to a higher proportion of high-performing females increases girls' likelihood of majoring in STEM, while exposure to more high-performing males reduces it. There is little evidence that boys' major decisions are affected by their peers. Our results indicate that high-achieving girls in quantitative fields may have a role model or affirmation effect that encourages their female classmates to pursue a path in science.
J70|Innovative ideas for improving attractiveness of forestry sector for women (survey results)|This paper aims to characterize the impact of factors affecting competitiveness and productivity in forestry sector in Bulgaria, corresponding to female’s employment, such as: formation of wages; education and training, insurable earnings for women in the sector, etc. The study is based on literature and legal framework survey, as well as on statistical analysis. The data is compared to primary results from a survey conducted in 2017 among a database of 1087 forestry enterprises in Bulgaria. The survey is a part of project № CB006.1.31.070 “Innovative cooperation initiatives in cross-border region” where Bulgarian academy of science is a leading partner. In addition it is used data from individual interviews, conducted in 2017 with employed women working in the forestry sector in Bulgaria.
J70|Productivity, Wages, and Marriage: A Case Study in Professional Athletics|The effect of marriage on productivity and wages has been long debated. A difﬁculty in estimating the effect of marriage on productivity is the lack of data that contain measures of both marital status and exogenous productivity. We fill this gap by using a sample of professional athletes from 1975 - 2007. Our results show that there is little correlation between individual measures of productivity and marriage, yet, wages are up to 15 percent higher for some married players. We find that married players exhibit more stable performance and teams with higher fractions of married players are more successful.
J70|Productivity, Wages, and Marriage: A Case Study in Professional Athletics| The effect of marriage on productivity and wages has been long debated. A difﬁculty in estimating the effect of marriage on productivity is the lack of data that contain measures of both marital status and exogenous productivity. We fill this gap by using a sample of professional athletes from 1975 - 2007. Our results show that there is little correlation between individual measures of productivity and marriage, yet, wages are up to 15 percent higher for some married players. We find that married players exhibit more stable performance and teams with higher fractions of married players are more successful.
J70|Nobel Beauty|We consider the effect of physical attractiveness, assessed using publicly available pictures of top scientists, on their probability of winning the Nobel Prize. There is now an extensive body of literature that finds that physically attractive people receive non-negligible benefits in the labor market, marriage market and social life. In contrast, we find that attractiveness is negatively correlated with the probability of being awarded the Nobel, with the magnitude of this effect being non-negligible. We discuss the potential mechanisms that could explain this result.
J70|Who Benefits from Bans on Employer Credit Checks?|Eleven states limit employers’ use of credit reports, and prominent politicians have proposed a national ban. This paper evaluates the success of these credit check bans in helping financially distressed individuals find employment. In the Survey of Income and Program Participation (SIPP), we identify those likely to directly benefit from credit check bans – unemployed individuals with recent financial trouble. Exploiting the staggered passage of state bans, we find that banning credit checks increases the likelihood of finding a job by twenty-five percent among people who have had trouble meeting their expenses. We find a small and statistically insignificant change in job-finding rates among people who have not had recent financial trouble and a statistically insignificant impact on minorities overall.
J70|Bibliometrics vs. Diversity in the Top Academic Career Positions in Economics in Italy|Following an international trend, Italy has reformed its university system, especially concerning methods and tools for research evaluation, which are increasingly focused on a number of bibliometric indexes. To study the impact of these changes, we analyse the changing profiles of economists who have won competitions for full professorship in the last few decades in Italy. We concentrate on individual characteristics and mainly on scientific production. We show that the identification of a univocal and standardized concept of “research quality” within the new research assessments has progressively imposed a strategy of “homologation”, especially for women. We find that women economists are at a higher risk of discrimination than their male colleagues and thus they are more likely to conform their research activities to the standardized profile imposed by the gender-blind application of biased bibliometric methods.
J70|The heterogeneity of ethnic employment gaps|Abstract This paper investigates the heterogeneity of ethnic employment gaps using a new single-index based approach. Instead of stratifying our sample by age or education, we study ethnic employment gaps along a continuous measure of employability, the employment probability minority workers would have if their characteristics were priced as in the majority group. We apply this method to French males, comparing those whose parents are North African immigrants and those with native parents. We find that both the raw and the unexplained ethnic employment differentials are larger for low-employability workers than for high-employability ones. We show in a theoretical framework that this heterogeneity can be accounted for by homogeneous underlying mechanisms and is not evidence for, say, heterogeneous discrimination. Finally, we discuss our main empirical findings in the light of simple taste-based vs. statistical discrimination models.
J70|The Impact of Obesity on Wages: The Role of Personal Interactions and Job Selection|We estimate the effects of obesity on wages accounting for the endogenous selection of workers into jobs requiring different levels of personal interactions in the workplace. Using data from the National Longitudinal Survey of Youth 1979 combined with detailed information about occupation characteristics from O*Net, we confirm the results from the literature finding a wage penalty for obese White women. This penalty is higher in jobs that require a high level of personal interactions. Accounting for job selection does not significantly change the estimated wage penalty.
J70|Gender Differences in Competitive Positions: Experimental Evidence on Job Promotion|This paper analyzes gender differences in access to competitive positions. We implement an experiment where workers can apply for a job promotion by sending a signal to their employer. We control for gender differences in anticipation of discrimination in a treatment where a computer randomly recruits. Discriminatory behavior by the employer is isolated in a treatment where workers cannot send signals. We find that gender disparity among promoted workers is highest when workers can apply for promotion and employers recruit. Strikingly, the gender composition in competitive position is balanced in the absence of a signaling institution. When signaling is possible, we observe that female workers who do not request a promotion are discriminated against.
J70|Do discriminatory pay regimes unleash antisocial behavior?|In this paper, we analyze how pay-regime procedures affect antisocial behavior at the workplace. In a real-effort experiment we vary two determinants of pay regimes: discrimination and justification of payments by performance. In our Discrimination treatment half of the workforce is randomly selected and promoted and participate in a tournament (high-income workers) whereas the other half receives no payment (lowincome workers). Afterwards, antisocial behavior is measured by a Joy-of-Destruction game where participants can destroy canteen vouchers. The data show that low-income workers destroy significantly more vouchers than high-income workers. Destruction behavior is driven by workers who receive payments that are not justified by performance. When all payments are justified, that is in our Competition treatment where all workers participate in a tournament, the difference vanishes. By using a treatment with random payments, we show that unjustifiably-paid workers destroy less when they had equal opportunities to receive a high payment, i.e., when they were not discriminated by the pay regime.
J70|A Bizalom És Az Együttműködés Vizsgálata Az Észak Magyarországi Régió Kkv Szektorában Egy Konkrét Felmérés Adatai Alapján| „Vajon minden esetben a bizalom és az etikus magatartás dominál az üzletek megkötésében?” Kutatásunk fő célja, hogy megismertessük az ország egyik leghátrányosabb helyzetben lévő régiójának gazdasági helyzetét egy primer kutatás alapján és azon belül is bemutassuk a kis-és középvállalkozási szektor jellemzőit kitérve arra, hogy milyen vezetői irányelvek, partnerkapcsolati hálók befolyásolják azt. Célunk, hogy a bizalom és az etikus üzleti magatartás kérdéskörét vizsgálva aktuális képet kapjunk arról, hogy mennyire fontos a mai világban a meglévő kapcsolati tőke, bizalom és ennek figyelembevételével mennyire hajlandóak a vállalkozások innovációs eszközökhöz nyúlni, hogy a fejlődés útján haladjanak. ---------------------------------------------„Does in every case, trust and ethical behaviour dominates the conclusion of business transactions?” The main goal of our research is to acquaint the economic situation of the country's most disadvantaged region, to show characteristics of the small and medium enterprise sector including information on leadership guidelines and partner relationship networks. We are dedicated to examine the issue of trust and ethical business conduct, how important it is in today's world of existing social capitals, trust and willingness to use innovative tools of business to reach out and forge the road to development.
J70|Do Regional Differentials in Economic Freedom Yield Regional Unemployment Rate Differentials in the U.S.? A Brief Exploratory Note Adopting Panel Data Analysis|This study empirically investigates the hypothesis that the higher the degree of economic freedom in a state, the lower the unemployment rate in that state, other thing held the same. This hypothesis is based on the principle that greater economic freedom leads to greater real economic growth, which in turn reduces the unemployment rate. The framework studied consists of a panel dataset for the 50 U.S. states representing the period 2000 to 2012, a period which includes the Great Recession, as well as years prior to and following the Great Recession. The model estimated in this study includes for each state, in addition to a measure/index of overall economic freedom, control variables for the percentage of the population that is black, the percentage of the population that is Hispanic/Latin, the female labor force participation rate, and the percent of the population (age 25 and older) with at least a high school diploma. A number of state fixed-effects and dynamic panel data estimations are provided, all of which yield the finding that the greater the level of overall economic freedom, the lower the unemployment rate.
J70|Intersección entre la clase y el género y su efecto sobre la calidad del empleo en Chile|En este artículo se analiza el efecto de la intersección entre clase y género sobre la calidad del empleo en Chile. La medida de posición de clase utilizada está basada en la propuesta de Erik O. Wright y la calidad del empleo en una medida multidimensional, que incluye un índice de condiciones objetivas de empleo y dos índices de condiciones subjetivas (motivación en el trabajo y percepción del control sobre el proceso de trabajo). Los resultados demuestran que la clase y el género determinan diferencias significativas en la calidad objetiva y subjetiva del empleo. Sin embargo, los datos también indican que el género (particularmente, el hecho de ser mujer) no actúa necesariamente como “amplificador” de las desigualdades de clase observadas en el mercado laboral. A partir de esto, al final del artículo se plantean algunas reflexiones sobre cómo opera la intersección entre clase y género en el mercado laboral chileno.
J70|Racial prejudice and labour market penalties during economic downturns|Do economic downturns encourage racist attitudes? Does this in-turn lead to worse labour market outcome for minorities? We assess these important questions using British attitude and labour force data. The attitude data show that racial prejudice is countercyclical, with the effect driven by large increases for high-skilled middle-aged working men – a 1%-point increase in unemployment is estimated to increase self-reported racial prejudice by 4%-points. Correspondingly, the labour force data show that racial employment and wage gaps are counter-cyclical, with the largest effects also observed for high-skilled men, especially in the manufacturing and construction industries – a 1%-point increase in unemployment is estimated to increase the wage gap by 3%. These results are entirely consistent with the theoretical literature, which proposes that racial prejudice and discrimination are the result of labour market competition among individuals with similar traits, and that the effects of this competition are exacerbated during periods of economic downturn.
J70|The motherhood wage penalty in times of transition|Depopulation trend in Ukraine caused to a large extent by the lowest low fertility rates raises serious concerns about the long-term economic growth and the country's future in general. In this paper we investigate the existence and the extent of the motherhood wage penalty as a potential impediment to having (more) children in a unique institutional environment. This environment is characterized by: de jure family supportive labor laws but de facto no legal enforcement of these laws; publicly subsidized childcare; and low cultural support for maternal employment, combined with extensive involvement of grand-parents. Relying on the data from the Ukrainian Longitudinal Monitoring Survey over the period from 1997 to 2007, we find that the overall motherhood wage penalty in Ukraine is much lower than in countries with similar de jure family policies and cultural norms. It constitutes approximately 19%, controlling for individual unobserved heterogeneity, a number of human capital characteristics, actual time in the labor force, and selection into employment. We also find that the motherhood wage penalty differs by education, age at birth of first child, and marital status.
J70|Foreign human capital and the earnings gap between immigrants and Canadian-born workers|We use new information on the location of study of immigrants available in the 2006 Canadian Census to estimate returns to Canadian and foreign human capital. We find that controlling for the source of human capital (Canadian versus foreign) helps account for a large share of the immigrant/native-born wage gap. We show that commonly-used imputation procedures (e.g. Friedberg, 2000) that assign domestic and foreign education based on age at arrival tend to overestimate the returns to foreign education and underestimate the returns to foreign work experience. We also find that the immigrant/native-born wage gap is highly heterogeneous across places of birth even after including location of study fixed effects, although this inclusion markedly reduces the negative country of origin effects for countries like China, Pakistan, and India. Finally, we note substantial heterogeneity in the portability of human capital across fields of study.
J70|Stereotypes of physical appearance and labor market chances|Using an experimental setup involving 436 case workers at the Swedish Public Employment Service (SPES) as subjects and the profile photographs and recorded voices of 75 jobseekers as treatments, we report results indicating that male case workers tend to favor jobseekers perceived as having a stereotypical Swedish appearance when they select candidates to be recommended for labor market programs (LMP). This bias represents a roughly 50-percent greater chance of being selected if you compare the candidate with the highest score with regard to stereotypical Swedish looks (8/10) with the candidate with the lowest score (3/10) in our sample.
J70|Asymmetric information in external versus internal promotions|"""Individuals have two possible channels through which to obtain a managerial position: external and internal promotions. Employing the revised German Employment Register, we compare external and internal promotions by using multinomial logit regressions while accounting for workplace heterogeneity. Individual characteristics are hypothesized to exert differential effects because of their observability within and across workplaces. We find that actual working hours are a more important source of information for internal versus external promotions. By contrast, formal vocational degrees and initial job task complexity, which are also externally observed, are a relatively more important signal for external promotions. Consistent with statistical discrimination, women and foreigners face a more pronounced disadvantage in external promotions. For women, this differential effect is fully driven by promotions to executive positions characterized by high task complexity. Moreover, actual working hours show a strong positive interaction effect on women's prospects of promotion."" (Author's abstract, IAB-Doku) ((en))"
J70|Gender, Competition and Performance: Evidence from Real Tournaments|There is a growing literature looking at how men and women respond differently to competition. We contribute to this literature by studying gender differences in performance in a high-stakes and male dominated competitive environment, expert chess tournaments. Our findings show that women underperform compared to men of the same ability and that the gender composition of games drives this effect. Using within player variation in the conditionally random gender of their opponent, we find that women earn significantly worse outcomes against male opponents. We examine the mechanisms through which this effect operates by using a unique measure of within game quality of play. We find that the gender composition effect is driven by women playing worse against men, rather than by men playing better against women. The gender of the opponent does not affect a male player’s quality of play. We also find that men persist longer against women before resigning. These results suggest that the gender composition of competitions affects the behavior of both men and women in ways that are detrimental to the performance of women. Lastly, we study the effect of competitive pressure and find that players’ quality of play deteriorates when stakes increase, though we find no differential effect over the gender composition of games.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J70|Workplaces, Low Pay and the Gender Earnings Gap in Britain|This study provides a robust assessment of the importance of a number of determinants of the gaps in earnings between the four groups of employees who make up the British workforce; males and females who work full and part-time. The analysis considers the contribution of individual employee characteristics as well as occupation, industry, region and other workplace specific characteristics. The results are compared with previous findings for 2004 (Mumford and Smith, 2009) and with alternative data from the ASHE series for 2004, 2011 and 2015.
J70|Deconstructing Theories of Overeducation in Europe: A Wage Decomposition Approach|Abstract This paper uses data from the Cedefop European Skills and Jobs survey (ESJS) (Cedefop, 2014, ESJS microdata are Cedefop copyright and are reproduced with the permission of Cedefop. Further information is available at Cedefop, 2015), a new international dataset on skill mismatch of adult workers in 28 EU countries, to decompose the wage penalty of overeducated workers. The ESJ survey allows for integration of a rich set of variables in the estimation of the effect of overeducation on earnings, such as individuals’ job search motives and the skill needs of their jobs. Oaxaca decomposition techniques are employed to uncover the extent to which the earnings penalties of overeducated workers can be attributed to either (i) individual human capital attributes, (ii) job characteristics, (iii) information asymmetries, (iv) compensating job attributes, or (iv) assignment to jobs with different skill needs. Differences in human capital and job-skill requirements are important factors in explaining the wage premium. It is found that asymmetry of information accounts for a significant part of the overeducation wage penalty of tertiary education graduates, whereas job characteristics and the low skill content of their jobs can explain most of the wage gap for medium-qualified employees. Little evidence is found in favor of equilibrium theories of compensating wage differentials and career mobility. Accepting that much remains to be learned with regards to the drivers of overeducation, this paper provides evidence in support of the need for customized policy responses to tackle overeducation.
J70|What If Your Boss Is a Woman? Work Organization, Work-Life Balance and Gender Discrimination at the Workplace|"In this paper, we investigate the association between female leadership, work organization practices and perceived gender discrimination within firms. Using data for 30 European countries for the period 1995-2010, we find that having a female ""boss"" is associated with lower overall gender discrimination at work. The female boss effect, however, differs across gender: it is associated with lower discrimination among female employees, but higher among male employees. We also investigate the underlying mechanisms that shape gender discrimination within firms. We find evidence of a ""women helping women"" pattern through spill-over effects which reduce discrimination among women, but increase discrimination among men, particularly in female-dominated jobs. A better balance between work and life, a supportive work environment and flexible working time, particularly for women in high-skilled jobs, are shown to be effective in reducing gender discrimination. The above findings are robust to a number of specification changes and different sub-populations in our sample. Further, similar results are found when more traditional measures of gender imbalance, such as wages or career prospects, are used. Finally, to account for potential endogeneity and selection, arising from the non-random distribution of females in higher-rank jobs, we jointly estimate the selection process and the discrimination equation, finding support for a causal interpretation of the results."
J70|Are part-time workers less productive and underpaid?|About one in five workers across OECD countries is employed part-time, and the share has been steadily increasing since the beginning of the economic and financial crisis in 2007. Part-time options play an important economic role by providing more flexible working arrangements for both workers and firms. Part-time employment has also contributed substantially to increasing the employment rate, especially among women. However, part-time work comes at a cost of lower wages for workers, mainly because part-time jobs are concentrated in lower paying occupations and sectors, while the impact on firms’ productivity is still not very clear.
J70|Native-Immigrant Gaps in Educational and School-to-Work Transitions in the 2nd Generation: The Role of Gender and Ethnicity|Abstract We study how native-immigrant gaps in educational trajectories and school-to-work transitions vary by gender. Using longitudinal Belgian data and adjusting for family background and educational sorting, we find that second-generation immigrants, especially Turks and Moroccans, lag behind natives. In particular, we observe that immigrant students are less likely to finish secondary education or begin tertiary education on time. They are also less likely to transition into work successfully. These performance gaps are substantially larger for female immigrants. In addition, we study demographic behaviors to test the hypothesis that attributes the gender differences in educational and economic ethnic gaps to cultural differences between immigrants and natives.
J70|The Use of Multivariate Techniques for the Unemployment Analysis|The present paper includes the results of an analysis of different aspects which influence the unemployment evolution in Romania; the analysis was conducted using exploratory multidimensional techniques such as Principal Component Analysis, Factor Analysis and Cluster Analysis. The present research aims to extend the comprehension of the labor market state, offering a formula which reflects the unemployment multidimensionality, the simultaneous action of more factors and establish a framework for the evaluation of the labor market conditions. There are presented different typologies of unemployment, extracted according to the level of education, the unemployment duration and gender for the period 1996- 2014 for four age groups. The analysis highlights the specific behavior of the young generation and also of the generation over 50 years.
J70|From planning to chaos to market: Ethnic inequality in Bulgaria|We document changes in relative earnings of the ethnic Turkish workers in Bulgaria through the country’s transition from planning to markets. Using data from four periods: pre-transition communist era (late 1980s), early transition years (early 1990s), late transition years (early 2000s), and post-transition (late 2000s), we find that the level of raw ethnic inequality (measured as earnings differences between Turkish and Bulgarian workers) increased immediately after the regime change and plateaued throughout the course of transition. Ethnic inequality measures adjusted for observable characteristics follow a similar pattern but post-transitional differences between ethnic groups disappear. Changes over time in the ethnic earnings gaps differ for men and women. The raw and adjusted male ethnic gaps increased steadily during transition years but dropped post-transition, while the raw female ethnic gap fluctuated across the four periods. The adjusted female ethnic gap disappeared completely in the postransitional years. We identify different sources of the changes in the level of ethnic inequality, such as changes in the labor market characteristics and in the wage structure. Evidence suggests that the decline in the relative earnings of Turkish men was due primarily to the widening of the wage structure. Turkish working women improved their relative standing mainly from more favorable changes in labor market characteristics. These changes were only partially due to a selection in labor force participation.
J70|Social Integration of Immigrants within the Linguistically Diverse Workplace: A Systematic Review|Due to international migration, a large number of workplaces are becoming linguistically diverse. This creates challenges for the workplace integration of immigrants and increases the risk of their social exclusion. A systematic review was conducted to determine the effects of linguistic diversity on social integration of immigrants within the workplace. Articles were identified by reviewing abstracts in electronic databases using keywords related to linguistic diversity, social integration, immigrants and workplace. The search yielded ten peer reviewed articles, published in English, between 2000 and 2014. Information was extracted and synthesized from both quantitative and qualitative studies. The studies were found to be concerned on: (1) social integration or social inclusion/exclusion, (2) social interaction and inter-group perception, and (3) accent discrimination. Smooth social and professional assimilation and the equality of opportunities for the immigrants were considered as the determining factors of their complete social integration in the workplace. Most studies in this review established a connection between social integration and local language skills; some indicated that racial discrimination and ethnicity based stereotyping contributes to social exclusion of immigrants, particularly when the studies involved visible minorities. The review enhances our understanding of challenges of complete social integration faced by immigrants and reinforces the need to invest in policies and program aimed at preventing marginalization of immigrants. Due to limited number of studies identified by this review and the variation in findings, further research is necessary to investigate the role of linguistic diversity in the workplace integration of immigrants in immigrant receiving countries.
J70|Gender, competition and performance:Evidence from real tournaments|There is a growing literature looking at how men and women respond differently to competition. We contribute to this literature by studying gender differences in performance in a high-stakes and male dominated competitive environment, expert chess tournaments. Our findings show that women underperform compared to men of the same ability and that the gender composition of games drives this effect. Using within player variation in the conditionally random gender of their opponent, we find that women earn significantly worse outcomes against male opponents. We examine the mechanisms through which this effect operates by using a unique measure of within game quality of play. We find that the gender composition effect is driven by women playing worse against men, rather than by men playing better against women. The gender of the opponent does not affect a male player’s quality of play. We also find that men persist longer against women before resigning. These results suggest that the gender composition of competitions affects the behavior of both men and women in ways that are detrimental to the performance of women. Lastly, we study the effect of competitive pressure and find that players’ quality of play deteriorates when stakes increase, though we find no differential effect over the gender composition of games.
J70|Weathering the Great Recession: Variation in Employment Responses by Establishments and Countries|This paper finds that US employment changed differently relative to output in theGreat Recession and recovery than in most other advanced countries or in the US in earlierrecessions. Instead of hoarding labor, US firms reduced employment proportionately morethan output in the Great Recession, with establishments that survived the downturncontracting jobs massively. Diverging from the aggregate pattern, US manufacturers reducedemployment less than output while the elasticity of employment to gross output varied widelyamong establishments. In the recovery, growth of employment was dominated by job creationin new establishments. The variegated responses of employment to output challenges extantmodels of how enterprises adjust employment over the business cycle.
J70|The Effects of Pre-Trial Detention on Conviction, Future Crime, and Employment: Evidence from Randomly Assigned Judges|Over 20 percent of prison and jail inmates in the United States are currently awaiting trial, but little is known about the impact of pre-trial detention on defendants. This paper uses the detention tendencies of quasi-randomly assigned bail judges to estimate the causal effects of pre-trial detention on subsequent defendant outcomes. Using data from administrative court and tax records, we find that being detained before trial significantly increases the probability of a conviction, primarily through an increase in guilty pleas. Pre-trial detention has no detectable effect on future crime, but decreases pre-trial crime and failures to appear in court. We also find suggestive evidence that pre-trial detention decreases formal sector employment and the receipt of employment- and tax-related government benefits. We argue that these results are consistent with (i) pre-trial detention weakening defendants' bargaining position during plea negotiations, and (ii) a criminal conviction lowering defendants' prospects in the formal labor market.
J70|Shrinking gender wage gaps in the Brazilian labor market: an application of the APC approach [Shrinking gender wage gaps in the Brazilian labor market: an application of the APC approach]|Labor market literature attests that men tend to earn more than women in similar occupations in Brazil and elsewhere. However, some recent trends that have occurred in Brazil promote the narrowing of gender gaps in the labor market. This paper analyzes this issue empirically with the use of PNADs, Mincerian wage equations, and a hierarchical model based on the Age-Period-Cohort approach. We observed that gender wage gaps were shrinking and, although there might still be an unexplained advantage for men in the labor market, the evolution of women's endowments for the labor market and the decrease in labor market segregation significantly compensated for this difference. Due to these trends, after controlling for cohort differences, we observed non-significant gender wage gaps in some models.
J70|Looks matter: Attractiveness and employment in the former soviet union|The rigid soviet policy of full employment ensured employment for all able-bodied population. By removing this policy, the collapse of the system has made discrimination less costly. Has it also become prevalent? This paper studies the labour market discrimination on the basis of looks using data from three post-soviet countries of the caucasus: Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia. I estimate a large positive effect of attractive looks on males' probability of employment. Using partial identification approach, I show that this relationship is likely to be causal. The results are potentially consistent with taste-based discrimination in favour of attractive males.
J70|Destruction of Cognitive and Noncognitive Skills in Adulthood|The formation of cognitive and noncognitive skills in adulthood has been scarcely studied in the economic and psychological literature. The lack of studies addressing this production process is explained in part by past results pointing to the stabilization of skills at the last years of adolescence. However, recent evidence supports the malleability of skills during adulthood. Following the latter strand of the literature, we identify events associated with the destruction of skills during this age. Furthermore, we evaluate the effects of the skills dynamics on labor market outcomes such as wages and employability. We extend the model of formation of skills (Cunha and others , 2010) and estimate it in its reduced form using the 1970 British Cohort Study. Results show that three or more months of unemployment are related to a decrease of 0.15 SD of skills level.
J70|Thatchers Erbe und die Sozialdemokratie<BR>[Thatchers Legacy and the social democracy]|Abstract Deutsch Die Signifikanz des Thatcherismus als Ideologie liegt in einer Form autoritären Neoliberalismus, im Sinne einer Untergliederung des Nationalstaates an die Anforderungen der Wirtschaftsfreiheit. Demnach wird jede Regulierung und jeder Rechtsrahmen für das Funktionieren der Märkte, vor allem was den Arbeitsmarkt betrifft abgeschafft. In Begleitung dazu folgt eine drastische Reduzierung der Staatsdefizite, umgesetzt durch eine harte Anti-Inflations-Politik. Thatcher förderte die universelle Privatisierung im öffentlichen Sektor bei gleichzeitiger Reduzierung der Sozialleistungen und öffentlicher Ausgaben. Abstract Englisch The significance of Thatcherism as an ideology is a form of authoritarian Neoliberalism, in terms of a breakdown of the nation state to the requirements of economic freedom. Accordingly, any regulation and any legal framework for the functioning of markets, particularly as regards the labor market will be abolished. In accompaniment followed by a drastic reduction of government deficits, implemented through a tough anti-inflation policy. Thatcher promoted the universal privatization in the public sector while reducing the social and public spending
J70|Women’s Labour Force Participation in Haryana: A Disaggregated Analysis|The paper seeks to present an overall picture of women’s work in Haryana and compare the rural-urban scenario with respect to women’s employment. The paper analyses the trends and patterns of female employment in urban and rural areas in Haryana. The paper seeks to capture the gender gap in employment in both at the State level and district level. It also examines the kind and quality of work taken up by females in Haryana and makes a comparative study of the urban-rural female employment scenario with respect to wages, education level and nature of employment. The paper found that women’s participation in Haryana is significantly lower than national average. Average daily employment of women in factories in 2010 was 4.78 percent in Haryana which is significantly lower than 15.76 percent for All-India level. The gender gap in wages/salaries for directly employed female worker for the period 1999-2000 to 2009-10 was Rs. 231.90 which is 31.7 percent lower than their male counterpart (Rs. 287.96). The share of rural women in the workforce is much higher than those in urban. However, women in rural Haryana are clearly in an inferior position in the labour market vis-à-vis urban Haryana. This is evident from the fact the most of the rural women are casually employed and are engaged in low-paying agricultural work. The level of female workforce participation rate and gender gap in WPR has shown significant variation across the districts of Haryana
J70|The Effects of Pre-Trial Detention on Conviction, Future Crime, and Employment: Evidence from Randomly Assigned Judges|Over 20 percent of prison and jail inmates in the United States are currently awaiting trial, but little is known about the impact of pre-trial detention on defendants. This paper uses the detention tendencies of quasi-randomly assigned bail judges to estimate the causal effects of pre-trial detention on subsequent defendant outcomes. Using data from administrative court and tax records, we find that being detained before trial significantly increases the probability of a conviction, primarily through an increase in guilty pleas. Pre-trial detention has no detectable effect on future crime, but decreases pre-trial crime and failures to appear in court. We also find suggestive evidence that pre-trial detention decreases formal sector employment and the receipt of employment- and tax-related government benefits. We argue that these results are consistent with (i) pre-trial detention weakening defendants' bargaining position during plea negotiations, and (ii) a criminal conviction lowering defendants' prospects in the formal labor market.
J70|Weathering the Great Recession: Variation in Employment Responses by Establishments and Countries|This paper finds that US employment changed differently relative to output in the Great Recession and recovery than in most other advanced countries or in the US in earlier recessions. Instead of hoarding labor, US firms reduced employment proportionately more than output in the Great Recession, with establishments that survived the downturn contracting jobs massively. Diverging from the aggregate pattern, US manufacturers reduced employment less than output while the elasticity of employment to gross output varied widely among establishments. In the recovery, growth of employment was dominated by job creation in new establishments. The variegated responses of employment to output challenges extant models of how enterprises adjust employment over the business cycle.
J70|Career Implications of Having a Female-Friendly Supervisor|The authors study how variations in supervisorsâ€™ attitudes toward working with females generate gender differences in workersâ€™ observed career outcomes. The employment records of athletic directors and head coaches in a set of NCAA Division I programs provide longitudinal matched employerâ€“worker data. Supervisors are observed at multiple establishments, which allows the authors to construct a measure of revealed type and to examine its role for the performance and turnover of lower-level employees. The authors observe that the careers of male and female workers progress differently depending on supervisor type in a way that is consistent with a type-based mentoring model. The results suggest that more focus should be placed on managerial attitudes revealed through actions in addition to observable attributes such as gender.
J70|A longitudinal analysis of the effect of unemployment on health|This paper examines the relationship between health and unemployment on individual panel data for the Czech Republic between 2008 and 2011. Foreign research comes up with two possible directions: that unemployment worsens health and that for people with poor health it is more difficult to find jobs, the healthy worker effect. In many models based on representative data from the European Union Statistics on Income and Living Conditions, it has been verified that unemployment actually worsens health. Conversely, healthy worker effect could not be verified. Finally, it was found that the relationship from unemployment to poorer health is greater among men than women.
J70|Partisan stereotypes|Using two surveys, we study how respondents process visual cues to identify the political orientation (left- vs. right-wing) of members of the French National Assembly (referred to as “deputies”), based on official photographs only, to test the type of heuristic that they use. We first confirm that respondents outperform random guesses. Second, we find that their categorizations correlate with observable characteristics (gender, tie color, jewelry) and subjective assessments of deputies’ personality traits (attractiveness, competence, trustworthiness). Third, the objective visual cues that respondents use are consistent with the actual characteristics of left- and right-wing deputies, and respondents mistakenly react to subjective personality traits that differ little across the two groups of deputies. Fourth, left- and right-wing respondents use the same cues in the same way, attractiveness being the only exception. Fifth, the magnitude of the marginal impact of a characteristic on the probability of a respondent categorizing a photograph as left- or right-wing increases strictly with the representativeness of that characteristic. Finally, we find evidence that some characteristics correlate with categorization errors. Findings 1, 2, 4, and the finding that respondents use cues in the correct way are consistent with both Bayesian behavior and the representativeness heuristic. Findings 5, 6, and the finding that respondents react to subjective cues that do not differ across groups are at odds with Bayesian inference but consistent with the representativeness heuristic suggested by Kahneman and Tversky (1972) and recently modelled by Gennaioli and Shleifer (2010), and Bordalo et al. (forthcoming).
J70|Wage discrimination against immigrants: measurement with firm-level productivity data|Abstract This paper is one of the first to use employer-employee data on wages and labor productivity to measure discrimination against immigrants. We build on an identification strategy proposed by Bartolucci (Ind Labor Relat Rev 67(4):1166–1202, 2014) and address firm fixed effects and endogeneity issues through a diff GMM-IV estimator. Our models also test for gender-based discrimination. Empirical results for Belgium suggest significant wage discrimination against women and (to a lesser extent) against immigrants. We find no evidence for double discrimination against female immigrants. Institutional factors such as firm-level collective bargaining and smaller firm sizes are found to attenuate wage discrimination against foreigners, but not against women. JEL Classification: J15, J16, J24, J31, J7
J70|Gender unemployment gaps in the EU: blame the family|Abstract There are considerable differences in gender unemployment gaps across the EU. We use labor force survey data on 21 countries to perform a series of data decompositions and show that the cross-country variation in gender unemployment gaps is primarily driven by the differences in female labor force participation behavior after childbirth, namely, the family leave duration and the subsequent attachment of women to the labor force. Further, in countries where a high share of women permanently withdraw from the labor force after childbirth, the size of gender differences in unemployment strongly correlates with the Eurobarometer measure of perceived overall gender discrimination. Our findings suggest that family leave policies and institutions that facilitate the leave to work transition and the work-family balance are crucial to tackle the gender differences in unemployment in countries where the female unemployment rate exceeds that of men.
J70|Estimating the variance of decomposition effects| We derive the asymptotic variance of the Blinder--Oaxaca decomposition effects. We show that the delta method approach that builds on the assumption of fixed regressors understates true variability of the decomposition effects when regressors are stochastic. Our proposed variance estimator takes randomness of regressors into consideration. Our approach is applicable to both the linear and nonlinear decompositions. Previously, only a bootstrap method has been a valid option for nonlinear decompositions. As our derivation follows the general framework of m-estimation, it is straightforward to extend our variance estimator to a cluster-robust variance estimator. We demonstrate the finite-sample performance of our variance estimator with a Monte Carlo study and present a real-data application.
J70|How Dark Is Dark? Bright Lights, Big City, Racial Profiling|Grogger and Ridgeway (2006) use the daylight saving time shift to develop a police racial profiling test that is based on differences in driver race visibility and (hence) the race distribution of traffic stops across daylight and darkness. However, urban environments may be well lit at night, eroding the power of their test. We refine their test using streetlight location data in Syracuse, New York, and the results change in the direction of finding profiling of black drivers. Our preferred specification suggests that the odds of a black driver being stopped (relative to nonblack drivers) increase 15% in daylight compared to darkness.
J70|Employment, Capital and Seasonality in Selected Mediterranean Countries|The paper examines the influence of tourism industry on GDP, employment and capital investments in selected Mediterranean countries (Croatia, France, Greece, Italy and Spain). It points out important contribution which tourism has on economic activity and capital investment of selected economies and labour market. The analysis highlights the importance of tourism strength in generating employment. It synthesizes data on tourism employment and employment according to educational level. The results show that the quality of human capital is increasing but at the same time indicating gender discrimination in tourism labour market. Despite women being the majority of higher education degree holders in tourism, men hold upper-management and decision-making positions more often than women do. Lastly the paper indicates strong contribution of tourism sector in GDP and total employment in selected countries showing strong problem of seasonality. JEL Classification: J40, J70, Z30
J70|What Drives the Gender Gap? An Analysis Using Sexual Orientation|" type=""main""> Gender differences in productivity, if any, that are unobserved to researchers may produce an omitted variable bias in gender gap studies. Finding a subpopulation with less acute differences in unobserved characteristics would allow this concern to be addressed. This paper shows that gays and lesbians are one such interesting group—for the intra-household division of labor and its effects on market productivity cannot be sex-determined in this subpopulation. Indeed, there are substantial intra-household variations in labor market outcomes and other characteristics; the patterns and magnitudes are similar to different-sex households. Simultaneously, the gender wage gap between gays and lesbians is much smaller than in the heterosexual population; in specifications that control for geographic location it is near zero. These findings suggest that the intra-household division of labor is an important factor driving gender differences in labor market outcomes. Such an interpretation is consistent with recent studies that control for productivity."
J70|Job market signalling, stereotype threat and counter-stereotypical behaviour|I introduce stereotype threat in a multiple-productivity signalling model. Existence of multiple self-fulfilling stereotypes, which can generate statistical discrimination, is more likely if there is less variance in the ability distribution. A low endogenously correct stereotype about a group forces higher-ability group members to choose a higher-productivity and a higher separating signal, thereby engaging in counter-stereotypical behaviour. This counter-stereotypical behaviour causes the remaining partially pooling group to have lower average productivity, reinforcing the negative stereotype. The co-existence of stereotype threat and counter-stereotypical behaviour can explain the simultaneity of lower wages and higher education attainment in a group facing labour-market discrimination.
J70|Optimal Patronage|"We study the design of promotions in an organization where agents belong to groups that advance their cause. Examples and applications include political groups, ethnicities, agents motivated by the work in the public sector and corruption. In an overlapping generations model, juniors compete for promotions. Seniors have two kinds of discretion: direct discretion which allows an immediate advancement of their cause and promotion discretion (""patronage"") which allows a biasing of the promotion decision in favour of the juniors from their group. We consider two possible goals of the principal, maximizing juniors' efforts and affecting the steady-state composition of the senior level towards the preferred group, and show that patronage may be strictly positive in both of them. We also apply the second setting to the case of corruption."
J70|Eugene Meyer And The German Influence On The Origin Of Us Federal Financial Rescues|While federal financial rescues have become a common response to crises, federal provision of finance was not one of the original powers of the federal government. One man, Eugene Meyer, is largely responsible for the origin of federal financial rescues, through both the War Finance Corporation and Reconstruction Finance Corporation. Meyer learned laissez-faire economics from William Graham Sumner at Yale. However, German economist Adolph Wagner’s state-socialism philosophy heavily influenced Meyer’s thinking, and Meyer developed an interventionist philosophy. Serving in key government positions, Meyer put his beliefs into practice. These channels of influence and the resulting policies are examined.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J70|Foreign Fighters in Syria and Iraq and the socio-economic environment they faced at home: a comparison of European countries|The contribution looks at the gap in labour market and school outcomes between first and second generation migrants and non-migrants in European countries. It correlates these socio-economic data with the number of foreign fighters per million inhabitants. Far from offering a full, causal and micro-level model to understand the story completely, the contribution finds a clear and robust pattern across Europe.
J70|A detailed decomposition of synthetic cohort analysis|We present a detailed decomposition method and provide a Stata estimator to assess relative changes between two groups over time in a synthetic cohort analysis. Using the convergence of black–white wage gap between 1960 and 1970 as an example, we show that education accounts for 73% of the value of change in characteristics while experience explains only 3%.
J70|Myth or fact? The beauty premium across the wage distribution in Germany|We allow for differential effects of physical appearance across the wage distribution using a technique traditionally used in the finance literature. We find an average beauty premium of 2%–4% for women, which is concentrated at the bottom of the wage distribution. The average beauty premium for men is larger at 5%–7% and is present throughout the wage distribution. Both of these vary by education level. We find that differences in characteristics (such as age, family composition, labor market attributes, etc.) between beautiful and plain people contribute to the beauty premium identified using traditional regression models. Isolating this characteristic effect from the unexplained effect using decomposition techniques leads to smaller beauty premia.
J70|Do scholars in Economics and Finance react to alphabetical discrimination?|Prior literature has documented that the academic success of scholars in Economics partially depends on their surname initials’ position in the alphabet. This alphabetical discrimination is said to be mainly triggered by the alphabetical name-ordering rule prevalent in scholarly journals. We test whether scholars react to alphabetical discrimination for Economics as well as for Finance, where such discrimination has hitherto not been analyzed. We show that Economics scholars late in the alphabet seem to react to alphabetical discrimination as they refrain from publishing articles with three or more authors. In Finance, however, we do not find evidence of strategic co-authoring.
J70|Voluntary disclosure of a discriminated against characteristic|We intend to explain the phenomena of voluntary disclosure of a discriminated against characteristic by a worker in the labor market (or a relationship seeker in the relationship market). We assume that there are two types of employers (or relationship targets) – those who discriminate against the characteristic and those who do not – and that the discriminating employers would be less inclined to knowingly hire a discriminated against worker, and would also treat such a worker less favorably after hiring, than the nondiscriminating employers. Beforehand, workers do not know who the discriminating employers are, but a worker with the discriminated against characteristic can avoid the discriminating employers by voluntarily disclosing the characteristic – and he would disclose if the benefit from being more likely to be matched with a nondiscriminating employer exceeds the cost of being more likely to be unemployed. We also analyze the effect on the propensity to disclose from various factors including the constitutions and relative numbers of workers and employers, as well as the treatment gap toward the discriminated against worker by the two types of employers.
J70|How Does Explicit Discrimination in Job Ads Interact with Discrimination in Callbacks? Evidence form a Correspondence Study in Mexico City|Jobs ads often narrow their searches using gender or age requirements. These narrow searches do not rule out the existence of post-application discrimination. We test for such biases using a correspondence experiment in Mexico City. Some job advertisements explicitly discriminated against males, females, asked for beauty or requested a photograph. The experiment consisted on sending fictitious resumes responding to job advertisements with randomized information of the applicants, which included photographs representing three distinct phenotypes: white, mestizo and indigenous. The two forms of discrimination are correlated: explicitly discriminating firms tend to discriminate more against indigenous-looking females and against married females.
J70|Women Helping Women? Evidence from Private Sector Data on Workplace Hierarchies|We study gender spillovers in career advancement using eleven years of employer-employee matched data on white-collar workers at over 4,000 private sector workplaces in Norway. Our data allow us to define seven hierarchical ranks that are consistent across plants and over time and track promotions even for individuals who change employers. We find positive spillovers across ranks (flowing from higher-ranking to lower-ranking women) but negative spillovers within ranks. The finding of narrower gender gaps in promotions for workers with more female bosses suggests that policies that increase female representation in corporate leadership can have spillover benefits to women in lower ranks.
J70|Local signals and the returns to foreign education|This paper studies whether assessing foreign education with its host country equivalent, as practised in Australia, raises migrants' returns to schooling. Using unawareness between degrees obtained abroad versus Australia as instrument for undertaking the assessment, I find substantial wage improvements when foreign qualifications are assessed in both cross-sectional and panel estimations. This result is not solely attributable to selection, as this would imply an unrealistic shift in the distribution of unobserved characteristics among assessed and not-assessed migrants. Adding a local signal to foreign education emerges as effective policy to improve the transferability of human capital and migrants' economic assimilation.
J70|Does it pay to be beautiful?|It is a well-established view amongst economists that good-looking people have a better chance of employment and can earn more than those who are less physically attractive. A “beauty premium” is particularly apparent in jobs where there is a productivity gain associated with good looks, though this is different for women and men, and varies across countries. People also sort into occupations according to the relative returns to their physical characteristics; good-looking people take jobs where physical appearance is deemed important while less-attractive people steer away from them, or they are required to be more productive for the same wage.
J70|Modern gender roles and agricultural history: the Neolithic inheritance|This research proposes the hypothesis that societies with long histories of agriculture have less equality in gender roles as a consequence of more patriarchal values and beliefs regarding the proper role of women in society. We test this hypothesis in a world sample of countries, in a sample of European regions, as well as among immigrants and children of immigrants living in the US. This evidence reveals a significant negative relationship between years of agriculture and female labor force participation rates, as well as other measures of equality in contemporary gender roles. This finding is robust to the inclusion of an extensive set of possible confounders, including historical plough-use and the length of the growing season. We argue that two mechanisms can explain the result: (1) societies with longer agricultural histories had a higher level of technological advancement which in the Malthusian Epoch translated into higher fertility and a diminished role for women outside the home; (2) the transition to cereal agriculture led to a division of labor in which women spend more time on processing cereals rather than working in the field. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
J70|Econometric Analysis of Panel Data for Gender and Age Differences in the Unemployment in Romania|This paper presents the way in which is analyzed the impact of demand for labor, at the female and male population unemployed, in Romania, at NUTS II (8 regions), before the economic crisis and after installation. It uses econometric model with panel data, with the dependent variable, ILO unemployment rate for women and men, for the four age categories and, as independent variables, the rate of job vacancies across six major groups’ occupations: The data used are quarterly, obtained from the household labor force survey (LFS) and survey vacancies made/published by the National Statistic Institute.
J70|Multidimensional Approche to Unemployment among Romanian Youth|The paper presents an approach to unemployment analysis among youth aged between 15 and 24, with the aid of multidimensional exploratory techniques. It analyzes the evolution of unemployment by level of training, duration, as well as how it has affected the female and male population. The analysis is performed with quarterly data for the 1996 to 2014 period, offered by the National Institute of Statistics. The results highlight typologies of unemployment for this age group, traits of youth behavior on the labor market and towards the labor market.
J70|Mitos y realidades del mercado de trabajo español /Myths and Realities of the Spanish Labour Market|La crisis económica ha hecho renacer los viejos mitos sobre el mercado de trabajo español al disparar su tasa de paro, que ha alcanzado en el 2013 uno de los niveles más altos de la Unión Europea, sólo por detrás de Grecia. Así, el comportamiento cíclico del empleo, la rigidez del mercado laboral, las dificultades de acceso al empleo en el caso de los jóvenes y las mujeres, las disparidades salariales y la temporalidad del empleo, son algunos de los aspectos más criticados. El artículo ofrece una visión del mercado laboral español en compara¬ción con el de los países de su entorno, al tiempo que analiza el comportamiento de las variables del mercado de trabajo que más criticadas han sido. The economic crisis has revived the old myths about the Spanish labour market. It has shot our unemployment rate, which, in 2013, reached one of the highest levels of the European Union, after Greece. Thus, the cyclical behaviour of employment, labour market rigidity, difficulties in access to employment for youth and women, wage disparities and temporary employment, are some of the most criticized aspects. The article gives an overview of Spanish labour market compared to the neighbouring countries, and at the same time, it analyses the behaviour of labour market variables that have been most criticized.
J70|Existence of Structural Disadvantage among socio-religious groups: Is it a reality? An Analysis of Indian Labour Market|The labour market in India has been segmented into a formal and informal sector. More than 85% of the labour force is engaged in the informal sector. Since the informal sector does not follow labour laws such as provisions of minimum wage and social security, there is enough scope for differential treatment against certain weaker sections of society. We term this differential treatment as structural disadvantage. In this paper, we find that structural disadvantage against ST/SC Hindus relative to Upper class Hindus and Upper class Hindus relative to that of Other religious minorities does exist in India. But is non-existent against Muslims given our specification. What is a cause for worry is that the dis-advantage against ST/SCs Hindus has been increasing overtime whereas against Upper Hindus has considerably fallen. Increase in better quality of middle and higher education along with more reservations for ST/SCs in education and in formal labour markets can go a long way to abate the the magnitude of structural dis-advantage.
J70|Holdup and hiring discrimination with search friction|A holdup problem on workers’ skill investment arises when employers can adopt discriminatory hiring norm to extract higher than socially optimal profit. In such an economy, productivity (skills) and non-productivity oriented characteristics (discrimination) both matter when determining which worker has priority. The resulting firms’ preference is an intertwined ranking order, by virtue of which the strategic interdependence in skill choices between discriminated and favored groups endogenously arises. We consider frictional markets with either posted or bargained wage. With posted wage, discrimination makes all workers worse off, firms gain. Through that payoff interdependence, we identify two effects along which one group’s underinvestment may benefit all groups. With bargained wage, the discriminated (favored) group is always worse (better) off, and firms incur cost for an intermediated range of bargaining power when they discriminate. This suggests that the holdup-discrimination problem can be mitigated when search is random and wages bargained, a result in the opposite direction of Acemoglu and Shimer (1999b).
J70|Wage of Immigrants in the Canadian Labour Market|This paper uses 1991, 1996, 2001 and 2006 PUMF Canadian census data to evaluate how long it might take to the earnings of new immigrant’s men to catch up the earnings of their comparable Canadian-born men, based on the log-earning model from Grenier et al. (1995) when controlling for region effects. The results suggest that the estimate of years to equality and their respective confidence interval are roughly higher in the Grenier et al. (1995) model than the new ones which included region variables; after controlling for entry, assimilation and cohort effects. It will take in average forty-four years to the earnings of new immigrant’s men to catch up the earnings of their comparable Canadian-born, after controlling for cohort effects in the pooled sample data. The estimate and confidence interval of years to equality are also given for different regions across sectional and pooled data. The results suggest a large variation and differences of these estimates across regions and different cohorts.
J70|A Darwinian perspective on “exchange rate undervaluation”|This paper studies how status competition for marriage partners can generate surprising effects on the real exchange rate (RER). In theory, a rise in the sex ratio (increasing relative surplus of men) can generate a decline in the RER. The effect can be quantitatively large if the biological desire for a marriage partner is strong. We also provide within-China and cross-country empirical evidence to support the theory. As an application, our cross-country estimation suggests that sex ratio as well as other factors in the existing literature can account for the recent evolution in Chinese RER almost completely.
J70|(Not Finding a) Sequential Order Bias in Elite Level Gymnastics|Sequential order bias is often used to refer to timing biases in sequential order judging. However, there are two distinct biases within this structure: overall order bias, a bias throughout the event, and a sequential order bias, a judgment biased by the immediately preceding performance. I independently test these forms of bias using uniquely suitable data from elite level gymnastics. After modeling overall order bias, I find evidence that this bias exists, as scores escalate throughout the competition. However, I find no evidence of a sequential order bias; scores are independent of the immediately preceding performer.
J70|The Marriage Premium and Productivity: The Case of NBA Players|Numerous studies have shown that there is a marriage premium among male workers - married men's wages are higher than those of single men. One explanation for the existence of a marriage premium is increased productivity. While the estimation of workers' productivity in the standard labor market is often inaccurate and subjective, throughput can be estimated easily in professional sports. This study examines whether a marriage premium exists in relation to the performance and efficiency of professional league basketball players in the United States (NBA). A total marriage premium of 16.4% was found in a comprehensive analysis of the performance of all league players. A more thorough analysis showed that there is a higher marriage premium among international players compared to American players.
J70|Endogenous risk-taking and physical appearance of sex workers|Previous research found that physical appearance affects the risk-taking of sex workers through offering unprotected services. This paper utilizes a large individual-level data set covering 16,583 pay-for-sex contracts in 2011 and 2012 by 2,517 female suppliers in Germany. Results based on instrumental variables suggest that the incentive for risk-taking is about twice as high than when assuming random assignment of risk-taking. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
J70|Estimating Hispanic-White Wage Gaps Among Women: The Importance of Controlling for Cost of Living|Despite concern regarding labor market discrimination against Hispanics, previously published estimates show that Hispanic women earn higher hourly wages than white women with similar observable characteristics. This estimated wage premium is likely biased upwards because of the omission of an important control variable: cost of living. We show that Hispanic women live in locations (e.g., cities) with higher costs of living than whites. After we account for cost of living, the estimated Hispanic-white wage differential for non-immigrant women falls by approximately two-thirds. As a result, we find no statistically significant difference in wages between Hispanic and white women in the NLSY97. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
J70|On the Blurring of the Color Line: Wages and Employment for Black Males of Different Skin Tones|We evaluate the role skin color plays in earnings and employment for black males in the NLSY97. By applying a novel, scaled measure of skin tone to a nationally representative sample and by estimating the evolution of labor market differentials over time, we bridge a burgeoning literature on skin color with more established literatures on wage differentials and labor market discrimination. We find that while intraracial wage gaps widen with experience, gaps between the lightest-skinned black workers and whites remain constant, suggesting that a blurring of the color line elicits subtle yet meaningful variation in earnings differentials over time. © 2015 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
J70|Norms and Team Formation: Evidence from Research Partnerships|Scientific, artistic, and professional work is increasingly performed in groups. In this study, we seek to understand the extent to which norms influence the composition of such groups. In particular, we analyze the effect of the alphabetical norm in academic citations on the composition of research teams in economics. First, we present a model of endogenous team formation given the alphabetical norm and analyze the effect of the norm on the desirability of any two individuals to conduct a joint project. We then examine the last names of co-authors from nearly 100 academic journals and find a significant difference between the matching behavior of authors who obey the alphabetical norm relative to authors who violate the norm. We interpret this finding as evidence that the alphabetical norm results in distortion of the composition of research teams.
J70|The Effect of Perceived Regional Accents on Individual Economic Behavior: A Lab Experiment on Linguistic Performance, Cognitive Ratings and Economic Decisions|Does it matter if you speak with a regional accent? Speaking immediately reveals something of one's own social and cultural identity, be it consciously or unconsciously. Perceiving accents involves not only reconstructing such imprints but also augmenting them with particular attitudes and stereotypes. Even though we know much about attitudes and stereotypes that are transmitted by, e.g. skin color, names or physical attractiveness, we do not yet have satisfactory answers how accent perception affects human behavior. How do people act in economically relevant contexts when they are confronted with regional accents? This paper reports a laboratory experiment where we address this question. Participants in our experiment conduct cognitive tests where they can choose to either cooperate or compete with a randomly matched male opponent identified only via his rendering of a standardized text in either a regional accent or standard accent. We find a strong connection between the linguistic performance and the cognitive rating of the opponent. When matched with an opponent who speaks the accent of the participant's home region – the in-group opponent –, individuals tend to cooperate significantly more often. By contrast, they are more likely to compete when matched with an accent speaker from outside their home region, the out-group opponent. Our findings demonstrate, firstly, that the perception of an out-group accent leads not only to social discrimination but also influences economic decisions. Secondly, they suggest that this economic behavior is not necessarily attributable to the perception of a regional accent per se, but rather to the social rating of linguistic distance and the in-group/out-group perception it evokes.
J70|Unemployment, Underemployment, and Employment Opportunities: Results from a Correspondence Audit of the Labor Market for College Graduates|We conduct a résumé audit to estimate the impact of unemployment and underemployment on the employment prospects facing recent college graduates. We find no evidence that employers use current or past unemployment spells, regardless of their length, to inform hiring decisions. By contrast, college graduates who became underemployed after graduation receive about 15-30 percent fewer interview requests than job seekers who became “adequately” employed after graduation. Internship experience obtained while completing one's degree reduces the negative effects of underemployment substantially.
J70|Una panorámica de género sobre la segregación laboral en España|El presente trabajo tiene como objetivo cuantificar el grado en que hombres y mujeres se encuentran segregados en el mercado laboral español; es decir, en qué medida los asalariados se concentran en empleos de distinta naturaleza en función de su sexo. La cuestión es interesante dentro del campo más amplio de las diferencias salariales de género, dado que distintas preferencias o una mayor discriminación en contra de la mujer en algunos empleos puede dar lugar a que éstas se concentren en determinados segmentos del mercado. A su vez, esto provocaría un exceso de oferta de trabajo en tales segmentos, que podría deprimir los salarios recibidos individualmente en los empleos más feminizados (hipótesis de concentración; Bergman, 1974). Así, a partir de datos del Panel de Hogares de la Unión Europea (INE, 1994-2000), planteamos en primer lugar un análisis descriptivo del grado de segregación por género en ocupaciones y sectores de actividad en el mercado laboral español, investigando la remuneración promedio en las distintas categorías. Posteriormente, mediante la estimación de diversos modelos de ganancias, investigaremos en qué medida la tasa de feminización en las distintas ocupaciones y sectores de actividad se asocia a menores salarios individuales tanto para mujeres como hombres, contribuyendo a explicar, al menos en parte, el diferencial en salarios por género. Los resultados obtenidos, por tanto, supondrán una aportación a la literatura sobre discriminación salarial contra las mujeres en España.
J70|Socially gainful gender quotas|We study the impact of gender quotas on the acquisition of human capital. We assume that individuals’ formation of human capital is influenced by the prospect of landing high-pay top positions, and that these positions are regulated by gender-specific quotas. In the absence of quotas, women consider their chances of getting top positions to be lower than men's. The lure of top positions induces even men of relatively low ability to engage in human capital formation, whereas women of relatively high ability do not expect to get top positions and do not therefore engage in human capital formation. Gender quotas discourage men who are less efficient in forming human capital, and encourage women who are more efficient in forming human capital. We provide a condition under which the net result of the institution of gender quotas is an increase in human capital in the economy as a whole.
J70|The Harder The Task, The Higher The Score: Findings Of A Difficulty Bias|" type=""main"" xml:lang=""en""> Studies have found that going first or last in a sequential order contest leads to a biased outcome, commonly called order bias (or primacy and recency). Studies have also found that judges have a tendency to reward contestants they recognize with additional points, called reference bias. Controlling for known biases, we test for a new type of bias we refer to as “difficulty bias,” which reveals that athletes attempting more difficult routines receive higher execution scores, even when difficulty and execution are judged separately. Despite some identification challenges, we add to the literature by finding strong evidence of a difficulty bias in gymnastics. We also provide generalizations beyond athletics. (JEL L10, L83, D81, J70, Z1)"
J70|Discrimination And Employment Protection| We study a search model with employment protection legislation. We show that if the output from the match is uncertain at the hiring stage, a discriminatory equilibrium may exist in which workers with the same productive characteristics are subject to different hiring standards. If a bad match takes place, discriminated workers will take longer to find another job, prolonging the costly period for the firm. This makes it less profitable for firms to hire discriminated workers, thus sustaining the discrimination. In contrast to Becker's model, the existence of employers with a taste for discrimination may make it more profitable to discriminate, even for firms without discriminatory preferences.
J70|L'institution de la famille. Un nouveau motif de séparation entre Commons et Veblen|This paper deals with Commons’s and Veblen’s position on the specific institution of family. Commons adheres to the conventional pattern in which men are in charge of the livelihood and woman of the affective side. He admits the inequality between men and women. The historical evolution let simply expect the development of relationships based more on persuasion than on coercion. Veblen, for his part, backs feminism. According to him, women must become emancipated and work outside the home. Keeping them within the household enables men to establish a domination mainly expressed through “conspicuous” consumption and “vicarious” leisure. Classification JEL : B15, B25, J16, J70
J70|Awareness Reduces Racial Bias|Can raising awareness of racial bias subsequently reduce that bias? We address this question by exploiting the widespread media attention highlighting racial bias among professional basketball referees that occurred in May 2007 following the release of an academic study. Using new data, we confirm that racial bias persisted in the years after the study's original sample, but prior to the media coverage. Subsequent to the media coverage though, the bias completely disappeared. We examine potential mechanisms that may have produced this result and find that the most likely explanation is that upon becoming aware of their biases, individual referees changed their decision-making process. These results suggest that raising awareness of even subtle forms of bias can bring about meaningful change.
J70|Female Labour Force Participation in MENA's Manufacturing Sector: The Implications of Firm-related and National Factors|This paper examines the implications of firm-related and national factors for Female Labour Force Participation (FLFP) rates in manufacturing firms located in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region. The empirical investigation uses data derived from the World Bank's Enterprise Surveys database and applies fractional logit models to carry out the estimations. The results reveal positive implications of many firm-related factors, mainly private foreign ownership and exporting activities, for FLFP rates. National factors, such as economic development and gender equality, are also found to promote FLFP rates. These effects are generally found to be more important for women's overall labour participation rates than for women's non-production labour participation rates.
J70|Efectos del prestigo de los colegios de enseñanza media, de las Universidades y el aprendizaje del empleador sobre los salarios en Chile|This paper studies the effects of attending a private high school, the university ranking and the employer learning on wages. The empirical strategy is based on the Mincer-type wage regressions. The analysis was carried out using individual-level data from Chile. I find a large and significant effect on wages at the beginning of workers’ careers from attending a private high school and from attending a highly ranked university. These findings can be rationalized by the statistical discrimination and employer learning model since the effects of attending a private high school or highly ranked university decrease with experience. I construct an employer learning model to explain these decreases and find employers decrease by 50 per cent the weight they place on university ranking when setting wages in three years. My findings further indicate that incorporating university admission test percentile rankings in employment applications can significantly improve the market’s ability to appropriately assign wages by decreasing the information gap between potential employees and employers.
J70|Segregación Laboral Por Género En España: Efectos Sobre Los Salarios Y La Movilidad Salarial|Este trabajo presenta evidencia empírica sobre la segregación laboral de los asalariados por sexo en España, medida mediante su concentración en distintas ocupaciones y sectores de actividad. El principal objetivo es comprobar si la segregación de las mujeres hacia ciertos empleos provoca presión a la baja sobre los salarios de todos los trabajadores con empleos similares (hipótesis de concentración), tanto hombres como mujeres. A partir de datos del Panel de Hogares de la Unión Europea (INE, 1994-2000) se realiza en primer lugar un análisis descriptivo del grado de segregación y su efecto sobre los salarios promedio en cada categoría. La estimación de modelos de ganancias, tanto por MCO como por efectos fijos para datos de panel, permite verificar que una mayor proporción de mujeres en cada ocupación y sector de actividad se asocia con salarios más reducidos, tanto para hombres como para mujeres. Se comprueba, además, mediante las correspondientes descomposiciones de Oaxaca, que éste es un factor importante para explicar las diferencias salariales de género. Finalmente, se analiza la evolución interanual de los salarios de hombres y mujeres, a fin de evaluar la evolución de las diferencias según nivel ocupacional y comprobar así si éstas se mantendrán en el tiempo o por el contrario se prevé una mejora o empeoramiento de la situación actual.
J70|Detecting racial bias in speed discounting: Evidence from speeding tickets in Boston|We focus on a particular kind of discretionary behavior on the part of traffic officers when issuing speeding tickets – what we term speed discounting. It is anecdotally said that officers often give motorists a break by reporting a lower speed on their citation than the actual speed that they observe the vehicle doing. Verifying the level of police discretion in the speed discounting behavior and ascertaining the presence of racial bias among police officers are the main objectives of this paper. Using a unique dataset that contains the race of the officer and of the motorist and cited vehicle speed, we apply the rank order test and the difference-in-differences method to detect racial prejudice in the speed discounting behavior.
J70|Social inference and occupational choice: Type-based beliefs in a Bayesian model of class formation|Beliefs are a key motivator of individual behavior. As such, an understanding of how individuals’ beliefs develop is a prerequisite to understanding decision-making and behavior. While rational choice theory posits a Bayesian framework for belief formation, status construction theories argue that beliefs are strongly influenced by status typifications. In this paper, we develop a Bayesian model of belief formation in which individuals use (irrelevant) information on others’ observable type to bias their beliefs. This model is used to analyze a simple occupational choice setting, thereby shedding light on the micro–macro inter-relationship between observable type (e.g. race, gender) and social class.
J70|Labor Market Discrimination in Lima, Peru: Evidence from a Field Experiment|We analyze labor discrimination in Peru, a fast-growing country where much anecdotal evidence suggests the presence of discriminatory practices in everyday life. Using surnames (indigenous/white) as a proxy for race, we sent 4820 fictitious CVs in response to 1205 real job vacancies for professional, technical, and unskilled jobs in Lima. Overall, whites receive more callbacks than indigenous applicants, and beautiful applicants receive more callbacks than homely-looking ones. The magnitude and significance of the racial and beauty gaps in callbacks substantially vary by job category. In particular, better looks only seem to matter in getting more callbacks for professional jobs.
J70|Gender Wage Gap in Poland – Can It Be Explained by Differences in Observable Characteristics?|The raw gender wage gap over the period 1995-2012 amounts to app. 9% of hourly wage and is fairly stable. However, the raw gap does not account for differences in endowments between genders. In fact, the adjusted wage gap amounts to as much as 20% on average over the analysed period and shows some cyclical properties. The estimates of adjusted gender wage gap do not seem to exhibit any long-term trends, which suggest that in general neither demographic changes nor the progressing transition underlie the phenomenon of unequal pay for the same work among men and women.
J70|La Gran Recesión y el diferencial salarial por género en España|El artículo examina la evolución de las diferencias salariales entre hombres y mujeres en España entre los años 2002 y 2010. La evidencia obtenida sugiere que el notable empeoramiento de la coyuntura económi¬ca tras el inicio de la Gran Recesión ha tenido dos impactos reseñables sobre el diferencial salarial por razón de género. El primero es que se ha revertido la tendencia hacia la reducción de la brecha salarial por géne¬ro que se venía produciendo en la economía española con anterioridad, durante la expansión económica. El segundo es que se ha generado un perfil creciente de la brecha salarial a lo largo de la distribución de sala¬rios coincidente con el fenómeno de techo de cristal observado para otros países, pero no en períodos pre¬vios para España.
J70|Availability of Family-Friendly Work Practices and Implicit Wage Costs: New Evidence from Canada|Using Canadian linked employer-employee data covering the period 1999-2005, I examine the determinants of the availability of family-friendly care practices and the impact of such practices on wages. The results show that the provision of family-friendly practices is not mainly derived from socio-demographic characteristics of workers but rather from job- and firm-related factors. The findings also reveal that there is a trade-off between the provision of family-friendly practices and earnings indicating the existence of an implicit market in which workers face reductions in their wages. This result supports the hypothesis that family-friendly benefits are to some extent conceived as a gift or a signal that employers care about employees' family responsibilities and, in return, employees are willing to buy these practices and thus accept a wage offset.
J70|The Effect of Female Leadership on Establishment and Employee Outcomes: Evidence from Linked Employer-Employee Data|In this paper we use a large linked employer-employee data set on German establishments between 1993 and 2012 to investigate how the gender composition of the top layer of management affects a variety of establishment and worker outcomes. We use two different measures to identify the gender composition of the top layer based on direct survey data: the fraction of women among top managers, and the fraction of women among working proprietors. We document the following facts: a) There is a strong negative association between the fraction of women in the top layer of management and several establishment outcomes, among them business volume, investment, total wage bill per worker, total employment, and turnover; b) Establishments with a high fraction of women in the top layer of management are more likely to implement female-friendly policies, such as providing childcare facilities or promoting and mentoring female junior staff; c) The fraction of women in the top layer of management is also negatively associated with employment and wages, both male and female, full-time and part-time. However, all of these associations vanish when we include establishment fixed effects and establishment-specific time trends. This reveals a substantial sorting of female managers across establishments: small and less productive establishments that invest less, pay their employees lower wages, but are more female-friendly are more likely to be led by women.
J70|Native-Immigrant Gaps in Educational and School-to-Work Transitions in the Second Generation: The Role of Gender and Ethnicity|We study how native-immigrant (second generation) differences in educational trajectories and school-to-work transitions vary by gender. Using longitudinal Belgian data and adjusting for family background and educational sorting, we find that both male and female second-generation immigrants, especially Turks and Moroccans, lag natives in finishing secondary education and beginning tertiary education when schooling delay is taken into account, though the female gap is larger. The same is true for residual gaps in the transition to work: native males are 30% more likely than comparable Turkish males to be employed three months after leaving school, while the corresponding female gap is 60%. In addition, we study demographic behaviors (fertility, marriage and cohabitation) related to hypotheses that attribute educational and economic gaps to cultural differences between immigrants and natives.
J70|Labour Market Performance of Indigenous University Graduates in Australia: An ORU Perspective|Indigenous Australians experience disadvantage in many aspects of life, including the areas of health, socioeconomic and labour market status. This study uses data from the Graduate Destination Surveys 1999 to 2011 to assess the performance of Indigenous Australian graduates relative to non-Indigenous Australian graduates, using the Overeducation, Required, and Undereducation framework. Indigenous Australians are found to be less likely to be overeducated, and have comparable earnings with their non-Indigenous counterparts. On the whole, Indigenous graduates perform positively in the labour market and initiatives targeted at Indigenous participation and completion of higher education should be supported.
J70|The Wage Effects of Social Norms: Evidence of Deviations from Peers’ Body-Mass in Europe|We investigate wage effects of deviations from peer group body mass index (BMI) to evaluate the influence of social norms on wages. Our approach allows for disentangling the influence of the social norm from any (anticipated) productivity effects associated with deviations from a clinically recommended BMI. Estimates of between effects models for 9 European countries for the years 1998-2001 suggest that the influence of the social norm varies considerably between countries and wage penalties are rather found for upward deviations from the norm and for men.
J70|Employment status and perceived health condition: longitudinal data from Italy|The considerable increase of non-standard labor contracts, unemployment and inactivity rates raises the question of whether job insecurity and the lack of job opportunities affect physical and mental well-being differently from being employed with an open-ended contract. In this paper we offer evidence on the relationship between Self Reported Health Status (SRHS) and the employment status in Italy using the Survey on Household Income and Wealth; another aim is to investigate whether these potential inequalities have changed with the recent economic downturn (time period 2006-2010). We estimate an ordered logit model with SRHS as response variable based on a fixed-effects approach which has certain advantages with respect to the random-effects formulation and has not been applied before with SRHS data. The fixed-effects nature of the model also allows us to solve the problems of incidental parameters and non-random selection of individuals into different labor market categories. We find that temporary workers, unemployed and inactive individuals are worse off than permanent employees, especially males, young workers, and those living in the center and south of Italy. Health inequalities between unemployed/inactive and permanent workers widen over time for males and young workers, and arise in the north of the country as well.
J70|Employment, Earnings and Social Protection for Female Workers in Vietnam’s Informal Sector|The informal sector plays an important role in employment creation and poverty reduction among female laborers in Vietnam. Currently, around 70 percent to 80 percent of women in Vietnam work in the informal sector, of which about 60 percent are in the agriculture and 20 percent are in the non-agricultural sectors that are mostly affiliated with small-size production and service units. By investigating the employment, earnings, and social protection policy on female labor in Vietnam’s informal sector, this research is able to answer the following research questions: 1) How important is the role of female labor in the informal sector? 2) What are the important factors that influence job opportunities for women in the informal sector? 3) What are the policy implications on female labor in Vietnam's informal sector? 4) What are the causes of work insecurities among females in Vietnam's informal sector? 5) What areas of social protection are most needed by women workers? 6) How does one address these principal needs for social protection among female workers?
J70|Modified Labor Welfare Measures for Special Economic Zone & Implications|While labor laws are supposed to be operational in a SEZ, they are almost entirely absent in practice. This study is based mainly on secondary data through the evaluative literature review method and study of published and unpublished empirical research work. Data sources have been the reports of ministries of the Government of India and research papers in national and international journals of repute. The study suggests that there are a few companies in all the zones that abide by labor laws and recognize workers’ basic rights as well as the importance of healthy industrial relations. While some fortunate, skilled employees benefit from this positive trend, thousands of others, try to earn their living in an atmosphere of unsecure employment and uncertainty, finds the author.
J70|Problém „public-private pay gap“ v České republice<BR>[The Public-Private Pay Gap in the Czech Republic]|This article analyzes the public-private pay gap in the Czech Republic. To prove the existence of this pay gap and measure for its decomposition, we used Mincer wage equations and Blinder-Oaxaca-based decomposition techniques. Using data from the IV/2012 Quarterly Survey of Average Earnings, an econometrical model intended for regression and decomposition analyses was set. The most important part of the model is the dummy variable representing pertinence to the public sector of the national economy. We found that this dummy was statistically significant throughout the wage distribution, and that the value of its coefficient was negative and rising. This means that public sector employees up from the lowest deciles can be discriminated against in their salaries, and that this potential for discrimination increases as we look at the higher deciles. This finding was further examined by decomposition analysis which showed that on average, public sector employees are better equipped (have better characteristics) but have worse return on them (lower regression coefficients).
J70|La disqualification sociale des éleveurs intégrés|[paper in French]This study explored whether subcontracted breeders are socially disqualified in their profession by their own views or by those they believe to be expressed by the traditional breeders. The elements of social disqualification include social fragility (how they are perceived by the majority of conventional producers) and economic dependency on integrators who provide the selected animals, food and even therapeutics in some cases. While subcontracting breeding is largely regarded as a more economical means to produce livestock or poultry, this study hypothesized the subcontractors are socially disqualified on the grounds of having minimal professional autonomy or knowledge on the actual breeding or management of livestock. Comprehensive interviews were conducted with subcontracting breeders of calf, pig and poultry. We show that social disqualification of subcontractors is based on their feeling of over-dependence on the farm integrator and the integrators lack of recognition for their quality of work.
J70|Leadership behavior as a health-promoting resource for workers in low-skilled jobs and the moderating role of power distance orientation 96-116|In this study, the authors analyze leadership behaviors as potential health-promoting resources for low-skilled workers in a highly culturally diverse work setting. The authors hypothesize that subordinates’ and supervisors’ individual power distance orientations will moderate the effect of subordinates’ perceptions of leadership behavior and the subsequent effects on their well-being. Multilevel modeling is used to analyze a sample of data from 474 low-skilled employees (50% immigrants) and 35 direct supervisors from three German companies. Supporting the hypotheses, social support, task-related communication, and positive feedback, as expressions of esteem, are found to positively impact subordinates’ well-being, but individual consideration shows no significant effects. Furthermore, results confirm that supervisors’ power distance orientation moderates employees’ perceptions about supervisors’ positive feedback and the subsequent well-being effects. The moderating effect fails to hold for employees’ power distance orientation. Results indicate that supervisors can most effectively promote the health of low-skilled workers by showing esteem through positive feedback, but if the supervisor has high individual power distance orientation, the effect is attenuated.
J70|Youth Employability and Employment from the Perspective of Active Labour Market Policies|Abstract This literature review starts with a general discussion of young people and their various activities with special emphasis on youth unemployment and the outcome of alternative ways of measuring the prevalence of unemployment among young people. Thereafter the focus turns to measures targeted at young people based on the knowledge provided in relevant national as well as international literature. A distinction is thereby made between the role and impact of the education system, on the one hand, and active labour market policies (ALMP), on the other. The main reason for making this distinction is that early-year education and ALMP measures are typically targeted at differently aged young people. Apart from young people in general, attention is also paid to two special groups of young people: disabled young people and young immigrants. The review concludes with a discussion of main findings and their policy implications.
J70|Women Economists in Italy: A Bibliometric Analysis of their Scientific Production in the Past Decade|The aim of this paper is to offer a contribution to the analysis of the under-representation of women economists in academic positions in Italy, focusing on publications. In Italy women’s proportion of PhDs in Economics and Statistics has increased from 39 to 52 per cent in the last decade. Despite this progressive feminization of doctoral degrees in economics, the share of women working as academic staff in departments of Economics at Italian universities is still low: women constitute 28.1% of academic economists in Italy; in particular, women account for 16% of full professors and 27% of associate professors (data for 2010). The much-debated reform of the Italian university system (so called ‘Gelmini’ reform) is stressing the importance of ‘merit evaluation’ for academics and consequently it is supporting the use of bibliometric indicators for the purposes of selection. In this context, we aim to assess whether the systematic differences between Italian men and women in terms of academic career in economics, can be explained by their productivity in the last ten years. In order to do so, we first study, from a gender perspective, how the profile of economists who have become full professors in the last decade has changed in terms of individual characteristics and scientific productivity. Then, we study gender differences in the scientific output of academic economists since 2001, in order to find out about differences between men and women and completethe picture of the gender gap in career for economists in the Italian University.
J70|Gender and Promotions: Evidence from Academic Economists in France|The promotion system for French academic economists provides an interesting environment to examine the promotion gap between men and women. Promotions occur through national competitions for which we have information both on candidates and on those eligible to be candidates. Thus, we can examine the two stages of the process: application and success. Women are less likely to seek promotion, and this accounts for up to 76 percent of the promotion gap. Being a woman also reduces the probability of promotion conditional on applying, although the gender difference is not statistically significant. Our results highlight the importance of the decision to apply.
J70|Statistical Discrimination or Prejudice? A Large Sample Field Experiment| A model of racial discrimination provides testable implications for two features of statistical discriminators: differential treatment of signals by race and heterogeneous experience that shapes perception. We construct an experiment in the U.S. rental apartment market that distinguishes statistical discrimination from taste-based discrimination. Responses from over 14,000 rental inquiries with varying applicant quality show that landlords treat identical information from applicants with African American– and white-sounding names differently. This differential treatment varies by neighborhood racial composition and signal type in a manner consistent with statistical discrimination and in contrast to patterns predicted by a model of taste-based discrimination. © 2014 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
J70|Estimating the Impact of Trade and Offshoring on American Workers using the Current Population Surveys|We link industry-level data on trade and offshoring with individual-level worker data from the Current Population Surveys from 1984 to 2002. We find that occupational exposure to globalization is associated with significant wage effects, while industry exposure has no significant impact. We present evidence that globalization has put downward pressure on worker wages through the reallocation of workers away from higher-wage manufacturing jobs into other sectors and other occupations. Using a panel of workers, we find that occupation switching due to trade led to real wage losses of 12 to 17 percentage points. © 2014 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
J70|A Stata package for the application of semiparametric estimators of dose-response functions| In many observational studies, the treatment may not be binary or categorical but rather continuous, so the focus is on estimating a continuous dose–response function. In this article, we propose a set of programs that semiparametrically estimate the dose–response function of a continuous treatment under the unconfoundedness assumption. We focus on kernel methods and penalized spline models and use generalized propensity-score methods under continuous treatment regimes for covariate adjustment. Our programs use generalized linear models to estimate the generalized propensity score, allowing users to choose between alternative parametric assumptions. They also allow users to impose a common support condition and evaluate the balance of the covariates using various approaches. We illustrate our routines by estimating the effect of the prize amount on subsequent labor earnings for Massachusetts lottery winners, using data collected by Imbens, Rubin, and Sacerdote (2001, American Economic Review, 778–794).
J70|A Stata package for the application of semiparametric estimators of dose–response functions|In many observational studies, the treatment may not be binary or categorical but rather continuous, so the focus is on estimating a continuous dose– response function. In this article, we propose a set of programs that semiparametrically estimate the dose–response function of a continuous treatment under the unconfoundedness assumption. We focus on kernel methods and penalized spline models and use generalized propensity-score methods under continuous treatment regimes for covariate adjustment. Our programs use generalized linear models to estimate the generalized propensity score, allowing users to choose between alternative parametric assumptions. They also allow users to impose a common support condition and evaluate the balance of the covariates using various approaches. We illustrate our routines by estimating the effect of the prize amount on subsequent labor earnings for Massachusetts lottery winners, using data collected by Imbens, Rubin, and Sacerdote (2001, American Economic Review, 778–794). Copyright 2014 by StataCorp LP.
J70|Equality Of Opportunity Between Men And Women On The Labour Market – The Gender Pay Gap Within The Eu Member States|The actions taken for the promotion of the equality of opportunity between men and women and for eliminating the direct or the indirect discrimination apply to the field of employment as well as to the field of education, health, culture, information and the participation in the decision making process. Starting from one of the objectives of the Strategy for the equality of opportunity, being aware of the real situation of women participation compared to men participation to the economical and social life, this analysis offers a perspective on the equality of opportunity between men and women in the field of employment, seen based on the statistical data. Thus, in order to quantify this phenomenon using methods specific to the statistical analysis, we used the gender pay gap indicator pertaining to the EU member states per total economy, as well as per economical activities, and the research results show that on the EU level there are still significant gender pay gaps.
J70|Reconsidering Work-Life Balance, Prerequisite Of Diminishing The Wage Differential And Attaining Gender Equality Within The European Area|Some realities of social life within the European room such as individualising life styles, patterns of low fertility in all Member States, and demographic ageing amplifying care services’ requirements for the “fourth age” and some major objectives of the European policy like the target of 75% employment for individuals between 20 to 65 years of age, and the objective of “demographic renewal” have imposed reconsidering the work-life balance. The balanced division between the responsibilities of family life, including the ones between family and society is regarded as prerequisite of increasing integration of women into the labour force, allowing the transition from “male breadwinner model” to “dual earner model”, and at social scale same contribution to economic growth and sustainable development. This would unburden women from excessive weights in private life thus combating horizontal and vertical segregation on labour market and, consequently, diminishing wage differentials and attaining gender equality. This turned into a topic of concern for the European policy already since the nineties, making the object of several communications of the European Commission, decisions of the European Council and resolutions of the European Parliament which together represent a true political European commitment regarding gender equality.
J70|Pure ethnic gaps in educational attainment and school to work transitions: When do they arise?|This article decomposes the observed gaps in educational attainment and school-to-work transitions in Belgium between grandchildren of natives and of women of “non-Western” nationality into (i) differences in observed family endowments and (ii) a residual “pure ethnic gap”. It innovates by explicitly taking delays in educational attainment into account, by identifying the moments at which the pure ethnic gaps arise, by disentangling the decision to continue schooling at the end of a school year from the achievement within a particular grade, and by integrating the language spoken at home among observed family endowments. The pure ethnic gap in educational attainment is found to be small if delays are neglected, but substantial if not and for school-to-work transitions. It is shown that more than 20% of the pure ethnic gap in graduating from secondary school without delay originates in tenth grade. Language usage explains only part of the gap in school-to-work transitions for low educated.
J70|Subjective and Objective Indicators of Racial Progress|Progress in closing differences in many objective outcomes for blacks relative to whites has slowed, and even worsened, over the past 3 decades. However, over this period the racial gap in happiness has shrunk. In the early 1970s data revealed much lower levels of subjective well-being among blacks relative to whites. Investigating various measures of well-being, we find that the well-being of blacks has increased both absolutely and relative to that of whites. While a racial gap in well-being remains, two-fifths of the gap has closed, and these gains have occurred despite little progress in closing other racial gaps such as those in income, employment, and education. Much of the current racial gap in happiness can be explained by differences in the objective conditions of the lives of black and white Americans. Thus, making further progress will likely require progress in closing racial gaps in objective circumstances.
J70|Gender and competition: evidence from academic promotions in France|Differences in promotion across genders are still prevalent in many occupations. Recent work based on experimental evidence indicates that women participate less in or exert lower effort during contests. We exploit the unique features of the promotion system for French academics to look at women's attitudes towards competition in an actual labour market. Using data for academic economists over the period 1991-2008 we find that, conditional on entering the competition, there is no difference in promotions across the genders, which is difficult to reconcile with either discrimination or a poorer performance of women in contests. In contrast, women have a substantially lower probability than men to enter the promotion contest. Our data does not support that this gap is due to differences in costs or in preferences concerning department prestige, indicating that women are less willing than men to take part in contests.
J70|Brauchen wir eine gesetzliche Frauenquote?|Das Thema einer gesetzlichen Mindestquote für Frauen in Führungspositionen der Privatwirtschaft ist in Deutschland politisch und gesellschaftlich umstritten. Der Beitrag beleuchtet die Thematik näher und gibt eine Einschätzung der Frauenquote und weiterer Maßnahmen, die die Ungleichstellung von Frauen auf dem Arbeitsmarkt verringern können.
J70|The Concept Of “Sacred” In A Multidisciplinary Perspective|After Romania’s political and social changes from the 90s, non-theological university students have asked for the introduction of courses with a religious topic, such as: history of religion, philosophy of religion, psychology of religion, sociology of religion. Beyond an individual’s faith and religion, some knowledge about the religious phenomenon and how the sacred is manifested in cults and churches in our country seem necessary. Social life everywhere is impregnated with the religious dimension. Authentic or secular, “homo religiosus” is a reality that must be taken into account and to which any sociological approach relates.
J70|Informality and overeducation in the labor market of a developing country|In this paper, we explore the connection between labor market segmentation in two sectors, a modern protected formal sector and a traditional- unprotected-informal sector, and overeducation in a developing country. Informality is thought to have negative consequences, primarily through poorer working conditions, lack of social security, as well as low levels of productivity throughout the economy. This paper considers an aspect that has not been previously addressed, namely the fact that informality might also affect the way workers match their actual education with that required performing their job. We use micro-data from Colombia to test the relationship between overeducation and informality. Empirical results suggest that, once the endogeneity of employment choice has been accounted for, formal male workers are less likely to be overeducated. Interestingly, the propensity of being overeducated among women does not seem to be closely related to the employment choice.
J70|Inequality-adjusted gender wage differentials in Germany|This paper exploits data from the German Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP) to re-examine the gender wage gap in Germany on the basis of inequality-adjusted measures of wage differentials which fully account for gender differences in pay distributions. The inequality-adjusted gender pay gap measures are significantly larger than suggested by standard indicators, especially in East Germany. Women appear penalized twice, with both lower mean wages and greater wage inequality. A hypothetical risky investment question collected in 2004 in the SOEP is used to estimate individual risk aversion parameters and benchmark the ranges of inequality-adjusted wage differentials measures.
J70|Geography And Gender: Why Does the Gender Earnings Ratio Vary Across U.S. States?|The gender earnings ratio for year-round full-time workers varies substantially across U.S. states, with a range of 24 percentage points. I examine the source of this variation to assess whether it is genuine or reflects compositional differences that vary across state. Using CPS data, I estimate earnings models for men and women that incorporate state fixed effects in addition to standard human capital and demographic variables. I use those estimates to compute unadjusted and regression-adjusted estimates of the impact of state residence on the gender earnings ratio. I find that non-neutral gender-specific state effects on earnings persist even after control for other determinants of earnings and that states appear, therefore, to have a genuine effect on the gender earnings ratio. States with particularly low overall gender earnings ratios have consistently low ratios even within quite detailed education and occupation categories.
J70|Evidence on the Efficient Market Hypothesis from 44 Global Financial Market Indexes|This paper employs Granger causality tests to identify the impacts of historical information from global financial markets on their current levels in 30-day windows. The dataset consists primarily of the daily index levels of the (1) open, (2) close, (3) intra-day high, (4) intra-day low, and (5) trading volume series for the world’s 37 most influential equity market indexes, two crude oil prices, a gold price, and four major money market prices in the United States are used as controls. Our results indicate a persistent impact of historical information from global markets on their current levels, and this impact duplicates itself in a cyclical pattern consistently over decades. Such persistence in the patterns causes some market indexes to be upgraded to global or regional market leaders. These findings can be interpreted as constituting violations of the weak-form efficient market hypothesis. The results also reveal recursive impacts of information in these markets and the existence of an information digestion effect.
J70|Financial crisis, monetary policy reform and the monetary transmission mechanism in Turkey|Turkey experienced a financial crisis in 2000-2001 that led to significant financial reforms. The reforms resulted in a switch to a floating exchange rate, granted greater central bank independence and pursuit of a more credible monetary policy. Investigation of the channels of monetary policy in both periods finds that monetary policy's output effects have been strengthened considerable by the reforms. In the pre-crisis period monetary policy was highly inflationary, while in the post-crisis period, monetary policy targets low inflation and has become a tool for output stabilization. These results support the importance of central bank independence and a credible policy.
J70|Fat chance! Obesity and the transition from unemployment to employment|This paper focuses on estimating the magnitude of any potential weight discrimination by examining whether obese job applicants in Germany get treated or behave differently from non-obese applicants. Based on two waves of rich survey data from the IZA Evaluation dataset, which includes measures that control for education, demographic characteristics, labor market history, psychological factors and health, we estimate differences in job search behavior and labor market outcomes between obese/overweight and normal weight individuals. Unlike other observational studies which are generally based on obese and non-obese individuals who might already be at different points in the job ladder (e.g., household surveys), in our data, individuals are newly unemployed and all start from the same point. The only subgroup we find in our data experiencing any possible form of negative labor market outcomes is obese women. Despite making more job applications and engaging more in job training programs, we find some indications that they experienced worse (or at best similar) employment outcomes than normal weight women. Obese women who found a job also had significantly lower wages than normal weight women.
J70|Race and Marriage in the Labor Market: A Discrimination Correspondence Study in a Developing Country|In Mexico, as in most Latin American countries with indigenous populations, it is commonly believed that European phenotypes are preferred to mestizo or indigenous phenotypes. However, it is hard to test for such racial biases in the labor market using official statistics since race can only be inferred from native language. The experiment consisted on sending fictitious curriculums responding to job advertisements with randomized information of the applicants. The resumes included photographs representing three distinct phenotypes: Caucasian, mestizo, and indigenous. We find that indigenous looking females are discriminated against, but the effect is not present for males.
J70|Scientific (wo)manpower – gender and the composition and earnings of PhDs in Sweden|Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to investigate to what extent male and female PhDs choose academic vs non-academic employment. Further, it analyses gender earnings differences in the academic and non-academic labour markets. Design/methodology/approach - Rich Swedish cross-sectional register data on the stock of PhDs in 2004 is used for investigating differences between male and female PhDs in earnings levels and in the choice of labour market (in academia or outside academia). Findings - No significant gender differences prevail for the probability of becoming academically employed. On average, women earn 16 per cent less than men, and the academically employed earn 26 per cent less than PhDs outside academia. In the non-academic labour market, women earn approximately 25 per cent less than men, and this gender gap stays constant over time. Within academia, men and women start at similar earnings levels, but higher returns to graduate experience for men causes the gender earnings differences to increase over time to approximately 18 per cent by ten years after graduation. Practical implications - Provides background information relevant for efforts to make efficient use of female scientific human capital. Originality/value - The study is the first to investigate career-choice and earnings of Swedish PhDs. Further, the study is the first to investigate both the academic and the non-academic labour markets.
J70|Efectos de los ingresos no reportados en el nivel y tendencia de la pobreza laboral en México|The proportion of wage workers with missing labor income has recently increased in Mexico. In this article, I correct the missing labor income through imputation methods. The official measurement of labor poverty indicates an increase from 42% to 53% in the 2005-2012 period, but poverty measured with imputed income increases only from 36% to 40%, a much lower increase than the one we observe. The results imply that policy makers should include in their statistics individuals with missing income and report statistics with and without correcting for missing income.
J70|Are females scared of competing with males? Results from a field experiment|We conducted a field experiment involving 720 Italian undergraduate students to investigate the existence of gender differences in performance in competitive settings and whether performance is affected by one's opponent gender. The experimental design was aimed at neutralizing other differences in psychological attitudes, such as self-confidence and risk aversion, that are typically considered as potential explanations of gender differences in competitive environments. Students were invited to undertake a midterm exam under a tournament scheme having as a prize some bonus points to add to the final grade. Students competed in pairs of equal predicted ability but different gender composition. In a competitive setting in which risk aversion, feedback provision and self-confidence have little relevance, we find that women tend to perform similarly to men. The gender of one's competitor does not play any role in shaping students’ behavior. Men and women perform similarly both in the competitive and in the non-competitive environment.
J70|Perceived Job Discrimination in Australia - Its Correlates and Consequences|We use data from a nationally representative Australian household panel survey to examine the extent and nature of self-reported job discrimination, its correlates, and its associations with various employment outcomes and measures of subjective wellbeing. We find that approximately 8.5 per cent of job applicants and 7.5 per cent of employees report being discriminated against in the preceding two years, most commonly on the basis of their age. Gender is found to be a common factor predicting perceived discrimination in both job applications and in the course of employment, but the determinants of these two types of discrimination is otherwise somewhat different. In particular, age is a significant determinant of perceived discrimination in job applications only, while being a mother of young children is a significant factor only for discrimination in the course of employment. We also find that, holding other traits constant, ethnic and religious minorities are not significantly more likely to perceive they have been discriminated against. Little evidence of adverse effects of perceived job discrimination is found for wage levels, wage changes and the probability of promotion, but we find large negative effects on subjective outcomes such as job satisfaction and self-assessed probability of job loss.
J70|Differences in body mass indices for males imprisoned in the 19th century American South|A limited but increasing amount of research is being done on historical body mass index values. This paper uses 19th century Tennessee State Penitentiary records to demonstrate that Southern BMI values were in the normal range. There is little evidence of a Southern mulatto BMI advantage. Farmer BMIs were consistently heavier than non-farmers. Southern black BMIs remained constant throughout the late 19th and early 20th centuries; however, white BMIs declined during the early 20th century. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC. 2013
J70|The Allocation of Talent and U.S. Economic Growth|Over the last 50 years, there has been a remarkable convergence in the occupational distribution between white men, women, and blacks. We measure the macroeconomic consequences of this convergence through the prism of a Roy model of occupational choice in which women and blacks face frictions in the labor market and in the accumulation of human capital. The changing frictions implied by the observed occupational convergence account for 15 to 20 percent of growth in aggregate output per worker since 1960.
J70|Inequality-Adjusted Gender Wage Differentials in Germany|This paper exploits data from the German Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP) to re-examine the gender wage gap in Germany on the basis of inequality-adjusted measures of wage differentials which fully account for gender differences in pay distributions. The inequality-adjusted gender pay gap measures are significantly larger than suggested by standard indicators, especially in East Germany. Women appear penalized twice, with both lower mean wages and greater wage inequality. A hypothetical risky investment question collected in 2004 in the SOEP is used to estimate individual risk aversion parameters and benchmark the ranges of inequality-adjusted wage differentials measures.
J70|Utilising self-report data to measure racial discrimination in the labour market|Although economists have developed a series of approaches to modelling the existence of labour market discrimination, rarely is this topic examined by analysing self-report survey data. After reviewing theories and empirical models of labour market discrimination, we examine self-reported experience of discrimination at different stages in the labour market, among three racial groups utilising U.S. data from the 2001-2003 National Survey of American Life. Our findings indicate that African Americans and Caribbean blacks consistently report more experience of discrimination in the labour market than their non-Hispanic white counterparts. At different stages of the labour market, including hiring, termination and promotion, these groups are more likely to report discrimination than non-Hispanic whites. After controlling for social desirability bias and several human capital and socio-demographic covariates, the results remain robust for African Americans. However, the findings for Caribbean blacks were no longer significant after adjusting for social desirability bias. Although self-report data is rarely utilised to assess racial discrimination in labour economics, our study confirms the utility of this approach as demonstrated in similar research from other disciplines. Our results indicate that after adjusting for relevant confounders self-report survey data is a viable approach to estimating racial discrimination in the labour market. Implications of the study and directions for future research are provided.
J70|African Jobless Growth Morphology:Vulnerabilities and Policy Responses|As by product of economic growth, jobs are indeed transformational. In other words, efficiency increases as workers get better at what they do (as more productive jobs appear and less productive one disappear). In fact societies flourish as jobs bring together people from different ethnic and social backgrounds while providing alternatives to conflict. Unfortunately, in many African countries, unemployment rates are low and growth is seldom jobless. Regrettably, most of the poor work long hours and cannot make ends meet while the violation of basic human rights is not uncommon. Again, youth unemployment and unmet job expectations are alarming. Consequently, this paper provides a framework that cuts across sectors and shows that the best policy responses vary across African countries (depending on their levels of development, endowments, demography and institutions). Thus, at all stages of development, forcing economic production to spread evenly across areas is both elusive and expensive. Policy makers should therefore identify and execute strategies that balance development outcomes across areas by means of domestic integration instruments. However, in places where integration is hardest, the policy response should be comprehensively total: institutions that unite, infrastructure that connects, interventions that target, incentives that motivate as well as information and communication technologies that enables or drives.
J70|Male-Female Labor Market Participation and the Extent of Gender-Based Wage Discrimination in Turkey|A gender differential in wages is considered to be discriminatory if the differential cannot be explained by gender differences in productivity. Numerous studies have been performed to measure the extent of gender wage discrimination in countries across the world, and most report a substantial amount of wage differential after adjusting for productivity differences. This differential has been attributed to labor market discrimination against women. Using data from 2003 and 2010 Household Budget Surveys conducted by Turkish Statistical Institute, this study examines the male-female earnings differentials and measures the extent of pay discrimination in Turkey. To analyze the components of the earnings gap, two methodologies are employed: The standard Oaxaca–Blinder decomposition method and the Juhn–Murphy–Pierce decomposition method. The results of the study indicate that in both years, a significant portion of the observed wage differential is attributable to wage discrimination which records a rise over the period.
J70|The Impact of Single Agents on Gender Equity in Organizations – The Case of Austrian Equal Opportunity Active Works Councillors|The aim of this article is to explore the influence of single agents on gender equity in organizations. In our qualitative study, we focus on works councillors as equal opportunity agents in large profit organizations in Austria, because of their unique institutional position regarding organizational change in the direction of gender equity. This study is based on the concept of social positioning within the theory of structuration (Giddens 1992). We organize our empirical material along Stones’ (2005) conception of the ‘quadripartite nature of structuration’, including external and internal structures, activities and outcomes. In the discussion of reasons for the rather limited impact equal opportunity active works councillors have on gender equity, we emphasize the constitutive approach of co-determination and a liberal concept of equal opportunity policies. Accordingly, works councillors broadly accept gendered structures in organizations and mainly deal with obvious, unfair (formal) procedures or individual cases of discrimination as the outcomes of these structures.
J70|Discriminación Salarial De Género Y Pobreza En Cataluña|Este trabajo analiza los beneficios de la eliminación de la discriminación salarial de género en la erradicación de la pobreza en Cataluña. A partir de los datos de la Encuesta de Condiciones de Vida (ECV) para el periodo entre 2005 y 2009, calculamos una distribución contrafactual de los ingresos de los hogares en la que las mujeres son remuneradas por sus características igual que los hombres. Los resultados nos permiten predecir una reducción del riesgo de pobreza para el conjunto de la población catalana de entre un 1,5 y un 2%, siendo los niños (y especialmente los adolescentes) algunos de los colectivos más beneficiados. A la luz de los resultados, argumentamos que las medidas que intentan igualar la posición de las mujeres y los hombres en el mercado de trabajo, deberían contemplarse como una política más de lucha contra la pobreza.
J70|Revisiting Evidence of Labor Market Discrimination against Homosexuals and the Effects of Anti-Discriminatory Laws|Anti-discrimination laws on the basis of sexual orientation have been adopted by many states to counteract perceived discrimination in the labor market. However, we find the evidence of earnings disparities between homosexual and heterosexual men to be extremely sensitive to the choice of reference group. Relative to married heterosexual men, gay men earn less, and, over time, anti-discriminatory laws lessen this gap. Relative to unmarried, coupled heterosexual men, however, gay men experience similar levels of earnings. The choice of reference group leads to opposite conclusions regarding the effectiveness and necessity of an anti-discriminatory law for homosexual men, which highlights the need to construct reference groups with care. We also find that homosexual women experience similar earnings to their heterosexual female counterparts, and the law has no effect on these relative wages.
J70|Competition, Takeovers, and Gender Discrimination|Theories of taste-based discrimination predict that competitive pressures will drive discriminatory behavior out of the market. The authors analyze how firm takeovers and product market competition affect firms' gender composition and gender wage gap using detailed matched employer-employee data. Taking into account several endogeneity concerns while using a difference- in- difference framework, they find that the share of female employees increases as a result of an ownership change when product market competition is weak. Furthermore, a takeover reduces the gender wage gap. Although the estimated effects are small, the results support the main theoretical predictions.
J70|The Intolerance Multiplier|If prejudice divides and weakens the working class, then capital owners can impose more inequality without fearing unified resistance. Frustrated workers turn on each other as scapegoats, blaming their economic hardship on diversity (in terms of race, religion, ethnicity, immigration status, age, gender, education, sexual preference, and so on). If a demagogue shifts the intolerance curve upward, a multiplier process ensues: intolerance causes inequality, and inequality causes intolerance. Religious nationalism, right-wing control of the media, or a facade of democracy will shift the resistance curve rightward. Under fascism, hate speech is reinforced by police power, so both curves shift. Liberal arts education and exposure to cultural diversity may counter these shifts.
J70|Democratizando la democracia. Estrategias de género de las trabajadoras agrícolas españolas (1977-1990)|This article draws attention to the feeble historical interest exhibited in traditional historiography towards the study of Spain’s rural women. It also aims to break the completely stereotypical and antiquated images that still govern the explanatory paradigms of historical analysis, inherited from historical literature. In contrast with images of passivity, backwardness or ignorance, our purpose is to show rural women as a «strategic collective» and as potential «agents of change», endowed with indisputable relevance in the social and political realms of the agrarian economy. To fulfil these objectives, this article presents the importance of rural women in the implementation and development of democracy in Spain. We discuss the strategies deployed by rural women in order to harmonise the asymmetry of gender relations that carried over into the current democratic system. The frequent demands and mobilisations of peasant women opened a gender perspective in the concrete and highly masculinised activities of agriculture, favouring the adoption of public policies aimed at achieving a more egalitarian rural society.
J70|Generalized measures of wage differentials|This paper considers measures of wage differentials not solely determined by mean comparisons but summarizing differences across complete wage distributions. The approach builds on considerations of risk or inequality aversion and on standard expected utility concepts. In an application to the gender pay gap in Luxembourg the disadvantage of women persists according to the proposed measures: lower mean wages for women are not compensated by differences in higher moments of wage distributions (e.g., by less dispersion) at least for realistic assumptions about women preferences toward risk and inequality. The paper also illustrates an original empirical model for wage distributions in the presence of covariates and under endogenous labour market participation. Copyright Springer-Verlag 2013
J70|Gender Wage Gaps Reconsidered: A Structural Approach Using Matched Employer-Employee Data|In this paper, we study the extent to which wage differentials between men and women can be explained by differences in productivity, disparities in friction patterns, segregation, and wage discrimination. For this purpose, we propose an equilibrium search model that features rent-splitting, on-the-job search, and two-sided heterogeneity in productivity. The model is estimated using German matched employer-employee data. Overall, the results reveal that female workers are less productive and more mobile than males. In addition, female workers have on average slightly lower bargaining power than their male counterparts.
J70|Gender Gap in Labor Market Participation in Romania|This article concentrates on the problem of the access of females to labor market in Romania. The raw gap in labor market participation rates over the period 1997-2008 amounts to app. 22%. Demographic characteristics do not seem to explain this gap - the adjusted gap in labor market participation obtained after controlling for age, education, place of living, and presence of young kids in the household is as high as the raw gap. After adding to the explanatory characteristics the existence of previous working experience, part of the gap, amounting to around 7%, becomes explained by differences in endowments. This means that although demographic characteristics do not explain differences in participation of females and males in Romanian labor market, job-related characteristic may do so. However, access to valuable job-related characteristics for females might be also determined by discriminatory behavior, thus it is not clear if they should be controlled for when decomposing gender gaps. In order to decompose gender gaps in labor market participation in Romania we implemented relatively new non-parametric decomposition technique. After covering already 11 years of data, we were not able to identify any improvement when it comes to access of females to labor market in Romania. According to our findings the gender gap in labor market participation in Romania has even increased over the analyzed period.
J70|Prejudice in Swiss Naturalization Decisions: Theory and Evidence|Recent empirical studies have revealed prejudice based on country of origin in the Swiss naturalization system before courts banned closed ballot voting in 2003. Although the switch to elected councils has ameliorated the situation for the discriminated applicant groups, little has been known about the issue since due to lack of microlevel data. This paper presents an alternative approach. I propose a simple model of a council deciding whether to grant applicants citizenships. The model implies an outcome test for relative prejudice using rejection rates grouped by country of origin. Importantly, this specific outcome test does not suffer from the well-known infra-marginality problem. The test is implemented with unique data from 2003 to 2012 raised from large Swiss municipalities to test the hypothesis of no relative prejudice.
J70|Gender Inequality In The Labour Market In Serbia|Many positive changes have been implemented in Serbia since the beginning of the transition period, and while these improve the position of women in the labour market the main indicators still show significant gender differences. Women are the majority of the unemployed and there are significant differences betweenregions and districts, in fields of work, experience, and the length of time taken to find work. An analysis of trends in the labour market over the past decade shows a worsening of the position of women, with a lower participation in economic activity and employment, rising unemployment rates, and an increase in the average time to find work and the proportion of women in traditionally female occupations.Problemsof genderinequalitydemandmore attentionin order to improve existing legislation and the implementation of economic policies in the labour market which will ensure higher participation ofwomen with lower education, with special emphasis on increasing the motivation of these women to undergo continuing education and training.
J70|The Russian–Ukrainian earnings divide|Ethnic differences are often considered to be powerful sources of diverse economic behaviour. In this paper, we investigate whether and how ethnicity affects Ukrainian labour market outcomes. Using micro data from the Ukrainian Longitudinal Monitoring Survey (ULMS) and Oaxaca-Blinder decomposition of earnings, we find a persistent and rising labour market divide between ethnic Russians and Ukrainians throughout Ukraine’s transition era. We establish that language rather than nationality is the key factor behind this ethnic premium favouring Russians. Our findings further document that this premium is larger among males than among females.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J70|Nineteenth Century Biological Conditions on the High Central Plains|Little work has been done on the biological conditions for the US Central Plains. Throughout the late 19th and early 20th centuries, black and white statures in Nebraska increased with economic development, indicating that biological conditions improved as Nebraska’s output market and agricultural sectors embedded. Illustrating the importance of rural environments with stature growth, farm laborers were taller than common laborers. Urbanization and industrialization were significant in stature variation, and closer proximity to trade routes and waterways were inversely related with statures in Nebraska.
J70|Bounds of Unfair Inequality of Opportunity: Theory and Evidence for Germany and the US|Previous estimates of inequality of opportunity (IOp) are lower bounds because of the unobservability of the full set of endowed characteristics beyond the sphere of individual responsibility. Knowing the true size of unfair IOp, however, is important for the acceptance of (some) inequality and the design of redistributive policies as underestimating the true amount of IOp might lead to too little redistribution. This paper is the first to suggest an upper bound estimator. We illustrate our approach by comparing Germany and the US based on harmonized micro data. We find significant, sizeable and robust differences between lower and upper bound estimates - both for gross and net earnings based on either periodical or permanent income - for both countries. We discuss the cross-country differences and (surprising) similarities in IOp in the light of differences in social mobility and persistence.
J70|¿Existe discriminación étnica racial en Cali? Un análisis a partir de regresión cuantílica|El presente artículo analiza el problema de discriminación laboral para el grupo de afrodescendientes en el área metropolitana de Cali. La descomposición de las brechas salariales en los diferentes puntos de la distribución del salario (metodología de Melly) permite identificar los segmentos de población en los cuales los diferenciales son significativos. Los resultados sugieren la existencia de diferencias salariales tanto por condición étnica racial como de género, pero entre los grupos étnicos raciales se identifican comportamientos discriminatorios en el 50 por ciento superior de la distribución en contra de los afrodescendientes
J70|Diferencias salariales por discapacidad y Centros Especiales de Empleo|En este artículo se estiman las diferencias salariales por discapacidad, atendiendo especialmente a las diferencias salariales existentes en los Centros Especiales de Empleo (CEE). Se encuentra que los trabajadores con discapacidad en un CEE ganan en torno a un 93% de lo que ganan en una empresa ordinaria. El 58% de esta diferencia salarial no es atribuible a diferencias en características. Conforme crece la severidad de la discapacidad la parte no atribuible a características disminuye, lo cual sugiere la existencia de discriminación estadística, tanto en CEE como en empresas ordinarias. El análisis está basado en datos administrativos de la Seguridad Social.
J70|Changes over time in the return to education in urban China: Conventional and ORU estimates|Studies of the return to education in urban China have reported that this has increased over time, and that females typically have a higher return than males. In this paper we adopt a framework provided by the over education/required education/under education literature, and the decomposition developed by Chiswick and Miller (2008), to investigate the reasons for these findings. The finding by Chen and Hamori (2009), from analysis of data for 2004 and 2006, of the return to schooling for males exceeding that for females, is also examined using this decomposition.
J70|A stochastic dominance approach to the measurement of discrimination|This note suggests a bridge between stochastic dominance (Rothschild and Stiglitz, 1970 [17], 1973 [18]), inequality measurement (Atkinson, 1970 [1]) and discrimination measurement (Gastwirth, 1975 [10]). Discrimination orderings are defined and illustrated through discrimination curves, in the same spirit as stochastic dominance analysis. The main result, which links the second order discrimination curve and the Gastwirth discrimination index, also generalizes the equivalence between Generalized Lorenz dominance and second order stochastic dominance.
J70|Occupational selection in multilingual labor markets: the case of Catalonia|Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to measure the effect that knowing the Catalan language has on individuals’ comparative advantage to perform certain jobs in Catalonia (Spain), where Catalan and Spanish coexist. Design/methodology/approach - Using census data for 1991 and 1996, and for individuals born in Spain, the paper first estimates a Probit model for individuals’ level of Catalan proficiency in order to correct for the possible endogeneity of Catalan knowledge, as it may be jointly determined with occupational selection or be a reflection of unobserved human capital or innate ability. Then, it estimates a bivariate Probit model for the probability of choosing a given occupation conditional on a given Catalan proficiency level. Findings - The paper finds that advanced proficiency in Catalan reinforces selection into being employed, being an entrepreneur, and into white-collar occupations and communication-intensive jobs. Being able to read and speak Catalan increases selection into white collar occupations by between 11 and 16 percentage points, while writing Catalan increases by 4 to 7 percentage points the probability of engaging in services, and government and educational activities. Practical implications - Because census data are cross-sectional panel effects on language selection cannot be analyzed. Nevertheless, the paper's results suggest that investing in learning the local language, at the firm and the government level, improves job matching and assimilation of workers to multilingual economies. The authors suggest a cost-benefit analysis to assess the effectiveness of language policies for further research. Originality/value - The results contribute to the scarce literature on the economic value of a language, i.e. on how much language knowledge as a form of human capital reinforces individuals’ comparative advantage to perform certain tasks.
J70|A Detailed Decomposition for Limited Dependent Variable Models|In this paper, we consider a detailed decomposition method for limited dependent variable models. That means, we propose a method to decompose the differential in the (limited dependent) outcome variable between two groups into the contributions of the explanatory variables. We provide a theoretical derivation of the detailed decomposition and show how this decomposition can be estimated consistently. In contrast to decomposition approaches already presented in the literature, our method leads to a unique decomposition and accounts for the nonlinearity of the underlying econometric model in a rather intuitive way. Our results can be applied to the most common limited dependent variable models such as probit, logit and tobit models.
J70|Gender Discrimination in the Australian Graduate Labour Market|This paper examines gender discrimination in the Australian graduate labour market, using data from the Graduate Destination Surveys 1999-2009. A framework of analysis provided by the over-education/required education/under-education literature is applied. A smaller gender wage gap is found for university graduates than that reported for all workers in earlier studies. It is shown, however, that the gender wage gap widens with the age at graduation. This pattern is argued to reflect the influence of the mismeasurement of actual labour market experience in the conventional education and experience earnings equation on the standardised gender pay gap. Female graduates are less likely to be overeducated, compared to male graduates. Over-education, while associated with substantial penalties, is not a substantial contributor to the gender wage gap.
J70|Myth or Fact? The Beauty Premium across the Wage Distribution|We apply an innovative technique to allow for differential effects of physical appearance and self-confidence across the wage distribution, as traditional methods can confound opposing effects at either end of the wage distribution. Comparing the effects of beauty and confidence measures in two countries (Germany and Luxembourg), we find that wages are more driven by looks than self-esteem. Counterfactual wage distributions, constructed using distribution regression, show a beauty premium for women at the bottom of the wage distribution. However, most of this is explained by the fact that attractive women have better labor market attributes than their unattractive counterparts. We find a large wage premium for attractive men throughout the wage distribution which is largely unexplained by labor market attributes. There is a small wage penalty for self-confident individuals, particularly men, although their labor market characteristics are generally better than their less confident counterparts. We show that the difference in characteristics between beautiful and plain people contributes to the beauty premium identified using traditional models, particularly for women. Isolating the characteristic effect from the unexplained effect of beauty on wages leads to smaller beauty premium for women.
J70|Donne e lavoro in Italia e nelle Marche. Il punto sulle dif?colta e sulle prospettive|Le donne sono altamente penalizzate nel mercato del lavoro italiano. Non e solo un problema di crisi economica, molti fattori impediscono un aumento del tasso di partecipazione femminile in Italia. Tali fattori vengono analizzati nel paper. In particolare, si esamina la relazione fra donne e mercato del lavoro nella regione Marche, con particolare riferimento a disoccupazione, utilizzo e sottoutilizzo del lavoro femminile, conciliazione fra lavoro e sfera familiare. Nel paper vengono presentate due indagini: la prima riguarda i giovani della regione Marche, la seconda le disoccupate del Comune di Senigallia.
J70|Discriminación en el Perú: Exploraciones en el Estado, la empresa y el mercado laboral|Hay dos temas transversales que se abordan en este volumen; uno es la exclusión, definida como la restricción de la posibilidad de acceso a algún servicio, bien público u oportunidad, entendida esta en el sentido amplio. La segunda es la discriminación, entendida como el trato desigual, asumiendo que todos tienen, en principio, iguales oportunidades de acceso. Sin duda, estos dos son temas de la mayor importancia; en particular en un contexto de crecimiento macroeconómico estable, en el que, comprensiblemente, las voces que abogan por incluir a los grupos tradicionalmente desfavorecidos se escuchan cada vez más fuertes. En ese sentido, dos aportes sustanciales de los estudios presentados en este volumen son: la provisión de información actualizada sobre indicadores útiles para el análisis de la discriminación y exclusión en varios ámbitos de la vida peruana; así como el uso de metodologías de investigación innovadoras, que tienen amplias aplicaciones para el análisis de otros problemas dentro de las ciencias sociales. Las investigaciones abordarán temas como las diferencias en el acceso y en las tasas de deserción del sistema educativo peruano según el origen étnico y el sexo; las diferencias en los ingresos laborales según sexo y grupo étnico a nivel nacional; una evaluación experimental sobre la discriminación sexual y racial en Lima Metropolitana; los factores asociados con la movilidad ocupacional de una muestra de egresados de la Universidad del Pacífico; y finalmente, el trato diferenciado, en función del origen étnico y el sexo, en el acceso a servicios públicos en el país.
J70|Discriminación laboral en Lima: el rol de la belleza, la raza y el sexo|En este documento investigamos el rol de la apariencia física en la tasa de discriminación observada en el mercado laboral de Lima. Se trata de un diseño experimental que nos permite observar la interacción de tres variables sobre la probabilidad de recibir una respuesta favorable de un reclutador cuando un candidato manda un currículo de vida (CV). En particular, analizamos si existen diferencias entre la tasa de respuesta por apariencia física, la raza (medida por el apellido de origen) y el sexo del postulante. Debido a que en el experimento estamos controlando variables que son determinantes en el proceso de reclutamiento (colegio de procedencia, instituto o universidad de procedencia, años de experiencia laboral y edad, entre los principales), los resultados obtenidos sobre nuestras variables de interés son mucho más precisos respecto a los que obtendríamos a través del análisis econométrico de datos observacionales. Nuestros resultados aportan cifras novedosas sobre la magnitud de discriminación que puede ser atribuida a cada una de las tres dimensiones antes indicadas para el mercado laboral limeño.
J70|Percepción sobre discriminación en el ámbito académico y laboral de universitarios de cuatro ciudades del Perú|Este estudio analiza las percepciones de estudiantes -de carreras relacionadas con los negocios, de universidades privadas y nacionales de Arequipa, Huancayo, Lima, y Trujillo-, sobre la discriminación dentro de sus instituciones académicas y sobre los factores considerados relevantes para acceder con éxito al mercado laboral. Se aplicaron tres herramientas metodológicas a diversas muestras no probabilísticas de ocho universidades (la mitad privadas) y a un número total de 1919 estudiantes de ambos sexos: metodología Q, encuestas y grupos focales. Encontramos que los jóvenes de las universidades privadas y nacionales manifiestan bastante optimismo respecto al cumplimiento de sus metas laborales. Sin embargo, cerca de dos tercios de jóvenes de universidades nacionales buscarían migrar al extranjero en busca de trabajo y un tercio de los de las universidades privadas. Asimismo, el 50% de los estudiantes de ambos tipos de universidades señala percibir alguna forma de discriminación en sus centros de estudio, mientras 10% señala realmente haber sido víctima de dicha discriminación por su situación económica, sexo, raza, lugar de procedencia, lengua u orientación sexual, mientras el 28% indica haber sido discriminado por su apariencia física. La percepción de discriminación resulta ser más importante en universidades privadas que en las nacionales. A su vez, esta percepción de discriminación entre alumnos es mayor, que la que se da respecto de la relación profesor-alumno. Finalmente, cabe resaltar que la brecha entre la percepción de existencia de discriminación y el reconocimiento de ser víctima de ella, parece deberse a que los estudiantes compensan los aspectos no valorados por la sociedad con el desarrollo de habilidades y capacidades, gestión de la apariencia corporal y laboriosidad.
J70|Triple penalty in employment access: The role of beauty, race, and sex|This article reports the results from a first experiment specifically designed to disentangle the effect of beauty from that of race in the observed labor market discrimination, for both females and males in Peru. We randomly assigned Quechua and white surnames and (subjectively perceived) attractive or homely-looking photographs (or no photos) to 4,899 fictitious résumés sent in response to 1,247 job openings. We find that candidates who are physically attractive, have a white-sounding surname, and are males, receive 82%, 54%, and 34% more callbacks for job interviews than their similarly-qualified counterparts, thus imposing a triple penalty on homely-looking, indigenous, and female job candidates. We further find that the intensity of discrimination by race and physical appearance differs for males and females; the intensity of discrimination by physical appearance and sex differs for Quechua and white applicants; and the intensity of racial and sexual discrimination differs for beautiful and homely-looking persons.
J70|Discrimination Of Women In The Labour Market Of Sr And Models Of Discrimination|IThe paper deals with the problem of women’s discrimination in the labour market. Significant differences, among women and men in the labour market, are especially in unemployment rate in reward system, and high horizontal and vertical segregation of women. The aspects of discrimination arise despite of existing legislation, which gender discrimination strictly prohibits. An analysis of arguments, consequences and models of women’s discrimination in the labour market can significantly help to remedy this undesirable phenomenon in our economy and society.
