J78|Female Leadership and Gender Gap within Firms: Evidence from an Italian Board Reform|"Over the last decade, several countries have followed the Norwegian example and introduced laws mandating gender quota for corporate board membership. The main aim of these laws is breaking the ""glass ceiling"" which prevents women from advancing into top corporate positions. In this paper, we evaluate the Italian law of 2011, which installed a step-wise increase in gender quota that remain effective for three consecutive board renewals of listed limited liability firms. We link firm-level information on board membership and board election dates with detailed employment and earnings records from the Social Security registers. Exploiting the staggered introduction of the gender quota regulation and variation in board renewals across firms, we evaluate the effect of the board gender composition on measures of gender diversity in top positions over a period of 4 years. While the reform substantially raised the female membership on corporate boards, we find no evidence of spillover effects on the representation of women in top executive or top earnings positions. Our results confirm the findings by Bertrand et al. (2019) who study the introduction of a gender quota for board members in Norway. Given that Italy is a much less egalitarian society than Norway, with a larger scope of establishing gender equality, our results confirm that board quota policies alone are ineffective in raising female representation in top corporate positions, at least in the short run."
J78|Gender Quotas in the Boardroom: New Evidence from Germany|We examine the introduction of a gender quota law in Germany, mandating a minimum 30% of the underrepresented gender on the supervisory boards of a particular type of firms. We exploit the fact that Germany has a two-tier corporate system consisting of the affected supervisory boards and unaffected management boards within the same firm. We find a positive effect on the female share on supervisory boards of affected firms, but no effect on presidency of the board or its size. We also study whether the increased female representation has had an effect on the financial performance of the firm and conclude that, unlike some previous studies in other countries, there has not been any negative effect on the profitability of the firm, neither at the time when the law was announced nor when it was passed.
J78|The Unintended Consequences of Employer Credit Check Bans for Labor Markets|Over the last decade, 11 states have restricted employers’ access to the credit reports of job applicants. We document a significant decline in county-level vacancies after these laws were enacted: Job postings fall by 5.5 percent in affected occupations relative to exempt occupations in the same county and the same occupation nationwide. Cross-sectional heterogeneity in the estimated effects suggests that employers use credit reports as signals: Vacancies fall more in counties with a large share of subprime residents, while they fall less in occupations with other commonly available signals.
J78|Gender Wage Inequality In Russian Universities|For several years, the Russian system of higher education had been undergoing massive transformations related to the enhancement of the global competitiveness of the national academic sector. The introduction of research-oriented universities and the transition to incentive contracts are the main elements of the reform. In this article we show how these institutional changes contribute to reducing the problem of gender inequality in academia. Based on comprehensive data from a Russian faculty survey (MEMO), it is found that there are considerable differences in gender wage inequality by university status: female faculty earn significantly lower salaries in ordinary universities, but there are no gender differences in pay in research-oriented universities, which are most actively transitioning to incentive remuneration schemes. Female faculty experience vertical segregation: women are less likely to achieve senior positions in university hierarchies. We also found indirect evidence of women’s self-selection for lower-paid positions: female faculty are less likely to achieve advanced degrees and to have research publications. Overall, the study shows that male faculty earns 8.7% higher salaries than female counterparts after controlling for all observable characteristics. Oaxaca decomposition showed that 53% of the gender wage gap can be explained by observable characteristics, while the rest can be attributed to discrimination, self-selection or unobservable factors. In the absence of discrimination, male faculty should earn 10% higher salaries, but due to discrimination and unobservable factors, male faculty, on average, earn 18.7% more. However, the gender wage gap in academia is considerably below the national average: women earned on average around 80% of male salaries in academic sector, while in the whole Russian economy women earned around 70% of men’s wages
J78|Female Leadership and Gender Gap within Firms: Evidence from an Italian Board Reform|"Over the last decade, several countries have followed the Norwegian example and introduced laws mandating gender quota for corporate board membership. The main aim of these laws is breaking the ""glass ceiling"" which prevents women from advancing into top corporate positions. In this paper, we evaluate the Italian law of 2011, which installed a step-wise increase in gender quota that remain effective for three consecutive board renewals of listed limited liability firms. We link firm-level information on board membership and board election dates with detailed employment and earnings records from the Social Security registers. Exploiting the staggered introduction of the gender quota regulation and variation in board renewals across firms, we evaluate the effect of the board gender composition on measures of gender diversity in top positions over a period of 4 years. While the reform substantially raised the female membership on corporate boards, we find no evidence of spillover effects on the representation of women in top executive or top earnings positions. Our results confirm the findings by Bertrand et al. (2018) who study the introduction of a gender quota for board members in Norway. Given that Italy is a much less egalitarian society than Norway, with a larger scope of establishing gender equality, our results confirm that board quota policies alone are ineffective in raising female representation in top corporate positions, at least in the short run."
J78|Outsourcing Recruitment as a Solution to Prevent Discrimination: A Correspondence Study|"Many studies have proven the existence of discriminatory behavior from employers according to the origin of applicants. However, little is known about how these behaviors can be prevented. In this work, we assess how organization of recruitment in large companies affects ethnic discrimination. We consider large multi-establishment companies and distinguish two types of recruitment organization: hiring made through a human resources (HR) service at a centralized level of the company and hiring made at only the level of the establishment concerned by the position, generally by managers in charge of recruitment. To conduct our research, we rely on data from a correspondence study conducted in 2016 by the Dares (French Ministry of Labor) in large companies, which shows the existence of ethnic discrimination in hiring. This experimentation allows us to gather precise and original information on the level at which applications were selected for each of the 1,500 tests carried out. Because access to a centralized HR service is potentially endogenous, we use an instrument to assess the causal effect: whether (or not) the establishment with the job offer belongs to a company that has developed a franchise network. Our results indicate that access to a centralized HR service in the selection of applications has an important effect on the level of discrimination: This type of recruitment organization results in a 0.29-point decrease in the probability that the applicant of presumed ""French"" origin is selected alone."
J78|Population Aging, Age Discrimination, and Age Discrimination Protections at the 50th Anniversary of the Age Discrimination in Employment Act|This paper discusses population aging, increased participation of seniors in the labor force in the United States (and reasons for this), and how these trends are making the struggles of older workers in the labor market increasingly relevant. Evidence examining whether age discrimination is a barrier for seniors as they try to increase their work lives through the common practice of “bridge” jobs is also presented. After discussing the evidence that measures age discrimination, economics and legal research that seeks to determine to what extent the federal Age Discrimination in Employment Act and state-level age discrimination laws prevent age discrimination is discussed. In summary, current evidence indicates that age discrimination exists, but more so for older women. While evidence suggests that age discrimination laws may help, they cannot resolve all the challenges imposed by population aging, especially for older women.
J78|“The Long-term Consequences of the Irish Marriage Bar”|A Marriage Bar is the requirement that women in certain jobs must leave that job when they marry. Ireland had a Marriage Bar in place until the 1970s. In 2014/2015, women participating in the The Irish Longitudinal Study on Ageing were asked - for the first time in a nationally-representative survey - specific questions about their experience of the Marriage Bar. In this paper, we use the information from the TILDA respondents for two purposes. The first is to investigate the extent of the Marriage Bar in Ireland. Our analysis suggests that the Marriage Bar was widespread and not confined to specific sectors or occupations (such as the Civil Service). The second purpose is to investigate the long-term consequences of the Marriage Bar. We do so by comparing the outcomes of women who were affected by the Marriage Bar with the outcomes of women who were not affected by the Marriage Bar. Regression analysis shows that women affected by the Marriage Bar have shorter working lives, lower individual income but higher wealth at present, more children and more educated children. However, there are no statistically significant differences in the current health status of the two groups of women. The differences in long-term outcomes do not appear to be confounded by the endogeneity of marriage, education, employment and occupational choices.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J78|Can a Deportation Policy Backfire?|Drawing on a model in which utility is derived from consumption and effort (labor supply), we ask how the deportation of a number of undocumented migrants influences the decisions regarding labor supply, consumption, and savings of the remaining undocumented migrants. We assume that the intensity of deportation serves as an indicator to the remaining undocumented migrants when they assess the probability of being deported. We find that a higher rate of deportation induces undocumented migrants to work harder, consume less and, as a result of those responses, to save more. Assuming that the purpose of deportation policy is to reduce the aggregate labor supply of undocumented migrants in order to raise the wages of low-skilled native workers, we conclude that the policy can backfire: an increase in the labor supply of the remaining undocumented migrants can more than offset the reduction in the labor supply arising from the deportation of some undocumented migrants. Simulation shows that if the number of deportations in relation to the size of the undocumented migrant workforce is small, then the combined effect of the reduction in the labor supply of the deportees and the increase in the labor supply of the remaining undocumented migrants can be that the aggregate labor supply of undocumented migrants will increase. It follows that an effective deportation policy has to involve the expulsion of a substantial proportion of the total number of undocumented migrants in the workforce.
J78|Lohngleichheit, Gleichberechtigung und das Entgelttransparenzgesetz: Ökonomische Ursachen statt Symptome bekämpfen|Der vorliegende Beitrag analysiert die bisherigen Erfahrungen mit dem im Sommer 2017 in Deutschland in Kraft getretenen Entgelttransparenzgesetz. Dass dieses ohne spürbare Effekte verpufft, liegt nur vordergründig an seiner zu geringen Reichweite und fehlenden Verbindlichkeit. Tatsächlich ist die Entgeltlücke nur in geringem Umfang auf Diskriminierung zurückzuführen, weshalb politische Maßnahmen für mehr Lohngleichheit, die sich auf das Lohnniveau selbst konzentrieren, nur wenig Einfluss auf die geschlechterspezifische Entgeltlücke haben. Statt der Symptome sollten die ökonomischen Ursachen bekämpft werden. Effektive Maßnahmen gleichen die Lebensarbeitszeit von Frauen und Männern an.
J78|The Long-Term Consequences of the Irish Marriage Bar|A Marriage Bar is the requirement that women in certain jobs must leave that job when they marry. Ireland had a Marriage Bar in place until the 1970s. In 2014/2015, women participating in the The Irish Longitudinal Study on Ageing were asked - for the first time in a nationally-representative survey - specific questions about their experience of the Marriage Bar. In this paper, we use the information from the TILDA respondents for two purposes. The first is to investigate the extent of the Marriage Bar in Ireland. Our analysis suggests that the Marriage Bar was widespread and not confined to specific sectors or occupations (such as the Civil Service). The second purpose is to investigate the long-term consequences of the Marriage Bar. We do so by comparing the outcomes of women who were affected by the Marriage Bar with the outcomes of women who were not affected by the Marriage Bar. Regression analysis shows that women affected by the Marriage Bar have shorter working lives, lower individual income but higher wealth at present, more children and more educated children. However, there are no statistically significant differences in the current health status of the two groups of women. The differences in long-term outcomes do not appear to be confounded by the endogeneity of marriage, education, employment and occupational choices.
J78|Population Aging, Age Discrimination, and Age Discrimination Protections at the 50th Anniversary of the Age Discrimination in Employment Act|"This paper discusses population aging, increased participation of seniors in the labor force in the United States (and reasons for this), and how these trends are making the struggles of older workers in the labor market increasingly relevant. Evidence examining whether age discrimination is a barrier for seniors as they try to increase their work lives through the common practice of ""bridge"" jobs is also presented. After discussing the evidence that measures age discrimination, economics and legal research that seeks to determine to what extent the federal Age Discrimination in Employment Act and state-level age discrimination laws prevent age discrimination is discussed. In summary, current evidence indicates that age discrimination exists, but more so for older women. While evidence suggests that age discrimination laws may help, they cannot resolve the challenges imposed by population aging, especially for older women."
J78|Fertility Decline in the Civil Rights Era|Large black-white fertility differences are a key feature of US demography, and are closely related to the broader dynamics of US racial inequality. To better understand the origins and determinants of racial fertility differentials, this paper examines fertility patterns in the period surrounding passage and implementation of the 1964 Civil Rights Act, which precipitated a period of rapid socioeconomic and political progress among African Americans, with these gains strongly concentrated in the South. I first show that the relative fertility of southern black women precipitously declined immediately after 1964. Specifically, as of 1964 the general fertility rate of southern black women was 53 births greater than the general fertility rate of southern white women, but by 1969 this gap had fallen to 33 births, a decline of approximately 40% in five years. The black-white fertility gap outside of the South was unchanged over this period. Measures of completed childbearing similarly show rapid black-white fertility convergence in the South but not in the North. An analysis of potential mechanisms finds that a substantial share of the observed fertility convergence can be explained by relative improvements in the earnings of southern blacks, and that the historical intensity of slavery and lynching activity are the strongest spacial correlates of fertility convergence
J78|A Political Economy of Social Discrimination|From burqa ban to minaret ban, from right to detain suspected illegal immigrants to restricting the help to migrants, the number of social laws specifically targeting a tiny proportion of citizens has raised in recent years across Western democracies. These symbolic policies, we show, are far from being innocuous: they can have far reaching consequences for large parts of the population. By raising the salience of certain social traits (e.g., Muslim identity) these laws can create a labour market loaded in favor of the majority (e.g., the non-Muslims), yielding higher unemployment rates and spells for minority citizens. These deleterious effects arise even absent any form of bias against, or uncertainty about, minority workers. Instead they are fully driven by social expectations about behavior and are best understood as a form of social discrimination. Importantly, we establish conditions under which a plurality of the citizenry demands the implementation of symbolic policies anticipating their labor market consequences. We further highlight that the implementation of symbolic policies is always associated with less redistribution and can be coupled with lower tax rates. We discuss several policy recommendations to limit the possibility of social discrimination arising.
J78|Gender differences in competition: gender equality and cost reduction policies| This paper investigates the implications of the unequal division of the domestic labor in men and womenâ€™s participation and effort incentives in competitive relations, in which the labor market is the main example. We found that moderate levels of affirmative action (i.e., bias in favor of women) incentivize men and women to exert more effort and womenâ€™s participation. However, it cannot guarantee full participation and equal effort among men and women without inducing economic inefficiency or even distorting the labor market. Given these limitations, we consider the effects of an alternative policy that supports the menâ€™s involvement in the domestic tasks. The main conclusion is that if we want men and women to have the same opportunities in the labor market, we must solve the household problem first. While women hold a larger share of the domestic labor, they are in a weaker position to compete with men. We expect that our findings will guide researchers and decision-makers implementing effective policies that can allow men and women to have the same labor market opportunities. Keywords: Gender equality; Affirmative action; Cost reduction policies; Efficiency; Women participation. JEL classification: J16, J78, D63, C72.
J78|Fertility Decline in the Civil Rights Era|Large black-white fertility differences are a key feature of US demography, and are closely related to the broader dynamics of US racial inequality. To better understand the origins and determinants of racial fertility differentials, this paper examines fertility patterns in the period surrounding passage and implementation of the 1964 Civil Rights Act, which precipitated a period of rapid socioeconomic and political progress among African Americans, with these gains strongly concentrated in the South. I first show that the relative fertility of southern black women precipitously declined immediately after 1964. Specifically, as of 1964 the general fertility rate of southern black women was 53 births greater than the general fertility rate of southern white women, but by 1969 this gap had fallen to 33 births, a decline of approximately 40% in five years. The black-white fertility gap outside of the South was unchanged over this period. Measures of completed childbearing similarly show rapid black-white fertility convergence in the South but not in the North. An analysis of potential mechanisms finds that a substantial share of the observed fertility convergence can be explained by relative improvements in the earnings of southern blacks, and that the historical intensity of slavery and lynching activity are the strongest spacial correlates of fertility convergence
J78|Affirmative action and retaliation in experimental contests|We conduct a real-effort experiment to test the effects of an affirmative action policy that reserves a share of the prize to subjects of a disadvantaged category in rent-seeking contests. We test three potential critiques to affirmative action policies in our setting: (i) whether the introduction of the policy reduces overall effort or distorts selection in the contest, (ii) whether it leads to reverse discrimination and (iii) whether the possibility of ex-post retaliatory actions undermines the effectiveness of the policy. We find that the affirmative action contest increases entry of players from the disadvantaged category without affecting entry of advantaged players. Moreover, the introduction of the policy does not negatively affect performance. However, we find that the possibility of retaliation can undermine the benefits of the affirmative action policy reducing contest participation. This suggests that retaliation is an important aspect to consider when implementing affirmative action policies.
J78|Affirmative action and retaliation in experimental contests|We conduct a real-effort experiment to test the effects of an affirmative action policy that reserves a share of the prize to subjects of a disadvantaged category in rent-seeking contests. We test three potential pitfalls of the affirmative action policy: (i) whether the introduction of the policy distorts effort and selection in the contest, (ii) whether it leads to reverse discrimination, that is, discourages entry from the advantaged category and (iii) whether the possibility of ex-post retaliatory actions undermines the effectiveness of the policy. We find that the affirmative action contest increases entry of players from the disadvantaged category without affecting entry of advantaged players. This increases overall effort in the contest. However, we find that the possibility of retaliation can undermine the benefits of the affirmative action policy reducing contest participation. This suggests that retaliation is an important aspect to consider when implementing affirmative action policies.
J78|Competition and the Racial Wage Gap: Testing Becker's Model of Employer Discrimination|According to Becker's (1957) theory of taste-based employer discrimination, pure economic rents are necessary for discrimination to be observed in the labor market. Increased competition and reduced rents in the market for final goods should therefore lead to reduced labor market discrimination. We look at the natural experiment represented by the Brazilian trade liberalization from the early 1990s to study the effect of increased competition in the market for final goods on racial discrimination in the labor market. Changes in tariffs and initial employment structures are used to show that, in locations where there were relatively larger increases in exposure to foreign competition between 1990 and 1995, there were also relatively larger declines in the conditional racial wage gap between 1991 and 2000. As predicted by theory, the initial wage gap and its decline were more pronounced in regions with more employment in concentrated sectors. The effect of increased competition on the racial wage gap was not driven by changes in returns to productive attributes, in the structure of employment, or in other labor market outcomes. We find robust evidence of a negative effect of increased competition in the market for final goods on discrimination in the labor market.
J78|Can Public Housing Decrease Segregation? Lessons and Challenges From Non-European Immigration in France|Abstract Recent decades have seen a rapid increase in the share of non-European immigrants in public housing in Europe, which has led to concern regarding the rise of ghettos in large cities. Using French census data over three decades, we examine how this increase in public housing participation has affected segregation. While segregation levels have increased moderately, on average, the number of immigrant enclaves has grown. The growth of enclaves is being driven by the large increase in non-European immigrants in the census tracts where the largest housing projects are located, both in the housing projects and the surrounding nonpublic dwellings. As a result, contemporary differences in segregation levels across metropolitan areas are being shaped by the concentration of public housing within cities, in particular the share of non-European immigrants in large housing projects constructed before the 1980s. Nevertheless, the overall effect of public housing on segregation has been ambiguous. While large projects have increased segregation, the inflows of non-European immigrants into small projects have brought many immigrants into census tracts where they have previously been rare and, thus, diminished segregation levels.
J78|The Unintended Consequences of Employer Credit Check Bans on Labor and Credit Markets|Since the Great Recession, 11 states have restricted employers' access to the credit reports of job applicants. We document that county-level vacancies decline between 9.5 percent and 12.4 percent after states enact these laws. Vacancies decline significantly in affected occupations but remain constant in those that are exempt, and the decline is larger in counties with many subprime residents. Furthermore, subprime borrowers fall behind on more debt payments and reduce credit inquiries postban. The evidence suggests that, counter to their intent, employer credit check bans disrupt labor and credit markets, especially for subprime workers.
J78|The persistent labor market effects of a criminal conviction and ï¿½Ban the Boxï¿½ reforms|"Past literature has established that individuals who have been incarcerated face difculties reentering the work force following their release, while finding and keeping a job can significantly reduce recidivism amongst individuals with prior criminal convictions. In attempt to improve employment outcomes, many local and state governments in the United States have initiated ""Ban the Box"" regulations. These initiatives delay inquiries regarding criminal history on job applications. Versions of ban the box regulations covering public sector employment have been enacted in 31 states and more than 150 local governments. Ban the box laws have included private employers in eleven states and over 30 metropolitan areas including New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, Washington D.C, Philadelphia, San Francisco, and Seattle. This study uses biennial data from November CPS reports from 2004 through 2016 to estimate the impact of ban the box laws on labor market outcomes using a unique proxy to identify individuals with a criminal record. With a few exceptions, the results do not show the intended improvements in employment and other labor market measures for those with a criminal history."
J78|Do Board Gender Quotas Matter? Selection, Performance and Stock Market Effects|From business to politics and academia, the economic effects of the introduction of gender quotas are under scrutiny. We provide new evidence based on the introduction of mandatory gender quotas for boards of directors of Italian companies listed on the stock market. Comparing before and after the reform within firms, we find that quotas are associated with a higher share of female board directors, higher levels of education of board members, and a lower share of older members. We then use the reform period as an instrument for the share of female directors and find no significant impact on firms' performance. Interestingly, the share of female directors is associated with a lower variability of stock market prices. We also run event studies on the stock price reaction to both the announcement and the introduction of gender quotas. A positive effect of the quota law on stock market returns emerges at the date of the board's election. Our results are consistent with gender quotas giving rise to a beneficial restructuring of the board, which is positively received by the market.
J78|Leader Identity and Coordination|This paper examines the effectiveness of leaders in addressing coordination failure in societies with ethnic or religious diversity. We experimentally vary leader identity in a coordination game and implement it in the field across 44 towns in India. We find that religious minority leaders (Muslims) improve coordination, while majority leaders (Hindus) do not. We test the effectiveness of intergroup contact and affirmative action, two commonly used policies to improve the well-being of minorities. Intergroup contact improves coordination irrespective of leader identity, but affirmative action leads to deterioration in coordination in Muslim-led groups alongside an increase in coordination in Hindu-led groups. We find that both policies are less effective for Muslim-led groups in towns with a recent history of religious conflict. Our findings contribute novel evidence to research on coordination failure, leader identity, policy alternatives for promoting integration of minorities, and conflict.
J78|Term Limit Extension And Electoral Participation. Evidence From A Diff-In-Discontinuities Design At The Local Level In Italy|We study the effect of term limits on voter turnout in local Italian elections. Since 2014 the Italian law allows mayors in municipalities with a population size lower than 3,000 inhabitants to re-run for a third term, whereas mayors in cities with a number of residents above the cutoff still face a two-term limit. The introduction of the reform permits us to implement a difference-in-discontinuities design exploiting the before/after with the discontinuous policy change. We find that voters negatively react to the introduction of the reform and in particular electoral participation decreases by about 5 percentage points in municipalities eligible to the treatment compared to municipalities in the control group. This negative effect is essentially driven by a decrease in the political competition. We also find that relaxing term limits does not improve the quality of politicians running for election.
J78|Touch Thee Not: Group Conflict, Caste Power, and Untouchability in Rural India|We investigate the impact of community power on the practice of untouchability in rural India. We model two-dimensional simultaneous group conflict over social norms, wherein an upper and backward (OBC) caste Hindu bloc contests the 'scheduled' castes (SCs) over the extent to which behavioural norms within the village should legitimise untouchability, even as it seeks to impose Hindu values/rituals on non-Hindus. We find that any increase in the collective resource endowment (power) of this bloc will increase the likelihood of an upper caste or OBC Hindu household practising untouchability. An increase in that of SCs, or, more interestingly, of Muslims and Christians, will reduce it. Strikingly, a marginal redistribution of resources from OBCs to upper castes may reduce it as well. Identifying a community's power with a multiplicative combination of its population share and land share, we find support for these hypotheses in data from the India Human Development Survey 2011-12.
J78|The Impact of Chief Diversity Officers on Diverse Faculty Hiring|As the American college student population has become more diverse, the goal of hiring a more diverse faculty has received increased attention in higher education. A signal of institutional commitment to faculty diversity often includes the hiring of an executive level chief diversity officer (CDO). To examine the effects of a CDO in a broad panel data context, we combine unique data on the initial hiring of a CDO with publicly available faculty and administrator hiring data by race and ethnicity from 2001 to 2016 for four-year or higher U.S. universities categorized as Carnegie R1, R2, or M1 institutions with student populations of 4,000 or more. We are unable to find significant statistical evidence that preexisting growth in diversity for underrepresented racial/ethnic minority groups is affected by the hiring of an executive level diversity officer for new tenure and non-tenure track hires, faculty hired with tenure, or for university administrator hires.
J78|The heterogeneous effect of affirmative action on performance|This paper experimentally investigates the effect of gender-based affirmative action (AA) on performance in the lab, focusing on a tournament environment. The tournament is based on GRE math questions commonly used in graduate school admission, and at which women are known to perform worse on average than men. We find heterogeneous effect of AA on female participants: AA lowers the performance of high-ability women and increases the performance of low-ability women. Our results are consistent with two possible mechanisms—one is that AA changes incentives differentially for low- and high-ability women, and the second is that AA triggers stereotype threat.
J78|Do State Laws Protecting Older Workers from Discrimination Reduce Age Discrimination in Hiring? Evidence from a Field Experiment|We conduct a résumé field experiment in all US states to study how state laws protecting older workers from age discrimination affect age discrimination in hiring for retail sales jobs. We relate the difference in callback rates between old and young applicants to states' variation in age and disability discrimination laws. These laws could boost hiring of older applicants, although they could have the unintended consequence of deterring hiring if they increase termination costs. In our preferred estimates that are weighted to be representative of the workforce, we find evidence that there is less discrimination against older men and women in states where age discrimination law allows larger damages and more limited evidence that there is less discrimination against older women in states where disability discrimination law allows larger damages. Our clearest result is that the laws do not have the unintended consequence of lowering callbacks for older workers.
J78|France: Promoting economic opportunities and well-being in poor neighbourhoods|Thanks to a highly developed welfare state, poverty is moderate on average in France, but – as in other countries – highly concentrated in some neighbourhoods. Their residents face many social disadvantages, including high unemployment and inactivity, schools with many struggling children, often run-down housing and urban infrastructure, and a lack of local enterprises, services and amenities. The government focuses a wide array of policies on these areas to promote better schooling outcomes, employment and local economic activity. Urban renewal and public housing policies aim explicitly at promoting social mixing, often presented as an anti-ghetto policy. Evidence suggests that targeted investment in transport and housing infrastructure as well as education and training could go a long way to improving economic opportunities and well-being in poor areas. In contrast, special economic zones with tax breaks to attract business to these areas have a mixed track record at best. Greater social mixing is difficult to engineer, and it is far from clear if this by itself would improve the lives of the poor. There is a need to better link urban, social and judicial policies favouring alternative sentencing and support for offenders to integrate into society to avoid vicious circles of social disadvantage and crime.
J78|France: Améliorer les perspectives économiques et le bien-être des habitants des quartiers défavorisés|Grâce à un système de protection sociale très développé, le taux de pauvreté moyen est peu élevé en France. Toutefois, comme dans d’autres pays, la pauvreté est fortement concentrée dans certains quartiers. Leurs habitants sont confrontés à de nombreux handicaps sur le plan social : chômage et inactivité élevés, forte proportion d’élèves en difficulté, logements et infrastructures urbaines en mauvais état, et pénurie d’entreprises, de services et d’agréments. L’État cible un large éventail de politiques sur ces quartiers afin d’améliorer les résultats scolaires, l’emploi et l’activité économique. Les politiques de rénovation urbaine et du logement social ont un objectif explicite de promotion de la mixité sociale, souvent considérée comme un instrument de lutte contre les ghettos. Les investissements ciblés dans les infrastructures de transport et de logement ainsi que dans l’éducation et la formation jouent un rôle déterminant dans l’amélioration des perspectives économiques et du bien-être des habitants des quartiers défavorisés. À l’inverse, les zones franches urbaines (ZFU) offrant des allègements d’impôts aux entreprises qui s’y installent obtiennent des résultats en demi-teinte. La mixité sociale est difficile à mettre en oeuvre et il est loin d’être évident qu’elle permette, à elle seule, d’améliorer les conditions de vie des populations pauvres. Il est aussi crucial d’améliorer la coordination entre les politiques sociale, de la ville et de la justice, en privilégiant les peines alternatives et l’accompagnement des anciens détenus dans leur réinsertion afin de briser le cercle vicieux du handicap social et de la criminalité.
J78|Análisis de las oportunidades laborales de los excombatientes: un enfoque desde la perspectiva del sector empresarial<BR>[Analysis of the labor opportunities of the ex-combatant: an approach from the perspective of the business sector]|El artículo investiga las percepciones de los empresarios en la ciudad de Palmira, Florida, Candelaria y Pradera (Colombia) respecto a la contratación laboral de desmovilizados en sus empresas. Se realiza un muestreo estratificado para conocer las perspectivas de los empresarios y estimar un modelo logit multinomial. Encontramos que las actitudes del sector empresarial están polarizadas respecto a la vinculación laboral de excombatientes. A su vez, las percepciones respecto al proceso de paz presentan un efecto negativo sobre la decisión de contratar excombatientes, en cambio, las percepciones sobre las políticas de incentivos del gobierno muestran un efecto positivo sobre esta decisión.
J78|Mental Health Policy in India: Seven Sets of Questions and Some Answers|The context of the paper's analysis is the arguably poor state of mental health care in India, as well as an unprecedented level of policy attention to the issue. The questions posed pertain to (1) the provision of such care in hospitals, (2) non-hospital provision, including by non-medical providers, (3) issues of education and social acceptance, (4) affordability, (5) within-country variation of care and possibilities for benchmarking, (6) aggregate resource impacts of a concerted effort to change policies and improve care, and (7) the shape of a more effective “continuum of care for mental health issues. The paper argues that, while new laws and policies being introduced in India propose ideas and changes that are groundbreaking for that country, leading to cautious optimism, there still are many gaps in the understanding of the challenges of the provision of increased access to, as well as better quality, mental health care throughout the country. These challenges can be understood on two fronts: one is the psychiatric and medical aspect of the issues, and the other is the management and administration of the system. A priority in achieving the goals of greater access and better quality is to increase the number of trained personnel at all levels of specialization and skilling that are relevant. Further, while the new legal framework and policy identify the importance of information technology in rapid expansion of access to mental healthcare, more context-specific research and trials are needed. With respect to the administration and management needs of the public system, important challenges will be the need for significant organizational innovations in the education system, and cultural changes that allow specialized medical professionals to accept the use of software and less-qualified, more dispersed, frontline providers. A final area is the interface between the public and private sectors, including the role of non-profit organizations: challenges include information sharing, division of responsibilities, and resource allocation.
J78|The Effects of Political Reservations on Credit Access and Borrowing Composition: New Evidence from India|We estimate the impacts of mandated political reservation for minorities on household credit access and borrowing behavior. To identify causal effects, we exploit the exogenous state-time variation in the allocation of constituencies (electoral districts) to the two reserved minority groups in Indian states. Using a household level panel data with observations before and after the redistricting, we find that the effect is concentrated on the disadvantaged population groups. Political reservation for Scheduled Tribes (STs) increases household probability of getting a loan by 3.7 percentage points, while political reservation for Scheduled Castes (SCs) has no effect on the likelihood of getting a loan. However, conditional on having a loan, reservation for SCs does lead to fewer but larger loans. We also find considerable changes in household borrowing composition.
J78|El Efecto del Empleo sobre la Violencia Doméstica: Evidencia para las Mujeres Peruanas|Esta investigación mide el efecto del empleo de las mujeres sobre la probabilidad de ser víctimas de violencia doméstica en el Perú y enfrenta el problema de endogeneidad de la variable de tratamiento mediante el uso de dos variables instrumentales (fenómenos naturales distritales y el número de niños beneficiados del Programa Nacional de Alimentación Escolar Qali Warma). Sobre la base de la ENDES 2013-2015, se encuentra evidencia que el grupo de mujeres que trabajan tienen de 14.2pp a 38.4pp mayor probabilidad de padecer de violencia de tipo emocional, menos severa, severa y sexual respecto al grupo de contraste. Asimismo, también se encuentra que las mujeres que no son beneficiadas del Programa Juntos por falta de cobertura registran mayor propensión a ser víctimas de los conflictos maritales.
J78|Risk-Averse Managers, Labour Market Structures, Public Policies and Discrimination|This article presents a model to analyze the effects of first and second-moment statistical discrimination on the labour market. Second-moment statistical discrimination occurs when risk-averse managers make decisions regarding wage and hiring based on productivity variances. We provide a framework exploring managers’ discrimination based on differences in average productivity and in variance of productivity. Furthermore, since discrimination is composed of two types (wage and hiring discrimination), our model allows for the interdependence between hiring practices and wages. Using our model, we examine the effects of various anti-discrimination policies along with changes to the labour market structure. We show that managers’ behaviour may be driven by anti-discrimination policies and labour market structures. A firm reduces hiring when required to implement anti-discrimination policies to address wage inequality. A firm applying policies to promote employment equity must stimulate minority participation. A change in labour market structure does not alter the efficiency of policies promoting employment equity, but it does alter the efficiency of policies aimed at reducing wage differences.
J78|Gender Quotas: Challenging the Boards, Performance, and the Stock Market|Comparing before and after the reform within firms, we find that quotas are associated with a higher share of female board directors, higher levels of education of board members, and a lower share of older members. We then use the reform period as an instrument for the share of female directors and find no significant impact on firmsâ€™ performance. Interestingly, we find that the share of female directors is associated with a lower variability of stock market prices. We also run event studies on the stock price reaction to the introduction of gender quotas. A positive effect of the quota law on stock market returns emerges at the date of the boardâ€™s election. Our results are consistent with gender quotas giving rise to a beneficial restructuring of the board, which is positively received by the market.
J78|Stigma or Red Tape? Roadblocks in the Use of Affirmative Action|This paper examines whether and to what extent, additional stigmatization adversely affects the use of reservations for higher education or jobs. The quantitative analysis is based on a primary survey conducted by the author in the city of Delhi in 2014-15. The empirical analysis focuses on differences in perception of additional stigma of affirmative action between two groups: individuals from the Scheduled Castes (SCs) or Dalits, who belong to castes that are already highly stigmatized, to those from Other Backward Classes (OBCs) who belong to castes and communities that might be low-ranked, but not necessarily stigmatized. The results indicate that a greater proportion of SCs use reservations at least once as compared to OBCs, and a higher score in Class XII (the school leaving examination) increases the probability that individuals will avail of reservations.
J78|Treatment-Related Naturalization Premiums in Two European Countries: Evaluation and Comparison|We conduct an empirical study in order to estimate the impact of naturalization on labor market integration of first generation immigrants in two European countries, France and Denmark. The study contributes to the existing literature by: (1) comparing the employment opportunities and incomes of naturalized and non-naturalized migrants in European labor markets to those of the native population, and (2) attempting to estimate the impact of characteristics of a country’s citizenship policy on this relationship. The results suggest the existence of high naturalization premiums and full socioeconomic integration of naturalized migrants in France, a country with relatively soft naturalization policies, but not for Denmark, which has strict naturalization policies.
J78|College Admission and High School Integration|This paper examines possible effects of college admission policy on general equilibrium outcomes at the high school stage. Specifically, we investigate whether a policy that bases college admission on relative performance at high school could modify in the aggregate the degree of segregation in schools, by inducing some students to relocate to schools that offer weaker competition. In a matching model, such high school arbitrage will occur in equilibrium and typically result in desegregating high schools, if schools are segregated with regards to socio-economic characteristics that are correlated with academic performance and race. This is supported by empirical evidence on the effects of the Texas Top Ten Percent Law, indicating that a policy designed to support diversity at the college level in fact achieved high school desegregation, unintentionally generating incentives for some students to choose schools strategically.
J78|Do boys benefit from male teachers in elementary school? Evidence from administrative panel data|With girls having overtaken boys in many education indicators, the “feminization” of elementary school teaching is generating debate about its disadvantages for male students. Hence, using administrative panel data on the universe of students, teachers, and schools in one German state, I exploit within-school and within-teacher variation to test for teacher gender effects on the type of middle school recommended and then chosen in the German multitrack educational system. The results indicate barely any effect of teacher gender on either recommended or chosen school type for either boys or girls. Even when the analysis follows students into middle school, no effects of elementary school teacher gender are discernible on either subsequent changes in school type or grade repetition.
J78|Top Decision-Making Bodies in Large Companies: Gender Quota Shows Initial Impact on Supervisory Boards ; Executive Board Remains a Male Bastion|The gender quota for supervisory boards that has been mandatory since January 2016 has shown an initial impact. According to DIW Berlin’s Women Executives Barometer, at the end of 2016, there were more women on the supervisory boards of the 106 companies subject to the statutory quota than one year before. Their proportion increased by a solid four percentage points to more than 27 percent. And in the other groups of companies studied, the number of female supervisory board members also rose. However, the calculations based on the top 200 companies also showed that in companies in which the supervisory board already consisted of one-third women, the proportion hardly increased or did not increase at all. The gap between supervisory and executive boards has also widened because growth in the latter has flattened. Women represent only 6,5 percent of the executives at companies subject to the quota — even fewer than in the DAX 30 (11 percent) and the average of the 200 highest performing companies in Germany (eight percent). In companies with government-owned shares, the momentum has decreased significantly — they run the risk of losing their function as role models. To forestall a tightening of the law, companies should ensure more balanced gender representation on all executive levels.
J78|Financial Sector: Banks Fall behind and Now Have a Lower Proportion of Women on Executive and Advisory Boards than Insurance Companies|Women are still in the clear minority among the financial sector’s top decision-making bodies. According to DIW Berlin’s Women Executives Barometer, at the end of 2016, 21 percent of the supervisory and administrative board members of the 100 largest banks were female. The number has stagnated compared to last year. Since 2010, when the discussion about the gender quota for supervisory boards gained momentum, growth has been relatively flat — particularly in comparison to the top 100 companies outside the financial sector. At insurance companies, the proportion of women on supervisory boards was a solid 22 percent (an increase of around three percentage points). This puts insurance companies ahead of banks for the first time since 2006. Also of note: companies whose supervisory boards contained one-third women were not able to increase this number in 2016. Extrapolating from the past decade, supervisory boards of banks would need 50 years for the ratio of women to men to be equal. Gender parity in executive boards would be reached in 80 years. The proportion of women on executive boards remained very low overall as it reached roughly ten percent at insurance companies and eight percent at banks.
J78|Spitzengremien großer Unternehmen: Geschlechterquote zeigt erste Wirkung in Aufsichtsräten – Vorstände bleiben Männerdomänen|The gender quota for supervisory boards that has been mandatory since January 2016 has shown an initial impact. According to DIW Berlin’s Women Executive Barometer, at the end of 2016 there were more women on the supervisory boards of the 106 companies subject to the statutory quota than one year before. Their proportion increased by a solid four percentage points to more than 27 percent. And in the other groups of companies studied, the number of female supervisory board members also rose. However, the calculations based on the top 200 companies also showed that in companies in which the supervisory board already consisted of one-third women, the proportion hardly increased or did not increase at all. The gap between supervisory and executive boards has also widened because growth in the latter has flattened. Women represent only six percent of the executives at companies subject to the quota – even fewer than in the DAX 30 (11 percent) and the average of the 200 highest performing companies in Germany (eight percent). In companies with government-owned shares, the momentum has decreased significantly – they run the risk of losing their function as role models. To forestall a tightening of the law, companies should ensure more balanced gender representation on all executive levels. Die seit Januar 2016 verbindliche Geschlechterquote für Aufsichtsräte in Deutschland zeigt eine erste Wirkung: Dem Managerinnen- Barometer des DIW Berlin zufolge waren in den unter die Quotenregelung fallenden 106 Unternehmen Ende 2016 deutlich mehr Frauen in den Kontrollgremien vertreten als ein Jahr zuvor. Ihr Anteil stieg um gut vier Prozentpunkte auf mehr als 27 Prozent. Auch in den anderen Unternehmensgruppen legte der Anteil der Aufsichtsrätinnen zu. Die Berechnungen auf Basis der Top-200-Unternehmen zeigen zudem, dass in Unternehmen, in denen der Aufsichtsrat bereits zu einem Drittel mit Frauen besetzt ist, der Anteil anschließend kaum bis gar nicht mehr steigt. Die Schere zwischen den Aufsichtsräten und Vorständen öffnet sich indes weiter, denn in letzteren ist die Dynamik nach wie vor sehr schwach: In den unter die Quote fallenden Unternehmen sind im Durchschnitt nur 6,5 Prozent Frauen in den Vorstandsetagen vertreten – noch weniger als in den DAX-30 (gut elf Prozent) und den 200 umsatzstärksten Unternehmen (acht Prozent). In den Unternehmen mit Bundesbeteiligung hat sich die Dynamik deutlich abgeschwächt – sie drohen ihre Vorbildfunktion einzubüßen. Um möglichen Gesetzesverschärfungen zuvorzukommen, sollten Unternehmen auf allen Führungsebenen für ein ausgeglicheneres Geschlechterverhältnis sorgen.
J78|Finanzsektor: Banken fallen zurück: Frauenanteil jetzt auch in Aufsichtsräten geringer als bei Versicherungen|Women are still in the clear minority among the financial sector’s top decision-making bodies. According to DIW Berlin’s Women Executive Barometer, at the end of 2016, 21 percent of the supervisory and administrative board members of the 100 largest banks were female. The number has stagnated compared to last year. Since 2010, when the discussion about the gender quota for supervisory boards gained momentum, growth has been relatively flat – particularly in comparison to the top 100 companies outside the financial sector. At insurance companies, the proportion of women on supervisory boards was a solid 22 percent (an increase of around three percentage points). This puts insurance companies aheadof banks for the first time since 2006. The proportion of women on executive boards is almost ten percent at insurance companies and eight percent at banks. Overall, these levels areextremely low, and at the end of 2016 none of the corporate groups in the study had reached the ten-percent mark. Also of note: companies whose supervisory boards contained one-third women were not able to increase this number in 2016. Extrapolating from the past decade, supervisory boards of banks would need 50 years for the ratio of women to men to be equal. Gender parity in executive boards would be reached in 80 years. Nach wie vor sind Frauen in Spitzengremien des Finanzsektors deutlich in der Minderheit. Dem Managerinnen-Barometer des DIW Berlin zufolge waren die Aufsichts- und Verwaltungsräte der 100 größten Banken Ende des Jahres 2016 zu gut 21 Prozent mit Frauen besetzt. Damit stagnierte der Anteil gegenüber dem vorangegangenen Jahr. Auffallend ist die geringere Dynamik nach dem Jahr 2010 im Vergleich zu den Top-100-Unternehmen außerhalb der Finanzbranche – damals nahm die Diskussion um die Frauenquote in Aufsichtsräten Fahrt auf. Bei den Versicherungen betrug der Frauenanteil in den Aufsichtsgremien gut 22 Prozent – ein Anstieg um rund drei Prozentpunkte. Erstmals seit Beginn der Erhebung des DIW Berlin im Jahr 2006 lagen die Versicherungen damit vor den Banken. Auffallend ist, dass sich Unternehmen, deren Aufsichtsräte bereits zuvor zu einem Drittel mit Frauen besetzt waren, diesbezüglich im Jahr 2016 tendenziell nicht mehr steigern konnten. Schreibt man die Entwicklung der vergangenen zehn Jahre linear fort, würde es in den Aufsichtsräten der Banken noch ein halbes Jahrhundert dauern, bis Frauen und Männer gleichermaßen vertreten sind. In den Vorständen wäre das sogar erst in über 80 Jahren der Fall. Der Frauenanteil blieb mit fast zehn Prozent bei den Versicherungen und gut acht Prozent bei den Banken insgesamt sehr niedrig.
J78|Stigma or Red Tape- Roadblocks in the Use of Affirmative Action|Affirmative action in India is largely caste-based and takes the form of quotas or reservations of seats in public institutions of higher education, government jobs and elected positions. Using a mixed methods research design, this paper examines whether and to what extent, additional stigmatization adversely affects the use of reservations for higher education or jobs. The quantitative analysis is based on a primary survey conducted by the author in the city of Delhi in 2014-15. The empirical analysis focuses on differences in perception of additional stigma of affirmative action between two groups- individuals from the Scheduled Castes (SCs) or Dalits, who belong to castes that are already highly stigmatized, to those from Other Backward Classes (OBCs) who belong to castes and communities that might be low-ranked, but not necessarily stigmatized. The results indicate that a greater proportion of SCs use reservations at least once as compared to OBCs, and a higher score in Class XII (the school leaving examination) increases the probability that individuals will avail of reservations. As a reason behind the non-use of reservations, between 9 and 16% of the non-users cite stigma as a reason. Overall, bureaucratic red tape and lack of information constitute much more substantial reasons for the non-use of reservations compared to stigma. Non-use of quotas due to possible additional stigmatization is a bigger factor for OBCs compared to SCs. The paper also contains qualitative accounts based on in-depth interviews of 61 individuals, who got into college on reserved seats, and successfully completed their chosen course of study. These detailed accounts give insights into institutional barriers that pose challenges to the full assimilation of affirmative action beneficiaries, as well as highlight the multiple layers of disadvantage that they battle with.
J78|Gender Quotas in the Board Room and Firm Performance: Evidence from a Credible Threat in Sweden|Board room quotas have recently received an increasing amount of attention. This paper provides novel evidence on firm performance from an exogenous change in female board participation in Sweden. We use the credible threat, aimed at listed firms, of a quota law enacted by the Swedish deputy prime minister as an exogenous variation. The threat caused a substantial and rapid increase in the share of female board members in firms listed on the Stockholm stock exchange. This increase was accompanied by an increase in different measures of firm performance in the same years, which were related to higher sales and lower labor costs.
J78|Inequality and Competitive Effort: The Roles of Asymmetric Resources, Opportunity and Outcomes|We study the effects of different sources of inequality in a commonplace economic interaction: competition. We investigate how individuals react to different types of inequality in experimental two-player Tullock contests where contestants expend resources to win a prize. We study three different sources of inequality: resources, abilities and possible outcomes. We find that overall competitive effort is greater in the presence of inequality in abilities than other inequalities. Unlike other forms, inequality in abilities elicits a very aggressive reaction from disadvantaged players relative to their advantaged opponents. The Quantal Response Equilibrium (QRE) suggests that financial incentives are less salient in the presence of a biased contest procedure.
J78|The Impact of Traineeships on the Employment of the Mentally Ill: the Role of Partial Compliance|Lavoro&Psiche is a RCT aimed at increasing employment among severely mentally ill patients, by offering them a structured job-search experience. The key feature of the treatment was the presence of a “job coach” entirely dedicated to support the job search of a small number (12-13) of mentally ill patients. What most often the job coach did was finding the patient a traineeship. If one were to consider only the effect of making the support of the coach available - the so-called Intention-To-Treat effect – it would be a disappointing statistically non significant 5 percentage point difference in the employment of treatment and control members, in the full post-treatment year. However, the impact of making something available is rarely the primary interest of policy-makers, who would rather know the effect of receiving it. The main difficulty in obtaining unbiased estimates of the latter is that ‘who receives what’ is no longer solely determined by randomization, but also by post-randomization events and decisions. During the implementation period of Lavoro&Psiche of 2011-12, an unprecedented wave of traineeship opportunities hit those enrolled in the demonstration, both in the experimental and in the control group. The main finding is that, for the subset of the experimental group that was induced by the offer to be involved in a traineeship the chances of having a job in the post-treatment year more than double from the 17% of those who did not do any traineeship to the 34% of those who did, well above the Intention-To-Treat impact estimates.
J78|The economics of employment tribunals|Employment tribunals or labor courts are responsible for enforcing employment protection legislation and adjudicating rights-based disputes between employers and employees. Claim numbers are high and, in Great Britain, have been rising, affecting both administrative costs and economic competitiveness. Reforms have attempted to reduce the number of claims and to improve the speed and efficiency of dealing with them. Balancing employee protection against cost-effectiveness remains difficult, however. Gathering evidence on tribunals, including on claim instigation, resolution, decision making, and post-tribunal outcomes can inform policy efforts.
J78|Maternity and Family Leave Policy|Maternity and family leave policies enable mothers to take time off work to prepare for and recover from childbirth and to care for their new children. While there is substantial variation in the details of these policies around the world, the existing research yields the following general conclusions. First, despite important barriers to the take-up of leave, both the implementation of new programs and extensions of existing ones increase leave-taking rates among new parents. Second, leave entitlements less than one year in length can improve job continuity for women and increase their employment rates several years after childbirth; longer leaves can negatively influence women’s earnings, employment, and career advancement. Third, extensions in existing paid leave policies have no impact on measures of child well-being, but the introduction of short paid and unpaid leave programs can improve children’s short- and long-term outcomes. Fourth, while more research is needed, the current evidence shows minimal impacts of existing U.S. state-level programs on employer-level outcomes such as employee productivity, morale, profitability, turnover rates, or the total wage bill.
J78|Home Bias in Global Employment| We study the nature of home bias in online employment, wherein the employers prefer workers from their own home countries. Using a unique large-scale dataset from a major online labor platform, we identify employers’ home bias in their online employment decisions. Moreover, we find that employers from countries with high traditional values, lower diversity, and smaller (user) population size, tend to have a stronger home bias. Further, we investigate the nature of employers’ home bias using a quasi-natural experiment wherein the platform introduces a monitoring system to facilitate employers to keep track of workers’ progress in time-based projects. After matching comparable fixed-price projects as a control group using propensity score matching, our difference-in-difference estimations show that the home bias does exist in online employment, and at least 40.93% of home bias is driven by statistical discrimination.
J78|Fighting gender inequality in Sweden|Sweden ranks among the best OECD countries in terms of gender equality. Women have a high employment rate, outperform men in education and are well represented in government and parliament. Nevertheless, without further policy measures, achieving parity is still a distant prospect in several areas. Wage differences between genders persist; women are under-represented on private company boards, in senior management positions, in many well-paid and influential professions and among entrepreneurs. Hence, there is scope to make further progress on gender equality. The share of the parental leave reserved for each parent should be increased further, as inequality in leave-taking and long parental leaves harm women’s career prospects. Fighting stereotypes in education is necessary to improve women’s access to professions where they are under-represented. Government programmes need to promote women’s entrepreneurship further. Special attention should also be paid to the integration of foreign-born women, whose employment rate is much lower than for their male counterparts.
J78|Affirmative Action in the Presence of a Creamy Layer: Identity or Class Based?|We analyze affirmative action in the presence of income heterogeneity, with the target group containing a creamy layer, as well as poorer members. We find that a move from identity to class-based affirmative action would affect the creamy layer and the poorer members of the target group differently. While it would help the poorer members of the target group, it would hurt the creamy layer, as well as the non-target group. Further, temporary affirmative action need not have a permanent effect, since removing identity-based affirmative action may harm the poorer members of the target group. Thus either removing identity-based affirmative action, or switching to a class-based affirmative action is likely to be politically difficult.
J78|Height differentiated Wage Premium in West Bengal, India: An Empirical Study|Recently literature focuses on health status and labour market outcomes highlighting the height premium or height differentiated wage earning in labour market. Body height and weight of a worker, normally, represents his/her health status which is the basis of efficiency of a worker and it determines his/her productivity too. Literature has considered height, weight, age, education and experience, etc. as wage determining factors. Literature suggests that taller earns more than short heighted labour. Now, question arises weather height differentiated wage is true for all jobs or sector specific jobs only. This study attempts to answer these questions. Using primary data of six different job sectors, this paper investigates the relationship between physical health status and wage earning in West Bengal, India. Primary observation shows that taller earns more compared to their counter parts. This paper provides evidence that height differentiates wage income is significant in hard job sectors while education differential wage earning in soft job sectors. Worker’s height is statistically significant and positively affect on wage earning in hard working sector. Here, taller is the gainer in wage income earning and the estimated height premium is around 2% - 4%. However, backward or lower caste workers lose their wage income even in hard job sectors due to physical inefficiency that arises because of malnutrition or insufficient nutritional intake in the childhood.
J78|Políticas lingüísticas para estudiantes indígenas de la Universidad Nacional de Colombia, sede Bogotá<BR>[Language policies for indigenous students of the Universidad Nacional de Colombia in Bogotá]|The world’s native minority languages have been directly or indirectly affected after the colonisation processes that each country has had through history. There are 65 endangered indigenous languages in Colombia due to such processes and national institutional negligence. The Universidad Nacional de Colombia, being the most important educational institution of the country, is to take up actions that guarantee the conservation and preservation of our languages. The following article presents three proposals that should help attain the aforementioned objectives.
J78|Policy Review on Employment of Disabled Persons|Our attitude toward persons with disabilities has changed over time. From considering them as being inferior, disgrace, unfit and so much more, we have come a long way to acknowledging their contributions as productive members of the society. They were once considered as outcasts to a point where we reject them as members of the society. As we grow as human beings, we have learned to embrace diversity, we have come to accept the reality, and we keep on making ways in order to create an environment equal and accessible to all. Instead of removing, contesting or stigmatizing, we acknowledged the existence of persons with disabilities and the limitations of this group in terms of participation in all sectors of our society. Laws were created in order to preserve and maintain equality amongst members of the society. Special interests were given on issues concerning people with disabilities. In the context of human resource and management, a huge amount of progress can be observed in terms of employment of persons with disabilities. The goal of this paper is to examine the policy on human resource management in relations to persons with disabilities. The focus will be on the issues regarding the inadequacy of the policies constructed concerning persons with disabilities specifically the blinds and deaf-mutes. Despite the overwhelming laws on promotion of equality and accessibility on employment with regards to persons with disability, there is still an observable inequality within the workplace and an obvious disparity between the disabled persons and those that are not. There are noticeable problems within these laws passed by the government. The laws are theoretically good; however, certain aspects of the laws or policies are inadequate in achieving their goals. There is a need to review the policies regarding employment of persons with disabilities and to reassess the competence of the unit implementing the policies.
J78|"Seniors for Hire? Age Discrimination, ""Sex-Plus-Age"" Discrimination, and the Effectiveness of Age Discrimination Laws"|"In this paper I discuss population aging, increased participation of seniors in the labor force in the United States (and reasons for this), and how these trends are making the struggles of older workers in the labor market increasingly policy relevant. I discuss evidence examining if age discrimination, especially age discrimination against older women (""sex-plus-age"" discrimination), as a barrier for seniors as they try to increase their work lives through the common practice of ""bridge"" or ""partial retirement"" jobs. After discussing the evidence that measures age discrimination, I discuss economics and legal research that seeks to determine to what extent the federal Age Discrimination in Employment Act and state-level age discrimination laws prevent age and ""sex-plus-age"" discrimination. I conclude that while age discrimination laws seem to help mitigate some age discrimination faced by older men, older women face more age discrimination, and current age discrimination laws do a poor job of protecting older women, who are even more economically vulnerable."
J78|The Impact of Traineeships on the Employment of the Mentally Ill: The Role of Partial Compliance|"Lavoro&Psiche is a RCT aimed at increasing employment among severely mentally ill patients, by offering them a structured job-search experience. The key feature of the treatment was the presence of a ""job coach"" entirely dedicated to support the job search of a small number (12-13) of mentally ill patients. What most often the job coach did was finding the patient a traineeship. If one were to consider only the effect of making the support of the coach available – the so-called Intention-To-Treat effect – it would be a disappointing statistically non significant 5 percentage point difference in the employment of treatment and control members, in the full post-treatment year. However, the impact of making something available is rarely the primary interest of policy-makers, who would rather know the effect of receiving it. The main difficulty in obtaining unbiased estimates of the latter is that 'who receives what' is no longer solely determined by randomization, but also by post-randomization events and decisions. During the implementation period of Lavoro&Psiche of 2011-12, an unprecedented wave of traineeship opportunities hit those enrolled in the demonstration, both in the experimental and in the control group. The main finding is that, for the subset of the experimental group that was induced by the offer to be involved in a traineeship the chances of having a job in the post-treatment year more than double from the 17% of those who did not do any traineeship to the 34% of those who did, well above the Intention-To-Treat impact estimates."
J78|Minimum wage: Redistributive or discriminatory policy?|The standard model of optimal minimum wage policy in a perfectly competitive labor market suggests that a positive tax rate on minimum wage income is Pareto inefficient. However, most countries with a minimum wage exhibit a positive tax rate for minimum wage income. This paper introduces discrimination of individuals that do not contribute to social welfare, typically individuals that do not participate in the political process, into the standard model. If a minimum wage is introduced for discriminatory purposes, a positive tax rate on minimum wage income can be compatible with optimal government policy. In the empirical part, we show that the approval of discrimination against foreigners in the labor market and the presence of a minimum wage are indeed positively correlated.
J78|“Do anti-discrimination laws alleviate labor market duality? Quasi-experimental evidence from Korea”|Labor market segmentation is a growing phenomenon in many countries across different continents. In 2007, the Korean government undertook a labor reform prohibiting undue discriminatory treatment against fixed-term, part-time, and dispatched workers in an attempt to address income inequality arising from labor market duality. By exploiting a gradual introduction of the anti-discrimination law by firm size, I identify the treatment effects of the antidiscrimination law on gaps in wage and non-wage benefits between regular and non-regular workers, taking a difference-in-differences approach, a quasi-experimental design. My findings suggest that the imposition of the anti-discrimination law has significantly narrowed gaps in labor conditions between regular and non-regular workers. Labor conditions of targeted nonregular workers did not improve at the expense of those of non-targeted non-regular workers. Nevertheless, non-targeted non-regular workers being treated in a less favorable way raises another concern about the possibility of overusing non-targeted non-regular workers.
J78|The Changing Contours of Inter group Disparities and the Role of Preferential Policies in a Globalizing World: Evidence from India|"How persistent are traditional socioeconomic hierarchies in the face of marketization, significant structural shifts in the economy, and increased political representation of lower-ranked groups, and do preferential policies have a role in addressing these inequities among social groups? These questions are answered in the context of India by comparing successive age cohorts of three broad social groups - Scheduled Castes and Tribes (SC-STs), Other Backward Classes (OBCs) and ""Others"" (proxy for upper castes) - and provide the first disaggregated picture of the evolution of inter-caste disparities since Indian independence in 1947. Based on data from the National Sample Survey (NSS), the results show convergence in terms of literacy and primary education. However, in terms of access to higher education, white-collar jobs, average household expenditure and daily wages, evidence of divergence over time is found. As the NSS does not directly contain data on beneficiaries of affirmative action, we implement an identification strategy that exploits the fact that access to preferential policies are jointly determined by both the age and the social group of the individual. The first- and second-order effects of affirmative action show that extending job quotas to OBCs in 1993 had direct positive effects on access to government jobs, as well as indirect effects on secondary school attainment. [Working Paper No. 267]"
J78|Dominant or Backward? Political Economy of the Demand for Quotas by Jats, Patels and Marathas|Using data from the India Human Development Survey (IHDS), this paper examines the claims of three communities, viz., Jats in Haryana, Patels in Gujarat and Marathas in Maharashtra, to be classified as Other Backward Classes (OBC) in order to gain access to affirmative action. Comparing these three groups to the other major caste groups - Brahmins, Other Forward Castes, existing OBCs and Scheduled Castes and Tribes (SC and STs) in their respective states – on socio-economic indicators such as household consumption expenditure, poverty, access to infrastructure, self-declared practice of untouchability, education and occupational status, we find that that these three communities are closer to the dominant groups – Brahmins and Other Forward Castes - than to the existing disadvantaged groups - OBCs and SC-STs. Thus, their claim to backwardness is not justified by empirical data. We then examine the material basis of their anxieties in the context of structural changes in the Indian economy, particularly agriculture. We also investigate their networks and political connections that explain their success in mobilizing large numbers in support of their demands.
J78|Racism and judicial corruption in the US|Is racial hate reflected in the degree of judicial corruption? Using US state-level data, we find racial hate to be a positive and statistically powerful predictor of judicial corruption. This relationship prevails after the inclusion of the conventional control variables and regional fixed effects. In terms of magnitude, one standard deviation increase of racial hate relates to an increase of 70 percent of one standard deviation in corruption. Interestingly, no such relationship can be found for corruption in the executive or legislative branch.
J78|Corporate Boards of Large Companies: More Momentum Needed for Gender Parity|Germany’s large corporations still have a long way to go before achieving balanced representation of men and women on their boards. At the end of 2015, the share of women on the executive boards of the top 200 companies in Germany was a good six percent, an increase of less than one percentage point over 2014. The share of women on the supervisory boards of these top 200 companies was almost 20 percent although growth there has slowed. The DAX 30 performed slightly better in terms of women’s representation: the proportion of women on the executive boards of these companies was just under ten percent at the close of 2015 and the equivalent figure for supervisory boards was almost 27 percent. (In both cases, this represented an increase of more than two percentage points). Of the over 100 companies obliged to comply with a statutory 30-percent share of women for all new supervisory board appointments from January 2016, almost 28 percent had already met this quota by the end of 2015. Just under one-third of the companies had achieved a share of at least 20 percent but still less than 30 percent of female supervisory board members and were therefore well on their way to fulfilling the quota. Almost half of all DAX 30 companies met the quota. However, it is highly unlikely that the lion’s share of the remaining companies will follow these trailblazers voluntarily in the near future since 22 percent of the top 200 and 24 percent of TecDAX companies, as well as over one-third of SDAX companies, currently either have no female supervisory board members at all or at most one in ten. Moreover, the share of women on executive boards is extremely low in all the companies analyzed in the present study. Germany’s companies still have a long and difficult path ahead of them in order to achieve increased representation of women on their corporate boards. This makes it all the more imperative to adopt a coordinated approach to improve the career prospects of women by means of stringent framework conditions, also encompassing fiscal and family policy.
J78|Higher Shares of Women on Corporate Boards Still a Long Way Off: Eight Questions to Elke Holst|No abstract is available for this item.
J78|Financial Sector: Share of Women on Corporate Boards Increases Slightly but Men Still Call the Shots|In 2015, the share of women in the top decision-making bodies of the financial sector increased once again but men remain in the overwhelming majority and thus continue to call the shots. At the end of 2015, women made up just under eight percent of executive board members of the 100 largest banks in Germany. The corresponding figure for the 59 largest insurance companies was a good nine percent. In both cases, this is less than a percentage point more than in 2014. Even on supervisory boards where the share of women is traditionally higher, both banks (with just over 21 percent women on supervisory boards) and insurance companies (with just over 19 percent) have a long way to go before achieving gender parity. The proportion of women on the supervisory boards of cooperative banks was particularly low (under 16 percent) despite the fact that these institutions are, in principle, based on a participatory business model. Overall, many more women than men are employed in the financial sector. As is generally known, the presence of women in senior management in particular is a prerequisite for their promotion to top management bodies. The companies would therefore be well advised to improve the career opportunities of their most talented female employees by promoting them more frequently and appointing them to managerial positions. This would be a wise move in anticipation of a possible expansion of the statutory gender quota and a tightening of the sanctions set out in the new law on equality for women and men in managerial positions, both in the private and public sectors, which was enacted in Germany in May 2015.
J78|Women's Likelihood of Holding a Senior Management Position Is Considerably Lower than Men's - Especially in the Financial Sector|Women remain grossly underrepresented in management positions in Germany. However, what has been dubbed the gender leadership gap, i.e., the difference between the share of all employees who are women and the share of women in senior management positions, varies considerably across different industries. The present report shows that the largest gender gap in the likelihood of holding a senior management position is to be found in the financial sector. Possible explanations include an exceptionally masculine culture and the specific legal requirements of CEOs in the financial sector that are implicitly biased toward men. Furthermore part-time work generally has an adverse effect on women’s career prospects: for many management positions, being able to work full-time is a prerequisite that often excludes women from taking on these positions due to the traditional division of household and family labor. Policy-makers and the business community should therefore adopt measures to increase gender equality when it comes to working hours. The “family working-time benefits model” and improvements in the quality of child day care proposed by DIW Berlin would be steps in the right direction.
J78|Better Career Opportunities for Women Will Help Lower the Gender Pay Gap: Nine Questions to Elke Holst|No abstract is available for this item.
J78|Spitzengremien großer Unternehmen: mehr Schubkraft für eine ausgewogene Repräsentation von Frauen und Männern nötig|Germany’s large corporations still have a long way to go before achieving balanced representation of men and women on their boards. At the end of 2015, the share of women on the executive boards of the top 200 companies in Germany was a good six percent, an increase of less than one percentage point over 2014. The share of women on the supervisory boards of these top 200 companies was almost 20 percent although growth there has slowed. The DAX 30 performed slightly better in terms of women’s representation: the proportion of women on the executive boards of these companies was just under ten percent at the close of 2015 and the equivalent figure for supervisory boards was almost 27 percent. (In both cases, this represented an increase of more than two percentage points). Of the over 100 companies obliged to comply with a statutory 30-percent share of women for all new supervisory board appointments from January 2016, almost 28 percent had already met this quota by the end of 2015. Just under one-third of the companies had achieved a share of at least 20 percent but still less than 30 percent of female supervisory board members and were therefore well on their way to fulfilling the quota. Almost half of all DAX 30 companies met the quota. However, it is highly unlikely that the lion’s share of the remaining companies will follow these trailblazers voluntarily in the near future since 22 percent of the top 200 and 24 percent of TecDAX companies, as well as over one-third of SDAX companies, currently either have no female supervisory board members at all or at most one in ten. Moreover, the share of women on executive boards is extremely low in all the companies analyzed in the present study. Germany’s companies still have a long and difficult path ahead of them in order to achieve increased representation of women on their corporate boards. This makes it all the more imperative to adopt a coordinated approach to improve the career prospects of women by means of stringent framework conditions, also encompassing fiscal and family policy. Eine ausgewogene Repräsentation von Männern und Frauen in den Spitzengremien großer Unternehmen in Deutschland bleibt in weiter Ferne. In den Vorständen der 200 umsatzstärksten Unternehmen lag der Frauenanteil Ende vergangenen Jahres bei gut sechs Prozent – ein Anstieg von weniger als einem Prozentpunkt gegenüber dem Vorjahr. Die Aufsichtsräte waren zu fast 20 Prozent mit Frauen besetzt, allerdings hat sich die Dynamik abgeschwächt. Etwas besser war die Situation in den 30 größten börsennotierten Unternehmen: Im DAX-30 lag der Frauenanteil Ende 2015 in Vorständen bei knapp zehn Prozent (plus gut zwei Prozentpunkte) und in Aufsichtsräten bei fast 27 Prozent (plus gut zwei Prozentpunkte). Von den gut 100 Unternehmen, die ab 2016 bei Neubesetzungen ihres Aufsichtsrats Frauen bis zu einem Anteil von mindestens 30 Prozent berücksichtigen müssen, hatten fast 28 Prozent diese Quote Ende des Jahres 2015 bereits erfüllt. Knapp ein Drittel der Unternehmen waren mit einem Anteil von 20 bis unter 30 Prozent Aufsichtsrätinnen auf dem Weg dorthin. In der DAX-30-Gruppe erreichte nahezu die Hälfte der Unternehmen die Zielgröße. Dass die Masse der anderen Unternehmen den Vorreitern in absehbarer Zeit auf freiwilliger Basis folgt, ist unwahrscheinlich: Denn in 22 Prozent der Top-200- und 24 Prozent der TecDAX- sowie über einem Drittel der SDAX-Unternehmen ist derzeit entweder gar kein Aufsichtsratsmitglied oder höchstens jedes zehnte eine Frau. Der Anteil von Frauen in Vorständen ist zudem in allen untersuchten Unternehmensgruppen extrem gering. Der Weg zu mehr Frauen in Spitzengremien bleibt also lang und mühsam. Umso dringender ist eine Politik aus einem Guss, die durch stringente Rahmenbedingungen, auch in der Steuer- und Familienpolitik, die Karrierechancen von Frauen verbessert.
J78|Weg zu mehr Frauenanteilen in Spitzengremien bleibt lang und mühsam: Acht Fragen an Elke Holst|No abstract is available for this item.
J78|Finanzsektor: Frauenanteile in Spitzengremien nehmen etwas zu – Männer geben den Ton an|In 2015, the share of women in the top decision-making bodies of the financial sector increased once again but men remain in the overwhelming majority and thus continue to call the shots. At the end of 2015, women made up just under eight percent of executive board members of the 100 largest banks in Germany, and the corresponding figure for the 59 largest insurance companies was a good nine percent (in both cases this is less than a percentage point more than in 2014). Even on supervisory boards where the share of women is traditionally higher, both banks (with just over 21 percent women on supervisory boards) and insurance companies (with just over 19 percent) have a long way to go before achieving gender parity. The proportion of women on the supervisory boards of cooperative banks was particularly low (just under 16 percent) despite the fact that these institutions are, in principle, based on a participatory business model. Overall, many more women than men are employed in the financial sector. It is well known that the presence of women in senior management is a prerequisite for their promotion to corporate boards. Therefore, these financial enterprises would be well advised to improve the career opportunities of their most talented female employees by promoting them more frequently and appointing them to managerial positions. This would be a wise move in anticipation of a possible expansion of the statutory gender quota and a tightening of the sanctions set out in the new law on equality for women and men in managerial positions, both in the private and public sectors, which came into force in Germany in May 2015. Der Anteil von Frauen in Spitzengremien im Finanzsektor hat im Jahr 2015 erneut zugenommen, Männer geben aber mit überwältigender Mehrheit den Ton an. In den 100 größten Banken in Deutschland lag der Frauenanteil in Vorständen Ende 2015 bei knapp acht Prozent und in den 59 größten Versicherungen bei gut neun Prozent – das war jeweils weniger als ein Prozentpunkt mehr als im Jahr zuvor. In den Aufsichtsräten ist der Frauenanteil zwar traditionell höher. Allerdings waren sowohl die Geldhäuser (gut 21 Prozent Frauen in den Kontrollgremien) als auch die Versicherungen (gut 19 Prozent) noch weit von einer ausgeglichenen Repräsentation der Geschlechter entfernt. Besonders gering war der Frauenanteil in den Aufsichtsräten von Genossenschaftsbanken (knapp 16 Prozent), obwohl diese im Grundsatz ein partizipatives Geschäftsmodell verfolgen. Insgesamt sind weit mehr Frauen als Männer im Finanzsektor beschäftigt. Bekanntlich ist das Vorhandensein von Frauen insbesondere im oberen Management eine Voraussetzung für deren Beförderung in die Spitzengremien. Die Unternehmen sind daher gut beraten, ihre weiblichen Talente verstärkt in die Karrierepfade zu integrieren, sie also häufiger in höhere Führungspositionen zu befördern und einzustellen – auch, um einer möglichen Ausweitung der verbindlichen Geschlechterquote und einer Verschärfung der Sanktionen im seit Mai 2015 geltenden Gesetz für die gleichberechtigte Teilhabe von Frauen und Männern an Führungspositionen in der Privatwirtschaft und im öffentlichen Dienst zuvorzukommen.
J78|Hohe Führungspositionen: in der Finanzbranche haben Frauen im Vergleich zu Männern besonders geringe Chancen|Overall, women are still grossly underrepresented in management positions in Germany. However, what has been dubbed the gender leadership gap, i.e., the difference between the share of all employees who are women and the share of women in senior management positions, varies considerably across the different sectors. The present report shows that women have the lowest odds of occupying a senior management position in the financial sector although—measured against the total number of employees in the sector—the industry has a particularly large number of senior management positions. Possible explanations for this are the exceptionally masculine culture and the specific legal requirements of CEOs in the financial sector which are implicitly biased toward men. Generally, part-time work also has an adverse effect on women’s career prospects: for many management positions, being able to work full-time is a prerequisite which often excludes women from taking on these roles due to the traditional division of household and family labor—the same obviously does not apply to men. Policy-makers and the business community should therefore adopt measures to increase gender equality in terms of working hours. The “family working-time benefits model” and improvements in the quality of child day care proposed by DIW Berlin would be steps in the right direction. Frauen sind in Führungspositionen insgesamt noch immer deutlich unterrepräsentiert. Der sogenannte Gender Leadership Gap, also die Differenz zwischen dem Anteil von Frauen an allen abhängig Beschäftigten und dem Anteil von Frauen in hohen Führungspositionen, variiert zwischen einzelnen Branchen allerdings erheblich. Der vorliegende Bericht zeigt, dass die Chancen von Frauen in der Finanzbranche am geringsten sind, obwohl es dort – gemessen an allen Beschäftigten in der Branche – besonders viele hohe Führungspositionen gibt. Gründe dafür könnten eine besonders maskuline Kultur sowie die speziellen gesetzlichen Anforderungen an GeschäftsleiterInnen im Finanzsektor sein, die implizit Männern stärker zugutekommen. Generell schmälert auch Teilzeitarbeit die Karrierechancen von Frauen: Für viele Führungspositionen ist eine Vollzeittätigkeit Voraussetzung, der Frauen aufgrund der nach wie vor tradierten Aufgabenteilung in Familie und Haushalt aber oft nicht nachgehen können – im Gegensatz zu Männern. Politik und Wirtschaft sollten daher Maßnahmen ergreifen, die den Erwerbsumfang von Männern und Frauen angleichen. Die vom DIW Berlin vorgeschlagene Familienarbeitszeit und der qualitative Ausbau der Kinderbetreuung wären wichtige Schritte auf diesem Weg.
J78|Bessere Aufstiegschancen von Frauen tragen zur Reduzierung des Gender Pay Gap bei: Neun Fragen an Elke Holst|No abstract is available for this item.
J78|Exposure to female colleagues breaks the glass ceiling—Evidence from a combined vignette and field experiment|We study discrimination among recruits in the Norwegian Armed Forces during boot camp. In a vignette experiment female candidates are perceived as less suited to be squad leaders than their identical male counterparts. Adding positive information leads to higher evaluations of the candidates, but does not reduce the amount of discrimination. However, randomized intense collaborative exposure to female colleagues reduces discriminatory attitudes: Male soldiers who were randomly assigned to share room and work in a squad with female soldiers during the recruit period do not discriminate in the vignette experiment.
J78|Revealing side effects of quota rules on group cooperation|The quota rule in employment is a legal tool to promote gender equality in professions and positions where women are underrepresented. An accompanying assumption is that gender diversity positively affects one of the aspects of team performance in form of group cooperation. However, it is unclear whether this positive effect can be achieved if diversity increases due to a quota rule. In two fully incentivized experiments involving a real-effort task (N1=188 and N2=268), we examined the impact of quotas as compared to performance-based promotion on group cooperation. We thereby categorized participants either with regard to gender or to an artificial category that was randomly assigned. Cooperation within groups declined when promotion was based on quota compared to performance-based promotion, irrespective of the categorization criterion. Further analyses revealed that this negative effect of quota rules on cooperation is not driven by procedural fairness perceptions or expectations about performance of the promoted group member. Implications of the results for the implementation of equality and diversity initiatives are discussed.
J78|Health insurance as a productive factor|In this paper, we present a less-explored channel through which health insurance impacts productivity: by offering health insurance, employers reduce the expected time workers spend out of work in sick days. Using data from the Medical Expenditure Panel Survey (MEPS), we show that a worker with health coverage misses on average 76.54% fewer workdays than uninsured workers, after controlling for endogeneity. We develop a model that embodies this impact of health coverage in productivity. In our model, health insurance reduces the probability that a healthy worker gets sick, missing workdays, and it increases the probability that a sick worker recovers and returns to work. In our model, firms that offer health insurance are larger and pay higher wages in equilibrium, a pattern observed in the data. We calibrated the model using US data for 2004 and show the impact of increases in health costs, as well as of changes in tax benefits of health insurance expenses, on labor force health coverage and productivity.
J78|Does Political Reservation for Minorities Affect Child Labor? Evidence from India|This paper examines the impact of state-level political reservation for two minority groups–Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes–on the incidence of child labor in India. We estimate the effect of political reservation on the incidence of child labor by exploiting the state variation in the share of seats reserved for the two minority groups in state legislative assemblies mandated by the Constitution of India. Using data from state and household-level surveys on fifteen major Indian states, we find that at the household level, Schedule Tribe reservation decreases the incidence of child labor, while Scheduled Caste reservation increases the total number of children working. We examine these impacts on the general as well as the disadvantaged group population independently, and across the gender of children. We also explore potential explanations for the differential impact of SC and ST political reservation, including geographic isolation, caste fragmentation, support for the Congress Party, and decentralization of power. Our results survive a variety of robustness checks.
J78|Gender Quotas: Challenging the Boards, Performance, and the Stock Market|In 2011, Italy introduced gender quotas for boards of directors of companies listed on its stock market. Comparing before and after the reform within firms, we find that quotas are associated with a higher share of female board directors, higher levels of education of board members, and a lower share of older members. We then use the reform period as an instrument for the share of female directors and find no significant impact on firms' performance. Interestingly, we find that the share of female directors is associated with a lower variability of stock market prices. We also run event studies on the stock price reaction to the introduction of gender quotas. A positive effect of the quota law on stock market returns emerges at the date of the board's election. Our results are consistent with gender quotas giving rise to a beneficial restructuring of the board, which is positively received by the market.
J78|The Changing Contours of Intergroup Disparities and the Role of Preferential Policies in a Globalizing World- Evidence from India|"How persistent are traditional socioeconomic hierarchies in the face of marketization, significant structural shifts in the economy, and increased political representation of lower-ranked groups, and do preferential policies have a role in addressing these inequities among social groups? We answer these questions in the context of India by comparing successive age cohorts of three broad social groups - Scheduled Castes and Tribes (SC-STs), Other Backward Classes (OBCs) and ""Others"" (proxy for upper castes) - and provide the first disaggregated picture of the evolution of inter-caste disparities since Indian independence in 1947. Based on data from the National Sample Survey (NSS), our results show convergence in terms of literacy and primary education. However, in terms of access to higher education, white-collar jobs, average household expenditure and daily wages, we find evidence of divergence over time. As the NSS does not directly contain data on beneficiaries of affirmative action, we implement an identification strategy that exploits the fact that access to preferential policies are jointly determined by both the age and the social group of the individual. The first- and second-order effects of affirmative action show that extending job quotas to OBCs in 1993 had direct positive effects on access to government jobs, as well as indirect effects on secondary school attainment."
J78|Supply and Demand for Discrimination: Strategic Revelation of Own Characteristics in a Trust Game|In strategic settings a player may be able to influence the behavior of an opponent by revealing information about their own characteristics. They may for example aim to exploit stereotypes held by others. We provide an experimental test of this. A substantial fraction of players in a trust game exhibit a positive willingness to pay to reveal a photograph of themselves to their randomly-assigned partner. This suggests that they perceive that they can use their own characteristics to influence the behavior of others. The demand for such self-revelation depends negatively on price.
J78|“No more credit score”: employer credit check bans and signal substitution|In the past decade, most states have banned or considered banning the use of credit checks in hiring decisions, a screening tool that is widely used by employers. Using new Equifax data on employer credit checks, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York Consumer Credit Panel/Equifax data, and the LEHD Origin-Destination Employment data, we show that these bans increased employment of residents in the lowest-credit score census tracts. The largest gains occurred in higher-paying jobs and in the government sector. At the same time, using a large database of job postings, we show that employers increased their demand for other signals of applicants’ job performance, like education and experience. On net, the changes induced by these bans generate relatively worse outcomes for those with mid-to-low credit scores, for those under 22 years of age, and for blacks, groups commonly thought to benefit from such legislation.
J78|Ban the Box: The Effects of Criminal Background Information on Labor Market Outcomes| This paper seeks to investigate the effects of Ban-the-Box laws across the United States. Ban-the-Box laws make it illegal to ask whether an applicant has been convicted of a crime on a job application. The effects are consistent with that of statistical discrimination where the policy is having adverse effects on individuals labor market outcomes. I find that without perfect information about an individual's criminal history, firms base their perceived productivity of a potential applicant on an expected relationship between race and criminality. This results in negative effects on labor market outcomes for all individuals, especially for black males, who are particularly vulnerable.
J78|Measuring the effects of employment protection policies: Theory and evidence from the Americans with Disabilities Act|Title I of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) is an employment protection policy for disabled workers. By exploiting cross-state variation in pre-ADA legislation, we measure the effects of the law on transition rates of disabled workers. We find a decline in employment-to-non-employment transitions after the ADA, with an insignificant change in flow into employment. We use a model to disentangle the costs of firing and hiring imposed by the ADA. Our findings suggest that the ADA induces firms to fire less frequently but become more selective with new hires, impacting the aggregate productivity of the workforce and output of the economy.
J78|“Do anti-discrimination laws alleviate labor market duality? Quasi-experimental evidence from Korea”|Labor market segmentation is a growing phenomenon in many countries across different continents. In 2007, the Korean government undertook a labor reform prohibiting undue discriminatory treatment against fixed-term, part-time, and dispatched workers in an attempt to address income inequality arising from labor market duality. By exploiting a gradual introduction of the anti-discrimination law by firm size, I identify the treatment effects of the anti-discrimination law on gaps in wage and non-wage benefits between regular and non-regular workers, taking a difference-in-differences approach, a quasi-experimental design. My findings suggest that the imposition of the anti-discrimination law has significantly narrowed gaps in labor conditions between regular and non-regular workers. Labor conditions of targeted non-regular workers did not improve at the expense of those of non-targeted non-regular workers. Nevertheless, non-targeted non-regular workers being treated in a less favorable way raises another concern about the possibility of overusing non-targeted non-regular workers.
J78|Workplaces, Low Pay and the Gender Earnings Gap in Britain|This study provides a robust assessment of the importance of a number of determinants of the gaps in earnings between the four groups of employees who make up the British workforce; males and females who work full and part-time. The analysis considers the contribution of individual employee characteristics as well as occupation, industry, region and other workplace specific characteristics. The results are compared with previous findings for 2004 (Mumford and Smith, 2009) and with alternative data from the ASHE series for 2004, 2011 and 2015.
J78|“Vicarious” Liability of the Employer in Sexual Harassment Cases: A Comparative Study|In recent years, sexual harassment in the workplace has drastically increased worldwide, including in South Africa. Consequently, the country’s courts have looked to protect employees by attaching obligations to employers that could render them liable when their employees are sexually harassed in the workplace. The Employment Equity Act and the Code of Good Practice on the Handling of Sexual Harassment Cases in the Workplace have also introduced measures in terms of which an employer may be held liable once certain requirements have been met. However, when compared to other jurisdictions such as the United States of America, Australia and Ontario, Canada, where the legal position on sexual harassment in the workplace and employers’ vicarious liability seems clear-cut and effective, the South African measures seem to lack teeth. Various loopholes, poor awareness and training as well as lacking implementation mean that employees who are sexually harassed in employment may find themselves unprotected and unable to hold their employer vicariously liable. In an attempt to contribute to the development of South African law in this regard, this article firstly provides an overview of the current position in South Africa, followed by a comparative overview of the law in the USA, Australia and Ontario, Canada. It is concluded that South Africa stands to learn valuable lessons from these jurisdictions’ approach to sexual harassment in employment. The most significant of these include the proposed establishment of a body similar to the USA’s Equal Employment Opportunity Commission or the Australian Human Rights Commission, which can be tasked specifically to deal with employment issues, including protecting employees against harassment, and enforcing and raising awareness about employer liability; making the drafting of internal policies on sexual harassment in employment compulsory and subject to inspection, and instituting compulsory training for managers to prevent and deal with sexual harassment in the workplace.
J78|Does “Ban the Box” Help or Hurt Low-Skilled Workers? Statistical Discrimination and Employment Outcomes When Criminal Histories are Hidden|"Jurisdictions across the United States have adopted ""ban the box"" (BTB) policies preventing employers from conducting criminal background checks until late in the job application process. Their goal is to improve employment outcomes for those with criminal records, with a secondary goal of reducing racial disparities in employment. However, removing information about job applicants' criminal histories could lead employers who don't want to hire ex-offenders to try to guess who the ex-offenders are, and avoid interviewing them. In particular, employers might avoid interviewing young, low-skilled, black and Hispanic men when criminal records are not observable. This would worsen employment outcomes for these already-disadvantaged groups. In this paper, we use variation in the details and timing of state and local BTB policies to test BTB's effects on employment for various demographic groups. We find that BTB policies decrease the probability of being employed by 3.4 percentage points (5.1%) for young, low-skilled black men, and by 2.3 percentage points (2.9%) for young, low-skilled Hispanic men. These findings support the hypothesis that when an applicant's criminal history is unavailable, employers statistically discriminate against demographic groups that are likely to have a criminal record."
J78|Discrimination as a Self-Fulfilling Prophecy: Evidence from French Grocery Stores|Examining the performance of cashiers in a French grocery store chain, we find that manager bias negatively affects minority job performance. In the stores studied, cashiers work with different managers on different days and their schedules are determined quasi-randomly. When minority cashiers, but not majority cashiers, are scheduled to work with managers who are biased (as determined by an Implicit Association Test), they are absent more often, spend less time at work, scan items more slowly, and take more time between customers. Manager bias has consequences for the average performance of minority workers: while on average minority and majority workers perform equivalently, on days where managers are unbiased, minorities perform significantly better than do majority workers. This appears to be because biased managers interact less with minorities, leading minorities to exert less effort.
J78|HRM responses to ageing societies in Germany and Japan: Contexts for comparison|This brief introductory discussion develops contexts within which to compare human resource management (HRM) responses to ageing societies in Japan and Germany. Here we define key concepts that occur throughout this Special Issue. While giving due attention to the historical and current contexts for emerging challenges to HRM policy-makers, practitioners and researchers posed by ageing societies in Germany and Japan, we propose that the relevant contexts for interpreting these challenges are essentially global, national, and regional in nature. In conclusion we present a brief overview of the contributions to this Management Review Special Issue.
J78|Making the case for older workers|Against a background of population ageing, and with it, concomitant effects on social welfare systems and labour markets, public policy makers in affected nations are seeking ways of pushing out the final age of withdrawal from their labour markets. Central to such efforts is promoting the contribution of older workers to organizations and overcoming labour market age barriers. Within this advocacy approach there has been recent interest in identifying and promulgating examples of employer best practice in order to emphasize new dimensions of the business case for employing older workers. Drawing on literature concerned with advocating an ethical concern in human resource management as pertains to older workers, this article examines an exemplar set of employer case studies aimed at promulgating best practice. It considers the concept of age management and its manifestations to argue that many standard HRM practices are firmly, although probably unwittingly, grounded in ageist assumptions concerning the capacities, potentiality and contributions of both younger and older workers. This, we argue, is a consequence of an unnecessarily narrow conception of good employment practice based in an economic rationality that is not conducive to the effective management of age in organizations.
J78|Affirmative Action Outcomes - Evidence from a Law School in Brazil|The main goal of affirmative action (AA) policies is to give opportunities otherwise nonexistent to minorities and underprivileged students. In this paper, I investigate whether the introduction of college affirmative action policy enables AA candidates to obtain a career in Law and to catch up with high scoring candidates who did not get admitted due to the policy (i.e., displaced candidates). To do so, I use a new dataset from a large university in Rio de Janeiro, the first in Brazil to adopt the quota system for both black and public school students. This dataset is combined with the OAB exam passage records, equivalent to the American Bar exam. Preliminary results suggest that the quota policy improves OAB passage rates for beneficiaries. I find that lawyer certification for underprivileged students increases by 33 p.p., even though they underperform by 7.68 p.p when compared to displaced candidates. I also present evidence that displaced candidates do not experience any drop on their OAB exam passage rates due to the policy. Furthermore, I find that public school quota beneficiaries who score close to the admittance cutoff score present an increase in the probability of passing the OAB exam by up to 52 p.p.
J78|Wage subsidies and hiring chances for the disabled: some causal evidence|This study evaluated the effectiveness of wage subsidies as a policy instrument to integrate disabled individuals into the labor market. To identify causal effects, a large-scale field experiment was conducted in Belgium. The results show that the likelihood of a disabled candidate receiving a positive response to a job application is not positively influenced by disclosing entitlement to the Flemish Supporting Subsidy. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2016
J78|What happens when the definition of disability changes? The case of obesity|Abstract This paper examines how Congress’s 2008 expansion of who is disabled under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) impacts the labor market outcomes of newly covered individuals. Focusing on obese individuals, I exploit variation in coverage of obesity before and after the 2008 expansion to identify effects of the legal change, but I find no improvement in the labor market outcomes of the obese. Although the 2008 expansion was intended to remedy the unintended consequences of the ADA and improve labor market outcomes of the disabled, these early estimates suggest that the expansion has not yet achieved Congress’s stated goals. JEL codes: J14, J21, J78, K31
J78|What happens when the definition of disability changes? The case of obesity|This paper examines how Congress’s 2008 expansion of who is disabled under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) impacts the labor market outcomes of newly covered individuals. Focusing on obese individuals, I exploit variation in coverage of obesity before and after the 2008 expansion to identify effects of the legal change, but I find no improvement in the labor market outcomes of the obese. Although the 2008 expansion was intended to remedy the unintended consequences of the ADA and improve labor market outcomes of the disabled, these early estimates suggest that the expansion has not yet achieved Congress’s stated goals. JEL codes: J14, J21, J78, K31 Copyright Shinall. 2016
J78|Covering: Mutable Characteristics and Perceptions of Voice in the U.S. Supreme Court|The emphasis on “fit” as a hiring criterion has raised the spectrum of a new form of subtle discrimination (Yoshino 1998; Bertrand and Duflo 2016). Under complete markets, correlations between employee characteristics and outcomes persist only if there exists animus for the marginal employer (Becker 1957), but who is the marginal employer for mutable characteristics? Using data on 1,901 U.S. Supreme Court oral arguments between 1998 and 2012, we document that voice-based snap judgments based on lawyers’ identical introductory sentences, “Mr. Chief Justice, (and) may it please the Court?”, predict court outcomes. The connection between vocal characteristics and court outcomes is specific only to perceptions of masculinity and not other characteristics, even when judgment is based on less than three seconds of exposure to a lawyer’s speech sample. Consistent with employers irrationally favoring lawyers with masculine voices, perceived masculinity is negatively correlated with winning and the negative correlation is larger in more masculine-sounding industries. The first lawyer to speak is the main driver. Among these petitioners, males below median in masculinity are 7 percentage points more likely to win in the Supreme Court. Justices appointed by Democrats, but not Republicans, vote for lessmasculine men. Female lawyers are also coached to be more masculine and women’s perceived femininity predict court outcomes. Republicans, more than Democrats, vote for more feminine-sounding females. A de-biasing strategy is tested and shown to reduce evaluators’ tendency to perceive masculine voices as more likely to win. Perceived masculinity explains 3-10% additional variance compared to the current best prediction model of Supreme Court votes.
J78|Covering: Mutable Characteristics and Perceptions of (Masculine) Voice in the U.S. Supreme Court|The emphasis on “fit” as a hiring criterion has raised the spectrum of a new form of subtle discrimination (Yoshino 1998; Bertrand and Duflo 2016). Under complete markets, correlations between employee characteristics and outcomes persist only if there exists animus for the marginal employer (Becker 1957), but who is the marginal employer for mutable characteristics? Using data on 1,901 U.S. Supreme Court oral arguments between 1998 and 2012, we document that voice-based snap judgments based on lawyers’ identical introductory sentences, “Mr. Chief Justice, (and) may it please the Court?”, predict court outcomes. The connection between vocal characteristics and court outcomes is specific only to perceptions of masculinity and not other characteristics, even when judgment is based on less than three seconds of exposure to a lawyer’s speech sample. Consistent with employers irrationally favoring lawyers with masculine voices, perceived masculinity is negatively correlated with winning and the negative correlation is larger in more masculine-sounding industries. The first lawyer to speak is the main driver. Among these petitioners, males below median in masculinity are 7 percentage points more likely to win in the Supreme Court. Justices appointed by Democrats, but not Republicans, vote for lessmasculine men. Female lawyers are also coached to be more masculine and women’s perceived femininity predict court outcomes. Republicans, more than Democrats, vote for more feminine-sounding females. A de-biasing strategy is tested and shown to reduce evaluators’ tendency to perceive masculine voices as more likely to win. Perceived masculinity explains 3-10% additional variance compared to the current best prediction model of Supreme Court votes.
J78|Expanding Employment Discrimination Protections for Individuals with Disabilities: Evidence from California|Effective 2001, California passed the Prudence Kay Poppink Act, which broadened Californiaâ€™s disability employment discrimination law to cover individuals with less-severe disabilities by lowering the burden of proof to establish a disability. Using both difference-in-differences and difference-in-difference-in-differences regression analyses and data from the Current Population Survey, the author estimates how this act affected the labor market outcomes for individuals with disabilities. The results suggest that the act signiï¬ cantly increased employment for individuals with disabilities, with the effect persisting at least partially up to six years later.
J78|Opinions on the economic integration of Roma in Romania|Roma integration is more than a matter of social inclusion, having a positive economic impact. In many countries, Roma represent a significant and growing percentage of school-age population and future workforce. Effective policies to labour activation and individualized services and support available for Roma who seeks a job are crucial to allow Roma to assert their human capital and to actively participate on equal terms in the economy and society.
J78|The Pursuit Of A Remedy For Gender Inequality In Wider Europe: Comparison Of Policies And Indices In The Eu, Nordic Countries, And South East Europe|This paper explores the differences between gender regimes in Europe, with an emphasis on EU policies, the Nordic women-friendly welfare states, and the former socialist policies of South Eastern European (SEE) countries. The main premise is that culture and differing institutionalization of gender equality contribute to different perceptions of women’s role in society and to a different perception of gender equality in general. The paper examines the theoretical standpoints and historical background of different gender regimes in Europe. Gender equality indices are analyzed in order to investigate if any patterns exist among European countries with distinct cultural, political, and social backgrounds. Nordic countries are overachievers in gender equality in Europe, mainly due to the prevailing egalitarianism and institutionalization of women-friendly welfare policies, which can serve as a good benchmark for wider Europe, especially for countries from South East Europe. However, cultural differences exist between Scandinavian and other European countries, which cannot be considered homogeneous. The paper raises important issues of gender equality such as multiculturalism and immigration, questioning to what extent future EU enlargements will increase the risk of greater gender inequality in the EU.
J78|Profiling, Screening, and Criminal Recruitment| We model major criminal activity as a game in which a law enforcement officer chooses the rate at which to screen different population groups, and a criminal organization (e.g., drug cartel, terrorist cell) chooses the observable characteristics of its recruits. Our model best describes smuggling or terrorism activities at borders, airports, and other security checkpoints. The most effective law enforcement policy imposes only moderate restrictions on the officer's ability to profile. In contrast to models of decentralized crime, requiring equal treatment never improves the effectiveness of law enforcement.
J78|Anatomie d'une politique régionale de lutte contre les discriminations|We built a database of all actions funded by the ?le-de-France Region in the field of the fight against discrimination and for equality between women and men from January 2008 to March 2012. 455 actions have been found. There are particular in their purpose, procedures for implementing, the public who benefit and territories where it unfolds. Nevertheless common features characterize regional policy. Actions are mainly carried out by associations which are a major player in the fight against discrimination. The logic of project financing, inherent in these devices, leads to coordination failures that induce inequalities according to a particular subdomain. This differential treatment of public doubles as a difference in the territorial coverage of the devices. The Paris territories are unevenly covered by devices against discrimination.
J78|Differential Treatment in the Chinese Labor Market. Is Hukou Type the Only Problem?|Differential treatment towards minority groups in labor markets may be both a result of a governmental registration system that foster unequal rights based on the origins of individuals, and a result of a disadvantageous attitude of both local employers and the general population towards non-locals. We test for differential treatment in the Chinese labor market towards rural migrants with and without urban registration, using data from the Rural to Urban Migration Survey in China. The findings indicate that despite its often assumed large impact on the differential treatment towards rural migrants, the type of household registration (hukou) is not entirely responsible for the local-migrant differences in total hourly incomes which are not attributable to personal characteristics. The results suggest that even the complete abolishment of the hukou system may at most eliminate only a portion of the disadvantageous treatment towards rural female migrants which is not attributable to differences in personal characteristics, and may even have no measurable impact on rural male migrants working in the paid-employment sector in Chinese urban labor markets.
J78|Free Movement of Persons: The Mirage of Social Security Schemes|The purpose of this paper is to address the issue of social security benefits that jobseekers, nationals of other Member State, residing in another Member States are in title to, as well as the economic implications of free movement of persons and labour market access. Consequently, it aims to disentangle between labour mobility welfare effects and “benefit tourism” looking in particular at the United Kingdom social security system and analysing the policy framework currently in place that governs the free movement of people across the European Union Member States.
J78|College Diversity and Investment Incentives|We study the aggregate economic effects of diversity policies such as affirmative action in college admission. If agents are constrained in the side payments they can make, the free market allocation displays excessive segregation relative to the first-best. Affirmative action policies can restore diversity within colleges but also affect incentives to invest in pre-college scholastic achievement. Affirmative action policies that are achievement-based can increase aggregate investment and income, reduce inequality, and increase aggregate welfare relative to the free market outcome. They may also be more effective than decentralized policies such as cross-subsidization of students by colleges.
J78|Executive Board and Supervisory Board Members in Germany’s Large Corporations Remain Predominantly Male|The executive boards of large corporations in Germany continue to be in men’s hands: at the close of 2014, a good five percent of executive board members at the top 200 companies in Germany were women. This is equivalent to an increase of one percentage point over 2013, which is evidence of the rather sluggish development in this area. DAX 30 companies recorded the largest proportion of female board members at a good seven percent, while the lowest share was recorded for MDAX companies (less than three percent). The representation of women on supervisory boards was better: at the end of 2014, a good 18 percent of board members were women in the top 200 companies; DAX 30 companies displayed above-average results for female board members at just below 25 percent. At a little under 14 percent, SDAX companies displayed not only the lowest percentage of women, but also the lowest increase over 2013 (0.6 percentage points). Both on executive and supervisory boards, female chairpersons remain the exception. Following the law passed by the federal government cabinet last year on equality for women and men in managerial positions, both at private companies and in the civil service, female representation, at least on supervisory boards, is likely to improve. The gender quota introduced in this legislation will come into effect on January 1, 2016. Companies with government-owned shares will also be affected by the quota regulation. Here, female representation on the supervisory boards and executive boards at the end of 2014 was just under 24 and just under 15 percent, respectively.
J78|Financial Sector: Share of Women in Top Decision-Making Bodies Remains Low|At the end of 2014, women were no better represented on the top decision-making bodies of enterprises in the financial sector than the previous year. The share of women on the executive boards of the 100 largest banks and savings banks remained at an average of almost seven percent and on the executive boards of the 60 largest insurance companies at 8.5 percent. On supervisory boards, change was slow at best: Although the share of women in financial institutions was almost 18 percent and a good 17 percent among insurance companies, only decimal point increases could be observed. In public sector banks and savings banks, however, female representation on supervisory boards was greater than in the previous year: at almost 19 percent, the financial institutions in this sector are roughly on a par with private banks (a good 18 percent). Overall, the majority of women on supervisory boards are still employee representatives but shareholders have appointed considerably more women to supervisory boards in recent years. At European level, relatively few women were represented on the Council of the European Central Bank and on decision-making bodies of the national central banks, although there are significant differences across countries. Planned legislation on the equal participation of women and men in leadership positions in the private and public sectors aims to increase the proportion of women on supervisory boards of listed companies subject to codetermination regulations in Germany. The persistence of current structures could be greater in the financial sector than in the top 200 companies: Even though over half of financial sector employees are women, the share of women on the supervisory boards of financial institutions increased on average by less than 0.4 percentage points per year in the period 2006 to 2014, compared to 1.3 percentage points in the top 200 companies.
J78|Towards a Gender Quota|In 2016, a fixed gender quota will come into force in Germany, affecting the supervisory boards of listed companies that also have employee representation (full codetermination).1 By as early as September 30, 2015, however, all companies will be obliged to set a self-imposed target quota – even companies that meet just one of these criteria; i.e., either listed or subject to codetermination. A variety of concerns have been expressed about the implementation of this law, including fears that the quota will impair company performance and the quality of the talent pool, or the belief that it discriminates against men and stigmatizes women. The present article examines these key criticisms on the basis of research findings to date. In conclusion, the advantages of a gender quota should allay these concerns since, in the long term, it contributes to dismantling gender stereotypes and consequently also mitigates the negative impact these stereotypes have on the selection of the best candidates for senior management positions.
J78|"I Find the Term ""Quota Woman"" Unobjective: Eight Questions to Norma Schmitt"|No abstract is available for this item.
J78|Weiterhin kaum Frauen in den Vorständen großer Unternehmen: auch Aufsichtsräte bleiben Männerdomänen|The executive boards of large corporations in Germany continue to be in men’s hands: at the close of 2014, a good five percent of executive board members at the top 200 companies in Germany were women. This is equivalent to an increase of one percentage point over 2013, which is evidence of the rather sluggish development in this area. DAX 30 companies recorded the largest proportion of female board members at a good seven percent, while the lowest share was recorded for MDAX companies (less than three percent). The representation of women on supervisory boards was better: at the end of 2014, a good 18 percent of board members were women in the top 200 companies; DAX 30 companies displayed above-average results for female board members at just below 25 percent. At a little under 14 percent, SDAX companies displayed not only the lowest percentage of women, but also the lowest increase over 2013 (0.6 percentage points). Both on executive and supervisory boards, female chairpersons remain the exception. Following the law passed by the federal government cabinet last year on equality for women and men in managerial positions, both at private companies and in the civil service, female representation, at least on supervisory boards, is likely to improve. The gender quota introduced in this legislation will come into effect on January 1, 2016. Companies with government-owned shares will also be affected by the quota regulation. Here, female representation on the supervisory boards and executive boards at the end of 2014 was just under 24 and just under 15 percent, respectively. Die Vorstände großer Unternehmen in Deutschland befinden sich nach wie vor fest in Männerhand: Ende 2014 lag der Frauenanteil in den Vorständen der Top-200-Unternehmen in Deutschland bei gut fünf Prozent. Das entspricht einem Plus von einem Prozentpunkt gegenüber dem Vorjahr und damit einer sehr geringen Dynamik. Die DAX-30-Unternehmen konnten mit gut sieben Prozent den höchsten Frauenanteil verzeichnen, am geringsten war er mit noch nicht einmal drei Prozent bei den MDAX-Unternehmen. Häufiger sind Frauen in den Aufsichtsräten vertreten: In den Top-200-Unternehmen waren Ende des Jahres 2014 gut 18 Prozent Frauen; die DAX-30-Unternehmen schnitten mit einem Frauenanteil von knapp 25 Prozent überdurchschnittlich ab. Die SDAX-Unternehmen wiesen mit knapp 14 Prozent nicht nur den kleinsten Frauenanteil auf, sondern mit 0,6 Prozentpunkten auch den geringsten Zuwachs gegenüber dem Vorjahr. Wie in den Vorständen haben Frauen auch in Aufsichtsräten nur in Ausnahmefällen den Vorsitz inne. Mit dem vom Bundeskabinett im vergangenen Jahr verabschiedeten Gesetz für die gleichberechtigte Teilhabe von Frauen und Männern an Führungspositionen in der Privatwirtschaft und im öffentlichen Dienst dürfte sich die Besetzung zumindest von Aufsichtsratsposten durch Frauen beschleunigen. Die Quotenregelung soll ab 1. Januar 2016 gelten. Vom Gesetz betroffen wären auch Unternehmen mit Bundesbeteiligung. Hier lag der Frauenanteil im Aufsichtsrat Ende 2014 bei knapp 24 Prozent und in den Vorständen bei knapp 15 Prozent.
J78|Finanzsektor: Frauenanteile in Spitzengremien bleiben gering|At the end of 2014, women were no better represented on the top decision-making bodies of enterprises in the financial sector than the previous year. The share of women on the executive boards of the 100 largest banks and savings banks remained at an average of almost seven percent and on the executive boards of the 60 largest insurance companies at 8.5 percent. On supervisory boards, change was slow at best: Although the share of women in financial institutions was almost 18 percent and a good 17 percent among insurance companies, only decimal point increases could be observed. In public sector banks and savings banks, however, female representation on supervisory boards was greater than in the previous year: at almost 19 percent, the financial institutions in this sector are roughly on a par with private banks (a good 18 percent). Overall, the majority of women on supervisory boards are still employee representatives but shareholders have appointed considerably more women to supervisory boards in recent years. At European level, relatively few women were represented on the Council of the European Central Bank and on decision-making bodies of the national central banks, although there are significant differences across countries. Planned legislation on the equal participation of women and men in leadership positions in the private and public sectors aims to increase the proportion of women on supervisory boards of listed companies subject to codetermination regulations in Germany. The persistence of current structures could be greater in the financial sector than in the top 200 companies: Even though over half of financial sector employees are women, the share of women on the supervisory boards of financial institutions increased on average by less than 0.4 percentage points per year in the period 2006 to 2014, compared to 1.3 percentage points in the top 200 companies. In den Spitzengremien von Unternehmen des Finanzsektors waren Frauen Ende des Jahres 2014 kaum häufiger vertreten als ein Jahr zuvor. In den Vorständen der 100 größten Banken und Sparkassen verharrte der Frauenanteil bei durchschnittlich knapp sieben Prozent und in den Vorständen der 60 größten Versicherungen bei 8,5 Prozent. In den Aufsichtsräten verlief die Entwicklung bestenfalls schleppend: Der Frauenanteil betrug 18 Prozent bei den Geldinstituten und gut 17 Prozent bei den Versicherungen – die Zuwächse gegenüber dem Vorjahr lagen lediglich im Nachkommabereich. In den öffentlich-rechtlichen Banken und Sparkassen waren Frauen indes häufiger in den Aufsichtsgremien vertreten als im Jahr zuvor: Mit einem Frauenanteil von knapp 19 Prozent liegen die Geldinstitute dieses Bereichs ungefähr gleichauf mit den privaten Banken (gut 18 Prozent). Insgesamt stellen die Arbeitnehmervertreterinnen nach wie vor die Mehrheit der Aufsichtsrätinnen, allerdings hat die Kapitalseite in den vergangenen Jahren deutlich aufgeholt. Auf europäischer Ebene waren im Rat der Europäischen Zentralbank und in den Entscheidungsgremien der nationalen Zentralbanken ebenfalls vergleichsweise wenige Frauen vertreten, wobei es im Ländervergleich deutliche Unterschiede gibt. Das geplante „Gesetz für die gleichberechtigte Teilhabe von Frauen und Männern an Führungspositionen in der Privatwirtschaft und im öffentlichen Dienst“ soll die Frauenanteile insbesondere in den Aufsichtsräten börsennotierter und mitbestimmungspflichtiger Unternehmen in Deutschland erhöhen. Die Hartnäckigkeit der Strukturen könnte im Finanzsektor noch größer sein als etwa in den Top-200- Unternehmen: Obwohl mehr als die Hälfte der Beschäftigten im Finanzsektor Frauen sind, nahm der Anteil der Aufsichtsrätinnen in den Banken zwischen 2006 und 2014 jahresdurchschnittlich um weniger als 0,4 Prozentpunkte zu - gegenüber 1,3 Prozentpunkten in den Top-200-Unternehmen.
J78|Zum Potential einer festen Geschlechterquote|In 2016, a fixed gender quota will come into force in Germany, affecting the supervisory boards of listed companies that also have employee representation (full codetermination). By as early as September 30, 2015, however, all companies will be obliged to set a self-imposed target quota—even companies that meet just one of these criteria; i.e., either listed or subject to codetermination. A variety of concerns have been expressed about the implementation of this law, including fears that the quota will impair company performance and the quality of the talent pool, or the belief that it discriminates against men and stigmatizes women. The present article examines these key criticisms on the basis of research findings to date. In conclusion, the advantages of a gender quota should allay these concerns since, in the long term, it contributes to dismantling gender stereotypes and consequently also mitigates the negative impact these stereotypes have on the selection of the best candidates for senior management positions. Ab dem Jahr 2016 wird in Deutschland eine feste Geschlechterquote für die Aufsichtsräte von paritätisch mitbestimmungspflichtigen und gleichzeitig börsennotierten Unternehmen gelten. Die Festlegung einer selbstverpflichtenden Quote für die weiteren oberen Führungsebenen verlangt der Gesetzgeber bereits bis zum 30. September 2015 – auch für die Unternehmen, bei denen nur eines der beiden Kriterien erfüllt ist. Im Zuge der Implementierung dieses Gesetzes wurden vielfach Befürchtungen geäußert, die von einer Einschränkung der Unternehmensperformance über die Diskriminierung von Männern, einer Einschränkung der Qualität des Talentpools bis hin zu einer Stigmatisierung von Frauen durch die Quote reichten. Der vorliegende Bericht prüft auf der Basis von wissenschaftlichen Erkenntnissen diese zentralen Kritikpunkte. Im Ergebnis dürften die Vorteile einer Geschlechterquote die Befürchtungen entkräften, da die Quote langfristig zum Abbau von Geschlechterstereotypen beiträgt und sich somit deren negativer Einfluss bei der Auswahl der Besten für Führungspositionen reduzieren lässt.
J78|Den Begriff Quotenfrau halte ich für unsachlich: Acht Fragen an Norma Schmitt|No abstract is available for this item.
J78|A tradable employment quota|Discrimination of women in the labor market requires appropriate policy interventions. Affirmative action policies typically advocate the introduction of an employment quota uniformly applied to all firms. In a heterogeneous labor market such a policy may yield avoidable welfare losses. We propose a tradable employment quota showing its effects on wages, employment, and welfare in a labor market with search frictions and taste discrimination. A tradable employment quota appears to be a viable alternative yielding superior labor market outcomes.
J78|Which explanations for gender differences in competition are consistent with a simple theoretical model?|Recent studies show that males may increase their performance by more than females in response to competitive incentives. The literature suggests that this may contribute to observed gender gaps in labor force pay and achievement. Understanding which factors may drive these gender differences is essential for designing policies that promote equality. We adopt a game theoretic model of contests to consider a variety of explanations for the differences in male and female competitive performance that have been proposed in the empirical and experimental literature. Comparing the testable predictions of the model with the empirical evidence from past papers, we reject explanations involving male over-confidence, misperceptions about relative ability, and some types of preference differences. Explanations involving female under-confidence and differences in risk aversion are consistent with the significant evidence. Two explanations provide perfect matches to observed performance patterns: (i) males are better than females at handling competitive pressure, and (ii) males enjoy competition more or have greater desire to win than females.
J78|College Diversity and Investment Incentives|This paper studies the aggregate economic effects of diversity policies such as affirmative action in college admission. If agents are constrained in the side payments they can make, the free market allocation displays excessive segregation relative to the first-best. Affirmative action policies can restore diversity within colleges but also affect incentives to invest in pre-college scholastic achievement. Affirmative action policies that are achievement-based can increase aggregate investment and income, reduce inequality, and increase aggregate welfare relative to the free market outcome. They may also be more effective than decentralized policies such as cross-subsidization of students by colleges.
J78|Affirmative action in the presence of a creamy layer|"We examine affirmative action (AA) policies in a framework with statistical discrimination, where the target group, namely the ""blacks"", have a creamy layer (CLB) co-existing with a poorer section (PB). Further, the PB workers have to access an imperfect credit market if they want to invest in skill acquisition. We derive conditions for the existence of non-stereotyping, as well as patronizing equilibria (where employers hold the target group to lower standards via-a-vis the non-target group, the ""whites""). We find that demographic shifts, whereby poorer blacks graduate to the ""creamy layer"", adversely affect all three groups under a patronising equilibrium, in the sense that a lower proportion is assigned to skilled jobs. Further, we demonstrate that a transition from identity-based to a class-based AA would be politically divisive, in that such a move would be opposed by at least two of the three groups, regardless of whether the equilibrium involves patronization, or not. In fact, CLBs would always be made worse off by such a transition. We also examine the implications of introducing a role model effect, as well as targeted education subsidies."
J78|Does Performance Information Affect Job Seekers in Selecting Private Providers in Voucher-Based ALMP Programs?|"One of the services provided at the Swedish Public Employment Services is job coaching. Since 2012, that service has been organized according to a voucher-based choice system. In 2013, a performance indicator of job coaching providers was made available at an online website. This study examines to what extent such information affected job coaches' ability to attract participants, as well as how the use of provider ratings varied across different groups of participants. The results indicate that the performance indicator strengthened the positive link between ""quality"" of services and the number of new participants that signed up with a provider. At the same time, there is evidence showing that more vulnerable groups, such as the less educated and those born outside Europe, do not use the rating values to the same extent as others. It appears that there is a tradeoff as to efficiency and inequality with respect to services that are contracted to private companies in a system based on consumer choice."
J78|Does the gender mix among employers influence who gets hired? A labor market experiment|We consider in this paper whether the gender mix at the level of decision-makers in firms can influence gender representation at the employee level. We run a laboratory experiment whereby we present a pair of independent employers with applications from two potential employees. We consider whether the gender of the other employer will influence an employer's hiring decision. We find that the gender mix among employers plays a role in the individual hiring decisions of female members. Female employers when paired with a male employer are more likely to choose a female applicant over an equally competent male applicant. Results of an Implicit Association Test (IAT) and answers to a post-experimental questionnaire show that explicit beliefs about relative gender performance are significantly associated with the observed hiring bias, while implicit attitudes do not appear to play a role.
J78|Does Protecting Older Workers from Discrimination Make It Harder to Get Hired? Evidence from Disability Discrimination Laws|We explore the effects of disability discrimination laws on hiring of older workers. A concern with anti-discrimination laws is that they may reduce hiring by raising the cost of terminations and – in the specific case of disability discrimination laws – raising the cost of employment because of the need to accommodate disabled workers. Moreover, disability discrimination laws can affect non-disabled older workers because they are fairly likely to develop work-related disabilities, yet are not protected by these laws. Using state variation in disability discrimination protections, we find little or no evidence that stronger disability discrimination laws lower the hiring of non-disabled older workers. We similarly find no evidence of adverse effects of disability discrimination laws on hiring of disabled older workers.
J78|The Disability Employment Puzzle: A Field Experiment on Employer Hiring Behavior|The authors investigate potential discrimination against people with disabilities through a field experiment that sent job applications to 6,016 accounting positions for which the applicantsâ€™ disabilities are unlikely to affect productivity. One-third of the cover letters disclosed that the applicant had a spinal cord injury, one-third disclosed the presence of Aspergerâ€™s syndrome, and one-third did not mention disability. The disability applications received 26% fewer expressions of employer interest. This gap was concentrated among experienced applicants and small private companies that are not covered by the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). Tests suggest possible positive effects of the ADA, but not of state laws, in reducing the disability gap. Results indicate there may be substantial room for employer and policy initiatives to improve employment opportunities for people with disabilities.
J78|Economía del Cuidado en Argentina: Algunos resultados en base a la Encuesta sobre uso del Tiempo<BR>[Care economy in Argentina: Some results based on the Time use survey]|The aim of this study is to deepen the analysis of time-use data for better public policy. From the Survey on unpaid work and time use (INDEC, 2013) of Argentina it is seen that women spend on average a higher number of hours in unpaid work than their male counterparts, even when they are actively participating in the labor market. The largest gap is verified in time spent caring for people. This problem is not unrelated to what happens in other countries in Latin America and poses the challenge of designing specific care policies to reconcile work and family life, in a labor market based on a family model that has changed.
J78|The impact of Athena SWAN in UK medical schools|This paper examines the impact of the Athena SWAN initiative on female careers in UK medical schools by exploiting two natural experiments. The first is the introduction of Athena SWAN charter in 2005, whereby twelve UK institutions selected into the charter. The second is the announcement in 2011 by the NIHR, to only shortlist medical schools with a ‘silver’ Athena SWAN award for certain research grants going forward. This second change potentially impacts schools that are further away from silver status than those that were already close in 2011. While there is a marked improvement of women succeeding in medical schools during the sample period, early Athena SWAN adopters have not increased female participation by more than other schools whose institution signed up later. In addition, tying funding to Athena SWAN silver status has yet to have an impact on female careers, although medical schools have invested in efforts to achieve silver status.
J78|Gender and occupational wage gaps in Romania: from planned equality to market inequality?|In Romania, the communist regime promoted an official policy of gender equality for more than 40 years, providing equal access to education and employment and restricting pay differentiation based on gender. After its fall in December 1989, the promotion of equal opportunities and treatment for men and women did not constitute a priority for any governments of the 1990s. This paper analyzes both gender and occupational wage gaps before and during the first years of the transition to a market economy and finds that the communist institutions did succeed in eliminating the gender wage differences in female- and male-dominated occupations but not in gender-integrated occupations. During both regimes, wage differences were, in general, much higher among workers of the same gender working in different occupations than between men and women working in the same occupational group, and women experienced a larger variation in occupational wage differentials than men. JEL codes: J24; J31; J71; J78; P26; P27 Copyright Andrén and Andrén; licensee Springer. 2015
J78|Promotion signaling, discrimination, and positive discrimination policies|The current paper studies discrimination in a model in which promotions are used as signals of worker ability. The model can account for both statistical and taste-based discrimination. A positive discrimination policy lowers the promotion standard for the workers who are discriminated against. This is beneficial for the workers in the middle of the ability distribution because these workers are promoted if and only if the policy is in place. Instead, workers of either high or low ability generally suffer from the policy because the policy does not change their promotion probability but weakens the positive signal of being promoted and strengthens the negative signal of not being promoted. We also show that the policy may increase or decrease efficiency and that it may aggravate wage inequality.
J78|Hiring Workers with Disabilities when a Quota Requirement Exists: The Relevance of Firm’s Size|We evaluate the impact of a mandatory quota of workers with disabilities using a sharp regression discontinuity design. We use data from a panel of Spanish firms where there is a mandatory quota of 2 % for firms with 50 or more workers. Non-parametric estimations show that strictly beyond the cut-off of 50 workers there is an increase of 1.4 points in the percentage of workers with disabilities in the firm, just fulfilling the quota of 2 %. However, this effect has some lack of precision. In addition, for larger firm’s sizes the variation in the percentage of workers with disabilities is likely related with differences in firms’ characteristics. dependence and endogenous initial conditions.
J78|Alphabetical Order Effects in School Admissions|If school admission committees use alphabetically sorted lists of applicants in their evaluations, one's position in the alphabet according to last name initial may be important in determining access to selective schools. In Jurajda and Münich (2010) we provided evidence consistent with this hypothesis based on graduation exams taken in grade 13 in the Czech Republic: 'Z' students in selective schools had higher exam scores than 'A'.students. In this paper, we use the TIMSS&PIRLS test scores of 4th graders and the PISA test scores of 8th and 9th graders in the Czech Republic to provide evidence on how the alphabetical sorting outcome we uncovered earlier arises during early tracking into selective schools. Using the PISA data, we also provide similar evidence for Denmark.
J78|Location of the Poor: Neighborhood versus Household Characteristics. The Case of Bogotá|Latin American cities are characterized by a high correlation between the location chosen by poor households and their income level. However, it is difficult to identify to what extent they live there by choice –because it maximizes the returns to their efforts- or by restrictions that pull them to locations that make them poorer. We define the former case as unrestricted sorting in the urban economics context, while the latter is assumed to be the commonly used definition of segregation. Distinguishing between these alternatives is difficult because of the circular relationship between poverty and location. People can freely choose a location that makes them poor or they can choose a location because they are poor. This circular causation or endogeneity puts policy making in a complicated spot since it questions the reach of placed-based policies to alleviate poverty and exposes the need to prioritize between these actions and those directed to improving households’ portable assets. Hence, there is a trade-off between investing in education or any other portable asset and investing in local infrastructure. This paper begins establishing a Mincerian profile of households’ income level as the result of its portable assets and their returns. Then an Oaxaca-Blinder decomposition of the income equation over two locations –a periphery and the rest of the city- is used. Based on differences in returns to individual characteristics between the two alternative locations, the impact of space is separated from the impact of portable assets. The main hypothesis is that segregation exists when these returns vary across space. That is when households cannot profit equally across space even if they have comparable characteristics. Results show that segregation, as opposed to individual characteristics, explains one fourth to one third of the mean income difference between locations in Bogotá-Colombia. Further estimations show that access has a major role explaining the impact of location while housing and neighborhood characteristics play a relatively minor role. As such, results question the emphasis that local social policies pay to improve spaces while they could have a greater impact on welfare conditions giving more relevance to the portable assets of the poor.
J78|Unintended Effects of Anonymous Résumés|We evaluate an experimental program in which the French public employment service anonymized résumés for firms that were hiring. Firms were free to participate or not; participating firms were then randomly assigned to receive either anonymous résumés or name-bearing ones. We find that participating firms become less likely to interview and hire minority candidates when receiving anonymous résumés. We show how these unexpected results can be explained by the self-selection of firms into the program and by the fact that anonymization prevents the attenuation of negative signals when the candidate belongs to a minority. (JEL J15, J68, J71)
J78|Women Still the Exception on Executive Boards of Germany's Large Firms: Gradually Increasing Representation on Supervisory Boards|The trend toward more women on the corporate boards of German companies continued in 2013, albeit on a small scale. The share of women on the supervisory boards of the 200 largest companies increased by more than two percentage points, and thus at a somewhat higher rate than in recent years, to just over 15 percent. The corresponding share of women on executive boards virtually stagnated at a low level of just over four percent. These findings are revealed in DIW Berlin's latest Female Executive Barometer. In the DAX 30 companies there was even a decrease in the share of women on executive boards. The shares of female executives in MDAX, SDAX, and TecDAX companies also remained low. The development in companies with government-owned shares was limited as well. Moreover, women chairing corporate boards are still very much the exception in all the groups of companies studied. This applies to both supervisory and executive boards. The findings clearly indicate that increasing the share of women on corporate boards is not a self-sustaining process, that progress is slow, and that substantial efforts are still required. In order to achieve equal representation of both genders in these posts in the foreseeable future, more drastic changes are needed. In Germany, public companies could play a pioneering role, which is not the case at present. Companies in Germany and their interest associations can look to the Nordic countries for examples of firms that achieve substantial increases in the number of women on corporate boards without mandatory state regulation. Comparing European countries, however, we see that the share of women on corporate boards increased fastest in countries with a mandatory women's quota.
J78|Financial Sector: Upward Trend in Share of Women on Corporate Boards Progressing Only in Small Steps|Last year, more women were appointed to the executive boards of major financial institutions. The share of women on the executive boards of banks and savings banks at the end of 2013 was a good six percent, which represents an increase of almost two percentage points over the previous year. This increase is primarily attributable to changes at private financial institutions and cooperative banks. At the public banks, however, both the share of women on executive boards and changes over the previous year were below average. The share of women on supervisory boards in this area of the financial sector actually decreased. Since the private and cooperative banks were not able to compensate for this, the trend toward more women on the supervisory boards of the 100 largest financial institutions was broken. At the end of 2013, the share of women on supervisory boards was just over 17 percent, but this figure was just under 18 percent one year previously. The percentage of women on the executive boards of insurance companies was slightly higher than at the banks (nearly nine percent; up almost three percentage points) but slightly lower on supervisory boards (over 16 percent; up one percentage point). Since the initial values were so small, this was not enough to overturn the overwhelming predominance of men in the highest decision-making bodies of companies in the financial sector-despite more than half of employees being women. Considerable efforts and structural changes are needed if even remotely egalitarian structures on corporate boards are to be achieved in the foreseeable future. The challenges faced by public financial institutions are at least as difficult as they are for other institutions. Proactive human resource development policies would be a good start, but they require clear targets and timelines.
J78|Der Einfluss von Kindererziehungszeiten und Mütterrenten auf Alterseinkommen von Müttern in Europa|Pension care entitlements are believed to be highly relevant for the reduction of gender inequality in pension income. Almost all European countries have implemented care entitlements within their mostly earnings-related public pension schemes. This raises the question of what actual effect these benefits have: can they reduce the “pension penalty of caring”, that is the loss in pension income as a consequence of mothers’ care-related employment interruptions and part-time work? I analyse the pension incomes of older women and the mother pension gap, the income difference between mothers and childless women, and examines the impact of pension care entitlements. Micro-level life course data on individual employment histories in 13 European countries from the Survey of Health, Ageing and Retirement in Europe (SHARELIFE) is used and combined with institutional data. The results of the multilevel analyses show that the actual effect of pension care entitlements on the income position of older women is low. On the contrary, the existence of basic pension schemes and the gender inequality within working life are important factors which influence the income position of mothers in old age. Rentenleistungen für Elternschaft und Kinderbetreuungszeiten, den sogenannten Mütterrenten, wird eine hohe Bedeutung zur Reduktion der Geschlechterungleichheit beim Alterseinkommen zugeschrieben. So haben fast alle europäischen Länder entsprechende Regelungen in ihren ansonsten überwiegend erwerbszentrierten staatlichen Rentensystemen etabliert. Aber welche Wirkungen haben diese Leistungen tatsächlich? Können sie die Einbußen beim Alterseinkommen, die sich für Frauen durch Kinderbetreuungszeiten ergeben, tatsächlich kompensieren und den mother pension gap reduzieren? Der vorliegende Beitrag gibt einen Überblick über die institutionellen Regelungen zur Berücksichtigung von Elternschaft und Kindererziehung in den Rentensystemen Europas und unterzieht ihre Wirkungen auf das Alterseinkommen von Müttern einer empirischen Prüfung. Dafür werden Biografiedaten von Frauen aus 13 europäischen Ländern aus dem Survey of Health, Ageing andRetirement in Europe (SHARELIFE) herangezogen. Die Mehrebenenanalysen zeigen, dass die tatsächliche Wirkung von Mütterrenten auf das Alterseinkommen von Frauen gering ist. Eine hohe Bedeutung haben hingegen das Vorhandensein von allgemeinen Basisrenten sowie die Geschlechterungleichheit im Erwerbsleben.
J78|Frauen sind in Vorständen großer Unternehmen in Deutschland noch immer die Ausnahme: Moderat steigende Anteile in Aufsichtsräten|The trend toward more women on the boards of directors of German companies continued in 2013, albeit on a small scale. The share of women on the supervisory boards of the 200 largest companies increased by more than two percentage points, and thereby at a somewhat higher rate than in recent years, to just over 15 percent. The corresponding share of women on executive boards virtually stagnated at a low level of just over four percent. These findings are revealed in DIW Berlin's latest Female Executive Barometer. In the DAX 30 companies there was even a decrease in the share of women on executive boards. The shares of female executives in MDAX, SDAX, and TecDAX companies also remained low. The development in companies with government- owned shares was limited as well. Moreover, women chairing boards of directors are still very much the exception in all the groups of companies studied. This applies to both supervisory and executive boards. The findings clearly indicate that increasing the share of women on corporate boards is not a self-sustaining process, that progress is slow, and that substantial efforts are still required. In order to achieve equal representation of both genders in these posts in the foreseeable future, more drastic changes are needed. In Germany, public companies could play a pioneering role, which is not the case at present. Companies in Germany and their interest groups can look to the Nordic countries for examples of firms that achieve substantial increases in the number of women on corporate boards without mandatory state regulation. Comparing European countries, however, we see that the share of women on corporate boards increased the fastest in countries with a mandatory women's quota. Der Trend zu mehr Frauen in Spitzengremien in Deutschland hat sich 2013 fortgesetzt, allerdings in geringem Ausmaß. In den Aufsichtsräten der größten 200 Unternehmen stieg der Frauenanteil um mehr als zwei Prozentpunkte auf gut 15 Prozent und damit etwas stärker als in den vergangenen Jahren, während er in den Vorständen auf niedrigem Niveau bei gut vier Prozent nahezu stagnierte. Das geht aus dem aktuellen Managerinnen-Barometer 2014 des DIW Berlin hervor. In den DAX-30-Unternehmen war der Frauenanteil in den Vorständen sogar rückläufig. Auch bei den MDAX-, SDAX- und TecDAX-Unternehmen bleiben die Frauenanteile gering. Ebenfalls zurückhaltend war die Entwicklung in Unternehmen mit Bundesbeteiligung. Zudem sind Frauen als Vorsitzende von Spitzengremien in allen untersuchten Unternehmensgruppen nach wie vor der große Ausnahmefall - in Aufsichtsräten und in Vorständen. Die Ergebnisse verdeutlichen, dass der Anstieg des Frauenanteils in Spitzengremien kein Selbstläufer ist, sich lediglich in kleinen Schritten vollzieht und auch weiterhin erhebliche Anstrengungen nötig sind. Für eine egalitäre Postenbesetzung in absehbarer Zeit sind deutlich stärkere Veränderungen erforderlich. In Deutschland könnten die öffentlichen Unternehmen eine Vorreiterrolle einnehmen, von der sie derzeit aber noch weit entfernt sind. Unternehmen in Deutschland und ihre Interessenorganisationen können aber durchaus auch Vorbilder in den nordischen Ländern finden, die auch ohne staatliche Vorgaben zu deutlich mehr Frauen in Top-Gremien gelangen. Im europäischen Vergleich stieg der Frauenanteil im höchsten Entscheidungsgremium allerdings am schnellsten in Ländern mit einer Frauenquote.
J78|Finanzsektor: Verbesserungen beim Frauenanteil in Spitzengremien allenfalls in Trippelschritten|In the last year, more women were appointed to the executive boards of major financial institutions. The share of women on the executive boards of banks and savings banks at the end of 2013 was a good six percent, which represents an increase of almost two percentage points over the previous year. This increase is primarily attributable to changes at private financial institutions and cooperative banks. At the public-sector banks, however, the share of women on executive boards and changes over the previous year were below average. The share of women on supervisory boards in this area of the financial sector actually decreased. Since the private and cooperative banks were not able to compensate for this, the trend toward more women on the supervisory boards of the 100 largest financial institutions was disrupted. At the end of 2013, the share of women on supervisory boards was just over 17 percent, but this figure was just under 18 percent one year previously. The share of women on the executive boards of insurance companies was a bit higher than at the banks (nearly nine percent; an increase of almost three percentage points). On supervisory boards, it was a little lower (over 16 percent; an increase of one percentage point). Due to the low initial values, the overwhelming dominance of men on the corporate boards of companies in the financial sector could not be overturned-despite more than half of employees being women. Considerable efforts and structural changes are needed if even remotely egalitarian structures on corporate boards are to be achieved in the foreseeable future. The challenges faced by public financial institutions are at least as large as those for other institutions. Proactive employee development policies including statements of clear targets and timelines would be a good start. Im Finanzsektor kamen im vergangenen Jahr mehr Frauen in die Vorstände großer Kreditinstitute. Ihr Anteil bei Banken und Sparkassen lag Ende 2013 bei gut sechs Prozent, was einem Plus von knapp zwei Prozentpunkten gegenüber dem Vorjahr entspricht. Dieser Anstieg ist vor allem auf Veränderungen bei den privaten Geldhäusern und den Genossenschaftsbanken zurückzuführen. In den öffentlich-rechtlichen Banken hingegen war sowohl der Frauenanteil in den Vorständen als auch dessen Veränderung unterdurchschnittlich. Der Frauenanteil in Aufsichtsräten ging in diesem Bereich des Finanzsektors sogar zurück. Da die privaten und genossenschaftlichen Banken dies nicht kompensieren konnten, wurde der Trend zu mehr Frauen in den Aufsichtsräten der 100 größten Geldhäuser unterbrochen: Ende 2013 lag der Frauenanteil in den Kontrollgremien bei insgesamt gut 17 Prozent, ein Jahr zuvor betrug er noch knapp 18 Prozent. Bei den Versicherungen lag der Frauenanteil in den Vorständen etwas höher (fast neun Prozent, plus knapp drei Prozentpunkte) und in den Aufsichtsräten etwas niedriger (gut 16 Prozent, plus ein Prozentpunkt). Aufgrund der geringen Ausgangswerte konnte damit die überwältigende Männerdominanz in den Spitzengremien des Finanzsektors nicht gebrochen werden - obwohl insgesamt mehr als die Hälfte der Beschäftigten Frauen sind. Sollen in absehbarer Zeit auch nur ansatzweise egalitäre Strukturen in den Spitzengremien erreicht werden, sind größere Anstrengungen sowie strukturelle Veränderungen notwendig. Die öffentlich-rechtlichen Geldhäuser stehen hier vor mindestens so großen Herausforderungen wie andere Institute. Eine offensive Personalentwicklung bietet Ansatzpunkte, allerdings müssen dafür klare Zielgrößen und Zeiträume bekannt gegeben werden.
J78|A search model with endogenous job destruction and discrimination: Why equal wage policies may not eliminate wage disparity|This paper extends the search with discrimination framework by introducing jobs that are constrained by equal wage policies, and endogenous job destruction that creates Becker-like competitive pressure on prejudiced firms. The model predicts a number of stylized facts observed in the U.S. labor market, including persistent aggregate wage inequality, prevalent within-firm wage equality, overlapping wage distributions for different worker types, and some, but imperfect, job sorting/segregation. Numeric simulations are offered to illustrate some of the model's predictions. These include a counterintuitive relationship between wage inequality and equal wage policies that can arise in special cases: under specific assumptions equal wage policies can actually increase the steady-state level of market discrimination. I discuss this result's implication that different policies may be optimal to combat discrimination based on race versus discrimination based on gender, though this finding may be of limited practical importance.
J78|The Gender-Career Estimation Gap|The paper discusses gender differences with regard to the self- and reciprocal estimation of career expectations. Firstly, the theoretical background and the literature are identified. Within this frame, the instance of self-under-estimated career prospects of female workers and statistical discrimination in the labor market are described. Both aspects are jointly assessed as a self-fulfilling prophecy-phenomenon redounded to women's disadvantage on the labor market. Secondly, the empirical part analysis the respective self- and reciprocal estimation of female and male career prospects for public sector workers in Germany. The results display obvious discrepancies between self- and reciprocally estimated career expectations that constitute a gender-career estimation gap. As the German public sector contains specific devices to equalising career chances of male and female employees, the findings even underpin the insistency of under-estimated career prospects of female workers despite the existing public sector regime of equality. Finally, approaches of how to equalize male and female career chances are critically reviewed.
J78|Labor Market Deregulation and Female Employment: Evidence from a Natural Experiment in Japan|"This paper provides novel evidence on the causal effect on female employment of labor market deregulation by using the 1985 amendments to the Labor Standards Law (LSL) in Japan as a natural experiment. The original LSL of 1947 prohibited women from working overtime exceeding two hours a day; six hours a week; and 150 hours a year. The 1985 amendments exempted a variety of occupations and industries from such overtime restriction on women. We first define ""jobs"" using an industry by occupation matrix. For each job (close to 5,000 jobs in total), we carefully identify whether or not it was made exempt from the overtime restriction on women by the 1985 amendments. Applying a difference-in-difference model to census data, we find a statistically significant and economically meaningful impact on female employment of this particular piece of labor market deregulation. Furthermore the 1985 treatment is found to have a lasting and growing impact on female employment. Our finding is consistent with the recent literature that points to the importance of paying particular attention to the issues surrounding working hours when policymakers design public policy to promote female employment."
J78|Equal pay legislation and the gender wage gap|Despite equal pay legislation dating back 50 years, American women still earn 22% less than their male counterparts. In the UK, with its Equal Pay Act of 1970, and France, which legislated in 1972, the gap is 21% and 17% respectively, and in Australia it remains around 17%. Thus, the gender pay gap continues to be an important policy issue.
J78|Obesity and labor market outcomes|Rising obesity is a pressing global public health problem responsible for rising health care costs and in some countries one of the leading causes of preventable deaths. There is substantial evidence that obese people are less likely to be employed and, when employed, earn lower wages. There is some evidence that the lower earnings are a result of discriminatory hiring and sorting into jobs with less customer contact. Understanding whether obesity is associated with adverse labor market outcomes and ascertaining the source of these outcomes are essential for designing effective public policy.
J78|Obesity and labor market outcomes|Rising obesity is not only a pressing global public health problem. There is also substantial evidence that obese people, particularly women, are less likely to be employed and, when employed, are likely to earn lower wages. There is some evidence that the lower earnings are a result of discriminatory hiring and sorting into jobs with less customer contact. Understanding whether obesity is associated with adverse labor market outcomes and ascertaining the source of these outcomes are essential for designing effective public policy.
J78|Anonymous job applications and hiring discrimination|The use of anonymous job applications (or blind recruitment) to combat hiring discrimination is gaining attention and interest. Results from field experiments and pilot projects in European countries (France, Germany, the Netherlands, and Sweden are considered here), Canada, and Australia shed light on their potential to reduce some of the discriminatory barriers to hiring for minority and other disadvantaged groups. But although this approach can achieve its primary aims, there are also important cautions to consider.
J78|Anonymous job applications and hiring discrimination|Anonymous job applications to combat hiring discrimination are gaining attention and interest. Results from a number of field experiments in European countries (France, Germany, the Netherlands, and Sweden are considered here) shed light on their potential to reduce some of the discriminatory barriers to hiring for minority and other disadvantaged groups. But there are also some cautions to consider.
J78|Breaking the Glass Ceiling? The Effect of Board Quotas on Female Labour Market Outcomes in Norway|In late 2003, Norway passed a law mandating 40% representation of each gender on the board of public limited liability companies. The primary objective of this reform was to increase the representation of women in top positions in the corporate sector and decrease the gender disparity in earnings within that sector. We document that the women appointed to these boards post-reform were observably more qualified than their female predecessors along many dimensions, and that the gender gap in earnings within boards fell substantially. However, we see no robust evidence that the reform benefited the larger set of women employed in the companies subject to the quota. Moreover, the reform had no clear impact on highly qualified women whose qualifications mirror those of board members but who were not appointed to boards. Finally, we find mixed support for the view that the reform affected the decisions of young women. While the reform was not accompanied by any change in female enrollment in business education programmes, we do see some improvements in labour market outcomes for young women with graduate business degrees in their early career stages; however, we observe similar improvements for young women with graduate science degrees, suggesting this may not be due to the reform. Overall, seven years after the board quota policy fully came into effect, we conclude that it had very little discernible impact on women in business beyond its direct effect on the women who made it into boardrooms.
J78|Conceptualization of Public Policy on Employment Stimulation in Romania|This paper presents the public policy on employment boost that must help people looking for a job in order to strengthen individual capacity occupation (by providing outreach programs and personalized career counseling, professional training and fostering individual entrepreneurship initiative) based on a legal framework recast regarding unemployment insurance system and employment promotion. The measures envisaged by the amending Agreement legislation are consistent with the priorities of EU policy on labor market flexibility, reducing youth unemployment and labor market segmentation, facilitating the transition from education system to employment system, and strengthening dialogue with social partners in order to increase employment rate and achieve the target of 70% through the National Reform Program 2011-2013 in the context of the Europe 2020 Strategy.
J78|Do Age and Experience Always Go Together? The Example of Indigenous Employment|Labour market experience is central to labour economics, however, it can be difficult to measure in cross-sectional surveys for groups who voluntarily or involuntarily spend prolonged periods outside the labour force (e.g. incarceration). This paper uses census data on the age profiles of employment since 1981 to estimate the experience that Indigenous and non-Indigenous populations could be expected to have conditional on their age. This estimate is then compared with survey information on experience to generate an estimate of inconsistency between measured and expected experience. The differential is very small for the non-Indigenous population, but survey estimates for Indigenous people are substantially higher than the relevant population-based estimates. It is possible that this finding reflects the fact that the composition of the Indigenous population has changed over time, differences in recall bias or even selective mortality with persons with a more substantial employment history surviving longer.
J78|L'impresa come bene comune|Le risorse comuni fanno parte della classe di beni quasi-pubblici e sono caratterizzate da rivalità e non-escludibilità nel consumo e nell’utilizzo. Lo sfruttamento e la gestione delle risorse comuni sono stati ampiamente studiati nel filone di letteratura che si origina nel 1990 dal lavoro di Elinor Ostrom. Al contrario, lo studio e l’analisi della presenza e del ruolo economico delle risorse comuni nelle organizzazioni imprenditoriali è stato fino quasi assente. Questo lavoro parte da queste constatazioni ed approfondisce le caratteristiche dell’emergere, delle funzioni e dei limiti economici delle risorse comuni nelle imprese. L’ impresa cooperativa o di mutuo beneficio rappresenta la forma organizzativa che, sia storicamente, sia sulla base delle proprie caratteristiche istituzionali, ha dimostrato di essere maggiormente compatibile con un ruolo centrale per forme di proprietà comune o indivisa. In tale forma imprenditoriale le risorse comuni appaiono svolgere tre funzioni prevalenti: (i) stabilizzazione e crescita del capitale dell’organizzazione per l’effettuazione di investimenti produttivi; (ii) costituzione di garanzie reali nei confronti dei prestiti contratti; (iii) assicurazione del collettivo dei soci contro eventi futuri negativi. La stabilizzazione del capitale dell’impresa, a cui è connessa la crescita dimensionale della stessa, e la costituzione di garanzie reali e di fondi assicurativi rappresentano le funzioni principali della comunalità delle risorse di capitale nelle cooperative.
J78|REDD, Climate Change and the Rights of Tribal Communities in India|Reducing Emissions from deforestation and forest degradation (REDD) is the global endeavour to create incentive for developing countries to protect, better manage and save their forest resources, thus contributing to the global fight against climate change. REDD plus goes beyond merely checking deforestation and forest degradation, it includes incentives for positive elements of conservation, sustainable management of forests and enhancement of forest carbon stocks. Countries that reduce emissions and undertake sustainable management of forests will be entitled to receive funds and resources as incentives. REDD became part of the Bali action plan, which was supposed to culminate in a new climate protection treaty in Copenhagen in December 2009. The Inter-governmental Panel on Climate Change has also stressed the importance of REDD+ in the context of international climate co-operation. Furthermore with the exception of the European Union Emissions Trading System (EU- ETs) all existing and most proposed domestic or regional trading schemes include or aim to include sustainable land practices and forestry as a class of eligible offsets. While moving forward towards the implementation of REDD+, participation of local communities with compulsory representation of women would be the central theme. Government of India is committed to ensure that full and adequate incentives from REDD+ go to the local communities as and when these became available. India’s context, the forest will not be managed for “carbon services” alone but for all the ecosystem services that are flowing to the local community from the forests. Incentives for carbon services will be an addition to the benefits that the local communities are already receiving from the forest eco systems.
J78|Northern Investment Risks in Human Capital Formation: Russian Experience|Historically, the northern Russian regions have been an object of a special socio-economic policy, united by extreme climate conditions, geographical isolation and rich natural resources reserves. Northern investment risks in human capital formation are proposed in the paper, as an indicator of investment conditions, which can be employed to improve policy of human development in the northern regions of Russia. Northern investment risks encompass uncertainties associated with extreme northern climate conditions, historically determined allocation of resources in the Russian northern regions and restrictions on labour mobility caused by geographic isolation and administrative rules. Investment risks in human capital, its measurement, methods of estimation are considered. Empirical estimation illustrates higher investment risks in the northern regions. Method of estimation can be employed widely to compare investment conditions in imperfect economies. Policy of insurance of private investment risks and current restrictions on it's implementation in the northern regions of Russia are discussed.
J78|Did Age Discrimination Protections Help Older Workers Weather the Great Recession?| We examine whether stronger age discrimination laws at the state level moderated the impact of the Great Recession on older workers. We use a difference‐in‐difference‐in‐differences strategy to compare older and younger workers, in states with stronger and weaker laws, before, during, and after the Great Recession. We find very little evidence that stronger age discrimination protections helped older workers weather the Great Recession, relative to younger workers. The evidence sometimes points in the opposite direction, with stronger state age discrimination protections associated with more adverse effects of the Great Recession on older workers. We suggest that during an experience such as the Great Recession, severe labor market disruptions make it difficult to discern discrimination, weakening the effects of stronger state age discrimination protections. Alternatively, higher termination costs associated with stronger age discrimination protections may do more to deter hiring when future product and labor demand is highly uncertain.
J78|Do female officers improve law enforcement quality? Effects on crime reporting and domestic violence escalation|We study the impact of the integration of women in US policing between the late 1970s and early 1990s on violent crime reporting and domestic violence escalation. Along these two key dimensions, we find that female officers improved police quality. Using crime victimization data, we find that as female representation increases among officers in an area, violent crimes against women in that area, and especially domestic violence, are reported to the police at significantly higher rates. There are no such effects for violent crimes against men or from increases in the female share among civilian police employees. Furthermore, we find evidence that female officers help prevent the escalation of domestic violence. Increases in female officer representation are followed by significant declines in intimate partner homicide rates and in rates of repeated domestic abuse. These effects are all consistent between fixed effects models with controls for economic and policy variables and models that focus exclusively on increases in female police employment driven by externally imposed affirmative action plans resulting from employment discrimination cases.
J78|A Female Style in Corporate Leadership? Evidence from Quotas|This paper studies the impact of gender quotas for corporate board seats on corporate decisions. We examine the introduction of Norway's 2006 quota, comparing affected firms to other Nordic companies, public and private, that are unaffected by the rule. We find that affected firms undertake fewer workforce reductions than comparison firms, increasing relative labor costs and employment levels and reducing short-term profits. The effects are strongest among firms without female board members beforehand and are present even for boards with older and more experienced members afterward. The boards appear to be affecting corporate strategy in part by selecting like-minded executives.
J78|Will Ugly Betty ever find a job in Italy?|This paper evaluates the impact of beauty on employability, stressing the first stage of the hiring process. In particular, we studied the Italian labor market in order to ascertain whether there exists a preference for attractive applicants according to gender and racial characteristics. The sample analyzed consists of observations collected by sending 11008 curricula vitae (henceforth CVs) to firms looking for workers in response to advertised job postings.;Positive responses were obtained by 3278 CVs (almost 30% of the sample). We then compared response rates of different categories, obtaining the following results: those who receive the highest levels of positive responses are attractive subjects; most of the responses to plain subjects involve unqualified jobs; beauty appears to be essential for front clerical work; racial discrimination appears to be significant, but less so than discrimination based on physical features, especially for women.
J78|The Timing of Labor Demand|Merging several data sets from Portugal from 1986-2004 with a cross-section on the same firms for 003 that gives information on work timing, we describe temporal patterns of firms' demand for labor and estimate production functions. The results demonstrate the existence of substitution of employment across times of the day/week and imply that legislated penalties for work at irregular hours induce firms to alter their operating schedules. They suggest that policies that shift the timing of hours of work can explain some of the difference in work timing between Europe and the U.S.
J78|Health Shocks and Labour Transitions Across Europe|This paper investigates the relationship between an adverse health shock - limitation in preforming daily activities - and labour market transitions in twenty-six European countries. The European Union Statistics on Income and Living Conditions dataset is used (2007- 2009). Matching techniques are implemented in order to control for the non-experimental nature of the data. The empirical analysis reveals a significant causal effect of the health shock on the likelihood of leaving full-time employment. Individuals who incur an adverse health shock are significantly more likely to transit either into part-time, unemployment or inactive status. The estimated effect, using the pooled European sample, is negative. Nevertheless, the results differ across countries depending on the country-specific social security system. The largest negative effect is found in Romania, Cyprus and Bulgaria, ranging from 31% to 23%, respectively. It is close to zero in Slovakia and Latvia. I argue that these discrepancies are explained through the heterogeneity in social security systems across Europe. Individuals living in countries characterised by higher work incentives, within the integration disability policy, are less likely to drop out from full-time employment after the health shock occurs.
J78|Ahorro empresarial vs discriminación de trabajadores. Fogasa y cofinanciación de despidos|El Fondo de Garantía Salarial (Fogasa) es un seguro de salarios público que también actúa de forma directa y obligatoria aliviando el coste del despido en empresas de menos de 25 trabajadores. Primero cofinanció el despido improcedente y, desde 1984, el procedente. Pero el ahorro del que se benefician las empresas está soportado tanto por el Fogasa como por sus trabajadores. La limitación del doble del salario mínimo interprofesional (SMI) para calcular las prestaciones del Fondo ha discriminado a trabajadores despedidos, quienes recibían una cuantía indemnizatoria inferior a la de sus homólogos de empresas mayores. La ampliación de los límites de 2006 al triple del SMI eliminó el agravio comparativo pero mantuvo la preferencia por el cierre patronal y cobrar prestaciones por insolvencia frente al despido procedente, y solo será indiferente para altos salarios y elevadas antigüedades. No obstante, la reforma de 2012 recuperó los límites pre-2006 y reapareció la discriminación.
J78|The Economic Status of Asian Americans Before and After the Civil Rights Act|In contrast to their relative standing in today’s labor market, in 1960 U.S.-born men in all Asian groups earned substantially less than comparable whites. We explore explanations for the wage gap and find that all of the variables that might plausibly account for it, such as Asian/white differences in schooling, labor force participation, entrepreneurial and agricultural employment, English proficiency, enclave activity, and foreign-born parentage, have either no effect or only modest effects on the 1960 wage gap and its subsequent reduction. Our findings suggest that anti-Asian labor market discrimination was the predominate cause of the 1960 wage gap and that most of the 1960 to 1980 improvement in the relative wages of U.S.-born Asian men stemmed from a decline in anti-Asian discrimination. Although much of the policy focus of the civil rights era was directed at reducing discrimination against blacks, our findings suggest a prominent post-Civil Rights Act labor market effect for Asians. If these results hold up to further scrutiny, one interpretation is that the Civil Rights Act and accompanying activities, and/or concomitant changes in societal attitudes, benefited all minorities.
J78|The Civil Rights Act and the Earnings of Lower Income Hispanic Men|This paper uses Social Security longitudinal earnings records matched to Current Population Survey data to examine changes in the relative earnings of Hispanic men during a period of dramatic change in public and private policies toward race and ethnicity characterized by, but not limited to, the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Our principle focus is to compare and contrast how lower income Hispanic and African-American men fared during the civil rights era relative to lower-income non- Hispanic whites. Although previous studies have analyzed black economic progress using annual data before and after the Civil Rights Act, this is the first study to do so for Hispanics. We follow a longitudinal sample of individuals who were in the labor market before and after the passage of the Civil Rights Act. Following the same individuals holds constant an array of unmeasured variables such as labor force selectivity and schooling quality that may correlate with the post-1964 period; our approach addresses concerns that the results are the product of changes in these variables. Of particular note—we uncover a significant acceleration following the Civil Rights Act in the relative earnings of low-income Hispanic men.
J78|Slightly More Women in Germany's Corporate Boardrooms: Especially in DAX 30 Companies|Despite the commitment that has been expressed by German companies to bringing more women into top management, at the end of 2012, only four percent of all seats on the executive boards and just under 13 percent on the supervisory boards of the top 200 companies in Germany were occupied by women. This corresponds to an increase of one percentage point on the previous year in both cases. Nevertheless, at the end of 2012, women held almost eight percent of seats on the executive boards of the DAX 30 (up 4.1 percentage points on the previous year) and over 19 percent of seats on DAX 30 supervisory boards (up 3.7 percentage points) - which may well be attributable at least in part to the public attention focused on these companies. In companies with government-owned shares, which are often smaller than the DAX 30 or the top 200 companies, the representation of women was somewhat higher at over 11 percent on executive boards and almost 20 percent on supervisory boards. Overall, employee representatives still make up the majority of women on supervisory boards. In none of the company groups studied had the strong predominance of men declined significantly. At the start of the period under investigation. the number of women on the boards was too low and the impetus for change was too weak. Within Europe, Germany is ranked sixth in terms of the percentage of women in the top-level decision-making bodies of listed companies. On the one hand, this is indicative of even more severe difficulties faced by women seeking executive positions in other countries . On the other hand, it should be noted that German firms rank relatively high because only the supervisory boards of the DAX 30 are taken into account in the European comparison. This focus on supervisory boards of DAX companies is too narrow, however, for an accurate assessment of women's opportunities in corporate boardrooms.
J78|The German Financial Sector: Male Dominance in Top Decision-Making Bodies Remains Pervasive|In the German financial sector, the majority of employees are women, but it is still men who hold the top positions. With women making up only 4.2 percent of the boards of the largest banks and savings banks, they were still vastly underrepresented at the end of 2012 (up 1 percentage point from the end of 2011). The story is similar on the boards of the major insurance companies. The situation is somewhat better on supervisory boards: At the largest banks and savings banks, women made up 17.8 percent of all board members at the end of 2012 (up 1.2 points), and 15.3 percent at insurance companies (up 2.2 points). The vast majority of these women are employee representatives, but the percentage of women being appointed as shareholder representatives is increasing. If the financial sector does not make significant progress in achieving more representation for women in top decision-making bodies in the foreseeable future, political pressures on them to do so will likely increase. This also applies to top positions in the ECB and the Financial Market Authority.
J78|Frauenanteil in Topgremien großer Unternehmen in Deutschland nimmt geringfügig zu: DAX-30-Unternehmen mit größerer Dynamik|Despite companies' commitment to more women in top-level management, at the end of 2012 only four percent of all seats on the executive boards and 12.9 percent on the supervisory boards of the top 200 companies in Germany were occupied by women. This corresponds to an increase of one percentage point on the previous year in both cases. Nevertheless, at the end of the year, the proportion of women on the executive boards of the DAX 30 companies, which are at the center of public interest, was 7.8 percent (up 4.1 percentage points on the previous year) and 19.4 percent on supervisory boards (up 3.7 percentage points). In companies with government-owned shares, which are often smaller than the DAX 30 companies or the top 200 companies, the representation of women was somewhat higher at 11.2 percent on executive boards and 19.9 percent on supervisory boards. Overall, employee representatives still make up the majority of women on the supervisory boards. In none of the company groups studied had the dominance of men been challenged. Initially, the number of women was too low and the dynamics of change not powerful enough. Within Europe, Germany is ranked sixth in terms of percentage of women in the top-level decision-making bodies of listed companies. On the one hand, this reflects the fundamental difficulties faced by women, in other countries, too, as far as taking up executive positions is concerned. On the other hand, they are ranked relatively high because only the supervisory boards of the DAX 30 companies are taken into account for the European comparison. This focus on supervisory boards of DAX companies for evaluating women's opportunities in corporate boardrooms is too short sighted, however. Trotz der Selbstverpflichtung der Wirtschaft zu mehr Frauen in Führungspositionen waren 2012 nur vier Prozent aller Vorstandsund fast 13 Prozent aller Aufsichtsratssitze in den Top-200-Unternehmen in Deutschland von Frauen besetzt. Dies entspricht einem Anstieg von jeweils einem Prozentpunkt gegenüber dem Vorjahr. Bei den DAX-30-Unternehmen, die im Fokus des öffentlichen Interesses stehen, lag der Frauenanteil Ende des Jahres immerhin bei fast acht Prozent in den Vorständen (+4,1 Prozentpunkte gegenüber dem Vorjahr) und bei gut 19 Prozent in den Aufsichtsräten (+3,7 Prozentpunkte). Bei den meist kleineren Unternehmen mit Bundesbeteiligung lag der Anteil mit gut elf Prozent Frauen in den Vorständen und fast 20 Prozent in den Aufsichtsräten etwas höher. Insgesamt stellen die Arbeitnehmervertreterinnen nach wie vor die Mehrheit unter den Frauen in den Aufsichtsräten. In keiner der untersuchten Unternehmensgruppen konnte das Überwiegen der Männer aufgebrochen werden. Dazu war das Ausgangsniveau zu niedrig und die Dynamik zu gering. Im europäischen Vergleich nimmt Deutschland hinsichtlich des Frauenanteils im höchsten Entscheidungsgremium von börsennotierten Unternehmen den sechsten Rang ein. Dies belegt einerseits, dass auch in anderen Ländern grundsätzliche Schwierigkeiten für Frauen bestehen, in Leitungspositionen zu gelangen. Andererseits geht die recht günstige Positionierung auch darauf zurück, dass für den europäischen Vergleich einzig die Aufsichtsräte der DAX-30-Unternehmen herangezogen werden. Die Fokussierung auf Aufsichtsräte von DAX-30-Unternehmen zur Beurteilung der Chancen von Frauen in den Spitzengremien großer Unternehmen greift jedoch zu kurz.
J78|Finanzsektor: Männliche Dominanz in Top-Entscheidungsgremien bleibt erdrückend|In the financial sector, women represent the majority of employees, but it is still men who remain in the top positions. With women making up only 4.2 percent of the boards of the largest banks and savings banks at the end of 2012, they are still very much underrepresented (up 1 percentage point from the end of 2011). The story is similar on the boards of the major insurance companies. The situation is somewhat better on supervisory boards: at the largest banks and savings banks, women made up 17.8 percent of all board members at the end of 2012 (up 1.2 points), and 15.3 percent at insurance companies (up 2.2 points). The vast majority of these women are still employee representatives-even though more women are being appointed by the shareholders. If the financial sector does not make significant progress in achieving more representation for women in top decisionmaking bodies in the foreseeable future, then political pressure on them to do so will probably increase. This also applies to top positions in the ECB and the Financial Market Authority. Im Finanzsektor stellen Frauen die Mehrheit der Beschäftigten, an der Spitze stehen aber nach wie vor Männer. Bei einem Anteil von gut vier Prozent waren Frauen in den Vorständen der größten Banken und Sparkassen auch Ende 2012 noch immer die große Ausnahme (+1 Prozentpunkt gegenüber Ende 2011). In den Vorständen der großen Versicherungen sieht es ähnlich aus. Etwas besser stellt sich die Situation in den Aufsichtsräten dar: In den größten Banken und Sparkassen waren Frauen Ende 2012 zu fast 18 Prozent repräsentiert (+1,2 Punkte), in den Versicherungen zu gut 15 (+2,2 Punkte). Vertreterinnen der Arbeitnehmerschaft stellen hier nach wie vor die große Mehrheit der Frauen - auch wenn mittlerweile mehr Frauen von der Eigentümerseite entsendet werden. Sollte die Finanzbranche es in absehbarer Zeit nicht schaffen, deutliche Fortschritte hinsichtlich der Repräsentanz von Frauen in Spitzengremien zu erzielen, wird der politische Druck voraussichtlich steigen. Dies gilt auch für die Besetzung von Spitzenpositionen in der EZB und bei der Finanzmarktaufsicht.
J78|Education investment effects of affirmative action policy. Contest game argument|In this paper we investigate the problem of effort effects of the affirmative action policy. We develop a version of a rent-seeking game in the style of Tullock (1980) with two heterogeneous players and two stages, considering that ahead of the formal competition players can invest to lower their effort cost. Using this model we show that there are instances in which the normative objective of affirmative action policy to make a level-playing field may be missed. Namely, we demonstrate that if in relative terms the cost of acquiring skills for the ex-ante weaker player (a member of a discriminated group) is low enough as compared to the ex-ante stronger player (non-discriminated), then in the actual competition the ex-ante weaker player may become stronger than the ex-ante stronger player. This result shows that AA programmes cannot be effective if they are designed in isolation based on the minority-group membership only and without taking into account the actual costs of acquiring skills (that is education or learning) by individuals.
J78|Gender differences in repeated competition: Evidence from school math contests|The literature shows that males react more favorably than females to competitive incentives. This well-known result, however, is based on experiments in which participants engage in only a one-shot contest. We conduct a series of math contests in elementary schools which are similar to past experiments except for one notable exception: subjects compete in five sequential contests, rather than a one-shot contest typically used. Although males outperform females in the first period contest, we find no evidence of a male advantage in subsequent periods. Females even outperform males in later periods. The data suggests that the relative overperformance of low-ability males and the underperformance of high-ability females are primarily responsible for the first period results. Additionally, even the first period male advantage disappears when we reduce the time pressure or change the task at hand.
J78|Do stronger age discrimination laws make Social Security reforms more effective?|Supply-side Social Security reforms intended to increase employment and delay benefit claiming among older individuals may be frustrated by age discrimination. We test for policy complementarities between these reforms and demand-side efforts to deter age discrimination, specifically studying whether stronger state-level age discrimination protections enhanced the impact of the 1983 Social Security reforms that increased the full retirement age (FRA) and reduced benefits. The evidence indicates that, for older individuals for whom early retirement benefits fell and the FRA increased, stronger state age discrimination protections were associated with delayed benefit claiming and increases in employment, with benefit claiming pushed from 65 to the new FRA, and increased employment after age 62 and age 65 that is then curtailed at the new FRA.
J78|Second-order statistical discrimination|The low representation of female workers in elite jobs is sometimes attributed to a tail effect: If the human capital distribution exhibits less variation among females than among males, then even with comparable average human capital there will be fewer females in the right tail than males. This paper offers an explanation for why the human capital distribution might have this property. We show that the belief that the female human capital distribution has a lower variance than the male distribution can be self-fulfilling, in that it provides individuals with incentives to invest in human capital such that the resulting distribution exhibits exactly this characteristic. If this happens, fewer females are employed in high-end jobs (a “glass ceiling” effect). The average productivity of female workers may at the same time be higher than that of male workers.
J78|Jockeying for position: Strategic high school choice under Texas' top ten percent plan|Beginning in 1998, all students in the state of Texas who graduated in the top 10% of their high school classes were guaranteed admission to any in-state public higher education institution, including the flagships. While the goal of this policy is to improve college access for disadvantaged and minority students, the use of a school-specific standard to determine eligibility could have unintended consequences. Students may increase their chances of being in the top 10% by choosing a high school with lower-achieving peers. Our analysis of students' school transitions between 8th and 10th grade three years before and after the policy change reveals that this incentive influences enrollment choices in the anticipated direction. Among the subset of students with both motive and opportunity for strategic high school choice, at least 5% enroll in a different high school to improve the chances of being in the top 10%. These students tend to choose the neighborhood high school in lieu of transferring to more competitive schools and, regardless of own race, typically displace minority students from the top 10% pool. Relatively few students have both the motive and opportunity to behave strategically in the short run, so systemic effects are inherently slight. Our finding of sizable take-up in the face of costly strategizing, however, suggests that endogenous group membership may be important in the longer run and in other settings where individuals can select their peers and are then “graded on a curve.”
J78|The incentive effects of affirmative action in a real-effort tournament|Affirmative action policies bias tournament rules in order to provide equal opportunities to a group of competitors who have a disadvantage they cannot be held responsible for. Its implementation affects the underlying incentive structure which might induce lower performance by participants, and additionally result in a selected pool of tournament winners that is less efficient. In this paper, we study the empirical validity of such concerns in a case where the disadvantage affects capacities to compete. We conducted real-effort tournaments between pairs of children from two similar schools who systematically differed in how much training they received ex-ante on the task at hand. Contrary to the expressed concerns, our results show that the implementation of affirmative action did not result in a significant performance loss for either advantaged or disadvantaged subjects; instead it rather enhanced the performance for a large group of participants. Moreover, affirmative action resulted in a more equitable tournament winner pool where half of the selected tournament winners came from the originally disadvantaged group. Hence, the negative selection effects due to the biased tournament rules were (at least partially) offset by performance enhancing incentive effects.
J78|Liability-of-foreignness effects on job success of immigrant job seekers|We examined the liability-of-foreignness (LOF) hypothesis for immigrant and native job seekers by analyzing a national dataset that tracks their use of job-search methods and their associated job outcomes in the Canadian labor market. To our knowledge this is the first empirical test of LOF at the individual-level while controlling for variables at multiple levels. We found support for LOF when job applicants used the rich media job-search methods of social networks and recruitment agencies, but not when they used the lean media of newspaper ads and the Internet. Study limitations, implications, and future research are discussed.
J78|Pitfalls of immigrant inclusion into the European welfare state|Purpose - This paper's main purpose is to evaluate immigrants’ demand for social assistance and services and identify the key barriers to social and labor market inclusion of immigrants in the European Union. Design/methodology/approach - An online primary survey of experts from NGOs and public organizations working on immigrant integration in the member states of the European Union was carried out. The data is analyzed using simple comparative statistical methods; the robustness of the results is tested by means of logit and ordered logit statistical models. Findings - The authors find that the general public in Europe has rather negative attitudes towards immigrants. Although the business community views immigrants somewhat less negatively, barriers to immigrant labor market inclusion identified include language and human capital gaps, a lack of recognition of foreign qualifications, discrimination, non-transparent labor markets and institutional barriers such as legal restrictions for foreign citizens. Exclusion from higher education, housing and the services of the financial sector aggravate these barriers. Changes in the areas of salaried employment, education, social insurance, mobility and attitudes are seen as desired by members of ethnic minorities. The current economic downturn is believed to have increased the importance of active inclusion policies, especially in the areas of employment and education. These results appear to be robust with respect to a number of characteristics of respondents and their organizations. Research limitations/implications - The authors’ findings are not limited to the sample studied, which is supported by their robustness analysis. However an extended opinion survey of the ethnic minority population is required to more accurately examine the problems faced by diverse groups of immigrants across EU member states. Practical implications - The findings of the study call for more effective diversity management and integration strategies to ensure non-discrimination and better integration of ethnic minorities into the labor markets of member states. Originality/value - There are few studies using primary survey data that have identified a wide range of barriers and challenges to economic integration faced by ethnic minorities in an enlarged European Union. The cross-national opinion survey uniquely reflects views and suggestions of practitioners and immigrant minorities themselves.
J78|Study of Monpa and Other Tribes of Tawang and West Kameng Districts, Arunachal Pradesh|Arunachal Pradesh, the 13th geographically largest frontier State of India covering an area of 83,743 sq. km. in hilly terrain of Eastern Himalayas having population of 13,82,611 persons has 3,863 villages, living 77.33% in rural areas and 43% BPL (2011 Census). The territory was called “Terra Incognita” or No Man’s Land till the beginning of the 20th century. Here, the process of development initiated around thirty years back. Due to absence of private sector unemployment has been rising rapidly. Monpa is one of the 25 major tribes. They are inhabitant of West Kameng and Tawang districts, Buddhists by religion. Traditional industries occupy a place of fundamental importance in the lives of this tribe although this feature stands equally true for the other tribes of the State too. The present researcher has intimately lived with them for couple of years in fulfilling the mandate of an Industrial Extension Officer.The empirical study, therefore, aims to access the present scenario of these brilliant traditional industries, its financial aspects, its relevance in the development process, to seek the problems faced, it’s probable solutions and needed interventions as there is no in depth study on these issues till date under the sub-theme Rural livelihood markets and economies. Review of literature, collection of data from primary and secondary sources, documentations and researcher’s field experience etc. are the key references of the study
J78|Labour market and other discrimination facing Indigenous Australians|This paper uses self-reported data to illustrate how Indigenous Australians experience discrimination and how it is potentially associated with poor labour market outcomes. After giving consideration to what factors may lead people to report being discriminated against, an empirical analysis of self-reported discrimination is presented, utilising data from the 2008 National Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Social Survey (NATSISS). Correlations between discrimination experienced in different settings are identified, and the association of discrimination with human capital and other characteristics is presented. The results suggest that the main process driving the reporting of discrimination is the extent to which an individual is exposed to situations in which they interact with potential discriminators. This could mean that some Indigenous Australians decrease their labour supply in order to avoid potentially adverse (discriminatory) situations. Implications for understanding Indigenous disadvantage are discussed along with recommendations for both addressing discrimination and enhancing the resilience of individuals facing discrimination.
J78|A Case Study of Affirmative Action Australian-style for Indigenous People|This paper reports the results of a case study of an Affirmative Action program developed by the National Australia Bank (NAB) to promote employment opportunities for Indigenous Australians. The program is part of a Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP) launched by NAB in 2008 to strengthen the bank’s commitment to promoting a greater understanding between Indigenous and non Indigenous Australians. The RAP program developed by Reconciliation Australia is an example in the Australian tradition of interventions to actively promote the employment position of groups who may have suffered discrimination in the past. The program is voluntary and broadly focussed, without any of the prescriptive measures included in some other countries’ schemes. The results presented here suggest that the NAB program has been beneficial for participants, both Indigenous and other NAB employees.
J78|Are Government-Linked Corporations Crowding out Private Investment in Malaysia?|Private investment in Malaysia has been sluggish since the Asian financial crisis. One explanation is that the growing presence of government-linked corporations (GLCs) has been crowding out private investment. For the first time, we provide empirical evidence on the relationship between GLC presence and private investment. We find that when GLCs are dominant in an industry, investment by private firms is significantly negatively impacted. Conversely, when GLCs do not dominate an industry, the impact on private investment is not seen. To revive private investment in Malaysia, government must not only redress its growing fiscal deficit, but also expedite its program of divestment.
J78|Миграционные Процессы В Выборгском Районе Ленинградской Области: Состояние, Проблемы Толерантности И Тенденции Развития<BR>[Migration in Vyborg region: situation, problems of tolerance and development tendency]|The research work contains analisys of migration processes in Leningrad region and Vyborg. It also contains results of sociological head count of local population attitude towards migrants.
J78|Effective public policy which can reduce gender discrimination in the agricultural labour market: A theoretical investigation|Wage and employment differences between male and female agricultural labourers in the under developed countries including India is not new. With the help of a simple theoretical model it is here proved that public policy like implementation of National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (NREGS) in the rural areas can reduce wage discrimination but fails to reduce employment discrimination in the agricultural labour market. It is also proved that implementation of NREGS not only reduces profitability of the farm household but also decreases employment generation in the agricultural labour market. The paper suggests higher amount of monetary punishment charged by the Conciliation Committee at local panchayet formed by State Government for resolving dispute related with social protection of the agricultural labourer as suggested by National Commission for Enterprises in Unorganized Sector (NCEUS) in 2007 for depriving female agricultural labourers both in terms of wage and employment can be an effective public policy which can reduce wage as well as employment discrimination in the agricultural labour market. It is also proved that the loss of profit of the landlord due to charging higher amount of monetary punishment is less than implementation of NREGS in that region. The possible formation of the proposed Conciliation Committee is also suggested here.
J78|Discrimination in Taxation of Non-residents|The paper focuses on taxation of non-residents from the European Union in the Czech Republic and their possible discrimination from the income tax point of view. It provides detailed comparative analyses of taxation of tax resident and tax non-resident workers (both employees and self-employed) in the Czech Republic. Thorough analysis discusses the issue of discrimination on all levels of taxation taking into consideration tax base, allowances, rates, tax credits as well as tax administration obligations. Unique overview of number of non-residents in the Czech Republic in 2004-2010 shows the importance of the topic. Since the social security contributions are inseparable part of obligatory payments, the paper discusses also their role in international taxation and possible discrimination issues briefly. Results of the analysis show that national tax legislation of the Czech Republic in the field of personal income tax is compliant with the relevant Court of Justice of the EU’s decisions. It also meets criteria of tax nondiscrimination principles of locational neutrality (fully) and competitive neutrality (partially).
J78|Stable Flexibility – Long-term Strategic Use of Temporary Agency Workers in Sweden|The use of temporary agency workers is closely linked to the concept of numerical flexibility, entailing a need for additional staff in booms. However, previous research has also revealed a trend towards a more extensive and constant use of temporary agency workers. Even though the long-term use is not new, there is hardly any knowledge of how this transfer from short- to long-term use takes place. In this article, the exchange process between the temporary work agency and the user firm is scrutinised to explore and explain how the use of blue-collar temporary agency workers has become a long-term strategic use of the user firm’s staffing strategy.
J78|Challenges of Tuition fee’s decision: Private Universities case in Kosovo|This study assesses Challenges that Private Universities in Kosovo face when employing tuition fee strategies. Data are collected on May - June 2012 through in-depth interview and questioners with supervisors and students of three Private Universities in Kosovo. As of low purchasing power of students and overall economic crises in Kosovo, students are very sensitive to pricing strategies employed and according to fee they evaluate before and after -enrollment assessment. Students’ academic expectations are much higher relative to their low tuition requirements. In transition economies, employing tuition strategies that satisfy both Universities and students is a challenge for higher educational institutions.
J78|Are Government-Linked Corporations Crowding out Private Investment in Malaysia?|Private investment in Malaysia has been sluggish since the Asian financial crisis. One explanation is that the growing presence of government-linked corporations(GLCs) has been crowding out private investment. For the first time, we provide empirical evidence on the relationship between GLC presence and private investment. We find that when GLCs are dominant in an industry, investment by private firms is significantly negatively impacted. Conversely, when GLCs do not dominate an industry, the impact on private investment is not seen. Sensitivity tests associated with varying the level of the threshold used to determine dominance confirm the robustness of the results. To revive private investment in Malaysia, government must not only redress its growing fiscal deficit, but also expedite its program of divestment.
J78|Revisiting Evidence of Labor Market Discrimination against Homosexuals and the Effects of Anti-Discriminatory Laws|Anti-discrimination laws on the basis of sexual orientation have been adopted by many states to counteract perceived discrimination in the labor market. However, we find the evidence of earnings disparities between homosexual and heterosexual men to be extremely sensitive to the choice of reference group. Relative to married heterosexual men, gay men earn less, and, over time, anti-discriminatory laws lessen this gap. Relative to unmarried, coupled heterosexual men, however, gay men experience similar levels of earnings. The choice of reference group leads to opposite conclusions regarding the effectiveness and necessity of an anti-discriminatory law for homosexual men, which highlights the need to construct reference groups with care. We also find that homosexual women experience similar earnings to their heterosexual female counterparts, and the law has no effect on these relative wages.
J78|Does immigration induce “native flight” from public schools?|For more than a century, parents in Denmark could enroll their children into privately operated “free schools.” Results from this study indicate an increase in native Danes’ propensity to enroll their children in free schools as the share of children with immigrant background becomes larger in their municipality of residence. The effect is most pronounced in small, and medium-sized municipalities, while it seems absent in larger municipalities. The study explores changes in the immigrant population in Danish municipalities 1992–2004, a period marked by a substantial influx of refugees, where a state-sponsored placement policy restricted their initial choice of residence. Copyright Springer-Verlag 2013
J78|A theory of perceived discrimination|We develop a model in which individuals compete for a fixed pool of prizes by investing effort in a contest. Individuals belong to two separate and identifiable groups. We say that the contest is discriminatory if a lower share of prizes is reserved for one group than for the other. We show that it can be difficult for an observer to detect the presence or absence of discrimination in the contest, as both regimes can be observationally equivalent. In particular, one group’s belief that it is allocated a lower share of prizes than the other group can be consistent with observed data even if no such group quotas actually exist. Conversely, the belief that the contest does not discriminate can be consistent with data when, in fact, discrimination exists. Incorrect beliefs will therefore not be revised, as the contest generates no evidence to the contrary. Copyright Springer-Verlag 2013
J78|Recruitment of Seemingly Overeducated Personnel: Insider--Outsider Effects on Fair Employee Selection Practices| Fair employment policies constrain employee selection: specifically, applicants’ professional experience can be a substitute for formal education. However, reflecting firm-specific job requirements, this substitution rule applies less strictly to applicants from outside the firm. Further, setting low educational job requirements decreases the risk of disparate impact charges. Using data from a large US public employer, we show that successful outsider candidates exhibit higher levels of formal education than insiders. Also, this gap in educational attainments between outsiders and insiders widens with lower advertised degree requirements. More generally, we find strong insider'outsider effects on hiring decisions .
J78|Le congé parental en Belgique|RESUME :Les congés parentaux sont en Europe principalement pris par les mères, renforçant ainsi les inégalités entre femmes et hommes sur le marché du travail. La littérature économique reflète bien le débat qui peut s’engager à ce sujet, elle est présentée dans cet article et sert de contexte à l’analyse du système belge. Le système de congé parental belge a pour qualités d’être individualisé, les droits aux congés ne sont pas transférables entre les parents, et sa durée est courte. Le dispositif pourrait être amélioré par l’instauration d’une compensation proportionnelle au salaire. Une offre publique de garde d’enfants suffisante et de qualité reste cependant la politique primordiale à développer puisqu’elle n’entraîne pas d’effets négatifs sur l’emploi féminin.
J78|Affirmative action through extra prizes|Some affirmative action policies establish that a set of disadvantaged competitors has access to an extra prize. We analyse the effects of creating an extra prize by reducing the prize in the main competition. Contestants differ in ability and agents with relatively low ability belong to a disadvantaged minority. All contestants compete for the main prize, but only disadvantaged agents can win the extra prize. We show that an extra prize is a powerful tool to ensure participation of disadvantaged agents. Moreover, for intermediate levels of the disadvantage of the minority, introducing an extra prize increases total equilibrium effort compared to a standard contest. Thus, even a contest designer not interested in affirmative action might establish an extra prize in order to enhance competition.
J78|Migration and work: the cohesive role of vocational training policies|Migration and work are truly connected notions, both because one major cause of migration is the search of better working conditions, and because work is a fundamental vehicle of social cohesion, especially for the migrants. Hence, the European social model strongly connects social cohesion and employment policies, fostering sustainable growth and integration by offering increasing job opportunities, particularly concerning the weak categories. Therefore, work is a pillar of active citizenship and a fundamental step in individuals’ self-construction and the development of social abilities. In such context, vocational training represents a twofold integration channel, combining both education and work paths. Hence, the European Commission (2010) fosters a cohesive growth through vocational education and training (VET) policies, promoting a modern VET system and increasing its quality and efficiency. In Italy, the role of VET is particularly important for first- and second-generation immigrants, who are more likely to attend VET courses than different education paths. However, Italy is the only European country where VET is perceived like a segregation path, rather than like a port of entry to active citizenship and true integration. In fact, Cedefop (2011) notices that high linguistic barriers and rigid teaching methods characterize the Italian vocational education, while it stresses the high flexibility of Italian vocational training, including an higher adaptability to immigrants’ needs. The present work discusses the hypothesis of “subordinate integration” of immigrants into the Italian VET system. In particular, it examines the effectiveness of Piedmont VT policies in fostering employability of weak subjects. The results of a CATI survey on a representative sample of Piedmont VT students suggest no specific discrimination to the detriment of immigrants, whose individual background and work assimilation is similar to that of Italian VT students. Moreover, the net impact evaluation suggests a positive impact of training courses on strangers, which is generally higher for communitarian immigrants. Hence, immigrants’ participation to VT courses in Italy seems to denote a sort of normalization strategy of their specific differences, rather than a subordinate integration scheme.
J78|Spurring Job Creation in Response to Severe Recessions: Reconsidering Hiring Credits|"The continuing adverse labor market effects of the Great Recession have intensified interest in policy efforts to spur job creation. In periods when labor demand and supply are in balance, either hiring credits or worker subsidies can be used to boost employment - hiring credits by reducing labor costs for employers, and worker subsidies by raising the economic returns to work. Historically, both types of policies have been used in pursuit of distributional goals as well, with hiring credits targeting employment of disadvantaged workers, and worker subsidies targeting low-income families. Hiring credits targeting the disadvantaged have generally been regarded as ineffective at both creating jobs and increasing incomes of low-income families, whereas worker subsidies have been viewed as more successful at both. However, in the context of the Great Recession - and severe recessions more generally - hiring credits may be particularly effective at spurring job creation, but only if they are designed quite differently from past hiring credits targeting the disadvantaged. Moreover, establishing a national hiring credit that kicks in during and after recessions may be an effective countercyclical measure - a useful addition to the ""automatic stabilizers"" already in place, and one that specifically targets job creation.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
J78|Does Gender Sensitive Joint Forest Management Programme Increase Women’s Contribution on Household’s Income? Evidence from West Bengal in Indian context|This study tries to examine as to whether gender sensitive planning under participatory forest management programme increases women’s contribution on household’s income by augmenting women’s physical involvement in forest works based on an empirical study in such an Indian state-West Bengal- which acts as key-precursor of the implementation of participatory forest management programme in general and gender sensitive participatory forest management programme in particular. Most important finding of this study is that under female-organised forest management unit (called female FPC) women are the major contributors to their family income, which they only receive from forest source, after JFM programme. However more worrying is that despite women’s major share of households income from female FPC villages in particular, male control over household’s income implying that this might undermine women’s empowerment and equity principle of people’s centered forest management programme.
J78|The Effect of State Workers’ Compensation Program Changes on the Use of Federal Social Security Disability Insurance|In addition to traditional forms of private and public medical insurance, two other large programs help pay for costs associated with ill health. In 2007, Workers Compensation (WC) insurance provided $55.4 billion in medical care and cash benefits to employees who are injured at work or contract a work-related illness, and Social Security Disability Insurance (DI) provided $99 billion to individuals who suffer from permanent disabilities and are unable to engage in substantial gainful activity. During the 1990s, real DI outlays increased nearly 70 percent, whereas real WC cash benefit spending fell by 12 percent. There has been concern that part of this relationship between two of the nation's largest social insurance programs may be due to individuals substituting towards DI as state WC policies tightened. We test this hypothesis using a number of different WC and DI program parameters. We first show that this negative correlation between the national series does not hold over time within states, the level at which a causal relationship should operate. We then test how regulatory changes in state WC program parameters impact WC outcomes (intended effect) and DI outcomes (unintended effect). We find no compelling evidence of WC tightening causing DI rolls to increase, and conclude it is unlikely that state WC changes were a meaningful factor in explaining the rise in DI.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J78|Innovation technologique ou innovation sociale ? Usages et valorisation d'un outil informatisé de gestion dans l'IAE|The introduction of digital equipment is undoubtedly a technological and organizational innovation in a Local Plan for Economic Insertion. However, the actors of this structure qualify this equipment as a social innovation. Why do they use this qualification? This article is based on a monographic investigation. Can it be considered as a “social innovation for competition”? The observed differences, about the polysemy of term “social”, between the justification of practices and the academic categorization, call for a thorough sociology of the uses of this qualification for innovation. JEL Codes: H75, I3, J2, J68, J78, L38, O17, O33, O38, R58
J78|Top-Level Management in Large Companies: Persistent Male-Dominated Structures Leave Little Room for Women|The aim of recruiting more women into top-level management positions in business is attracting increasing interest among the general public and policy-makers alike. Calls for a quota for women and the widely publicized appointment of four women to the executive boards of DAX 30 companies in 2011 still does not detract from the fact that women continue to play a marginal role in the most important economic decision-making processes in Germany's largest companies. Again in 2011, only three percent of executive board members in Germany's top 200 companies were women. In the same year, women held an 11.9 percent share of seats on supervisory boards, and over two-thirds of them were employees' representatives. There has been barely any change in the top 200 companies in comparison with previous years. The proportion of women in high-ranking positions in MDAX and SDAX companies is similarly low. The percentage of women in the prominent DAX 30 companies was 3.7 percent in 2011, which represents an increase of 1.5 percentage points from the previous year. In companies with government-owned shares- some of which are considerably smaller-8.2 percent of executive board members and 17.7 percent of supervisory board members are women. This goes to prove that women are also far from achieving gender equality in the boardroom. In comparison with 2010, the percentage of exclusively male supervisory boards even significantly increased: by 8.8 percentage points to 23.6 percent in 2011. The growing realization among policy-makers, business, and civil society that greater gender diversification in the boardroom is needed has yet to lead to the breakthrough hoped for in the appointment of women to executive and supervisory boards.
J78|Passed Over for Promotions: Women Still Severely Underrepresented on Financial Sector Boards|Opportunities to increase the proportion of female board members in Germany's financial sector were missed during post-crisis period of management shakeups. As of 2011, the proportion of women on executive boards was still as low as in previous years: 3.2 percent in Germany's 100 largest banks and savings banks and 3.6 percent at 59 insurance companies surveyed. The percentage of women on supervisory boards is higher than on executive boards: women make up 16.6 percent of supervisory board members at banks and savings banks and 13.1 percent at insurance companies. At the banks, this represents an increase of 1.5 percentage points over 2006, or 0.14 percentage points per year. The higher proportion of women on supervisory boards is also the result of German codetermination law: 70.9 percent of the women on bank and savings bank supervisory boards and as much as 94.7 percent-that is, almost all-of the women on insurance sector supervisory boards were appointed to these positions as employees' representatives. Compared to the previous year, the proportion of female shareholder representatives declined again. The results also show that significant efforts are necessary in the public-sector if it is to act as a role model for the financial sector. Even in the top financial bodies of the EU and the German federal government, women are significantly underrepresented and therefore play little to no active role in key decisions affecting the financial market. When it comes to opening up corporate leadership positions to women, the financial sector has the advantage over other sectors that the majority of its employees are women. This should allow the sector to appoint more women and increase board diversity. By opening up corporate culture to women, the financial sector has an opportunity to set an example but also to get ahead of the curve on possible government regulations that could make this obligatory.
J78|Spitzengremien großer Unternehmen: Hartnäckigkeit männlicher Strukturen lässt kaum Platz für Frauen|Das Ziel, mehr Frauen in Spitzengremien der Wirtschaft zu berücksichtigen, findet sowohl in der Öffentlichkeit als auch in der Politik immer stärkere Beachtung. Die Forderungen nach einer Frauenquote und die öffentlichkeitswirksame Bestellung von vier Frauen in die Vorstände der DAX-30-Unternehmen im Jahr 2011 können gleichwohl nicht darüber hinwegtäuschen: Frauen sind an den maßgeblichen wirtschaftlichen Entscheidungsprozessen in großen Unternehmen Deutschlands weiterhin kaum beteiligt. Im Vorstand der Top-200-Unternehmen waren Frauen auch 2011 wieder mit nur drei Prozent vertreten. In den Aufsichtsräten lag ihr Anteil 2011 bei 11,9 Prozent, darunter waren mehr als zwei Drittel Vertreterinnen der Arbeitnehmerschaft. Im Vergleich zu den Vorjahren hat sich in den Top-200-Unternehmen kaum etwas verändert. In den MDAXund SDAX-Unternehmen ist der Frauenanteil ebenfalls sehr niedrig. In den im Fokus der Öffentlichkeit stehenden DAX-30-Unternehmen nahm der Frauenanteil 2011 gegenüber dem Vorjahr um 1,5 Punkte auf 3,7 Prozent zu. In den - zum Teil deutlich kleineren - Beteiligungsunternehmen des Bundes sind Frauen in den Vorständen mit 8,2 Prozent und im Aufsichtsrat mit 17,7 Prozent ebenfalls noch weit von einer geschlechterparitätischen Führung entfernt. Im Vergleich zum Vorjahr ist hier sogar der Anteil der rein männlich besetzten Aufsichtsräte deutlich gestiegen: um 8,8 Prozentpunkte auf 23,6 Prozent. Die wachsende Einsicht von Politik, Wirtschaft und Zivilgesellschaft in die Notwendigkeit einer größeren geschlechtlichen Diversifizierung von Führungsgremien hat bislang noch nicht zum erhofften Durchbruch bei den Besetzungen von Vorständen und Aufsichtsräten geführt.
J78|An den Frauen vorbei: Frauenanteil in Spitzengremien des Finanzsektors stagniert|Bei der vergleichsweise hohen Fluktuation in den Spitzengremien des Finanzsektors in Deutschland in Folge der Finanzkrise wurde die Chance verpasst, für eine Erhöhung des Anteils der dort vertretenen Frauen zu sorgen. Im Jahr 2011 lag der Frauenanteil in Vorständen auf einem ähnlich geringen Niveau wie in den Jahren davor: in den 100 größten Banken und Sparkassen bei 3,2 Prozent, in den untersuchten 59 Versicherungen bei 3,6 Prozent. Anteilig mehr Frauen sind in Aufsichtsräten vertreten. In Banken und Sparkassen stellen sie 16,6 Prozent und in den Versicherungen 13,1 Prozent der Mitglieder. Bei den Banken entspricht dies im Vergleich zu 2006 einem Anstieg um 1,5 Prozentpunkte oder 0,14 Prozentpunkten pro Jahr. Die höheren Frauenanteile in Aufsichtsräten werden aufgrund der Mitbestimmungsregelungen erreicht: Arbeitnehmervertreterinnen stellen 70,9 Prozent (Banken und Sparkassen) beziehungsweise in den Versicherungen mit 94,7 Prozent sogar fast alle der dort vertretenen Frauen. Im Vergleich zum Vorjahr ist der Anteil der Vertreterinnen der Kapitalseite wieder zurückgegangen. Die Ergebnisse zeigen zudem, dass noch erhebliche Anstrengungen der öffentlichen Wirtschaft notwendig sind, will sie im Finanzsektor eine Vorbildfunktion übernehmen. Auch in den höchsten Entscheidungsgremien des Finanzbereichs der EU und im Bund sind Frauen deutlich unterrepräsentiert und damit an den zentralen finanzmarktrelevanten Entscheidungen kaum beteiligt. Im Vergleich zu anderen Sektoren hat der Finanzbereich den Vorteil, dass Frauen hier die Mehrheit der Beschäftigten stellen. Das ermöglicht ihm, sich besser als andere auf die Öffnung der Unternehmenskultur für Frauen in Führungspositionen zu fokussieren. Hierdurch dürfte gerade der Finanzsektor in der Lage sein, mehr Frauen in die Spitzengremien zu berufen. Damit besteht nicht nur die Chance, eine Vorbildfunktion einzunehmen, sondern auch möglichen staatlichen Regulierungen zuvorzukommen, die dies zur Pflicht machen könnten.
J78|Empowering Women for Sustainable Development|Sustainable development cannot be achieved without a more equitable distribution of resources today and tomorrow. This paper highlights that prevailing inequalities are deeply gendered. Understanding this and making policy decisions towards reducing these inequalities is a key condition in meeting the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. The paper focuses on women’s empowerment as a key process to reach gender equality and, through that, sustainable development. It looks first at the concept of women’s empowerment and sustainable development and reveals how both are inter-linked through the lens of intra and inter-generational justice. Second, evidence-based analysis is done to show what needs to be done and is being done for women’s empowerment, both through building an enabling environment and through enhancing women’s capacity as active agents of change for sustainable development in the ECE region.
J78|Taste-based discrimination evidence from a shift in ethnic preferences after WWI|This paper uses program notes from the Metropolitan opera to quantify changes in ethnic preferences as a result of news of German atrocities during World War I; these data indicate that the War created a persistent shift in ethnic preferences, which effectively switched the status of German Americans from a mainstream ethnicity to an ethnic minority until the late 1920s. Difference-in-difference analyses investigate whether this shift in preferences triggered taste-based discrimination in one of the world's most elite professional settings: applications to trade at the NYSE. This analysis indicates that changes in preferences more than doubled the probability that applicants with German-sounding names would be rejected. Placebo regressions for other non-German minorities yield no evidence of taste effects. Equivalent regressions that distinguish German Jewish from other Jewish applicants, however, indicate that German Jewish applicants were similarly affected as were other Germans.
J78|Modelling the labour market of minority ethnic groups|This paper investigates the effects, in terms of labour and macroeconomic indicators, of closing the gap between the ethnic minority employment rate and the overall population rate using a computable general equilibrium modelling framework. The labour market has been integrated by indicators related to ethnicity, employment status and occupational class. The policy test has been designed for the UK. According to the results, the policy actions aimed to remove the barriers that contribute to the unemployment of the minority ethnic groups improve not only the employment and occupational status of these groups, but the effects are also positive in terms of aggregate employment, GDP, trade and welfare.
J78|Affirmative action in contest games|This paper analyzes the incentive effects of affirmative action in competitive environments. Competition is between heterogeneous players in a contest game where heterogeneity might be due to past discrimination. Two policy options are analyzed that tackle the underlying asymmetry: either it is ignored and the contestants are treated equally, or affirmative action is implemented to neutralize the disadvantages of discriminated players. Comparing the induced effort exertion under the two policies reveals that in a two-player contest game the normative neutralization objective of affirmative action coincides with higher effort exertion. However, in the multi-player contest affirmative action might have adverse incentive effects as the participation of additional weak players detrimentally affects effort incentives of other players. These results also obtain under imperfect information of the contest organizer.
