J79|Working Paper 297 - Labor Markets and Jobs in West Africa|The labor market in West Africa poses major challenges, both in its operation, in its characteristics, and in the indicators generally used to analyze it. Almost all of its actors are informal and the majority of jobs available are self-employment, with a fairly high level of underemployment. Informal workers are often poorly paid and generally receive wages below the poverty line. In addition, they have no social security cover or pension plan, and are often exposed to dangerous tasks. Policy Responses to unemployment and underemployment include support for very small businesses, for example through targeted training for business start-up and consolidation, incubators and accelerators. These policies should also promote the non-skilled labor intensive sectors, such as light industry and processing of agricultural, horticultural and fishery products, through the establishment of suitable industrial parks.JEL classification: E24; N37; J20; J79. Keywords: Labor market participation, Africa, demand and supply of jobs, youth employment, gender and employment
J79|I’m Neither Racist nor Xenophobic, but: Dissecting European Attitudes towards a Ban on Muslims’ Immigration|During his presidential campaign, the new elected President of U.S., Donald Trump, called for a complete ban on Muslims from entering the United States. Although numerous European observers have been shocked by his racist proposal, using the most recent round of the European Social Survey, this paper found that a sizeable proportion of Europeans support a similar ban in their own countries, e.g. Czech Republic (54%), Hungary (51%), Estonia (42%), Poland (33%), and Portugal (33%). The paper also provides evidence that racism and immigration phobia play a key role in shaping Europeans’ support of a ban on Muslim immigration. This finding challenges the discourse and campaigns of the populist groups who exploit the ‘Islamization of Europe’ rhetoric successfully and use various pretexts to justify a call for a ban on Muslims’ immigration, e.g. the threat to security, secularism, democracy, Western ‘identity’, culture and values.
J79|The within-job gender pay gap in Hungary|Men’s labor income is on average higher than that of women practically everywhere. This gender pay gap can be decomposed into two components: on the one hand men usually work in better paid jobs (the sorting effect), and, on the other, even in the same occupation men get higher wages (the within-job pay gap). In this paper we focus on the second component, by trying to identify those jobs where the gender of the employee matters most. Using Hungarian individual data from a dataset where jobs are identified by their 3-digit employment classification code, we compute three statistical measures that turn out to entail more and more stringent criteria for variable importance. Our simplest measure is significance at the 5 percent in linear regressions. Judging by this criterion the majority of occupations have a gender pay gap. Secondly, we compute a variable importance measure defined for regression analysis, that narrows down the group of jobs where being male seems to carry definite financial advantages. Finally, we apply an alternative methodology, Random Forest regression, and calculate one of the associated variable importance measures. This new indicator reduces our looked for job categories even farther, and gives rather sharp results concerning the type of jobs where the within-job pay gap is definitely detectable. We find that gender has the most clearly distinguishable role in occupations requiring the least education. The broader categories include “Craft and Related Trades Workers”, “Plant and Machine Operators and Assemblers” as well as “Elementary Occupations”. Our results suggest that the vanishing of the overall pay gap in Hungary is partly due to the fact that in higher skilled jobs the occupational pay gap is not so important, whereas it obscures the fact that in lower-paid unskilled jobs it is still very much extant.
J79|Customer Discrimination in the Fast Food Market? Experimental Evidence from a Swedish University Campus|This paper studies customer discrimination against fictive male and female food truck owners with Arabic names on a Swedish University campus using a web-based experiment. Students at a Swedish university campus were asked to participate in a market survey and state if they think it is a good idea to have a food truck establishment on the campus. Further, they were also asked about their own beliefs, and their beliefs about others’ willingness to pay for a baguette and a kebab sold by the food truck on the campus. Four names—one male Swede, one female Swede, one male Arab, and one female Arab—were randomly assigned to the food truck. We found no evidence of customer discrimination against food truck owners with Arabic names. In fact, the respondents were slightly more positive to a food truck establishment run by an Arabic male than by a Swedish male. We conclude that our results are representative in an environment with relatively young and highly educated customers and that customer discrimination may vary across different markets. More research in this area is needed.
J79|Public Opinion and Immigration: Who Favors Employment Discrimination against Immigrants?|Using information from the world values survey wave 6 containing information from 78,743 respondents in 53 countries, we examine the factors which influence respondents’ answers to the question: “when jobs are scarce, should employers give priority to people of the country of origin rather than immigrants?” Taking into account a number of factors including, economic, socio-demographic, political and individual level characteristics we find that all of these factors influence respondents’ preference for this form of discrimination.
J79|Do They Find You on Facebook? Facebook Profile Picture and Hiring Chances|We investigate whether the publicly available information on Facebook about job applicants affects employers' hiring decisions. To this end, we conduct a field experiment in which fictitious job applications are sent to real job openings in Belgium. The only characteristic in which these candidates differ is the unique Facebook profile that can be found online with their name. Candidates with the most beneficial Facebook picture obtain approximately 39% more job interview invitations compared to candidates with the least beneficial picture. In addition, we find suggestive evidence for a higher effect of Facebook profile picture appearance on hiring chances when candidates are highly educated and when recruiters are female.
J79|The Promise of Freedom: Fertility Decisions and the Escape from Slavery|This paper examines how the fertility of enslaved women was affected by the promise of freedom. Exploiting geographic variation in the effect of the Fugitive Slave Law of 1850, I demonstrate a negative correlation between fertility and the distance to freedom. This negative correlation is stronger on larger plantations but weaker when the slaveholder is a woman. A similar correlation is not present for white children, slave children with white fathers, or slave children born prior to the Fugitive Slave Law. The negative correlation suggests that the promise of freedom played an important role in the everyday lives of slaves. © 2015 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
J79|Equal Opportunities In The Italian Labour Market|The integration of persons with disabilities and with reduced work capacity in the labour market represents one of the biggest challenges for labour market policies. The non-integration of disabled people in the labour market causes huge costs for the countries’ economy. The European Union’s aim is to transform passive social support into active support by means of labor market policy measures, to help people to obtain gainful employment and to raise employment levels of people with disabilities and with reduced work capacities. Earlier this target group has to work in the sheltered employment. But it changed from the 90’s years because of the social model of disability definition. Nowadays the main goal to help this target group integrates in the open employment. The members of European Union imagine this aim on other way. The Scandinavian countries or England prefer the equal opportunities and the personalised mainstreaming programmes and services. Other European countries, as Germany, Austria or Italy prefer the rehabilitation quota system. Thus, the labor force participation and employment rates for people with disabilities and with reduced working capacities are strong differences between the European countries. But lot of other options also influence the member of countries’ policy and employment system. Since the Amsterdam Treaty the European Union has devoted exceptional attention to the equal opportunities of disabled people, the enforcement of equal treatment, and the reduction of the dangers of discrimination, as it is, a significant part of persons with disabilities and reduced work capacity do not have a full-time job, they become unemployed two or three times more frequently than their abled-counterparts, and dispose of lower salary, therefore they need the help of their family and the community. This study examines the Italian situation. It bases on statistics on the Italian target group and provides comparisons with people without disabilities, Italian and international studies, researches. Applying a secondary research method, it aims at discussing the labour market and employment characteristics of target group. The research shows the people with disabilities and with reduced working capacities’ labor force participation and employment rate, as well as the labor forces institutional services in Italy.
J79|Technological Expansion and Some Key Labour Market Outcomes in Marine Fisheries Sector in Odisha, India|In the contemporary literature and some policy circles, the growth in marine fish landing in Odisha has been ascribed to the rapid technological up gradation through widespread mechanisation of the sector over last three decades. Contrary to this notion, the paper, on the basis of analysis of primary and secondary data on marine fisheries sector in Odisha finds that technological up gradation of the marine fisheries sector in Odisha has little impact on the landing figures in the state. On the other hand, the technological expansion has resulted in a decline in wages and employment in the sector, even if the sector operates with excess capacity.
J79|Trayectorias educacionales e inserción laboral en la enseñanza media técnico profesional|Secondary vocational educational represents around 45% of students who graduate from secondary schools in Chile. This study provides empirical evidence about the educational trajectories and labor market insertion of the complete cohort of students that attended 10th grade in the year 2003. We use administrative data which allows for following individual students through secondary education, higher education and into the labor market. The paper addresses the choice between vocational and general secondary education, learning outcomes in the 10th grade Simce Standardized Test and the University Entry Test, the dropout rate in secondary education, entry to higher education, the dropout versus graduation rates in higher education institutions, labor market participation and labor earnings
J79|How Immigration Reduced Social Capital in the US: 2005-2011|Putnam (1995)'s seminal work was one of the first to describe the decline of social capital in the US after the 1960s, a period that saw a large increase in the flow of immigrants into the US. Using the Volunteer Supplement of the September Sample of the Current Population Survey (CPS) between 2005 and 2011, we examine the relationship between immigration and social capital in the US, measured by membership of organizations, volunteering and hours volunteered. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first paper to address this question. Once we correct for immigrants' self-selection to different destinations using a supply-push instrumental variable, we find that a one standard deviation increase in the number of immigrants decreases volunteering by 0.08 to 0.12 standard deviations, or that the 8.7 million legal immigrants who entered the US between 2005 and 2011 reduced the probability Americans volunteered between 27.8% and 35.7%. From our robustness checks we argue that the reduction in volunteering by natives is driven by the the fact that new immigrants have a lower social capital, reducing the benefits of volunteering. Our results have important implications for public policy. We show that migrants' social capital has an impact on receiving communities. Therefore immigrants' social capital (such as having relatives living at the receiving community) should be taken into consideration. Future research should focus on what is the optimal weight to give to the presence of family members versus, for instance, educational level of the immigrants.
J79|"El mobbing: ¿el crimen perfecto? No, qué más quisieran algunos"""""|rESumENEl mobbing ocupa, desgraciadamente, en el mundo laboral del siglo XXIun destacado papel. En este proceso están implicadas no solo las víctimas(que son las más perjudicadas), sino también los acosadores (que con másfrecuencia que la que sería deseable en una sociedad sana y ética quedanlibres del delito cometido) y las empresas (fomentadoras o tolerantes, en lamayoría de las ocasiones, de tan flagrante delito contra la dignidad y respetotanto intelectual como personal de la víctima).SummarYUnfortunately, mobbing occupies an important place in the 21st century´swork environment.This process implicates victims, perpetrators (who usually get away with it),and companies that tolerate or encourage this crime against the victim´sintellectual and personal respect and dignity.rESumoO mobbing ocupa, desgraçadamente, no mundo trabalhista do séculoXXI um destacado papel. Neste processo estão implicadas não somenteas vítimas (que são as mais prejudicadas), senão também os assediadores(que com mais frequência que a que seria desejável em uma sociedade sãe ética terminam livres do delito cometido) e as empresas (fomentadorasou tolerantes, na maioria das ocasiões, de tão flagrante delito contra adignidade e respeito tanto intelectual como pessoal da vítima).réSuméMalhereusement, dans le monde du travail du XXIe siècle, l´harcèlementmoral a une place importante. Ce processus implique pas seulement lesvictimes (qui sont les plus défavorisés), mais aussi les intimidateurs (qui restentlibres) et les entreprises (tolérantes parfois, de ce crime contre la dignité et lerespect à la fois intellectuelle et personnelle de la victime).
J79|High wage workers and high wage peers|This paper investigates the effect of coworker characteristics on wages, measured by the average person effect of coworkers in a wage regression. The effect of interest is identified from within-firm changes in workforce composition, controlling for person effects, firm effects, and sector-specific time trends. My estimates are based on a linked employer employee dataset for the population of workers and firms of the Italian region of Veneto for years 1982-2001. I find that a 0.1 increase in the average labour market value of coworkers’ skills (which is around one within-person standard deviation) is associated with a 3.6 percent wage premium. I also find that a sizeable share of the wage variation previously explained by unobserved individual and firm heterogeneity may be due to variation in coworker skills. An event-type study, a Placebo exercise and a series of heterogeneity analyses lend credibility to the baseline results. I also evaluate the role of the spillover effects for wage differentials between specific groups of workers. I find that around 12 percent of the gender wage gap and 10 to 16 percent of the immigrant wage gap can be explained by differences in coworker characteristics.
J79|How Immigration Reduced Social Capital in the US: 2005-2011|Putnam (1995)'s seminal work was one of the first to describe the decline of social capital in the US after the 1960s, a period that saw a large increase in the flow of immigrants into the US. Using the Volunteer Supplement of the September Sample of the Current Population Survey (CPS) between 2004 and 2011, we examine the relationship between immigration and social capital in the US, measured by membership of organizations, volunteering and hours volunteered. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first paper to address this question. Once we correct for immigrants' self-selection to different destinations using a supply-push instrumental variable, we find that a one standard deviation increase in the number of immigrants decreases volunteering by 0.08 to 0.12 standard deviations, or that the 8.7 million legal immigrants who entered the US between 2005 and 2011 reduced the probability Americans volunteered between 27.8% and 35.7%. From our robustness checks we argue that the reduction in volunteering by natives is driven by the the fact that new immigrants have a lower social capital, reducing the benefits of volunteering. Our results have important implications for public policy. We show that migrants' social capital has an impact on receiving communities. Therefore immigrants' social capital (such as having relatives living at the receiving community) should be taken into consideration. Future research should focus on what is the optimal weight to give to the presence of family members versus, for instance, educational level of the immigrants.
J79|Language knowledge and earnings in Catalonia|This paper represents the first contribution that investigates the economic value of Catalan knowledge in terms of earnings, focusing on national and foreign first- and second-generation immigrants in Catalonia. Specifically, drawing on data from the Survey on Living Conditions and Habits of the Catalan Population (2006), we quantify the expected earnings differential between individuals who are proficient in Catalan and those who are not, taking into account the potential endogeneity between knowledge of Catalan and earnings. The results indicate the existence of a positive return to knowledge of Catalan, with a 7.5% increase in earnings estimated by OLS. When we account for the presence of endogeneity, monthly earnings are around 18% higher for individuals who are able to speak and write Catalan. We also find that language and education are complementary inputs for generating earnings in Catalonia, given that knowledge of Catalan increases monthly earnings only for more educated individuals.
J79|Does agriculture matter? Revisiting the farm income problem in Italy|The prevalence of low income among agricultural households has long been known as the “farm problem”. Although revisited by a number of recent studies the farm problem is still one of the rationales of agricultural policies. We apply the Oaxaca decomposition to investigate how differences in well-being between agricultural and non agricultural households in Italy are affected by the structural characteristics of households rather than specificities of the agricultural sector. Findings indicate that the latter component accounts only for one third of the difference in well-being. Therefore, tackling the adverse mix of characteristics that negatively impact well-being in agricultural households would seem to require the implementation of targeted – but not necessarily sector-specific – policies.
J79|On the welfare impacts of an immigration amnesty|This paper aims to assess the effects of an immigration amnesty on agents' welfare by using a simple two-period overlapping generations model. Given that illegal immigrants play a role in the economy even before being regularized, an amnesty differs from new immigration. In the presence of labor market discrimination, capital holders are harmed as the acquisition of legal status increases the wage bill that they pay. The net fiscal effect strongly depends on the discrimination that illegal workers face ex ante. A calibration of the model on Germany and the United Kingdom highlights overall limited economic consequences of amnesty which can be contrasted to the effects of deportation and new legal immigration. In particular, when public welfare expenditures are low, amnesty and new immigration can increase native's welfare in the long run while deportation might harm less-educated agents.
J79|Executive compensation and gender: S&P 1500 listed firms|No abstract is available for this item.
J79|Anonymous job applications of fresh Ph.D. economists|This paper analyzes anonymous job applications of Ph.D. economists in the academic job market. We use data on interview invitations from a randomized experiment at a European-based research institution. Results show that the underrepresented gender was hurt by anonymous applications.
J79|Portuguese Immigration: Labor Market Assignment|This research explores the integration of foreign workers in the Portuguese labor market. It develops two subjects: on the one hand, the position of foreign work in the general employment pattern. On the other, the impact of foreigners on the sector wage-skill schedule, i.e., on log earnings regressions.Special importance is given to job qualification, both foreign and total – partly due to data availability. Some evidence on job segmentation between foreign and locals was found. Immigrants seem to have, if any, had a positive influence in total resident earnings.
J79|Germany’s Next Top Manager: Does Personality Explain the Gender Career Gap?|With regard to differences in the promotion probability between women and men, bivariate results based on data from the German Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP) in 2007 show significant differences in personality traits. But multivariate estimations clearly indicate that these differences cannot account for gender differences in the promotion probability to a large extent. The decomposition (according to Fairlie, 2003) of the career gap between women and men shows that only 8.6 percent of the inequality of career chances can be explained by differences in personality. Nevertheless, personality traits might indeed play a role, albeit more indirectly: Some of the stronger career effects, such as long working hours, and labour market segregation, may also reflect differences in personality traits.
J79|Germany’s Next Top Manager: Does Personality Explain the Gender Career Gap?|With regard to differences in the promotion probability between women and men, bivariate results based on data from the German Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP) in 2007 show significant differences in personality traits. But multivariate estimations clearly indicate that these differences cannot account for gender differences in the promotion probability to a large extent. The decomposition (according to Fairlie, 2003) of the career gap between women and men shows that only 8.6 percent of the inequality of career chances can be explained by differences in personality. Nevertheless, personality traits might indeed play a role, albeit more indirectly: Some of the stronger career effects, such as long working hours, and labour market segregation, may also reflect differences in personality traits.
J79|Comparative Study on Male Vs Feminine Leadership in Public Administration in Maramures County, Romania|Leadership in the Romanian public administration is an exciting research area and also of current interest, while the success of public organizations depends now more on the human factor than on the funds becoming less accessible. Another item of interest is given by the low representation of women in managerial positions in administration. This paper presents a study on two mayors, a woman and a man of Maramures County, Romania, in order to identify and compare the leadership styles practiced. Belbin and Kilmann tests have revealed significant differences between leadership styles, which seem to favor women. Without claims of generalization, the study shows that female leadership in the administration is likely to produce success in achieving the objectives of the organization, which is an important argument against gender discrimination.
J79|Income Inequalities within Couples in the Czech Republic and European Countries|This study analyses the income distribution within couples in the Czech Republic and ten European countries using the EU-SILC 2005 database. Data from the Luxembourg Income Study (LIS) database supplement the analysis with previous period (1986–2000). Women, on average, contribute less to a couple’s income than men. Among the included countries, within-couple income inequality tends to be lower in the new EU member states than in the old ones, with the Czech Republic being the exception. Within-couple income inequality has two crucial factors: employment of female partners and, subsequently, their wages. In the context of the first, the inter-generational transmission of the traditional model of the family proved to have a significant negative impact on the female employment decision mainly in the old EU member states. Finally, gender wage gaps between men and women who live in a couple were examined and compared with the gender wage gaps for single individuals. The gender wage gap proved to be higher for cohabiting individuals than for singles even after adjusting for gender differences in individual and job characteristics.
J79|Women’s Involvement Level in Housework and Level of Irregularities in Public Service: The Need for Gender Sensitive Changes in Nigerian Work Policy (English version)|Because of low socioeconomic wellbeing status across most families, women in Nigeria are becoming more and more involved in regular employment, while still maintaining their traditional role of performing housework. Meaningful employment and ensuring a balanced family are quite imperative to Nigeria, but what are the current dimensions of their interaction and how significant could this interaction be? This study utilized a field data generated in Calabar metropolis, the capital city of Cross River State, South Nigeria. Findings reveal that housework, women’s traditional role, makes them to sometimes display certain irregularities in their regular employment. This play down by women in their regular employment to live up to societal expectation as home keepers is explained using identity-behaviour link theory. Consequently, the paper recommends appropriate work policies and working conditions that are more women and family institution friendly in Nigeria.
J79|Income Inequalities within Couples in the Czech Republic and European Countries|This study analyses the income distribution within couples in the Czech Republic and ten European countries using the EU-SILC 2005 database. Data from the Luxembourg Income Study (LIS) database supplement the analysis with previous period (1986–2000). Women, on average, contribute less to a couple‘s income than men. Among the included countries, within-couple income inequality tends to be lower in the new EU member states than in the old ones, with the Czech Republic being the exception. Within-couple income inequality has two crucial factors: employment of female partners and, subsequently, their wages. In the context of the first, the inter-generational transmission of the traditional model of the family proved to have a significant negative impact on the female employment decision mainly in the old EU member states. Finally, gender wage gaps between men and women who live in a couple were examined and compared with the gender wage gaps for single individuals. The gender wage gap proved to be higher for cohabiting individuals than for singles even after adjusting for gender differences in individual and job characteristics.
J79|Feminization of Migration and Trafficking of Women in Mexico (English version)|AYoung women from rural areas in Mexico are encouraged to migrate to urban areas to help their families and are then exposed to highly vulnerable situations of sexual exploitation. Every year 10,000 women trafficked internally in Mexico to meet the demand of sex market. This process results a greater health risk in particular to their sexual health, which explored in this research. Seventy three trafficked women were interviewed in La Merced red-light area of Mexico City. Trafficked women in Mexico were basically young women, little educated and unmarried. They were working as prostitutes in hotels and living with pimp. The suffered a wide range of physical and sexual violence. Unwanted pregnancy and forced abortion were common; 65% had had at least one time abortion. All most all women had been infected by sexually transmitted diseases due to their sexual behavior and violence which they confront in their daily life.
J79|Sudan: An in-depth analysis of the social dynamics of abandonment of FGM/C|Special Series on Social Norms and Harmful Practices This paper examines the experience of Sudan by analysing the factors that promote and support the abandonment of female genital mutilation/cutting (FGM/C) and other harmful social practices. FGM/C is still widely practiced in all regions of northern Sudan but today actors are mobilizing across the country to end the practice. This paper analyses programmes that support ending FGM/C in Sudan and highlights the key factors that promote collective abandonment of the practice, including the roles of community dialogue, human rights deliberation, community-led activities, and the powerful force of local rewards and punishment. The Sudan experience demonstrates that social norms can change when a new understanding and appreciation of communities’ traditions and values is introduced. At policy level, the paper describes the adoption of laws and policies that prohibit or criminalize all forms of FGM/C and the introduction of integrated communication campaigns that have mobilized multiple actors to adopt and voice a consistent and clear stance against FGM/C.
J79|Social Dynamics of Abandonment of Harmful Practices: A new look at the theory|Special Series on Social Norms and Harmful Practices The essay refines the application of the social convention theory to the practice of female genital mutilation/cutting (FGM/C). The theory compares footbinding in China to FGM/C in Africa, explains each practice in terms of simple game theory, and recommends that the methods used to end footbinding be adapted to end FGM/C. It hypothesizes that each practice originated in highly stratified ancient empires, and became an ongoing requirement of marriageability, general and persistent within the intramarrying community because no one family can give it up on its own.
J79|Fixed-term Contracts, Transitions and Wage Growth: Evidence from Spain|Employment instability is considered one of the main problems of the Spanish labour market. Thus, the proportion of temporary workers in Spain is around 30 per cent that is the highest rate of the European Union countries. The persistence of this situation could increase the risk of labour market segmentation. This paper presents new evidence of the factors affecting workers' transition from temporary work to permanent one and analyses whether this transition has a positive effect on wage growth. The former objective is obtained by estimating discrete choice models and the latter by estimating a wage growth equation correcting for selectivity bias through the two-step method developed by Trost and Lee (1984). The data are obtained from the second and third waves of the Spanish Household Panel Survey (INE 1996) conducted over the period 1995–1996. The main results are, on the one hand, that personal and job characteristics have a significant influence on the probability of becoming a permanent worker and, on the other hand, that this transition has an important positive effect on wage growth.
J79|Ethiopia: Social dynamics of abandonment of harmful practices. Experiences in four locations|Special Series on Social Norms and Harmful Practices Female Genital Mutilation/Cutting (FGM/C) is still a widespread practice in Ethiopia, although important declines in prevalence rates can be observed in some areas of the country. Attitudes towards the practice have drastically changed, evidenced by the fact that overall support for FGM/C has declined and younger mothers are less likely than older mothers to have their daughters cut. This paper provides an analysis of the social dynamics of change in four geographic locations with different ethnic populations in Ethiopia, where interventions were undertaken to support the abandonment of FGM/C and other harmful practices. Each experience used community conversation and dialogue as a tool to promote the abandonment process, although their overall strategies and impact differed. The four experiences together provide a greater understanding of the process of change within communities and the role played by key actors within and outside the community. The study demonstrates that by addressing FGM/C within a human rights context, community members are able to consider not cutting as a possible alternative to the existing convention of cutting. The human rights perspective also encourages reflection on gender roles, generating interest and dialogue about other social practices that harm women and girls, such as marriage by abduction and early marriage.
J79|Gender Segregation in the Workplace and Wage Gaps: Evidence from Urban Mexico 1994-2004|This paper analyzes the evolution of gender segregation in the workplace in Mexico between 1994 and 2004, using a matching comparisons technique to explore the role of individual and family characteristics in determining gender segregation and wage gaps. The results suggest that the complete elimination of hierarchical segregation would reduce the observed gender wage gaps by 5 percentage points, while the elimination of occupational segregation would have increased gender wage gaps by approximately 6 percentage points. The results also indicate that the role of occupational segregation in wage gaps has been increasing in magnitude during the period of analysis, while the role ofhierarchical segregation in the determination of wage gaps has been decreasing.
