J80|"Les déterminants de la mobilisation des ""gilets jaunes"""|"Cet article présente les résultats d'une étude sur les territoires dont sont originaires les ""gilets jaunes"". Dès le premier samedi de mobilisation le 17 novembre 2018, ce mouvement se démarque par son caractère local et sa couverture nationale. A partir de données inédites de la mobilisation sur Facebook, nous montrons une forte corrélation entre mobilisation online (sur Facebook) et o ine (blocages des ronds-points). Nous réalisons alors une cartographie ne et contrastée de la contestation. L'étude économétrique met en évidence le rôle de la mobilité pour expliquer les origines du mouvement, au travers notamment du passage des routes à 80km/h et des distances domicile-travail."
J80|Real wages, labour conditions and the standard of living in Denmark: 1500-1900|It is well established that Denmark is one of the richest economies in the world nowadays with high living standards and wages. But what about earlier times? This paper makes three contributions: firstly, it creates and describes a new and rich data set on historical wage developments in Denmark, based on data gathered by the Danish Price History Project for the period 1660‐1800; secondly, it tests the traditional view of Denmark being very poor during that period by offering insight into eighteenth century Danish living standards; and thirdly, it tests whether the country followed the traditional story of the Little Divergence by constructing a long run real wage series for 1500‐1900. Comparing real wages across Europe, I find incomes in the countryside actually converged in the sixteenth century. In this context, Denmark moved from being poor, to an average income level, becoming rich only in the nineteenth century. An analysis of the eighteenth century shows that the value of the skill premium was higher than that of leading countries in Europe, but the gender wage gap tended to close towards the end. Married women in skilled occupations earned more than unmarried ones, but no difference was seen for unskilled occupations.
J80|Social Trust Formation in the Workplace: Applying the Job Strain Model to Explain Variations in Social Trust Levels among Employed Individuals|This study applies the job strain model (JDC-S) to social trust to analyze how workplace characteristics influence social trust formation patterns. By defining the “workplace” as consisting of (1) workload, (2) control, and (3) social support, the JDC-S model predicts job demands to inversely relate to social trust, whereas job control and social support to positively affect trust among the employed. We utilize the sample of 60250 respondents from the Programme for the International Assessment of Adult Competencies (PIAAC) public-use data to operationalize the three components and to link them to social trust scores. Our analysis provides strong empirical evidence that the three factors are not only associated with trust among employed individuals but that their impact is also contingent on the respondents’ sex and age.
J80|The Growing Divergence in U.S. Employee Relations: Individualism, Democracy, and Conflict|The growing divergence in U.S. employee relations is described through a review of national and state-level changes to employment protection laws. Major employment laws are reviewed, as are the significant exceptions to the laws, and exemptions to the exceptions. Major regulatory actions, as well as reversals of the regulations, and reversals of the reversals are also described. An analysis of changes to state employment policies since 2000 shows an increasing ideologically driven divergence within the country between left-leaning “equity and voice” states and right-leaning “individual rights and efficiency” states. Instability and divergence are major features of the U.S. system of employee relations that require additional scrutiny.
J80|Firm-level employment, labour market reforms, and bank distress|We explore the interaction between labour market reforms and financial frictions. Our study combines a new cross-country reform database on labour market reforms with matched firm-bank data for nine euro area countries over the period 1999 to 2013. While we find that labour market reforms are overall effective in increasing employment, restricted access to bank credit can undo up to half of long-term employment gains at the firm-level. Entrepreneurs without sufficient access to credit cannot reap the full benefits of more flexible employment regulation.
J80|Credit shocks, employment protection, and growth: firm-level evidence from Spain|We offer new evidence on the real effects of credit shocks in the presence of employment protection regulations by exploiting a unique provision in Spanish labor laws: dismissal rules are less stringent for Spanish firms with fewer than 50 employees, lowering the cost of hiring new workers. Using a new dataset, we find that during the financial crisis, healthy firms with fewer than 50 employees borrowing from troubled banks grew faster in sectors where capital and labor were sufficiently substitutable. This result does not obtain when we use a different cut-off for Spain or the same cut-off for firms in Germany. Our evidence suggests that labor market flexibility can dampen the negative effect of credit shocks by allowing firms to keep growing by substituting labor for capital. JEL Classification: G21, J80, D20
J80|Credit Shocks, Employment Protection, and Growth: Firm-level Evidence from Spain|We offer new evidence on the real effects of credit shocks in the presence of employment protection regulations by exploiting a unique provision in Spanish labor laws: dismissal rules are less stringent for Spanish firms with fewer than 50 employees, lowering the cost of hiring new workers. Using a new dataset, we find that during the financial crisis, healthy firms with fewer than 50 employees borrowing from troubled banks grew faster in sectors where capital and labor were sufficiently substitutable. This result does not obtain when we use a different cut-off for Spain or the same cut-off for firms in Germany. Our evidence suggests that labor market flexibility can dampen the negative effect of credit shocks by allowing firms to keep growing by substituting labor for capital.
J80|The best of the two worlds: assessing the use of administrative data for the study of employment|Social security administrative data are increasingly becoming available in many countries. These are very attractive data as they have a long panel structure (large N, large T) and allow to measure many different variables with higher precision. Because of their nature they can capture short, frictional unemployment which is usually hidden in survey data, due to design or timing of interviews. However, the definition of unemployment is also different in both datasets. As a result, the gap between total unemployment and registered unemployment is not constant neither across workers characteristics nor time. In this paper I augment the Spanish Social Security administrative data by adding missing unemployment spells using the institutional framework and the Labour Force Survey as a benchmark. I compare the resulting unemployment rate to that of the Labour Force Survey, showing that both are comparable and thus the administrative dataset is useful for labour market research. Administrative data can also be used to overcome some of the problems of the Labour Force survey such as changes in the structure of the survey. This paper aims to provide a comprehensive guide on how to adapt administrative datasets to make them useful for studying unemployment.
J80|Work Load Analysis on State-Owned Companies in The Health Sector in Bandung-Indonesia|Objective – This study conducts a workload analysis on state-owned companies in the health sector in BandungIndonesia. The study focuses on a company established on 6 August 1890, which is a manufacturer of vaccines and antisera, and is now developing into a life science company. The objective of Polio eradication by 2020 demands competitiveness and a change in organizational culture in order to increase organizational profits. There are two possible solutions to this phenomenon. From a technical perspective, the company has decided to undertake market expansion. From a psychological perspective, the company needs to change the attitude of its employees to effectively meet the competition. This situation raises problems for the human resources division of the company. First, it increases employee health problems such as high cholesterol, high blood pressure and lower back pain, which increases health costs. Methodology/Technique – Based on the phenomena of excessive workload and the problems posed, this study aims to examine empirical data regarding the workload of the company. The workload analysis in this study is conducted in October 2016 using several methods such as discussions, interviews, questionnaires, and observation. The validation of the data is achieved using a triangulation methodology. Findings – The result show that, when comparing the fair amount workload index with the total number of employees in the company, there is a difference of 11.61%. The six directorates have 75-85% for effectiveness and 79-87% for efficiency. This shows that work load is not a contributing factor to the phenomena's described above in this company. Novelty – The research sheds light on the increasing need for counselling in companies. One of the leading reasons for this is employee work loads and the increase in some employees working overtime. These factors may lead to other problems such as family issues, low job satisfaction, discipline, and absenteeism.
J80|From engineer to taxi driver? Language proficiency and the occupational skills of immigrants|We examine the ability of immigrants to transfer the occupational human capital they acquired prior to immigration. We first augment a model of occupational choice to study the implications of language proficiency on the cross-border transferability of occupational human capital. We then explore the empirical predictions using information about the skill requirements from O * NET and a unique dataset that includes both the last source country occupation and the first four years of occupations in Canada. We supplement the analysis using Census estimates for the same cohort with source country occupational skill requirements predicted using detailed human capital related information such as field of study. We find that male immigrants to Canada were employed in source country occupations that typically require high levels of cognitive skills, but rely less intently on manual skills. Following immigration, they find initial employment in occupations that require the opposite. Consistent with the hypothesized asymmetric role of language in the transferability of previously acquired cognitive and manual skills, these discrepancies are larger among immigrants with limited language fluency.
J80|Dream Teams and the Apollo Effect|We model leadership selection, competition, and decision making in teams with heterogeneous membership composition. We show that if the choice of leadership in a team is imprecise or noisy—which may arguably be the case if appointment decisions are made by non-expert administrators—then it is not necessarily the case that the best individuals should be selected as team members. On the contrary, and in line with what has been called the “Apollo effect,” a “dream team” consisting of unambiguously higher performing individuals may perform worse in terms of team output than a group composed of lower performers. We characterize the properties of the leadership selection and production processes which lead to the Apollo effect and clarify when the opposite effect occurs in which supertalent performs better than comparatively less qualified groups.
J80|Intégration européenne et politiques du marché du travail : quel consensus entre parlementaires français et allemands ?|This paper presents the results of a survey on the future of European integration conducted in the national parliaments of both France and Germany. In particular, we collected the opinions of members of national parliaments on more involvement of the European Union in labor market policies of Member States. We also asked them about their views on the creation of a common unemployment insurance and whether more flexibility is needed in national labor markets. After reporting descriptive and summary statistics, we show that for the majority of questions the answers reflect more of an ideological (left/right) division than a French/German one.
J80|Assessing the effects of reducing standard hours: Regression discontinuity evidence from Japan|This paper examines the effect of Japan’s reduction of standard hours in the 1990s on labor market outcomes. Given that standard hours become discontinuous at certain establishment sizes, we employ a regression discontinuity design to estimate the impacts of the policy change. The theory predicts that policy change should unambiguously reduce hours worked in establishments with an initial workweek longer than the new standard hours but shorter than the old standard hours. The policy impact is expected to be zero for establishments with short hours, while it is ambiguous for establishments with very long hours. Indeed, the empirical analysis indicates that the reduction of standard hours significantly decreased hours worked in establishments whose hours are predicted to be between the old and new standard hours. Even in establishments with reduced working hours, monthly wages and annual bonuses did not decrease, leading to the increase in labor costs per hour. As a result, the policy change did not contribute to job creation. This paper demonstrates the importance of considering heterogeneous treatment effects, rather than the average treatment effects. When the policy impacts totally differ among groups, as in our case, estimating only the average treatment effect could mask the real impact. In addition, some groups actually affected by the policy may not be the ones targeted by the policy makers; in such cases, if there are heterogeneous treatment effects, unexpected outcomes can occur.
J80|The Role of China's Household Registration System in the Urban-Rural Income Differential|"Together with the rapid growth of the Chinese economy, there has been a growing divide in the earnings of urban and rural residents. In this paper we focus on China's household registration system, or ""hukou"", as a potential source of the earnings gap. Using multiple waves of data from the Chinese Health and Nutrition Survey from 1993 through 2011, we take advantage of variation in hukou status generated by individual-level changes over time. Unlike previous studies, we are able to control for fixed individual-specific characteristics that determine earnings and focus specifically on estimating an urban hukou ""premium"". For estimates that do not account for time-invariant individual characteristics, urban hukou holders earn almost 30% more than rural hukou holders. After we account for individual-level fixed characteristics, the urban hukou premium drops to 6â€“8%. Our empirical evidence indicates that the hukou system is a notable component of the urban-rural earnings differential, but its importance should not be overstated. Given long-standing differences in access to government funding and social services between rural and urban populations, relaxing residency restrictions may not be a panacea for curbing rising income inequality."
J80|Egalitarian Policies and Effective Demand: Considering Balance of Payments|This study examines the effectiveness of redistribution policies considering balance of payments. Unlike Bowles (2012) and Abe (2016, 2015), we assume that capital movement is sluggish to consider the short-run effects. Results indicate that conventional egalitarian policies such as increasing unemployment compensation and strengthening dismissal regulations can be effective, whereas an asset-based redistribution such as a decrease in the ratio of monitoring labor cannot be. These results contradict Bowles (2012). We need to reevaluate conventional egalitarian policies if the effects of effective demand and adjustment of capital continue in the long run.
J80|Labour market institutions in small Pacific island countries: Main guidelines for labour market reforms|This report consists of a comprehensive overview of labour market institutions in the small Pacific island countries in order to propose recommendations to improve the performance of their labour markets. We pay particular attention to three countries: Fiji, Palau and Papua New Guinea. We focus on the main pillars of labour market institutions, as employment protection legislation, minimum wage, and labour organization. The analysis considers the possibilities for institutional change in the next future. The main guidelines for eventual reforms are discussed, for the region as a whole and for the above three countries.
J80|Independent Workers: What Role for Public Policy|Independent workers are excluded from many important aspects of the social contract that protects traditional employees, such as anti-discrimination legislation and employer-provided health insurance. This lecture draws on evidence from a new survey of 1,321 self-employed workers to consider policies regarding benefits, taxes, training, discrimination, and contract enforcement. Among the most significant findings: 1) health insurance is typically listed as the most important benefit by self-employed workers; 2) nearly 20 percent of the self-employed obtain health insurance through healthcare.gov or a state exchange; 3) nearly half of self-employed African American workers reported that they felt they had been discriminated against by customers or clients because of their race, compared with only 10.6 percent of Whites; and 4) 36 percent of self-employed workers reported an incident in the last year when they were not paid on time and 27 percent report an incident where they were not paid in full. The lecture proposes and evaluates public policies to extend key elements of the social contract to the self-employed to improve the efficiency and fairness of the job market.
J80|Evolution of the Labor Market in Romanian Development Regions|In the context of economic transition, the labor market in Romania has undergone significant changes in the volume and structure of the main indicators of labor. After 1990, fewer inhabitants of Romania, due to the negative natural growth and massive emigration has resulted in reduction of the active population and employment in all eight development regions in Romania. The paper analyzes the phenomenon of labor employment at regional level. In essence, they were followed two issues: public participation in economic and social areas and developments and structures active population. It also highlighted the differences and disparities between developing regions of Romania in the use of labor in order to identify conclusions that can improve regional development policies and enhancing effective action to fill labor resources available.
J80|What Determines Labour Movement from Turkey to Europe? Extent of the Situation and Implications|There are several different issues affecting migration on the global scale, which are commonly interconnected. These include work migration, lifestyle migration, ecological migration, workers’ wages abroad, transit migration, irregular global migration, forced and forced humanitarian migration, human trafficking, refugees, and the safety of displaced populations. This study analyzes causation and consequences of Turkish workforce migration. Social and cultural discourse analysis have used in the study. It is preferable to investigate the macroeconomic factors of each country, in order to assess the economic implications of immigration. The present study looks at immigration from an economic, as well as a cultural and social point of view. Apparently, immigration policies are unable to achieve their prespecified demographic targets, at least under most circumstances, because controlling the synthesis and volume of net migration poses a remarkable challenge. Apart from the economic crisis, certain factors that are unique to Turkey lately, such as social-legislative problems and unemployment, push large segments of the population to migrate to other countries, raising the fraction of immigration therefore. Demographic circumstances and effects of relevant policies work in tandem, and their combined influence alters the volume and makeup of the workforce in complex ways. Moreover, any undertaking to pinpoint the needs of the future work market in a decisive way, regarding immigration, and to optimize immigration strategies, appears to have modest results as well.
J80|Labour market institutions in small Pacific island countries: Main guidelines for labour market reforms|This report consists of a comprehensive overview of labour market institutions in the small Pacific island countries in order to propose recommendations to improve the performance of their labour markets. We pay particular attention to three countries: Fiji, Palau and Papua New Guinea. We focus on the main pillars of labour market institutions, as employment protection legislation, minimum wage, and labour organization. The analysis considers the possibilities for institutional change in the next future. The main guidelines for eventual reforms are discussed, for the region as a whole and for the above three countries.
J80|Employment Protection Legislation and International Trade|Analyzing the impact of domestic labor regulations on international trade is relevant, in part, because (i) trade negotiations may increasingly constrain countries’ ability to implement trade policies and (ii) concerns over international competition driving countries towards a ‘race to the bottom’ in labor standards are rampant. However, identification of this causal e§ect is challenging due to the potential endogeneity of regulations attributable to crucial unobservables and measurement error. In this light, we use data from more than 30 countries across 21 manufacturing sectors over the period 2001-2009 and examine the impact of employment protection legislation (EPL) on industry-level trade. While a di§erence-in-di§erences type approach controls for several potential confounders, we also employ an instrumental variables (IV) strategy. Across all specifications, EPL is found to significantly encourage imports in relatively labor-intensive industries. Further, the IV estimates uncover a more pronounced e§ect and find concerns over endogeneity to be relevant. Key Words: Employment Protection Legislation, International Trade
J80|Arbeiten auf Onlineplattformen: selbständig oder abhängig?|Due to technical innovations online platforms are capable of reducing transaction costs between market participants demanding a certain product or service and others supplying it. The extent to which the online platforms intervenes in the interaction between the market participants determines their impacts on the labor market. While online marketplaces essentially update classic marketplaces by means of technology, dealers with platform-character intervene that much into the interaction that the platform operator itself seems to be rendering the service. However, the dealer organizes the supply of his service by means of selfemployed freelancers instead of employees. As a variety of employee rights are based on dependent employment, the shift towards more self-employment could warrant a need for action in regards to social safeguards and interest groups for self-employed freelancers. MyHammer (marketplace), Helpling and Clickworker (dealer with platform character), the online platforms discussed in the paper at hand, illustrate this assessment. Onlineplattformen gelingt es durch technische Innovationen die Transaktionskosten zwischen Nachfragenden und Anbietenden von Gütern und Dienstleistungen deutlich zu reduzieren. Dabei hängt die Bedeutung der Plattformen für den Arbeitsmarkt insbesondere davon ab, inwieweit sie in die Interaktion zwischen den Marktteilnehmenden eingreifen. Während Onlinemarktplätze im Wesentlichen den klassischen Marktplatz technologisch aufwerten, greifen Händler mit Plattformcharakter so sehr in die Interaktion ein, dass der Plattformbetreiber scheinbar selbst die Dienstleistung erbringt. Allerdings organisiert er deren Bereitstellung mit Hilfe von Soloselbständigen anstelle von abhängig Beschäftigten. Da eine Vielzahl von Arbeitnehmerrechten an die abhängige Beschäftigung in Unternehmen geknüpft ist, könnte diese Verschiebung zu mehr selbständiger Beschäftigung Handlungsbedarfe in den Bereichen der Absicherung und Interessensvertretung von Soloselbständigen begründen. Auf der Grundlage der im Beitrag präsentierten Onlineplattformen MyHammer (Marktplatz), Helpling und Clickworker (Händler mit Plattformcharakter) wird diese Einschätzung illustriert.
J80|Can cash transfers reduce child labor?|Cash transfers are a popular and successful means of tackling household vulnerability and promoting human capital investment. They can also reduce child labor, especially when it is a response to household vulnerability. But if not properly designed, cash transfers that promote childrenâ€™s education can increase their economic activities in order to pay the additional costs of schooling. The efficacy of cash transfers may also be reduced if the transfers enable investment in productive assets that boost the returns to child labor. The impact of cash transfers must thus be assessed as part of the entire social protection system.
J80|Egalitarian Policies, Effective Demand, and Globalization: Considering Budget Constraint|This paper examines the effectiveness of redistribution policies under budget constraint considering government spending for the productivity improvement as Bowles (2012) and effective demand based on Abe (2015). It shows that an asset-based redistribution policy is not always effective under effective demand and budget constraint. However, the increase of effective demand because of income distribution improves employment, labor productivity, and wage rates because of increased government spending for productivity improvement as the results of saving rate from profit income show.
J80|Weathering the Great Recession: Variation in Employment Responses by Establishments and Countries|This paper finds that US employment changed differently relative to output in theGreat Recession and recovery than in most other advanced countries or in the US in earlierrecessions. Instead of hoarding labor, US firms reduced employment proportionately morethan output in the Great Recession, with establishments that survived the downturncontracting jobs massively. Diverging from the aggregate pattern, US manufacturers reducedemployment less than output while the elasticity of employment to gross output varied widelyamong establishments. In the recovery, growth of employment was dominated by job creationin new establishments. The variegated responses of employment to output challenges extantmodels of how enterprises adjust employment over the business cycle.
J80|Communication hurdles leadership: An exploratory conclusion|With regards to correspondence, we every one of the have a tendency to believe we're really great at it. Honestly, even those of us who are great communicators aren't about in the same class as we think we are. This overestimation of our capacity to convey is amplified when connecting with individuals we know well. Analysts at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business put this hypothesis under serious scrutiny and what they found is startling. In the study, the scientists matched subjects with individuals they knew well and afterward again with individuals they'd never met. The scientists found that individuals who knew one another surely knew one another no superior to anything individuals who'd simply met! Far more atrocious, members often overestimated their capacity to convey, and this was more declared with individuals they knew well.
J80|Analysis Of Intercultural Communication In Organizations|This article want to highlight the communication mechanisms that influence intercultural management and the behaviour of people from different cultures in a company and the attire that must wear some of the world's cultures. This research aims to analyze how the overall objectives of the internal communication in organizations influence the effectiveness and organizational effectiveness, namely the organization's performance.
J80|Weathering the Great Recession: Variation in Employment Responses by Establishments and Countries|This paper finds that US employment changed differently relative to output in the Great Recession and recovery than in most other advanced countries or in the US in earlier recessions. Instead of hoarding labor, US firms reduced employment proportionately more than output in the Great Recession, with establishments that survived the downturn contracting jobs massively. Diverging from the aggregate pattern, US manufacturers reduced employment less than output while the elasticity of employment to gross output varied widely among establishments. In the recovery, growth of employment was dominated by job creation in new establishments. The variegated responses of employment to output challenges extant models of how enterprises adjust employment over the business cycle.
J80|Working Conditions, Work Outcomes, and Policy in Asian Developing Countries|Developing country labor practices and the working conditions that result from them are both generally poor and increasingly drawing attention from governments, corporations, and the popular media. This review provides an introduction to some of the leading academic literature and ideas that are important for understanding the persistence of poor labor practices and possible policies to address these conditions. The literature is reviewed with the goal of moving from the root causes of poor conditions to innovative solutions. Several such solutions, such as the Better Work program, are discussed.
J80|Rethinking the Factors of Production for a World of Common Ownership and Sustainability|The classical economists bequeathed us an understanding of the nature of economies in terms of three factors of production: land, labor, and capital. If we are to transcend the unsustainable and inequitable economy we live with today, an intellectual reinterpretation of these three factors is a vital first step. In this paper we provide such a liberating reinterpretation with examples from European and Latin American praxis.
J80|Immigrant Selection Systems and Occupational Outcomes of International Medical Graduates in Canada and the United States|We analyze the process of immigrant selection and occupational outcomes of international medical graduates (IMGs) in the United States and Canada. We find that in Canada, where a point system has been in place, IMGs are less likely to be employed as physicians than are IMGs in the United States, where employer nomination is a more important entry path for IMGs. We also find that when the point system in Canada did not have occupational restrictions, IMGs had a relatively low probability of working as physicians.
J80|Incidencia y resultados de la reforma laboral sobre la negociación colectiva en Euskadi|The article analyzes the incidence and outcome of the labor reform of 2012 in collective bargaining of the CAPV in the three most important aspects. First the decay of the agreements and the impact on the rate of coverage of collective bargaining as a result of the new limitation of the ultraactivity of the agreements are studied. Secondly, the emergence of new bargaining units because of the priority given to enterprise agreements is analyzed, all this in a context marked by blocking sectoral collective bargaining and the decay of sectoral agreements. Thirdly the non-application of agreements by size of company, economic sector and subjects is examined.
J80|La declinazione della qualità del lavoro nell’ordinamento giuslavoristico italiano|La riflessione sul tema della qualità del lavoro nell’ordinamento giuslavoristico parte dalla ricostruzione del nesso lavoro-dignità sancito nella Costituzione italiana, oggi penalizzato dalle logiche di mercato, ma ancora di assoluto valore per realizzare efficaci pol itiche di crescita economica. L’A. dimostra come la qualità del lavoro, oltre a rappresentare un valore in sé, incida positivamente sulla produttività delle imprese, attraverso la valorizzazione della professionalità e della formazione dei lavoratori, un investimento che mal si concilia con l’eccessiva flessibilità del lavoro. In questa direzione, di assoluto rilievo è il ruolo del sindacato, chiamato a perseguire la valorizzazione del lavoro, rinnovando i contenuti della politica contrattuale. Il tutto nella piena convinzione che uno sviluppo che punti sulla qualità del lavoro, anche come fattore di produttività, non possa prescindere da tutto ciò che attiene ai diritti, per non far prevalere una visione mercantile delle relazioni produttive e di lavoro e disconoscere i valori costituzionali.
J80|Involuntary part-time employment: perspectives from two European labour markets|Part-time employment in Europe has continued to grow faster than overall employment during the Great Recession and its aftermath. But as part-time work becomes more prevalent, so does involuntary part-time – at least in most countries. In this paper we focus on Greece and the UK, two European labour markets characterised by different institutions, but also a common trend of rising involuntary part-time (from different levels). We attempt to detect determinants and/or correlates of involuntary part-time, and changes over time. We analyse Labour Force Survey data for 2008 and 2013. We find that the UK labour market appears to be more successful in aligning workers’ preferences with employers’ demand for part-time work. However, as the economic downturn has made full-time jobs scarcer, involuntary part-time work has risen. Moreover, significant gaps in pay and job quality between voluntary and involuntary part-timers persist. In the case of Greece, involuntary part-time was already very high in 2008, in spite of the fact that pay differentials were relatively small, which suggests that part-time jobs were widely viewed by workers as sub-optimal. Under the impact of the recession and the austerity, the Greek labour market has become more flexible but also more insecure. As pay differentials have risen, and non-standard work has been made more precarious, part-time jobs have become even less attractive, so involuntary part-time has grown further still. We conclude that while the structure of the economy and the business cycle explain some of the differences between the two countries and over time, institutional factors and the quality of part-time jobs on offer are of great importance in shaping workers’ attitudes. We suggest that future research should focus on the interaction between shocks and institutions.
J80|Labor Market Duality and the Impact of Prolonged Recession on Employment in Croatia|The term labor market duality can be used to describe different forms of labor market segmentation. Nevertheless, this term is most often used to describe the segregation between permanent employees and workers employed on a temporary basis. There is a consensus in the literature that labor market duality most often occurs after governments engage in asymmetric reforms of the labor market legislation, which significantly liberalize the use of temporary contracts, while retaining a high level of employment protection for permanent workers. This paper analyzes whether in Croatia as a country with relatively rigid labor market legislation there are signs of labor market duality. The analysis is motivated by the recent data on employment flows showing that companies have intensified temporary hiring in recent years, which might be considered as a sign of increasing labor market duality. However, this paper discusses labor market developments in the context of persistent recession, taking into account that such changes in the employment flows could be a cyclical phenomenon reflecting high risk aversion of companies.
J80|Egalitarianism Policy and Effective Demand under Globalization|The study examines egalitarianism policies in terms of the relationship between labor and capital and extends the model developed by the economist Bowles. We introduce the demand factor to the Bowles model (2012), which discussed the effectiveness of the income and asset redistribution policies in a global economy. The improvement of productivity and the decrease in the ratio of monitoring labor through asset-based redistribution increase the real wage rate because of its lure for foreign capital. At this point in the Bowles model, the labor supply increases and then employment increases. In contrast, in our model, with the addition of the demand factor, the improvement of productivity increases employment, but the decrease in monitoring labor does not always increase employment as both demand and supply increase. This means that asset-based redistribution in a global economy is not always effective.
J80|Determinants and Persistence of Benefits from the National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme – Panel Data Analysis for Rajasthan, India|India’s National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (NREGS) has been hailed as one of the country’s most creative social initiatives. Since the program was begun only recently (in 2004–2005) there is a need to assess household access to this program and persistence of benefits to households not just in one year but over time. Using a unique panel data set for 2007–2008 and 2009–2010 for the Indian state of Rajasthan, this paper analyzes the transitions into and out of NREGS. It models the impact of such transitions on earnings of workers as well the determinants of such transitions. To the best of our knowledge this is the first study of this kind. Several policy conclusions are advanced.
J80|Employment formalization in Argentina: Recurring and new challenges for public policies|This chapter examines employment formalization in Argentina from 2003 to 2014 as well as the public policies associated with that process. It identifies the critical segments of informality along with the challenges they pose to a strategy aimed at reducing informality in a labour market that has proven relatively resistant to such reductions in recent years. The results show a decrease in informality for salaried employment, although there has not been a similar decrease among the self-employed. After a significant drop in non-registered salaried employment between 2003 and 2008, slower formal employment growth has offset advances in formalization. Informality affects nearly 44 per cent of all employed individuals. The need to develop specific actions as part of a comprehensive strategy is due to the characteristics of the critical segments of the labour market and the persistence of a heterogeneous productive structure.
J80|Heterogeneity and participation in Informal employment among non-cultivator workers in India|Labour informality is one of the most serious challenges for the world and more so for developing economy like India with large scale poverty and little unemployment protection. The provision of decent working conditions becomes prerogative bringing the issue of labour informality into the forefront. This study scrutinized possible heterogeneity within informal employment among the non-cultivator workers in India. It has studied the trend, pattern, and determinants of the various components of the informal employment. It found significant heterogeneity within the informal employment with respect to poverty, age, gender, socio-religious communities, educational attainment, and industrial classification. . Complexity of heterogeneity in informal employment has been rising over time, hence posing serious policy challenges. Cluster analysis carried out to demonstrate the relationship between informality in employment and quality of works. The evidence suggests significant diversity within the informal employment. Multinominal logit was applied to determine the determinants of participation in informal employment. The result further reinforces the complexity in informal employment. The convolution is more with respect to rural and urban area, dependency ratio, marital status, social groups, and poverty. With respect to education the dual market hypothesis was supported. Co-existence of voluntary and involuntary informal employment was also observed. Given the diversity of employment, the paper suggests specific policy deign for different segment of employment to achieve eatable and inclusive growth.
J80|Informality in Non-Cultivation Labour market in India with Special Reference to North-East India|Recent estimate of central statistics office for 2014-15 indicates that share of agriculture in GDP (market price) is about only 14.9 per cent, whereas it employs about 49.5 per cent of India’s total workforce. So moving out of agriculture is itself a desirable outcome for improving productivity in agriculture and also of the economy. But the question is “where will the workers of agriculture sector move to?” given the fact that Indian labour market is becoming more and more informal. Therefore, creation of decent jobs outside agriculture is one of the biggest challenges that confront policymakers. The present paper examines the trend and patterns of informal and formal employment in organised and unorganised non-agriculture sectors with special reference to North-East India. The paper, following National Commission for Enterprises in the Unorganized Sector (NCEUS) defined organised and unorganised sector by taking into account enterprise type and number of workers in enterprise. However, where both these information are missing, social security was taken as a yard stick to measure organised or unorganised sector. We applied logit regressions to find out what are the personal characteristics, household characteristics, and sectoral characteristics to determine the participation in informal sector, and examine whether these determinants are changing over time or not. The study is based on NSSO 2004-05 and 2011-12 employment and unemployment unit level data. The initial result suggests that in the non-agriculture sector, informal employment in unorganised sectors has declined from about 87 per cent to 85 per cent. Thereby it is suggesting, a rise in formal employment within non-cultivation sector. In addition, it is interesting to note that within informal employment in 2004-05 about 29 per cent are female but the corresponding figure for 2011-12 is about 24 per cent. This indicates that proportion of female participation in the informal economy has declined over the years. Similarly it is observed that informality for poorer household has declined for the study period. The logit regression result indicated that being a male reduced the odd of informality by more than 20 per cent in both the periods. Given the slow economic growth in the first half of the new millennium, married female labours were forced to join the informal sector; however, because of rising income in recent past they are not so keen to join the informal employment. Looking at the sectors, it is observed that, being a worker in construction sector and trade, hotel and transport sector increased the odd of joining informal sector many fold. This paper also examines these trends, patterns and determinants, with special reference to North-East region. Finally, the paper looks at the determinants of informality at the macro-level using panel data of the Indian states. The study finds a multitude of factors driving informality thereby implying that a multi-pronged strategy would be required to tackle the problem.
J80|Arbeit – Politik – Recht: Das Recht(ssystem) als Forschungsdesiderat in den Arbeitsbeziehungen – Einleitung zum Schwerpunktheft|Das deutsche System der industriellen Beziehungen weist im internationalen Vergleich gemeinhin ein hohes Mass an Verrechtlichung auf. Umso ueberraschender ist der Umstand, dass das Recht und seine Akteure, Institutionen und Verfahren in der Forschung ueber Arbeitsbeziehungen seit Jahrzehnten wenig explizite Aufmerksamkeit erfahren. Die Forschung ueber industrielle Beziehungen kann davon profitieren, diese rechtsbezogenen Prozesse des Wandels in den Blick zu nehmen. Mit dem hier vorgelegten Schwerpunktheft moechten wir dazu einladen, das Recht, seine Institutionen, Akteure und Verfahren, explizit als Bestandteil der Analyse industrieller Beziehungen zu verstehen. Wir versammeln Beitraege aus den verschiedenen Disziplinen, um einen Einstieg in die Debatte zu forcieren. Der Beitrag von Ulrich Walwei befasst sich mit dem Phaenomen der Verrechtlichung als Verstaatlichung und diskutiert aus einer klassischen „law-and-economics“-Perspektive, welche marktbezogenen Effekte von der politisch hoch umstrittenen Re-Regulierung des Arbeitsmarktes zu erwarten sind. Im Ergebnis raet er dazu, politische Hoffnungen oder Befuerchtungen in die eine oder andere Richtung nicht zu ueberhoehen. Norbert Cyrus und Markus Kip behandeln am Beispiel von Beschaeftigten mit prekaerem Aufenthaltsstatus das Problem der Rechtsmobilisierung. Welche Restriktionen lassen sich konstatieren, und welchen Beitrag koennen (und wollen) Gewerkschaften leisten, die Defizite zu ueberwinden? Die Frage der Rechtsmobilisierung adressiert das Phaenomen der Justizialisierung und duerfte insbesondere auch fuer die Debatte ueber die Revitalisierung der Gewerkschaften von grosser Relevanz sein. Auch Nadine Absenger und Daniel Seikel befassen sich mit dem Phaenomen der Justizialisierung. In einer interdisziplinaeren Kooperation aus Rechts- und Politikwissenschaft diskutieren sie die Frage, welche Auswirkungen die Rechtsprechung des EuGH auf das deutsche Tarifvertragssystem hat. Dabei kommen sie zu einem ambivalenten Befund. Waehrend individuelle Arbeitnehmerrechte haeufig gestaerkt werden, werden die kollektiven Selbstbestimmungsrechte und damit die Handelungsfreiheit der Tarifparteien empfindlich beschraenkt. Ralf Rogowski schliesslich widmet sich in seinem Beitrag der Herausbildung eines transnationalen oder globalen arbeitsrechtlichen Raumes. Mit der Idee des „reflexive labour law“ knuepft er dabei an die systemtheoretischen Traditionen der Rechtssoziologie an.
J80|The emergence of reflexive global labour law|The article introduces the main tenets of reflexive labour law and uses this perspective to interpret core trends in global labour law. It suggests a conceptual distinction between international and global labour law and identifies a transformation in the global labour law regime related to processes of reflexivity and constitutionalisation. The first part of the article analyses reflexivity within the International Labour Organization (ILO) in relation to its policy of defining labour standards as human rights. It interprets the increasing attention given to soft law in the ILO as a reflexive response to the globalisation of labour law outside the confines of the nation state. The core reflexive law concept of regulation of self-regulation is applied to analyse a key source of global labour law, namely codes of conduct regulating corporate citizenship and corporate social responsibility programmes in multinational companies. In the final section, the article argues that global labour law is emerging as a separate regime in the world society and comments on constitutionalisation as a key process in the emerging regime of global labour law.
J80|Employment protection and collective bargaining during the great recession: a comprehensive review of international evidence|In this article, we present information from a unique database of labour market reforms implemented in 111 developed and developing countries between 2008 and 2014. We show that the number of reforms implemented each year has gradually increased up to 2012 and that the majority of reforms were passed in advanced economies – with some EU member states particularly hit by the crisis being the most active reformers (e.g. Spain, Greece, Italy). Moreover, the results show that permanent contracts and collective bargaining were the most popular areas of labour market policy interventions and that the majority of reforms decreased the strictness of employment protection legislation – although large disparities emerge across world regions in this respect. Finally, the article compares our database to different indicators of employment regulation in order to check the consistency of our results.
J80|Organizational Hospital Management Team Working as Professional Technological Innovation|This paper proposes a relation of organizational hospital management team working by hospital management team working superintendence and reviews the organizational hospital management team working planning and performance measurement literature to develop a conceptual model and research propositions. Data are drawn from a survey of the comfort organizations in comfort organizations that around few samples of hospital management team working superintendence engage in organizational hospital management team working. The interview schedule was designed to collect data on a number of hospital management team working superintendence and strategic characteristics in addition to asking about the presence or absence of an organizational hospital management team working and, where appropriate, the time period to which the plan applied.Interviews were conducted face to face directly within the workplace, training and consultant sessions or indirectly by e-mail or using structured questionnaire. It is concluded that hospital management team working superintendence characteristics can be important in explaining and compilation the organizational hospital management team working within the comfort organizations for implementation of organizational hospital management team working planning. In fact, comfort organizations influence whether or not those organizations engage in organizational hospital management team working planning. In this field, the focus is on the special characteristics of hospital management team working superintendence such as education type and level.
J80|Facial Attractiveness and Lifetime Earnings: Evidence from a Cohort Study|We use unique longitudinal data to document an economically and statistically significant positive correlation between the facial attractiveness of male high school graduates and their subsequent labor market earnings. There are only weak links between facial attractiveness and direct measures of cognitive skills and no link between facial attractiveness and mortality. Even after including a lengthy set of characteristics, including IQ, high school activities, proxy measures for confidence and personality, family background, and additional respondent characteristics in an empirical model of earnings, the attractiveness premium is present in the respondents’ mid-30s and early 50s. Our findings are consistent with attractiveness being an enduring, positive labor market characteristic. © 2015 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
J80|Institutional change and labor policy in the government of the General Eleazar Lopez Contreras (1936-1941)|The paper examines the labor policy followed by the government of Eleazar Lopez Contreras (1936-1941) for the purpose to precise that there was a socio-economic change, resulting from the formation of a new institutional framework that allowed meet the Workers demands. For first time was given a confluence of formal constraints, informal constraints and coercion mechanisms that looked for the welfare of working men, as in the previous government (1908-1935), although efforts were made to develop limitations, all formalistic, the coercion mechanisms required for compliance with the limitations are obviated. The analysis is from the point of view of Douglas North’s neo institutionalism.
J80|Employment protection legislation in Croatia|According to business climate and competitiveness indicators published by international organisations, Croatia is a country with a rigid labour market and a high level of the legal protection of employees. Given that an Act on Amendments to the Labour Act (OG 73/13) entered into force in Croatia in June 2013, this paper examines changes in employment protection legislation in Croatia and Central and Eastern European (CEE) countries, as well as in Croatia's main trading partners during the period between 2008 and 2013. A cross-country comparison shows a strong downward trend in legal employment protection in most CEE countries during the observed period, primarily as concerns individual dismissal in the cases of regular employment contracts, while in the case of temporary employment the protection strengthened slightly. On the other hand, despite the adoption of amendments to the Labour Act (LA), Croatian labour legislation governing employment protection for regular employment contracts remains relatively inflexible compared to that in other countries.
J80|Does minimum age of employment regulation reduce child labor?|Regulation of the minimum age of employment is the dominant tool used to combat child labor globally. If enforced, these regulations can change the types of work in which children participate, but minimum age regulations are not a useful tool to promote education. Despite their nearly universal adoption, recent research for 59 developing countries finds little evidence that these regulations influence child time allocation in a meaningful way. Going forward, coordinating compulsory schooling laws and minimum age of employment regulations may help maximize the joint influence of these regulations on child time allocation, but these regulations should not be the focus of the global fight against child labor.
J80|Sustainable HRM: Bridging theory and practice through the ‘Respect Openness Continuity (ROC)’-model|Although the academic debate on the link between Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and HRM is relatively young, it is generating increasing interest. We suggest that sustainable HRM is a next, innovative and promising domain for theory building, research and practice in the field of HRM. It nonetheless poses several new challenges. To date, the literature on this topic is inconsistent, and the field therefore lacks clear lines, fine-tuning and conceptual/practical maturity. In this context, the ‘Respect Openness Continuity (ROC)’-model is introduced. This model proceeds from the proposition that sustainable HRM forms a subsequent stage in the tradition of HRM thinking. In recent years, mainstream HRM has been strongly identified with strategic HRM thinking. In developing a model for sustainable HRM, various theoretical viewpoints beyond the strategic HRM tradition are explored and assessed for their potential contributions to a framework for sustainable HRM that can bridge theory and practice.
J80|The Impact of Electricity Sector Privatisation on Employees in Argentina and Brazil. A Comparative Institutional Analysis|This book investigates country-specific responses to privatisation by examining two of the most important Latin American examples of the 1990s, the Argentine and the Brazilian programmes, and one essential public service sector, electricity. In doing so, it aims to: identify the impact of privatisation on electricity sector employees in Argentina and Brazil during the 1990s; explore how the impact came about; and analyse the reasons for this impact. A multi-dimensional perspective provides a comparative analysis of privatisation processes, regulatory contexts, and results, striving to capture the phenomenon by combining insights from political and economic analysis.
J80|Empleo, calidad del empleo y segmentación laboral en Argentina|Este artículo examina para el caso de Argentina el fenómeno de la calidad del empleo y de la segmentación laboral durante las últimas dos décadas. Para ello se definen categorías laborales al interior del empleo asalariado formal, informal y del empleo independiente en función de diversos atributos que definen la calidad del empleo. Los resultados dan cuenta que la evolución del empleo de calidad no es ajena a los cambios en la política de protección del empleo, pero que responde en mayor medida a la política macroeconómica y laboral en su conjunto. Las estimaciones de brechas salariales no confirman la hipótesis de segmentación del empleo al interior del empleo asalariado informal y del informal, pero si entre estos dos grandes grupos.
J80|Diffusion of labor standards from origin to host countries: Cross county evidence from multinational companies in Africa|This study empirically examines diffusion of labor standards from origin to host countries by investigating whether better labor standards of MNCs’ origin countries are correlated with higher wages of workers in host countries in Africa. MNCs originating from countries with more rights of association and collective bargain and those coming from countries with unions that have strong wage bargaining power are found to pay significantly higher wages to their workers in host countries. These findings highlight that, although domestic policies and institutions may be important determinants of labor-related standards, they don’t operate in isolation from external influences coming from origin countries.
J80|How the EU’s Eastern Enlargement Changed the German Productive Model. The Case of the Automotive industry|What impact did the Eastern Enlargement of the European Union have on the productive models and labor relations in the German automotive industry? Did it lead to a “race to the bottom” and “social dumping”? This article examines the evolution of value chains and product strategies as well as the development of employment and labor relations in the German automotive industry and discusses the hypotheses of “dualization” or “disintegration.” It is based on case studies of automobile manufacturers and suppliers as well as on statistical data about employment, foreign trade, and foreign direct investment. The analysis shows that the use of low-cost locations in CEE allowed German automotive companies to strengthen their focus on high-quality products without losing their price competitiveness. German companies have used relocation threats to demand labor cost reductions and higher flexibility on working times and employment (i.e., the use of agency work) in their home country locations. These demands, however, did not go as far as to break the governance compromises in the German automotive industry. The metalworking union and the works councils still remain strong enough to reach compromises that guarantee employment security in exchange for higher flexibility and that set limits on the use of precarious employment forms.
J80|Separation incentives and minimum wages in a job-posting search framework|We present a job posting model of a labour market where jobs differ in characteristics other than wages and workers differ in their marginal willingness to pay for such characteristics. This creates incentives for firms to separate workers by posting multiple jobs. The interaction between these separation incentives and the standard search frictions is the key contribution of the paper. The paper examines the implications for policies such as a minimum wage or ones which set minimum standards on these non-wage job characteristics. We show that policies that set standards on wages and the other job characteristics can increase the utility of the worst-off workers and may reduce inefficient forms of unemployment. Policies that only intervene in one aspect on the other hand may increase these forms of unemployment.
J80|Changing roles and behaviour of human resources managers in the industrial businesses|The article deals with the systematized set of contemporary roles played by the human resources managers and specialists in the industrial businesses. The main reasons for changes in the contents, priority and combination of the roles and the behaviour of this type of corporate professionals. The main trends and key contradictions, hampering the performance of the roles. An integrated systematic structural approach is proposed, defining the roles comprehensively and flexibly and their alignment with the other components, that express the essential aspects and characteristics of the human resources managers and specialists in the industrial business organizations.
J80|Labour Standards Application In The Informal Economy Of Ghana: The Patterns And Pressures|In spite of the rapid growth and importance of informal employment in Ghana, few studies have investigated the extent of coverage of labour standards application, as a form of labour market regulation. This paper investigates the extent of labour standards application in shaping the employment relations and conditions within the informal economy. The study focuses on 30 manufacturing firms in Ghana’s informal economy. Data were obtained through interviews with 43 entrepreneurs and their workers, as well as with key informants from the social partners of industrial relations. The study shows that labour standards are generally not applied among informal economy operators due to factors such as a lack of coverage of the existing labour legislation, ineffective enforcement, ignorance, peculiarities of work organisation, and the dynamics of the apprenticeship system. It is therefore concluded that informal economy workers, who constitute the majority of the workforce in Ghana, lack social protection and must be targeted for intervention.
J80|Exploitation, Altruism, and Social Welfare: An Economic Exploration|Child labor is often condemned as a form of exploitation. I explore how the notion of exploitation, as used in everyday language, can be made precise in economic models of child labor. Exploitation is defined relative to a specific social welfare function. I first show that under the standard dynastic social welfare function, which is commonly applied to intergenerational models, child labor is never exploitative. In contrast, under an inclusive welfare function, which places additional weight on the welfare of children, child labor is always exploitative. Neither welfare function captures the more gradual distinctions that common usage of the term exploitation allows. I resolve this conflict by introducing a welfare function with minimum altruism, in which child labor in a given family is judged relative to a specific social standard. Under this criterion, child labor is exploitative only in families where the parent (or guardian) displays insufficient altruism towards the child. I argue that this welfare function best captures the conventional concept of exploitation and has useful properties for informing political choices regarding child labor.
J80|Labor Market Rigidity And Foreign Direct Investment: The Case Of Europe|This paper examines the relationship between labor market rigidity and FDI decisions by Europeans multi-nationals firms during 2004-2008. We use firm-level data for European Multinational Enterprises investment in 41 European countries during these four years. Using conditional fixed effect logit and Tobit estimations, we show that European MNEs generally respond to regulatory, gravity and firm specific indicators in the expected ways, but their responses to changes in labor market institutions are less consistent. We also find that the relationship between MNEs location decision and host country’s labor market institutional factors is sensitive to host country’s development stage and market integration with the EU countries.
J80|A race to the bottom? Employment protection and foreign direct investment|A common critique of globalization is that it leads to a race to the bottom. Specifically, it is assumed that multinationals invest in countries with lower regulatory standards and that countries competitively undercut each other's standards in order to attract foreign capital. This paper tests this hypothesis and finds robust empirical support for both predictions. First, a reduction in employment protection rules leads to an increase in foreign direct investment (FDI). Furthermore, changes in employment protection legislation have a larger impact on the relatively mobile types of FDI. Second, there is evidence that countries are competitively undercutting each other's labor market standards.
J80|Exploitation, Altruism, and Social Welfare: An Economic Exploration|Child labor is often condemned as a form of exploitation. I explore how the notion of exploitation, as used in everyday language, can be made precise in economic models of child labor. Exploitation is defined relative to a specific social welfare function. I first show that under the standard dynastic social welfare function, which is commonly applied to intergenerational models, child labor is never exploitative. In contrast, under an inclusive welfare function, which places additional weight on the welfare of children, child labor is always exploitative. Neither welfare function captures the more gradual distinctions that common usage of the term exploitation allows. I resolve this conflict by introducing a welfare function with minimum altruism, in which child labor in a given family is judged relative to a specific social standard. Under this criterion, child labor is exploitative only in families where the parent (or guardian) displays insufficient altruism towards the child. I argue that this welfare function best captures the conventional concept of exploitation and has useful properties for informing political choices regarding child labor.
J80|Atipikus foglalkoztatási formák Magyarországon a kilencvenes és a kétezres években<BR>[Atypical forms of employment in Hungary in the 1990s and 2000s]|Az atipikus munka gyűjtőfogalom minden olyan foglalkoztatási forma leírására, amely egy vagy több, vagy akár minden elemében eltér a napi nyolcórás, munkahelyen, határozatlan munkaidős szerződéssel végzett bérmunkától. A cikkben az atipikus foglalkoztatás elterjedtségét és szerkezetét vizsgáljuk a rendszerváltozás óta eltelt két évtizedben - olyan kérdésekre keresve a választ, hogy hol és milyen szegmensekben érzékelhető ezeknek a foglalkoztatási formáknak a bővülése, koncentrálódása, igazolódnak-e a velük szemben megfogalmazott várakozások, hogyan befolyásolják a várható foglalkoztatás szintjét, szerkezetét. A leíró statisztika korlátozott eszközeivel követjük az egyes atipikus formákban foglalkoztatottak demográfiai sajátosságainak változását nem, korcsoport és iskolai végzettség szerint, valamint az ágazati és regionális eltéréseket. Az elmúlt két évtized folyamatainak és változásainak bemutatása mellett többváltozós logit modellekkel is megvizsgáltuk, hogy egyes személyes, háztartási és területi jellemzők hogyan befolyásolják az atipikus munkákban való részvétel esélyét. Végül az atipikus foglalkoztatási viszonyok és formák elterjedtségére és foglalkoztatási szerepére teszünk néhány továbbgondolandó megállapítást. Journal of Economic Literature (JEL) kód: J21, J40, J80.
J80|Moving towards a single labour contract: pros, cons and mixed feelings|Ce texte discute des avantages et des inconvénients du “contrat de travail unique”. Après une discussion du dualisme et des réformes récentes du marché du travail en Europe, nous décrivons les différentes propositions visant à éliminer le dualisme. Nous soulignons ensuite les coûts du dualisme et tentons de comprendre si la création d’un contrat unique les supprimerait. Nous introduisons notamment une distinction entre les réformes basées sur un contrat unique à droits progressifs (CUDP, ou CPSR pour l’acronyme anglais), ou sur un contrat avec une période d’essai allongée (CPEA ou CLPP pour l’acronyme en anglais). Les gains et les coûts sont très différents selon l’hypothèse retenue, en particulier par rapport aux effets de stigmatisation des travailleurs et par rapport à la persistence du dualisme. Nous envisageons aussi d’autres réformes: outre celle de l’introduction d’un contrat unique, nous discutons de différentes réformes indépendantes du contrat de travail mais modifiant les conséquences du dualisme du marché du travail (accès à la formation, au marché du crédit, au logement) et en comparons les coûts et avantages. Nous élaborons ensuite un simple modèle où les contrats permanents et temporaires sont tous deux à disposition des entreprises et coexistent en leur sein. Nous utilisons cette structure théorique pour décrire la demande de contrats temporaires et les conséquences potentielles d’en supprimer l’usage. Nous en concluons : premièrement, que la protection de l’emploi a un impact négatif mais modéré sur l’emploi total, qui est précisément atténué par l’existence de contrats temporaires; deuxièmement, que l’élimination des contrats temporaires diminue l’emploi total (de 7 points de pourcentage selon notre modèle); pour anihiler cet effet négatif, il faudrait une réforme radicale des contrats permanents (qui dans le cas d’espèce diminuerait des deux tiers les coûts des licenciements associés aux contrats permanents); enfin, la coexistence de contrats temporaires et permanents peut aussi avoir des conséquences négatives au niveau des normes sociales au sein de l’entreprise et sur la motivation des salariés; éliminer les contrats temporaires serait alors une amélioration de la productivité des entreprises. Nous concluons sur le fait que si les coûts du dualisme sont réels, ils sont moins évidents et moins bien démontrés que ceux engendrés par la protection de l’emploi elle-même. De plus, le contrat unique pourrait être en partie un quiproquo. Il serait au contraire utile de clarifier les objectifs fondamentaux des réformes du marché du travail.
