J83|Multiple Violations of Labor Market Regulations: Patterns in the Peruvian Labor Market and the Impact of Enforcement|This paper quantifies labor law violations and how the enforcement efforts impact on the compliance level by considering the possibility of different labor regulations being violated simultaneously. The findings for the Peruvian labor markets over the period 2004-2013 indicate that: (i) multiple violations of labor regulations are an important feature of Peruvian labor markets; (ii) young workers, workers with low level of education, indigenous workers, workers in micro firms and workers employed in the agricultural sector have higher chances of being deprived of several labor benefits simultaneously; (iii) the enforcement of labor regulations, captured through the number of labor inspections at the region level, is effective in detecting and penalizing extreme situations of multiple violations of the labor law, but the evidence also suggests that firms adjust only partially as an attempt to reduce the amount of a potential fine if discovered, and that laid off workers during the adjustment process moved to the informal sector where firms are not inspected. These findings are useful from a policy perspective indicating that there is space to improve firms’ incentives when facing an increase in the enforcement effort.
J83|Labor protection laws and the drain on productivity: Evidence from India|Employment protection legislation (EPL) is designed to promote security for workers by placing restrictions on firing, but it generates unintended consequences. With India as a setting, I argue that EPL shifts jobs from younger to older workers in two ways: by discouraging the hiring of unproven young workers and by preventing the firing of low-productivity workers. The identification strategy is motivated by Rajan and Zingales (1998): I assume that EPL is more binding in those manufacturing sectors where the involuntary separation rate in other countries is high. The data show that older workers are more likely to have formal jobs, and the effect is strongest in high-firing sectors, which indicates EPL shifts jobs from young to old. Additionally, EPL reduces plant-level total productivity (TFP), and this effect is seen only in plants which are large enough to fall within the purview of EPL, which provides a useful placebo test.
J83|Equal treatment for highly qualified labour migrants|According to EU-law, third country national labour migrants shall be treated equally to local workers with regard to wages. The aim of this working paper is to clarify whether Swedish law meets this demand with regard to highly qualified labour migrants. The analysis reveals that the combined effect of entry conditions and the content of the collective agreements applicable in the sectors where highly qualified labour migrants work makes it difficult to safeguard that they are treated equally with comparable national workers. The study also demonstrates that Swedish law does not provide highly qualified labour migrants with any robust means to enforce equal treatment. Hence, it is not likely that Swedish law complies with EU law, at least not for those workers employed by an entity in Sweden. For labour migrants intra-corporate transferred or posted to Sweden in other ways the EU law demands are less clear.
J83|Intrapreneurship and Trust|Trust and entrepreneurship are seen as key ingredients of long-term prosperity. However, it is not clear how these two are related. Part of the confusion can be traced back to the measurement of entrepreneurship, biased towards independent entrepreneurship (self-employed and new firms), and excluding entrepreneurship within established organizations. We shed new light on the relationship between trust and entrepreneurship, by proposing two mechanisms relating trust to entrepreneurship by employees, so-called intrapreneurship. We hypothesize that generalized trust influences the prevalence of intrapreneurship in an economy, and the allocation of entrepreneurial talents between independent entrepreneurship and intrapreneurship, through two mechanisms. First, generalized trust may substitute for complete contracts as a means of organizing labor in society, enabling a level of job autonomy in organizations necessary for intrapreneurship to flourish. Second, by way of its influence on the size and scope of the welfare state, generalized trust may increase the benefits of employment relative to self-employment, causing entrepreneurial individuals to elect to be intrapreneurs rather than independent entrepreneurs. Using a novel dataset, we find support for these hypotheses in a cross-country regression model covering the time period 2011–2017.
J83|Employment protection regimes in worker co-operatives: dismissal of worker members and distributive fairness|This paper discusses the possibility of strong employment protection in co-operatives (exclusion of dismissal) and of the imposition of a minimum wage equal for all worker members in worker co-operatives. It maintains that the worker co-operative has unique features in its ability to reach employment stabilization. It shows, both theoretically and with reference to existing empirical evidence, why and how worker co-operatives are able to overcome the lay-off of workers, strongly reducing employment fluctuation when compared to other organizational forms. The development of more thorough and radical regimes of employment protection and distributive justice fulfil satisfaction of basic needs, workers’ right to work and to keep the job position. While stricter constraints on layoffs can cause inefficiencies (e.g. make it more difficult to dismiss under-performing workers), they also serve an insurance function against unemployment, favor the accumulation of firm-specific human, relational and social capital, and can increase performance in the medium to long run. Voluntary resignation, not involuntary layoff would the dominant mechanism allowing allocation of labor resources to the most productive occupations.
J83|Introducing Severance Payment Systems in Japan ——A Proposal for Vacancy Decontrol——| In Japan, the court requires job restoration rather than a severance payment from a firm after it decides that a dismissal has been abusive. This results in a high settlement cost for termination. This paper makes two proposals for introducing severance payments to reduce settlement costs in Japan. The first applies to existing contracts and proposes to specify levels of severance payments that would replace the current job restoration requirement after the court determines that a case is abusive. The second applies to new employees either for a recently vacated position or a new position and proposes vacancy decontrol, which allows firms to set the levels of severance payments freely while also honoring the existing contracts. Within this category, this paper proposes government-assisted vacancy decontrol, a transitional measure, where the government sets a minimum level of statutory severance payment, which is equal to six months of wages for a worker who has worked for 20 years, following the Taiwan precedent. After the need for the transitional measure is dissolved, complete vacancy decontrol should be introduced, abolishing the statutory severance payment. We have proposed that even at this stage, the government should publicly set a default level of the severance payment, which a firm should observe unless an explicit agreement or contract stipulates otherwise. The government should immediately introduce some form of vacancy decontrol for senior workers who have already retired from a regular job.
J83|La maternidad y el empleo formal en Colombia|Usando los registros de la Planilla Integrada de Liquidación de Aportes (PILA), en este documento se investigan las dinámicas de empleo de una población de mujeres jóvenes, que tenían trabajos formales y tomaron licencias de maternidad cuando estas aumentaron de 12 a 14 semanas. Al tratarse de un cambio no anticipado, se argumenta que la Ley 1468 de julio de 2011 dio un tratamiento diferenciado a las mujeres que estaban próximas a recibirla. Para diferentes grupos se compararon las probabilidades de conservar el empleo, iniciar uno nuevo, salir temporalmente de la formalidad o abandonarla permanentemente; en un periodo de 60 meses de observación desde el momento que iniciaron la licencia. Los resultados indican que las licencias protegen el empleo de las madres en el corto plazo y el aumento en la duración no afectó la probabilidad de continuar con el mismo empleo. Sin embargo, a largo plazo sí disminuyó la probabilidad de reengancharse en nuevos trabajos e incrementó la probabilidad de abandonar la formalidad. ******* ABSTRACT: Using the Colombian Integrated Record of Contributions to Social Security, this document investigates the labor dynamics of a population of young women, who had formal jobs and were close to receive a maternity leave when it was increased from 12 to 14 weeks. Being an unanticipated change, it is argued that the Law 1468 of July 2011 gave different treatments to these women. For an observational period of 60 months, intergroup comparisons were made using the probabilities to continue with the same job, to start a new one, to take a temporary leave from the formality, and to drop out of the formal labor market. Results show that the Colombian maternity leave does protect the employment of mothers in the short term; and the increase in duration did not affect the probability to continue with the same job. However, the long-term effects of an extended maternity leave would include lower probabilities to start new jobs and higher probabilities to abandon the formal market.
J83|'Wage', 'Salary' & 'Remuneration': A Genealogical Exploration of Juridical Terms & Their Significance for the Employer's Power to Make Deductions from Wages|The Supreme Court in Hartley v King Edwards VI College (2017) has confirmed that an employee who refuses to work in accordance with his contract forfeits his right to be paid for the duration of the breach. The decision extends to professional employees paid a periodic salary the principle established in Miles v Wakefield MDC (1987). The present article sheds new light on these decisions by situating them within a broader debate concerning the function of the wage and the proper relationship between work and payment. Drawing on insights from economic theory, and engaging in a genealogical analysis of legal concepts, the article shows how this debate has, over time, conditioned the use of concepts such as the 'wage', 'the salary' and 'remuneration' in legislation and case law concerning deductions. It shows that the legal concept of the 'wage' is closely related to the economic idea of the wage as the price of a commodity, while the legal concepts of 'salary' and 'remuneration' are more closely analogous to the economic idea of the wage as the cost of subsistence. The courts' tendency to confuse these concepts, and to analyse the employer's power to deduct as a right to withhold wages for non-performance of the contract, tells us much about the implicit assumptions underpinning cases such as Miles and Hartley, and how they have shaped the path of the law.
J83|Strikes, employee workplace representation, unionism, and industrial relations quality in European establishments|This paper investigates the relationship between different types of workplace representation and strikes using the 2009 European Company Survey. It also examines the role of the workplace climate, union organization, and collective bargaining. Our principal finding is that works councils are associated with reduced strike activity. But this result is sensitive to the union status of work councilors: where union members make up a majority of works councilors any beneficial effect of the entity on strike incidence is no longer evident in the data. Not only do union-dominated works councils experience greater strike activity than their counterparts with minority union membership, but also more strikes than establishments with union workplace representation where union members are in a minority. Dissonance between the parties, as indexed by degree of divergence between the opinions of employer and employee representative survey respondents as to the state of industrial relations at the workplace, is associated with elevated strike activity. If our measure of dissonance is exogenous, this result suggests that industrial relations quality may be key to strike reduction independent of workplace representation. Finally, there is some indication that union density at the workplace is directly associated with strike incidence, as well as evidence that strikes are more likely when collective bargaining occurs at higher than company level.
J83|The Shortfall in Formal Employee Participation at the European Workplace|Cross-country data are used to establish perceived shortfalls in employee involvement based on the responses of employee representatives in EU establishments with formal workplace employee representation. The desire for greater involvement is smaller where workplace representation is via works councils than union bodies, a finding that also obtains across country clusters. However, the favorable influence of the works council institution, if not information provision, does not carry over to situations in which management is adjudged uncooperative and untrustworthy. Whether the views of these respondents are representative of the workforce and hypothetically of a workforce currently without representation is also considered.
J83|La maternidad y el empleo formal en Colombia|Usando los registros de la Planilla Integrada de Liquidación de Aportes (PILA), en este documento se investigan las dinámicas de empleo de una población de mujeres jóvenes, que tenían trabajos formales y tomaron licencias de maternidad cuando estas aumentaron de 12 a 14 semanas. Al tratarse de un cambio no anticipado, se argumenta que la Ley 1468 de julio de 2011 dio un tratamiento diferenciado a las mujeres que estaban próximas a recibirla. Para diferentes grupos se compararon las probabilidades de conservar el empleo, iniciar uno nuevo, salir temporalmente de la formalidad o abandonarla permanentemente; en un periodo de 60 meses de observación desde el momento que iniciaron la licencia. Los resultados indican que las licencias protegen el empleo de las madres en el corto plazo y el aumento en la duración no afectó la probabilidad de continuar con el mismo empleo. Sin embargo, a largo plazo sí disminuyó la probabilidad de reengancharse en nuevos trabajos e incrementó la probabilidad de abandonar la formalidad. ******* ABSTRACT: Using the Colombian Integrated Record of Contributions to Social Security, this document investigates the labor dynamics of a population of young women, who had formal jobs and were close to receive a maternity leave when it was increased from 12 to 14 weeks. Being an unanticipated change, it is argued that the Law 1468 of July 2011 gave different treatments to these women. For an observational period of 60 months, intergroup comparisons were made using the probabilities to continue with the same job, to start a new one, to take a temporary leave from the formality, and to drop out of the formal labor market. Results show that the Colombian maternity leave does protect the employment of mothers in the short term; and the increase in duration did not affect the probability to continue with the same job. However, the long-term effects of an extended maternity leave would include lower probabilities to start new jobs and higher probabilities to abandon the formal market.
J83|Una nota sobre el salario por hora y las contribuciones a la seguridad social|En este trabajo se realiza una discusión acerca de algunas consideraciones normativas acerca de pasar de pagar un salario mensual a un salario por hora, de manera que las contribuciones a la seguridad social puedan incrementarse sin subir sus tasas contributivas para la financiación de estas.
J83|Information and Bargaining through Agents: Experimental Evidence from Mexico’s Labor Courts|While observers agree that courts function poorly in developing countries, a lack of data has limited our understanding of the causes of malfunction. We combine data from administrative records on severance cases filed in the Mexico City Labor Court with interventions that provide information to parties in randomly selected cases on predicted case outcomes and conciliation services. We first use the data to document a set of stylized facts about the functioning of the court. The interventions nearly double the overall settlement rate, but only when the plaintiff herself is present to receive the information directly. Administrative records from six months after the treatment indicate that the treatment effects remain unchanged over that period, even though an additional one in three cases in the control group settle in that period. The post-treatment results indicate that lawyers do not convey the information provided in the intervention to their clients. A simple analytic framework rationalizes the experimental results. Analysis of settlements induced by the interventions suggests that the provision of information is welfare-improving for the plaintiffs. The experimental results replicate over two phases conducted in different sub-courts, showing robustness.
J83|The Effect of Prenatal Maternity Leave on Short and Long-term Child Outcomes|Maternity leave policies are presumed to be essential to ensure the health of pregnant workers and their unborn children. However, little is known about the optimal duration of prenatal maternity leave and existing policies are not evidence-based. We evaluate a substantial maternity leave extension in Austria, which increased mandatory leave prior to birth from six to eight weeks. Our estimation strategy exploits that the eligibility for the extended leave was determined by a cutoff due date. As an additional source of exogenous variation, we use information on non-working mothers, who are not eligible for maternity leave. Across estimations, we consistently find no evidence for significant effects of this extension on children’s health at birth, subsequent maternal health and fertility, and longterm human capital outcomes of children. Our finding is confirmed by a supplementary cross-country panel analysis.
J83|What Do Workers Want? The Shortfall in Employee Participation at the European Workplace|A shortfall in employee voice attendant upon union decline has long been forewarned. Data from the third European Company Survey is used to establish perceived shortfalls in employee involvement based on the responses of employee representatives in establishments where formal workplace employee representation is practiced. Among the main findings is that the desire for greater involvement in decision making is smaller where representation is via a works council-type apparatus rather than through the agency of a union body. Similar, albeit more pronounced marginal effects are associated with information provision, most notably where employee representatives are (a) 'satisfactorily' informed on a variety of establishment issues or (b) are asked to give their opinions/involved in joint decisions in the event of some major human resource decision. The latter results are robust to subsets of the data based on variations in trust between the parties and the perceived quality of the industrial relations climate, where there is an overwhelming desire for more participation in those circumstances in which management is adjudged uncooperative and untrustworthy. On net, it remains the case that a shortfall in employee participation is observed across all types of establishments in the sample and, by extension, it would appear to those without any workplace representation at all.
J83|The Impact of Employment Protection on the Industrial Wage Structure|This paper tests whether the job security offered by stricter employment protection legislation (EPL) undermines positive compensating wage differentials that would otherwise be paid. Specifically, we ask whether industries with relatively more need for layoffs and labour flexibility have lower wages in countries where stricter EPL protects workers from layoffs. We find this generally to be true for a large sample of industries in the major OECD countries over 1984-2005, particularly for wages of unskilled workers. However, we also find that where workers are well organised, they can take advantage of EPL to secure higher wages.
J83|The ''Good Workplace'': The Role of Joint Consultative Committees, Unions and HR policies in Employee Ratings of Workplaces in Britain|Using new, rich data on a representative sample of British workers, we examine the relationship between joint consultation systems at the workplace and employee satisfaction, accounting for possible interactions with union and management-led high-commitment strategies. We focus on non-union employee representation at the workplace, in the form of joint consultative committees (JCCs), and the potential moderating effects of union representation and high-involvement human resource (HIHR) practices. Our findings suggest a re-evaluation of the role that JCCs play in the subjective well-being of workers even after controlling for unions and HIHR policies. There is no evidence in our estimates of negative interaction effects (i.e., that unions or HIHR negatively influence the functioning of JCCs with respect to employee satisfaction) or full mediation (i.e., that unions or HIHR are substitutes for JCCs when it comes to improving self-reported worker well-being). If anything, there is a significant and positive three-way moderating effect when JCCs are interacted with union representation and high-involvement management. This is the first time -- to the authors' knowledge -- that comprehensive measures of subjective employee well-being have been estimated with respect to the presence of a JCC at the workplace, whilst controlling for workplace institutions that are themselves designed to involve and communicate with workers.
J83|The Effect of Prenatal Maternity Leave on Short and Long-Term Child Outcomes|Maternity leave policies are presumed to be essential to ensure the health of pregnant workers and their unborn children. However, little is known about the optimal duration of prenatal maternity leave and existing policies are not evidence-based. We evaluate a substantial maternity leave extension in Austria, which increased mandatory leave prior to birth from six to eight weeks. Our estimation strategy exploits that the eligibility for the extended leave was determined by a cutoff due date. As an additional source of exogenous variation, we use information on non-working mothers, who are not eligible for maternity leave. Across estimations, we consistently find no evidence for significant effects of this extension on children's health at birth, subsequent maternal health and fertility, and longterm human capital outcomes of children. Our finding is confirmed by a supplementary cross-country panel analysis.
J83|Economic Growth in the EU: Is Flexicurity a Help or a Hindrance?|In the light of the recent economic crisis, flexicurity has permeated many European Union (EU) policies with the hope that more flexible labour markets alongside modern social security systems and active learning can reinvigorate economic growth. This paper employs a variant of the Solow growth model to examine the impact that flexicurity had on economic growth in 27 EU Member States for the years 2000 to 2015. Using principal components to capture the multi-faceted concept of flexicurity, the results reveal that, in isolation, flexicurity failed to provide any growth stimulus. Lifelong learning, active labour market policy and modern security systems proved However, incorporating the role of the social partners and trust into the model provided a more positive picture of the flexicurity-growth relationship.
J83|The analysis of the influence of motivation, competence, and incentive toward employee performance at pt Sianjur resort, a housing developer of Oma Deli Medan, Indonesia|This research aims to find out the influence of motivation, competence, and incentive variables toward employee performance. Population of this research is all employees of PT. Sianjur Resort, Medan, Indonesia that is, 37 people. The sample is selected using total population sampling method. The data is collected using questionnaires, while it is analyzed using multiple linear regression analysis. The research results prove that motivation, competence, and incentive simultaneously give significant influence toward employee performance. Motivation, competence, and incentive partially give significant influence toward employee performance. It is recommended that PT. Sianjur Resort pay more attention to aspects that can increase employee performance such as giving incentive regularly and fairly so that there is no negative perception among employees about discriminative behaviour by the employer in term of giving incentive. It is also suggested that PT. Sianjur Resort’s employees increase their performance based on motivation, competence, and incentive that have been given, such as increasing self-competence without waiting for the command from the employer, so self-performance can be more increased.
J83|"The ""Good Workplace"": The Role of Joint Consultative Committees, Unions and HR Policies in Employee Ratings of Workplaces in Britain"|Using new, rich data on a representative sample of British workers, we examine the relationship between joint consultation systems at the workplace and employee satisfaction, accounting for possible interactions with union and management-led high-commitment strategies. We focus on non-union employee representation at the workplace, in the form of joint consultative committees (JCCs), and the potential moderating effects of union representation and high-involvement human resource (HIHR) practices. Our findings suggest a re-evaluation of the role that JCCs play in the subjective well-being of workers even after controlling for unions and HIHR policies. There is no evidence in our estimates of negative interaction effects (i.e., that unions or HIHR negatively influence the functioning of JCCs with respect to employee satisfaction) or full mediation (i.e., that unions or HIHR are substitutes for JCCs when it comes to improving self-reported worker well-being). If anything, there is a significant and positive three-way moderating effect when JCCs are interacted with union representation and high-involvement management. This is the first time â€“ to the authors' knowledge â€“ that comprehensive measures of subjective employee well-being have been estimated with respect to the presence of a JCC at the workplace, whilst controlling for workplace institutions that are themselves designed to involve and communicate with workers.
J83|Befunde zu Betriebsräten und Betriebsratswahlen: Stellungnahme für den Ausschuss für Arbeit und Soziales des Deutschen Bundestages|Das Betriebsverfassungsgesetz ist eine der tragenden Säulen der Arbeitsmarktordnung in Deutschland, mit dem das Miteinander von Arbeitnehmern und Arbeitgebern und die Ausge-staltung der Arbeitsbedingungen geregelt werden. Betriebliche Mitbestimmung wird hierzulande in der Regel mit der Interessenvertretung der Beschäftigten auf Basis des Betriebsverfassungsgesetzes gleichgesetzt. Die Bildung eines Betriebsrates ist ein gesetzlich abgesichertes Recht für Beschäftigte in Betrieben mit fünf und mehr Arbeitnehmern. Es bedarf folglich keiner Übereinkunft mit dem Arbeitgeber. Dass in den meisten Betrieben oder Unternehmen kein Betriebsrat besteht, ist darauf zurückzuführen, dass die Wahl eines Betriebsrates die Initiative der Beschäftigten voraussetzt. Im Jahr 2016 waren rund sechzig Prozent aller Beschäftigten in Betrieben tätig, in denen es eine Form von Mitarbeitervertretung gibt. Es liegen bisher keine empirischen Erkenntnisse vor, dass von der bisherigen Ausgestaltung des Betriebsverfassungsgesetzes bremsende Effekte auf die Initiative von Beschäftigten ausgehen, einen Betriebsrat zu gründen.
J83|The Development of a New Labour Framework during Spain's Second Republic: The Central Office for Placing and Defending against Unemployment|The Great Depression affected the Spanish economy by increasing the number of unemployed workers. With the aim of tackling labor market problems, the Central Office for Placing and Defending against Unemployment was created in 1931 with the aim, in the words of Niceto Alcalá-Zamora, of tackling the «regrettable passion and social or political misadventures». The officials of the Central Placement Office were aware of the proposals of Keynes and other economists on the matter, so it can be said that the implemented employment policies, besides being based on the social urgencies of the moment, tried to find an added legitimacy in the doctrinal currents that then operate under an agreed consensus.
J83|Guaranteed Employment and Universal Child Care For a New Social Contract|The United States is falling behind many other rich nations on a broad spectrum of measures of the quality of life. These include social mobility, inequality, education, crime, health and longevity. Polls suggest that many Americans have not only lost their optimism concerning the future, but have become angry as well. This article sets forth the elements of a new social contract, one that would deliver substantial results almost overnight and which conforms to the traditional American values of the importance of work, that everyone should have a fair opportunity for upwards mobility, and the central importance of the family. This proposal is composed of two parts: The first is guaranteed employment, and where necessary, the retraining required to enable workers to successfully enter the regular workforce. The second is universal child care to give all parents the possibility of participating in the labor force. The article discusses in depth how these measures would reverse the relative decline in quality of life in America. It also reveals how, although these measure would be costly, their payoff for the economy would far offset the costs.
J83|The CBR-LRI Dataset: Methods, Properties & Potential of Leximetric Coding of Labour Laws|Leximetric data coding techniques aim to measure cross-national and inter-temporal variations in the content of legal rules, thereby facilitating statistical analysis of legal systems and their social and economic impacts. In this paper we explain how leximetric methods were used to create the CBR Labour Index (CBR-LRI), an index and related dataset of labour laws from around the world spanning the period from 1970 to 2013. Datasets of this kind must, we suggest, observe certain conventions of transparency and validity if they are to be usable in statistical analysis. The theoretical framework informing the construction of the dataset and the types of questions which it is are designed to answer should be made explicit. Then the choices involved in the selection of indicators, the definition of coding algorithms, and the aggregation and weighting of data to create composite measures, must be spelled out. In addition, primary legal sources should be referenced, and it should be clear how they were used to generate reported values. With these points in mind we provide an overview of the CBR-LRI dataset's main features and structure, discuss issues of weighting, and present some initial findings on what it reveals of global trends in labour regulation.
J83|The Problem of Unpaid Internships: Legal Guide to Complaints Under the European Social Charter|Young people entering the job market are in a precarious economic position. Across Europe, and in Belgium in particular, those who wish to enter into the professional world are faced with the de facto mandate that in order to gain experience and build the connections that will enable them to find paid professional work in the future, they must complete several internships. Yet many of these internships are unpaid or underpaid, forcing some young people to rely on their savings or their parents and shutting others out of the process entirely. The European Committee of Social Rights (the “Committee”) accepts collective complaints lodged by non-governmental organisations alleging violations of the European Social Charter (the “Charter”). The EU Public Interest Clinic prepared this draft Complaint for the non-profit organization European Youth Forum, alleging that unpaid internships in Belgium violate the Charter. Specifically, the provisions in Belgian law that enable unpaid internships, and the lack of enforcement of provisions that aim to curtail them, violate Articles 4, 7, and 10 of the Charter, which provide for fair remuneration, the protection of young people, and financial assistance for vocational training, respectively.
J83|Poverty, employment and inequality in the SDGs: heterodox discourse, orthodox policies?|Malte Luebker recalls that employment and labour issues were entirely absent from the initial set of MDGs, and that only in 2005, somewhat hastily, a new target was added to address this oversight. He therefore welcomes that the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development makes ample reference to employment and inequality. Goal 8 is devoted to â€˜Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for allâ€™ and expands on two familiar themes, productivity and employment, while adding labour rights as a new element. The more nuanced treatment of labour arguably presents a notable advance in attaining a wider set of progressive policies concerned with addressing rising inequalities. While the SDGs are strong on some policies that have direct impact on the primary and secondary distribution of incomes, they lack an explicit endorsement of freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. Hence, they fail to mention the mechanisms that give workers a voice and a meaningful stake in development.
J83|The dog that barks doesn’t bite: coverage and compliance of sectoral minimum wages in Italy|Abstract This paper provides a comprehensive portrait of the level and compliance with sectoral minimum wages in Italy between 2008 and 2015. The results show that wage floors in Italy are relatively high both in absolute terms and relative to the median wage. However, non-compliance rates are not negligible: on average, around 10% of workers are paid 20% less than the minimum wage established in their reference collective agreement. Non-compliance is particularly high in the South and in micro and small firms, and it affects especially women and temporary workers. Overall, wages in the bottom of the distribution appear to be largely unaffected by minimum wage increases. More effective enforcement practices are therefore needed to safeguard a level playing field for firms and ensure that minimum wage increases are effectively reflected in pay increases for workers at the bottom of the distribution. JEL Classification J08, J31, J52, J83
J83|Strikes, Employee Workplace Representation, Unionism, and Trust: Evidence from Cross-Country Data|This paper investigates the determinants of industrial conflict in companies, using a multi-country workplace inquiry for 2009 and 2013 and various measures of strike activity. The principal goal is to address the effect of formal workplace representation on strikes, distinguishing in the first instance between works councils on the one hand and broadly equivalent trade union based entities on the other. The role of unionism is also central to this inquiry, not only with respect to the degree to which workplace representation is union dominated but also and more familiarly perhaps through workplace union density and the level at which collective bargaining is conducted. Attention is also paid to the quality of industrial relations, as reflected in dissonance, namely divergent assessments of managers and employee workplace representatives as to the state of industrial relations. Although country effects do matter, it is reported that works councils are associated with reduced strike activity. However, any such effect is sensitive in particular to the union status of work councilors and time. There is also some indication that collective bargaining at levels higher than the company can exacerbate strike activity but this effect does not persist, possibly because of decentralization and the development of hybrid bargaining structures. For its part, good industrial relations appears key to strike reduction, independent of workplace representation.
J83|Workplace Employee Representation and Industrial Relations Performance: New Evidence from the 2013 European Company Survey|Using cross-country data from the European Company Survey, we investigate the relationship between workplace employee representation and management perceptions of the climate of industrial relations, sickness/absenteeism, employee motivation, and staff retention. For a considerably reduced subset of the data, a fifth indicator – strike activity – is also considered alongside the other behavioral outcomes. From one perspective, the expression of collective voice through works council-type entities may be construed as largely beneficial, especially when compared with their counterpart union agencies either operating alone or in a dominant position. However, if heightened distributional struggles explain these differential outcomes in workplace employee representation, it should not go unremarked that the influence of formal collective bargaining is seemingly positive.
J83|The economics of employment tribunals|Employment tribunals or labor courts are responsible for enforcing employment protection legislation and adjudicating rights-based disputes between employers and employees. Claim numbers are high and, in Great Britain, have been rising, affecting both administrative costs and economic competitiveness. Reforms have attempted to reduce the number of claims and to improve the speed and efficiency of dealing with them. Balancing employee protection against cost-effectiveness remains difficult, however. Gathering evidence on tribunals, including on claim instigation, resolution, decision making, and post-tribunal outcomes can inform policy efforts.
J83|Globale Rahmenvereinbarungen in der europäischen Automobilzulieferindustrie|"Die Entwicklung von Arbeits- und Beschäftigungsbedingungen in der Automobilzulieferbranche wird in erheblichem Maße vom Standortwettbewerb zwischen Hochlohn- und Niedriglohnstand-orten geprägt. Die deutschen Standorte stehen dabei insbesondere im Wettbewerbe mit Werken in Mittelosteuropa. Auf Basis von Fallstudien von sechs deutschen Automobilzulieferern und einer Befragung betrieblicher Arbeitnehmervertreter erörtert dieses Discussion Paper die Mög-lichkeiten und Strategien von Gewerkschaften und betrieblichen Arbeitnehmervertretern, mit-hilfe von Globalen Rahmenvereinbarungen (GRV) Mindeststandards im Bereich von Arbeits- und Beschäftigungsbedingungen zu schaffen. Dabei werden drei Fragen verfolgt: Welche Ziele und Motive verbinden die Akteure mit dem Abschluss einer GRV? Welche Auswirkungen können im europäischen Raum beobachtet werden? Und welche Faktoren beeinflussen diese Auswirkungen? Die hier diskutierten Daten und Befunde stammen aus dem von der Hans-Böckler-Stiftung geför-derten Forschungsprojekt ""Standortperspektiven in der Automobilzulieferindustrie"", das von Martin Krzywdzinski (WZB) und Axel Schröder (WZB) gemeinsam mit Martin Schwarz-Kocher und Heinz Pfäfflin (IMU Institut) sowie Inger Korflür und Ralf Löckener (Sustain Consult) durchgeführt wurde. In die vorliegende Ausarbeitung sind viele Anregungen aus gemeinsamen Diskussionen im Projektteam eingeflossen, für die wir allen Kolleginnen und Kollegen herzlich danken."
J83|T - Trabajos precarios|Resumen de la situación de informalidad en Bolivia, 1992 - 2012
J83|The Costs and Benefits of Migration into the European Union: Debunking Contemporary Myths with Facts|The purpose of this study is to dispel some myths associated with migrants in order to improve socio-economic appraisal of the consequences of the recent surge of migrants into Europe. We argue that: (i) the concern about loss of Christian cultural values is lacking in substance because compared to a relatively near historical epoch or era, very few European citizens do go to Church in contemporary Europe; (ii) the threat to European liberal institutions is falsifiable and statistically fragile because it is not substantiated with significant evidence; (iii) the insignificant proportion of the Moslem population that is aligned with Islamic fundamentalism invalidates the hypothesis on importation of radical Islamic fundamentalism and (iv) the concern about social security burden is relevant only in the short-term because of Europe’s ageing population.
J83|Feminizacja prekariatu. Polska na tle innych krajów Europy / Feminization of Precarity. Poland Compared to Other Countries|Precarity applies to people who, in order to survive, need to work in a low-quality job, which is uncertain, temporary, low-paid, with no prospect of promotion, no security and no contract. In this sense, the precariat is a category related mostly to the secondary segment of the labour market, according to the concept of a dual labour market. It is also the universal feature of Post-Fordism and the modern working conditions in which women, more often than men, are located in the ‘worst’segment of the labour market. In this context, it can be noted that since the beginning of the era of globalization, women start working particularly in those sectors that were more uncertain and unstable e.g. in services and trade. It was feminization in a double sense: there were more and more working women on the one hand, and on the other hand, the flexible jobs were undertaken usually by women. Most of these kind of jobs were precarity jobs. Precarity is combined with insecurity, which does not allow the people in this group to plan anything, and wages so low that they can’t afford a decent life. In the article I would like to prove that the threat of precariat is more probable for women than men. I present data related to precarity for Poland compared to other European countries (based on data from Eurostat and the OECD).
J83|The Contribution of Labour Law to Economic Development & Growth|A review of theoretical, historical and quantitative empirical research on the economic effects of labour laws suggests that worker-protective labour regulation generates net positive outcomes for development and growth. Labour law should be seen as a developmental institution which has a symbiotic relationship to the rise of capitalism in the global north and is part of the transition to a market economy being experienced by today's low- and middle-income countries. Claims made for the desuetude of labour law's core mechanisms, including the standard employment relationship, are not borne about by recent evidence. The complex role played by labour regulation in the dynamics of capitalism would repay further investigation.
J83|Pricing Labour Capacity: The Unexpected Effects of Formalizing Employment Contracts in China|This paper analyses the effects of recent laws formalising employment contracts in China, part of a wider policy to normalise features of an emerging market economy. Using a unique hand-collected dataset of 294 industrial injury claims handled by a labour dispute arbitration commission in 2010, we study the impact of having a formal contract on the amount of compensation paid to victims of workplace accidents. An inherent feature of the employment contract under a market economy is its incompleteness: because work-effort bargain and labour capacity cannot be accurately specified ex ante, the employer can expropriate the surplus from production ex post. The legally-driven formalisation of employment contracts is intended to redress this effect by holding the employer to the terms of the parties’ agreement and proving for third party enforcement. Our empirical analysis shows that having a written employment contract makes an injury claim more than twice likely to be arbitrated than mediated, in line with the intended effect of the law, but that it also leads to a reduction of around half in the amount of compensation awarded. Formalisation of employment contracts may reduce employer discretion during the course of the employment relationship, but it also makes it difficult for workers to invoke actual or customary wage levels for the purposes of putting a value on an accident compensation claim, in the face of the formal wage stated in the contract. Formalisation ends up reinforcing the hierarchical power of the employer which is a feature of capitalist work relations.
J83|State and Knowledge Production: Industrial Relations Scholarship under Chinese Capitalism|We use the evolution of industrial relations scholarship in China to study the role of the state in the process of knowledge production. In the course of the last decade the policy of the Chinese state has shifted from promoting a flexible labour market as part of an export-led growth strategy, to addressing problems of growing labour unrest. This shift has, however, yet to be reflected in research and teaching of industrial relations. Drawing on an archive of over 7,000 articles published in Chinese-language journals, we show that the industrial relations field has failed to cohere in China as it did in North America and Western Europe in response to similar pressures in the middle decades of the twentieth century. Chinese research on labour issues is divided between a practice-orientated human resource management literature and a sociological approach which is isolated from practice and policy. We explain this pattern in terms of the distinctive nature of Chinese capitalism, which manages to be simultaneously state-encompassed yet individualistic, leaving little space for the collective institutions of civil society which have been the focus of industrial relations research in the West.
J83|Anti-discrimination Legislation and the Efficiency-Enhancing Role of Mandatory Parental Leave|We study a setting where anti-discrimination legislation gives rise to adverse selection in the labor market. Firms rely on nonlinear compensation contracts to screen workers who differ in their family/career orientation. This results in a labor market equilibrium where career-oriented workers are offered an inefficiently low duration of parental leave. In addition, family-oriented workers are offered lower wages as compared to their equally skilled career-oriented counterparts. We demonstrate the usefulness of mandatory parental leave rules in mitigating the distortion in the labor market and derive conditions under which a Pareto improvement is possible. We also characterize the optimal parental leave policy and highlight the possibility for parental leave legislation to eliminate the wage penalty of family-oriented workers by supporting pooling employment contracts.
J83|The impact of the economic crisis on the changes in industrial relations in the countries of the Central and Eastern Europe|Enlargement of the European Union in 2004 significantly increased the diversity of industrial relations among the countries of the EU. In comparison with the countries of the former EU-15, the new Member States in Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) were characterized by weaker trade unions, faster decline in union density, lower coverage of collective bargaining and their greater decentralization, and by the lack of statutory forms of information and consultation of employees at company level. The main aim of this paper is to examine the impact of the economic crisis on institutions shaping industrial relations in the CEE countries during the period 2008–2014. This article will answer the question if the crisis has accelerated the convergence of industrial relations, or even the opposite — further deepened the existing differences and what the responses of social partners on the crisis were. The paper uses theoretical and conceptual analysis methods based on a survey of literature and statistics (especially from ICTWSS data base and EU-linked sources such as ETUI and EIRO).
J83|Home Offices: Plenty of Untapped Potential|As far as the share of individuals with a home office is concerned, Germany is below the EU average and lags considerably behind other countries such as France, the UK, or the Scandinavian countries. Only 12 percent of all employees in Germany work primarily or occasionally from home, although this would theoretically be possible in 40 percent of jobs. In most cases, an employee’s desire to work from home is not recognized by employers. If these employers were to reconsider their position, however, the share of people working from home could rise to over 30 percent. The disparity between employees wanting to telecommute and the options offered by employers is greatest in the financial sector and in public administration. Well-qualified full-time employees in particular are interested in working from home. The main motive would appear to be more autonomy in managing their own time, not only reconciling work and family life, since there are just as many singles who would like to work from home as there are single parents. Telecommuters often end up working much longer hours than average, and it is not at all uncommon for them to do unpaid overtime. Nevertheless, their job satisfaction is higher than that of other employees— particularly those who would like to work from home but are not given the option.
J83|Working from Home: Germany Lagging Behind Other European Countries: Six Questions to Karl Brenke|No abstract is available for this item.
J83|Home Office: Möglichkeiten werden bei weitem nicht ausgeschöpft|As far as the share of individuals with a home office is concerned, Germany is below the EU average and lags considerably behind other countries such as France, the UK, or the Scandinavian countries. Only twelve percent of all employees in Germany work primarily or occasionally from home, although this would theoretically be possible for 40 percent of jobs. In most cases, an employee’s desire to work from home is not recognized by employers. If these were to reconsider their position, however, the share of people working from home could rise to over 30 percent. The disparity between employees wanting to telecommute and the options offered by employers is widest in the financial sector and in public administration. Well-qualified full-time employees in particular are interested in working from home. The main motive would appear to be more autonomy in managing their own time, not only reconciling work and family life, since there are just as many singles who would like to work from home as single parents. Telecommuters often end up working much longer hours than average, and it is not at all uncommon for them to do unpaid overtime. Nevertheless, their job satisfaction is higher than that of other employees—particularly those who would like to work from home but are not given the option. Deutschland liegt beim Anteil der Personen mit Home Office (Heimarbeit) unter dem EU-Durchschnitt und deutlich hinter anderen Ländern wie Frankreich, dem Vereinigten Königreich oder den skandinavischen Ländern zurück. Nur zwölf Prozent aller abhängig Beschäftigten hierzulande arbeiten überwiegend oder gelegentlich von zu Hause aus, obwohl dies bei 40 Prozent der Arbeitsplätze theoretisch möglich wäre. In den meisten Fällen scheitert der Wunsch nach Heimarbeit an den Arbeitgebern. Würden sie umdenken, könnte der Anteil der Heimarbeiter auf über 30 Prozent steigen. Im Finanzsektor und in der öffentlichen Verwaltung klaffen die Wünsche der Arbeitnehmer nach Heimarbeit und die von den Arbeitgebern angebotenen Möglichkeiten am weitesten auseinander. Vor allem gut qualifizierte, vollzeitbeschäftige Arbeitskräfte sind an Heimarbeit interessiert. Grundlegendes Motiv ist offenbar der Wunsch nach mehr zeitlicher Autonomie und nicht allein die Vereinbarkeit von Beruf und Familie, denn Singles möchten ähnlich häufig zu Hause arbeiten wie Alleinerziehende. Heimarbeiter kommen oft auf weit überdurchschnittlich lange Arbeitszeiten, und nicht selten leisten sie unbezahlte Mehrarbeit. Gleichwohl sind sie mit ihrer Arbeit zufriedener als andere Arbeitskräfte – insbesondere als jene, die sich Heimarbeit wünschen, aber nicht die Möglichkeit dazu erhalten.
J83|Die Arbeitgeber sollten bei Heimarbeit umdenken: Sechs Fragen an Karl Brenke|No abstract is available for this item.
J83|Enforcement of labor market regulations: heterogeneous compliance and adjustment across gender|Abstract This paper explores microdata from Argentine household surveys to analyze how changes in the enforcement of labor regulations affect the compliance level and other labor outcomes among men and women. Using information of the highly decentralized labor inspection system in Argentina, I construct an enforcement measure with variation at the province, sector, and time level (share of inspected firms) which I instrument using a measure of the arrival cost of labor inspectors to the firms. The main findings reveal that when enforcement increases, the compliance with mandated benefits and formal wages increase among men, while informal wages decline. Among women, the compliance level declines jointly with informal wages. These heterogenous impacts are explained by labor regulations that make formal and informal men more substitutable in the production process than formal and informal women.
J83|Are Labor Inspections Protecting Workers’ Rights? Adding the Evidence from Size-based Labor Regulations and Fines in Peru|This paper analyzes how changes in the enforcement of labor regulations impact on the compliance rate in a context where the labor rules and the characteristics of the labor inspection system differ by firm size. In addition to the channels analyzed in the existing literature –the deterrence effect of labor inspections and the movement of displaced workers into the informal sector, this paper adds a margin of adjustment not analyzed before: firms can reduce their size to take advantage of lower penalties for violating the labor rules and/or less stringent regulations. I analyze empirically which forces have dominated for workers employed in firms of different size in Peru during 2008-2013. I measure the enforcement of labor regulations as the number of labor inspections per hundred workers at the regional level, and I instrument it using a measure of the arrival cost of labor inspectors to the firms. The findings reveal that the degree of enforcement had little impact on the compliance with labor regulations. The effect of firms reducing their size to enjoy lower fines and/or less stringent regulations was small in magnitude and the direction of the effect was not clear. The general lack of effect of the enforcement measure on the compliance with the labor rules indicates that the labor inspection system is not effective in Peru, either because it is not able to generate the incentives to comply with labor regulations (e.g. because of lack of resources) or because it fails to overcome the consequences of the adjustment process associated to an increase in the compliance level (e.g. displaced workers moving into the informal sector of the economy).
J83|Anti-discrimination Legislation and the Efficiency-Enhancing Role of Mandatory Parental Leave|We study a setting where anti-discrimination legislation gives rise to adverse selection in the labor market. Firms rely on nonlinear compensation contracts to screen workers who differ in their family/career orientation. This results in a labor market equilibrium where career-oriented workers are offered an inefficiently low duration of parental leave. In addition, family-oriented workers are offered lower wages as compared to their equally skilled career-oriented counterparts. We demonstrate the usefulness of mandatory parental leave rules in mitigating the distortion in the labor market and derive conditions under which a Pareto improvement is possible. We also characterize the optimal parental leave policy and highlight the possibility for parental leave legislation to eliminate the wage penalty of family-oriented workers by supporting pooling employment contracts.
J83|Social insurance with Chinese characteristics: The role of communist party in private firms|This paper studies the inter-correlation among the Communist Party of China (CPC), unionization, and social insurance in a sample of Chinese private firms. We find that both Party branch and unionization are positively associated with insurance coverage. We further present evidence that Party branch and unionization are complements in association with better coverage of social insurance. When the Party–union complementarity is taken into account, Party branch alone is no longer positively associated with social insurance, while the correlation between unionization and insurance declines significantly. Our results suggest that the role of the CPC is overlooked in the literature on labor relations in China.
J83|No Big Deal: The Impact of New York City’s Paid Sick Days Law on Employers|In June 2013, New York City became the seventh — and the largest — U.S. jurisdiction to provide workers with paid sick days, with the passage of the Earned Sick Time Act, which took effect in April 2014. Under this law, covered workers employed in New York City private-sector companies and non-profit organizations with five or more employees accrue job-protected paid sick leave at a rate of one hour for every 30 hours worked. Employees of companies with one to four workers are entitled to unpaid sick leave. The law covers about 3.9 million workers employed in the City, 1.4 million of whom did not have access to paid sick days prior to its passage. When it was first proposed, critics of the paid sick time law argued that it would lead to a loss of jobs in the City and impose a major cost burden on employers, especially small businesses. They also predicted that such a law would invite widespread abuse by employees. However, as this report shows, these fears have proven unfounded. By their own account, the vast majority of employers were able to adjust quite easily to the new law, and for most the cost impact was minimal to nonexistent. Indeed, a year and a half after the law took effect, 86 percent of the employers we surveyed expressed support for the paid sick days law.
J83|Quality of employment regimes and diversity of emerging countries|Emerging countries and their leaders, the BRICS, can be revisited with an institutionalist approach enabling a better recognition of their diversity. Focusing on the composition of their labour nexus, this paper offers to question the category formed by these countries by studying their variety of quality of employment regimes. Two interesting results came out from this study using a Principal Components Analysis (PCA) and a Mixed Clustering (MC) break two institutional dimensions into fourteen indicators. (1) Four specific quality of employment regimes appear, illustrating their heterogeneity and the weakness of this category. (2) The BRICS appear notably scattered over some socio-economic aspects of each leader. Far from composing a coherent and independent regime, BRICS countries dispersion can be explained by a specific combination of socio-economic and institutional factors to each one of them.
J83|Effect of Work Environment, Work Satisfaction and Work Motivation on The Performance of Accounting Lecturers |"""Objective – The purpose of this paper is to investigate whether work environment, job satisfaction and work motivation influences the performance of accounting lecturers. Methodology/Technique – This paper is based on a questionnaire survey of lecturers in three universities, UNISDA, UNISLA, STIE situated in Dahlan Lamongan, Indonesia. Findings – The findings indicate that work motivation is the dominant factor affecting the performance of the accounting lecturers. Work environment, job satisfaction and work motivation jointly, have a positive influence on the performance of the accounting lecturers. Novelty – The study provides ways to increase the performance of accounting lecturers so that they will be able to produce reliable scholar graduates."""
J83|Explaining Cross-National Variation in Workplace Employee Representation|Across Europe, there are many differing opinions on whether workplace employee representation should be encouraged or discouraged. Yet there is very little evidence on the variations in workplace employee representation across Europe or the reasons for this. We use a workplace survey covering 27 EU countries to show that its incidence is strongly and independently correlated with the degree of centralization in a country's industrial relations regime and the extent of legislative support. Industry rents are also important in explaining trade union presence, but are unimportant in the case of works councils. Turning to the effects of workplace employee representation, we find support for the exit-voice model - traditionally associated with Anglo-Saxon regimes - whereby worker representation is associated with poorer perceptions of the employment relations climate and with lower voluntary quit rates.
J83|Human Rights and Corporate Social Responsibility in Developing Countries’ Industrial Clusters|A recent preoccupation in scholarly research is the capacity of firms in developing country industrial clusters to comply with international corporate social responsibility (CSR) policies and codes of conducts. This research is at an early stage and draws on several—often quite distinct—scholarly traditions. In this paper, we argue that future work in this area would benefit from a more explicit examination of the connection between cluster firms and human rights defined according to the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights and subsequent covenants and treaties. We argue that cluster firms’ adoption of CSR policies, often indiscriminately imposed by global buyers, should be differentiated from firms’ actual human rights practices. Based on this distinction, we elaborate a typology of industrial clusters (low-road, window-dressing, rights-oriented) and identify a set of factors likely to influence their practice. Against this background, we discuss an agenda for future research and elaborate on the potential methodological intricacies related to research on the interface between industrial clusters and human rights. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media Dordrecht 2016
J83|Profit sharing and its effect on income distribution and output: a Kaleckian approach|This study investigates how profit sharing influences the economy by using a Kaleckian model. Unlike existing research, I endogenise the profit share. The analysis shows that profit sharing decreases or increases the equilibrium capacity utilisation rate depending on whether the productivity-enhancing effect of profit sharing is weak or strong. Moreover, the presented numerical simulations show that the profit-sharing effects on income distributions differ according to the relative strength of the productivity-enhancing effect of profit sharing.
J83|Enforcement of Labor Market Regulations: Heterogeneous Compliance and Adjustment across Gender|When compliance with labor market regulations is low, the enforcement of the labor law becomes a concept that is closer to the regulatory environment that firms and workers face. Firms are expected to react to variations in the enforcement level, and the response may differ for male and female workers. This paper explores microdata from Argentine household surveys to analyze: (i) how changes in the enforcement of labor regulations affect the level of compliance with the labor law among men and women, and (ii) how changes in the enforcement of the labor law generate adjustments of other labor outcomes, for men and women separately. Using information of the highly decentralized labor inspection system in Argentina, I construct an enforcement measure with variation at the province, sector, and time level (share of inspected firms). To deal with the potential endogeneity of this measure, I instrument using a measure of the arrival cost of labor inspectors to the firms. The main findings reveal different patterns of adjustment for men and women. When the degree of enforcement increases: the compliance with employment and social security regulations increases for men and decreases for women; the share of wage employees increases and the share of self-employed declines for men, with no changes for women; no changes are found in hourly wages and in the provision of non-mandated benefits. These results bring additional evidence about how the regulatory environment can impact on the decisions of firms and workers about participating in the informal sector. More importantly, they stress that both the written labor regulation and the degree of enforcement are essential parts in the provision of social and labor protection.
J83|Are Labor Inspections Protecting Workers’ Rights? Adding the Evidence from Size-based Labor Regulations and Fines in Peru|This paper analyzes how changes in the enforcement of labor regulations impact on the compliance rate in a context where the labor rules and the characteristics of the labor inspection system differ by firm size. In addition to the channels analyzed in the existing literature –the deterrence effect of labor inspections and the movement of displaced workers into the informal sector, this paper adds a margin of adjustment not analyzed before: firms can reduce their size to take advantage of lower penalties for violating the labor rules and/or less stringent regulations. I analyze empirically which forces have dominated for workers employed in firms of different size in Peru during 2008-2013. I measure the enforcement of labor regulations as the number of labor inspections per hundred workers at the regional level, and I instrument it using a measure of the arrival cost of labor inspectors to the firms. The findings reveal that the degree of enforcement had little impact on the compliance with labor regulations. The effect of firms reducing their size to enjoy lower fines and/or less stringent regulations was small in magnitude and the direction of the effect was not clear. The general lack of effect of the enforcement measure on the compliance with the labor rules indicates that the labor inspection system is not effective in Peru, either because it is not able to generate the incentives to comply with labor regulations (e.g. because of lack of resources) or because it fails to overcome the consequences of the adjustment process associated to an increase in the compliance level (e.g. displaced workers moving into the informal sector of the economy).
J83|The Costs and Benefits of Migration into the European Union: Debunking Contemporary Myths with Facts|The purpose of this study is to dispel some myths associated with migrants in order to improve socio-economic appraisal of the consequences of the recent surge of migrants into Europe. We argue that: (i) the concern about loss of Christian cultural values is lacking in substance because compared to a relatively near historical epoch or era, very few European citizens do go to Church in contemporary Europe; (ii) the threat to European liberal institutions is falsifiable and statistically fragile because it is not substantiated with significant evidence; (iii) the insignificant proportion of the Moslem population that is aligned with Islamic fundamentalism invalidates the hypothesis on importation of radical Islamic fundamentalism and (iv) the concern about social security burden is relevant only in the short-term because of Europe’s ageing population.
J83|Explaining Cross-National Variation in Workplace Employee Representation|Across Europe, there are many differing opinions on whether workplace employee representation should be encouraged or discouraged. Yet there is very little evidence on the variations in workplace employee representation across Europe or the reasons for this. We use a workplace survey covering 27 EU countries to show that its incidence is strongly and independently correlated with the degree of centralization in a country's industrial relations regime and the extent of legislative support. Industry rents are also important in explaining trade union presence, but are unimportant in the case of works councils. Turning to the effects of workplace employee representation, we find support for the exit-voice model – traditionally associated with Anglo-Saxon regimes – whereby worker representation is associated with poorer perceptions of the employment relations climate and with lower voluntary quit rates.
J83|Régimes de qualité de l’emploi et diversité des pays émergents|Les pays émergents et leurs leaders, les BRICS, peuvent aujourd’hui être revisités à la lumière d’une approche institutionnaliste plus propice à la prise en compte de leur diversité. En se concentrant sur la configuration de leur rapport salarial, ce papier propose de questionner la catégorie formée par ces pays en étudiant la variété des régimes de qualité de l’emploi qu’ils présentent. Deux résultats intéressants ressortent de cette étude proposant une Analyse en Composantes Principales (ACP) suivie d’une Classification Mixte (CM) à partir de deux grandes dimensions institutionnelles décomposées en quatorze indicateurs. (1) Les pays émergents se dispersent pour établir quatre régimes de qualité de l’emploi spécifiques, illustrant ainsi leur hétérogénéité et la fragilité de leur catégorie. (2) L’éclatement des BRICS, loin de composer un régime cohérent et indépendant, peut être expliqué par une combinaison de facteurs socio-économiques et institutionnels propre à chacun de ces leaders de l’émergence.
J83|Insiders, Outsiders, and Involuntary Unemployment: Sexual Harrassment Exacerbates Gender Inequality|Sexual harassment is perceived to be a major impediment to female labor force participation. We use the random assignment of U.S. federal judges setting geographically-local precedent, and the fact that judges’ biographies predict decisions in sexual harassment cases, to document the causal impact of forbidding sexual harassment. Consistent with an insider-outsider theory of involuntary unemployment, but in contrast to a mandated benefits theory of employment protections, pro-plaintiff sexual harassment precedent spurred the adoption of sexual harassment human resources policies, encouraged entry of outsiders, and reduced gender inequality in labor supply and wages among the population. These effects were comparable to the effects of the Equal Employment Opportunity Act and greatest in the construction industry, which was heavily affected by sexual harassment litigation.
J83|Insiders, Outsiders, and Involuntary Unemployment: Sexual Harrassment Exacerbates Gender Inequality|Sexual harassment is perceived to be a major impediment to female labor force participation. We use the random assignment of U.S. federal judges setting geographically-local precedent, and the fact that judges’ biographies predict decisions in sexual harassment cases, to document the causal impact of forbidding sexual harassment. Consistent with an insider-outsider theory of involuntary unemployment, but in contrast to a mandated benefits theory of employment protections, pro-plaintiff sexual harassment precedent spurred the adoption of sexual harassment human resources policies, encouraged entry of outsiders, and reduced gender inequality in labor supply and wages among the population. These effects were comparable to the effects of the Equal Employment Opportunity Act and greatest in the construction industry, which was heavily affected by sexual harassment litigation.
J83|Worker Empowerment through Labor Standards. Evidence from the Peruvian Horticultural Export Sector| In this paper we analyse the impact of a variety of private standards on worker empowerment in the horticultural export sector in Peru. Empowerment is defined as workers’ knowledge on their own rights and workers’ perceived agency to improve employment conditions. We use data from a company and a two-round employee survey, and difference-in-difference propensity score matching methods. We find positive effects of private standards on worker empowerment, with core labour standards having a more pronounced effect than standards with a small focus on labour, and thus complement previous evidence on the effects of standards on tangible employee wellbeing.
J83|Workers’ Participation In A Former Labour-Managed Economy: The Case Of Serbian Transition|It is well known that Serbia – along with the other Southeast European successor states of former Yugoslavia – emerged from a country recognized for its specific labour-managed institutional arrangement. The paper recalls the main premises of the literature on the labour-managed firm and the theoretical contributions on participatory forms of management that seem most relevant to a transition economy like Serbia’s. It proceeds to analyze the main changes that occurred in Serbia during transition to a market economy, illustrating some of its specific features and how privatization led to the conversion of workers self-management into property rights. In order to analyze the role of employees in decisionmaking, and more generally their current position in privatized and newly established private firms, a survey was undertaken in 2013 based on a questionnaire for managers in 69 Serbian firms. The survey suggests that internal relations in enterprises are relatively undeveloped, particularly regarding the distribution of responsibilities in decision making at various organisational levels, hampering the efficient fulfilment of firms’ objectives. It appears that decision-making processes are usually designed in such a way as to give an excessive role to the owner as the exclusive decision-maker. The position of workers seems to be particularly poor regarding their rights to be informed, to make proposals, and/or to participate in decision-making in general. Moreover, even traditional workers’ rights are neglected (unionization, collective bargaining etc.). The survey also suggests that in those firms with a more active role of workers, there is a higher degree of workers’ satisfaction and loyalty to the firm.
J83|Monitoring Of Workers And Product Market Competition: The Role Of Works Councils|" type=""main"" xml:id=""ecin12182-abs-0001""> Often the consent of worker representations, such as works councils, is required before firms are allowed to install technologies that monitor workers' behavior. Absent monitoring, workers produce low output, while at the same time receiving an information rent. To gain the works council's consent to the installation of a monitoring technology, firms need to compensate workers for the lost information rent. Hence, by making it more costly to produce high output, works councils can serve firms as an instrument to commit to low output levels. This provides a rationale for why works council rights are not opposed more strongly by employers. (JEL D43, D86, J83, L13)"
J83|Los derechos económicos en una sociedad decente y en teorías de la justicia|En este artículo se demuestra mediante un análisis documental, con metodología hermenéutica, que los derechos económicos tienen una base ética pero que son más que esto, porque pueden reclamarse en los aspectos nacional, regional e internacional, a pesar de ser progresivos. La contribución de la investigación es subsanar errores en el tema de derechos económicos, situarlos en una “sociedad decente” y mostrar posibilidades y límites de las teorías sobre la justicia de John Rawls, Thomas Scanlon y Amartya Sen, con respecto a este tema. Se proponen nuevos derechos para darles mayor eficacia a los existentes. ****** It has been demonstrated by applying a document analysis using a hermeneutic method, that economic rights are based on ethics, but that, moreover, they could be claimed at a national, regional and international level, even with their progressive nature. The research contribution is to correct errors in the economic rights thematic, to place them in a “decent society” and prove the possibilities and limitations in the justice theories of John Rawls, Thomas Scanlon and Amartya Sen, concerning this thematic. New rights are proposed to cause the current laws to become effective.
J83|Employment-At-Will Exceptions and jobless recovery|This paper studies the effects on jobless recovery of diminishing the power of an employer to fire an employee through Employment-At-Will Exceptions (EWEs). I use dynamic panel regressions with quarterly data ranging from 1976 to 2010 for the 50 states in the U.S. I test both changes in state unemployment rates and state-weighted GDP growth. I also resolve differences in the various sources documenting the three types of EWEs in different states and show two of the three contribute significantly to jobless recovery in the U.S. The results lend support to predictions of theory that increased firing costs decrease the rate of hiring during recoveries. Statistical tests show the adoption of both EWEs would slow decreases in the unemployment rate during recovery from recession by up to 0.352 percentage points annually.
J83|Quarant’anni di contrattazione collettiva in aia|Aia, Agricola Italiana Alimentare, è una delle primarie aziende europee nel settore carni fresche, prodotti gastronomici e affettati avicoli. L’attività produttiva è avviata negli anni Sessanta dalla famiglia Veronesi nello stabilimento di S. Martino Buon Albergo (VR), per poi assumere progressivamente una struttura moderna e complessa. Nel dicembre del 1970 viene siglato il primo contratto aziendale della storia negoziale di Aia, dando inizio ad una ricca produzione di accordi sino ai nostri giorni. Nel 2009 le parti sociali realizzano un Testo Unico e una raccolta del patrimonio negoziale prodotto. L’articolo intende cogliere le evoluzioni più interessanti della contrattazione aziendale e di Gruppo di Aia, dagli istituti contrattuali di natura partecipativa all’organizzazione del lavoro, evidenziando la gestione dei turni, mansioni e inquadramento, orario di lavoro, ferie e riposi, ecc., nonché temi collegati al miglioramento qualitativo del lavoro sul piano della sicurezza o di altri servizi, come la mensa o lo spaccio, sino a ricomprendere gli aspetti legati al salario, come contrattazione acquisitiva, in termini di indennità, premio di produzione sino all'attuale premio di risultato.
J83|Happiness as a guide to labor market policy|Measures of individual happiness, or well-being, can guide labor market policies. Individual unemployment, as well as the rate of unemployment in society, have a negative effect on happiness. In contrast, employment protection and unemployment benefits can contribute to happiness—though when such policies prolong unemployment, the net effect on national happiness is negative. Active labor market policies that create more job opportunities increase happiness, which in turn increases productivity. Measures of individual happiness should therefore guide labor market policy more explicitly.
J83|Sexual harassment in the workplace|Workplace sexual harassment is internationally condemned as sex discrimination and a violation of human rights, and more than 75 countries have enacted legislation prohibiting it. Sexual harassment in the workplace increases absenteeism and turnover and lowers workplace productivity and job satisfaction. Yet it remains pervasive and underreported, and neither legislation nor market incentives have been able to eliminate it. Strong workplace policies prohibiting sexual harassment, workplace training, and a complaints process that protects workers from retaliation seem to offer the most promise in reducing sexual harassment.
J83|The voices and protests of China's labour NGOs and their effort to promote migrant worker rights|Labour NGOs in China are relatively new organizations that emerged in the 1990s and have spread during the 2000s. Migrant workers in China are weak both socially and economically and have been lacking ways of voicing grievances and protesting. Grassroots labour NGOs for migrant workers seem to be an efficient channel for their voices. This paper examines how labour NGOs emerged and how they function in the context of current Chinese society. This paper adopts the case study method to describe three NGOs in Beijing and Shenzhen. The paper shows that these NGOs are using different methods to resolve migrant worker problems. At the same time, they are voicing the migrants' grievances and protesting in their own ways.
J83|Raising the Economic Participation of Women in India: A New Growth Engine?|Economic participation of women in the labour force or as entrepreneurs is low compared to peers and has declined over the past decades despite strong growth. The gap with men is over 50%--the largest among key emerging markets. Participation declines with higher education achievements and family incomes. The reasons are complex: socioeconomic and cultural factors are important - family status increases if women stay home, house work has become more attractive than poorly paid market work as husband’s incomes have risen; and safety concerns and poor infrastructure keep women from market work. Nevertheless, high unemployment among educated women and revealed preference for work in surveys indicate that many women would work if conditions improved. Availability of jobs is also an issue as the high growth has not created enough jobs for men and especially for women. Specific gender policies will be needed to enlarge economic opportunities for women and to overcome socioeconomic and cultural barriers. This paper analyses the determinants of low female economic participation and recommends policies for raising it. The paper also estimates long-term growth effects of raising participation with selected policies. More and better jobs for women in India could raise growth by about 2 percentage points a year over time. This Working Paper relates to the 2014 OECD Economic Survey of India (http://www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/economic-survey-india.htm). Rehausser la participation des femmes à l'économie en Inde : Un nouveau moteur de croissance L’activité économique des femmes, dans la main-d’oeuvre ou comme entrepreneurs, est faible au regard de pays comparables et a diminué ces dix dernières années, malgré une solide croissance. L’écart par rapport au taux d’activité des hommes est supérieur à 50 %, soit le plus élevé parmi les principales économies émergentes. L’activité des femmes diminue à mesure que leur niveau d’instruction et les revenus du ménage augmentent. Les raisons sont complexes et les facteurs socioéconomiques et culturels y jouent un rôle important : en effet, la famille jouit d’un meilleur statut si la femme reste à la maison ; le revenu du mari ayant augmenté, le travail domestique est devenu plus intéressant qu’un travail marchand peu rémunéré ; enfin, des questions de sécurité et la médiocrité des infrastructures empêchent les femmes de travailler. Pour autant, le fort chômage des femmes très diplômées et les préférences professionnelles qu’elles révèlent dans certaines enquêtes indiquent que bon nombre travailleraient si les conditions le permettaient. L’offre d’emplois est également problématique puisque la forte croissance n’a pas créé suffisamment d’emplois pour les hommes et singulièrement, pour les femmes. Des politiques spécifiques en faveur de l’égalité hommes-femmes seront nécessaires pour offrir plus d’opportunités économiques aux femmes et surmonter les obstacles socioéconomiques et culturels. Le présent chapitre analyse les déterminants du faible taux d’activité féminin et recommande des mesures pour l’améliorer. Par ailleurs, il examine les effets sur la croissance à long terme d’une augmentation de l’activité féminine à l’aide de certaines mesures. La création d’emplois plus nombreux et de meilleure qualité pour les femmes en Inde pourrait permettre de gagner deux points de croissance par an au fil du temps. Ce Document de travail se rapporte à l’Étude économique de l’OCDE de l'Inde, 2014 (http://www.oecd.org/fr/economie/etude-economique-inde.htm).
J83|Determinants of Female Entrepreneurship in India|This paper examines the nature and determinants of female entrepreneurship in India based on survey data. The first part assesses basic characteristics of female entrepreneurship in India, while the subsequent sections analyse key determinants of female entrepreneurship based on the literature, and test their importance at the state level in India with the support of regressions on panel-data. It also reviews existing policies bearing on female entrepreneurship and makes recommendations for further policies in this area. Entrepreneurship can create new economic opportunities for women and contribute to overall growth and exit from poverty. The potential flexibility in time use from entrepreneurship can also facilitate balancing work and family obligations for women. However, entrepreneurs, both male and female, are relatively scarce in India compared to peer countries, and tend to work in small units often outside the formal sector. While many of the barriers to entrepreneurship are common to both genders (access to capital and business networks, adequate training and facilities) female entrepreneurs face gender biases stemming from socio-economic factors or specific biases in laws such as inheritance laws. Les déterminants de l'entreprenariat féminin en Inde Ce document examine la nature et les déterminants de l'entrepreneuriat féminin en Inde à partir des données de l'enquête. La première partie évalue les caractéristiques de base de l'entrepreneuriat féminin en Inde, tandis que les sections suivantes analysent les principaux déterminants de l'entrepreneuriat féminin basé sur la littérature, et de tester leur importance au niveau de l'État en Inde avec le soutien de régressions sur données de panel. Il examine également les politiques existantes portant sur l'entrepreneuriat féminin et fait des recommandations pour de nouvelles politiques dans ce domaine. L’entreprenariat peut offrir de nouveaux débouchés économiques aux femmes et contribuer à la croissance globale et à la sortie de la pauvreté. La marge de souplesse dans l’utilisation du temps qu’offre l’entreprenariat peut également permettre de mieux concilier les obligations professionnelles et familiales des femmes. Toutefois, qu’ils soient hommes ou femmes, les entrepreneurs sont relativement rares en Inde par rapport à d’autres pays comparables, et ont tendance à travailler dans de petites entreprises souvent situées en dehors de l’économie formelle. Qu’il s’agisse du nombre d’entreprises en phase de démarrage ou du nombre d’entreprises nouvellement créées, l’Inde affiche des chiffres relativement faibles et en stagnation par rapport aux autres BRICS. Si bon nombre des obstacles à la création d’entreprise sont communs aux deux sexes (accès aux financements et aux réseaux économiques, formation adéquate, locaux), les femmes entrepreneurs se heurtent à des préjugés sexistes qui trouvent leur origine dans des facteurs socioéconomiques ou dans certains partis consacrés par le droit, notamment par le droit de l’héritage.
J83|Determinants of the Low Female Labour Force Participation in India|The low and declining female labour force participation rate in India despite strong growth over the past decade is puzzling and stands out among emerging markets. At the same time greater economic participation of women can be a source of inclusive growth, and wellbeing. Assessing determinants of the labour force participation of women in India can open important policy insights. This paper first describes key employment trends in India by gender. Then the potential determinants of female labour force participation are identified based on literature, basic statistics and econometric techniques. Given the large regional differences in India the analysis is also conducted by region and between rural and urban areas. In contrast to other BRIICs or OECD countries, education and incomes are negatively correlated with female labour for participation in India. Apart from lack of jobs, social and cultural factors keep women outside the labour force. Other determinants relate to infrastructure, access to finance, labour laws and rural employment programmes. This Working Paper relates to the 2014 OECD Economic Survey of India (www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/economic-survey-india.htm). Les déterminants de l'activité économique des femmes en Inde Le taux d’activité féminin en Inde, faible et en repli en dépit de la solide croissance des dix dernières années, laisse perplexe et fait figure d’exception parmi les économies émergentes. Parallèlement, une plus forte participation des femmes à l’économie pourrait être source de croissance inclusive et de bien-être. L’évaluation des déterminants de l’activité économique des femmes en Inde pourrait ouvrir d’importantes pistes d’analyse pour l’action publique. Le présent document décrit tout d’abord les principales tendances de l’emploi en Inde, en fonction des sexes. Puis les déterminants potentiels de l’activité féminine sont identifiés à partir d’une revue des publications, de statistiques élémentaires et de modèles économétriques. Compte tenu des grandes différences régionales en Inde l'analyse est également menée par région et entre les zones rurales et urbaines. Contrairement à d'autres pays de l'OCDE ou BRIICS, l'éducation et les revenus sont en corrélation négative avec le travail des femmes à la participation en Inde. Outre le manque d'emplois, facteurs sociaux et culturels empêchent les femmes en dehors du marché du travail. Autres facteurs déterminants ont trait à l'infrastructure, l'accès au financement, la législation du travail et des programmes d'emploi rural. Ce Document de travail se rapporte à l’Étude économique de l’OCDE de l'Inde, 2014 (www.oecd.org/fr/eco/etudes/etude-economique-inde.htm).
J83|The Impact of Employment Protection Legislation on the Unemployment Rate in Selected OECD Countries|The findings of the existing literature on the relationship between employment protection legislation and the unemployment rate are mixed. This study analyzes the relationship between employment protection legislation measured by the OECD Employment Protection Index and the unemployment rate between 2001 and 2008. After controlling country fixed effects, I find that more stringent employment protection legislation may not be a significant factor for higher a unemployment rate. The estimated model included output gap, government size, openness of the economy, real minimum wages, urbanization rate, population density, population, unemployment benefit generosity, and tax wedge as explanatory variables. I find that the output gap, as a measure of business cycle, and government size are significant factors determining the unemployment rate in selected 15 OECD countries. These findings suggest that employment protection legislation, especially in developed countries, may not be affective policy instrument for policy makers when combating unemployment.
J83|Arbeitsrechte mobilisieren ohne Aufenthaltsstatus. Von faktischer Rechtlosigkeit zur Veraenderung geltenden Rechts? (Mobilisation of labour law rights without residence status. From a factual lack of rights to a change in established law?)|Dieser rechtssoziologische Beitrag untersucht den geringen Grad der Inanspruchnahme arbeitsrechtlicher Schutzangebote im Feld der unter- und undokumentierten Beschaeftigung von Migrant/innen. Analysiert werden Rahmenbedingungen und Prozesslogik der Mobilisierung von Arbeitsrecht mit Fokus auf Beschaeftigte ohne Aufenthaltsstatus. Als theoretischer Rahmen dienen Ansaetze der klassischen Arbeitsgerichtsforschung und der Mobilisierung von Recht, kombiniert mit dem Modell semi-autonomer sozialer Felder. Als Barrieren der Mobilisierung von Rechten werden negatives Rechtsbewusstsein bei der Statusgruppe mit defizitaerer Rechtsstellung, ausbleibende Thematisierung und Vermittlung des Rechts auch durch Gewerkschaften, nicht erfuellbare Verfahrensanforderungen, Prozesskostenrisiko und unsichere Erfolgsaussichten herausgearbeitet. Als zentraler Faktor einer erfolgreichen Aktivierung wird die Rechtsvermittlung identifiziert, die im hier untersuchten Fall durch spezialisierte Beratungsangebote geleistet wird. Das Aufzeigen der Nichtinanspruchnahme von Rechtsanspruechen erfuellt die rechtspolitische Funktion, die Rechtsprechung und -setzung mit neuen Fragestellungen in Bewegung zu setzen. (This contribution to the sociology of law investigates the low degree of employment protection rights claims by under- and undocumented migrants. It analyses the general conditions for and the procedural logic of employment rights claims with a focus on workers without residence status. The article draws on theoretical contributions from labour court research and the mobilisation of law approach combined with the model of semi-autonomous social fields. Findings point to several barriers to the mobilisation of law, in particular, negative rights awareness of migrant workers with a deficient legal status, trade unions’ failure to address and provide support for rights claims, the impossibility of fulfilling lawsuit requirements, the risk of high legal expenses, and uncertain prospects of success. This case study highlights the legal consultation provided by specialised counseling services as a key factor for the successful mobilisation of the law. By demonstrating the lack of claims for legal entitlements, counseling services assume the legal-political function of confronting case law and legislation with new problems.)
J83|Arbeit – Politik – Recht: Das Recht(ssystem) als Forschungsdesiderat in den Arbeitsbeziehungen – Einleitung zum Schwerpunktheft|Das deutsche System der industriellen Beziehungen weist im internationalen Vergleich gemeinhin ein hohes Mass an Verrechtlichung auf. Umso ueberraschender ist der Umstand, dass das Recht und seine Akteure, Institutionen und Verfahren in der Forschung ueber Arbeitsbeziehungen seit Jahrzehnten wenig explizite Aufmerksamkeit erfahren. Die Forschung ueber industrielle Beziehungen kann davon profitieren, diese rechtsbezogenen Prozesse des Wandels in den Blick zu nehmen. Mit dem hier vorgelegten Schwerpunktheft moechten wir dazu einladen, das Recht, seine Institutionen, Akteure und Verfahren, explizit als Bestandteil der Analyse industrieller Beziehungen zu verstehen. Wir versammeln Beitraege aus den verschiedenen Disziplinen, um einen Einstieg in die Debatte zu forcieren. Der Beitrag von Ulrich Walwei befasst sich mit dem Phaenomen der Verrechtlichung als Verstaatlichung und diskutiert aus einer klassischen „law-and-economics“-Perspektive, welche marktbezogenen Effekte von der politisch hoch umstrittenen Re-Regulierung des Arbeitsmarktes zu erwarten sind. Im Ergebnis raet er dazu, politische Hoffnungen oder Befuerchtungen in die eine oder andere Richtung nicht zu ueberhoehen. Norbert Cyrus und Markus Kip behandeln am Beispiel von Beschaeftigten mit prekaerem Aufenthaltsstatus das Problem der Rechtsmobilisierung. Welche Restriktionen lassen sich konstatieren, und welchen Beitrag koennen (und wollen) Gewerkschaften leisten, die Defizite zu ueberwinden? Die Frage der Rechtsmobilisierung adressiert das Phaenomen der Justizialisierung und duerfte insbesondere auch fuer die Debatte ueber die Revitalisierung der Gewerkschaften von grosser Relevanz sein. Auch Nadine Absenger und Daniel Seikel befassen sich mit dem Phaenomen der Justizialisierung. In einer interdisziplinaeren Kooperation aus Rechts- und Politikwissenschaft diskutieren sie die Frage, welche Auswirkungen die Rechtsprechung des EuGH auf das deutsche Tarifvertragssystem hat. Dabei kommen sie zu einem ambivalenten Befund. Waehrend individuelle Arbeitnehmerrechte haeufig gestaerkt werden, werden die kollektiven Selbstbestimmungsrechte und damit die Handelungsfreiheit der Tarifparteien empfindlich beschraenkt. Ralf Rogowski schliesslich widmet sich in seinem Beitrag der Herausbildung eines transnationalen oder globalen arbeitsrechtlichen Raumes. Mit der Idee des „reflexive labour law“ knuepft er dabei an die systemtheoretischen Traditionen der Rechtssoziologie an.
J83|Die Auswirkungen der EuGH-Rechtsprechung auf das Tarifvertragssystem in Deutschland (The impact of the case law of the European Court of Justice on the collective bargaining system in Germany)|Spaetestens seit den Urteilen des EuGH in den Faellen Laval (C-341/05), Viking (C-438/05), Rueffert (C-346/06) und Kommission gegen Luxemburg (C-319/06) ist deutlich geworden, dass die Rechtsprechung des Gerichtshofes erhebliche Auswirkungen auf die nationalen Systeme industrieller Beziehungen hat. Dieser Artikel untersucht aus politik- und rechtswissenschaftlicher Perspektive, welche Folgen die EuGH-Rechtsprechung auf das Tarifvertragssystem in Deutschland hat. Anhand von ausgewaehlten EuGH-Entscheidungen zeigen wir, dass die Rechtsprechung des Gerichtshofes haeufig Rechte und Handlungsmoeglichkeiten von Tarifparteien einschraenkt, angefangen beim Streikrecht bis hin zur Ausgestaltung und Geltung von Tarifvertraegen. Waehrend der EuGH im Bereich des individuellen Arbeitsrechts oft zugunsten der Arbeitnehmerinteressen entscheidet, gehen Urteile zum kollektiven Arbeitsrecht haeufig zu Lasten der Tarifautonomie. Kollektive Selbstbestimmungsrechte werden dadurch geschwaecht. (The rulings of the ECJ in the cases of Laval (C-341/05), Viking (C-438/05), Rueffert (C-346/06) and Commission v Luxembourg (C-319/06) have demonstrated that the Court’s adjudication has substantial effects on national systems of industrial relations. This article examines the consequences of the case law of the ECJ on the collective bargaining system in Germany from a law and political science perspective. We examine selected ECJ rulings and show that the Court’s adjudication restricts the rights and room for manoeuvre of social partners, affecting the right to strike as well as specific regulations in collective agreements. In the area individual labour law, the ECJ regularly rules in favour of employees. However, when it comes to collective labour law, the ECJ often decides to the detriment of collective bargaining autonomy. This weakens collective social rights.)
J83|La devaluación salarial en España tras la reforma del 2012: articulación jurídica y efectos económicos|Este artículo presenta un análisis sobre la reforma laboral llevada a cabo en España en el año 2012 y sus consecuencias económicas. En concreto, muestra cuál ha sido la magnitud de la devaluación salarial en términos nominales y reales, y cómo ésta, contrariamente a lo que se esperaba, no ha servido para resolver los problemas de desempleo del mercado de trabajo español, pese a colocar el poder adquisitivo de los trabajadores en un nivel similar al de principios de la década de los ´90. Finalmente se ilustran algunos de los posibles errores que se han podido cometer a la hora de abordar la dirección y la intensidad de la reforma laboral.
J83|Pouring Sweat for the Sake of Clean Houses, Happy Babies,Healthy Elders and Green Gardens: Domestic Workers and Trade Union Struggle/Strategies for Them|In the process of globalization,many pre-existing problems have became more acute as well as emergence of many new problems. Domestic workers and their working standards have been one of the important issues of globalization with their growing problems. According to data from the International Labour Organization (ILO), there are about 53 million domestic workers all over the world. Beside domestic workers not having a clear job definition, we could see them as charlady, baby-sitter, patient care, gardener or anything else. The problems of domestic workers like precarity, low wages, long working hours, uncertainty job definition have risen in direct proportion to their growing number. Non-governmental organizations (NGOs), trade unions, goverments, institutes and others are seeking for solution methods and struggle strategies to solve all these problems. Trade union solidarity, trade union strategies/compaigns and domestic workers being organized are vital tools for solving domestic workers problems. Therefore domestic workers should be organize in trade union struggle and trade unions should produce effective policies on behalf of decent life and decent work for domestic workers. In this study, the importance of trade union struggle in the solution of domestic workers problems will be discussed while drawn attention to their various problems. Also different campaigns and policies will be proposed for the implementation of the trade unions related to domestic workers.
J83|Managing Labour Mobility: A Missing Pillar of Global Governance|The increasing problems associated with international migration call for nations to manage migratory flows in a more realistic way both at national and international levels. However, global initiatives undertaken to date in this field have seen very limited success. This paper adopts a political economy approach for identifying the interests of affected social groups with a view towards building feasible policy responses. A dual proposal for global governance of migration is suggested, based on a combination between the establishment of universal minimum standards and the promotion of bilateral and regional interaction driven by problem-solving goals.
J83|Betriebsratswahlen 2014: Ein Rückblick auf Basis der IW-Betriebsratswahlbefragung|Betriebsräte sind ein zentrales Kennzeichen der industriellen Beziehungen hierzulande. Regulär werden sie alle vier Jahre zwischen März und Mai neu gewählt – zuletzt 2014. Eine Analyse der Betriebsratswahlen 2014 zeigt, dass sie in den Belegschaften der Betriebe, in denen ein Betriebsrat existiert, auf ein breites Echo gestoßen sind. Die Wahlbeteiligung lag bei knapp 77 Prozent. In drei von zehn Betriebsräten sind mehr oder weniger Interessenvertreter von ihrer beruflichen Tätigkeit freigestellt als vom Betriebsverfassungsgesetz eigentlich vorgesehen. Diese tolerierten Abweichungen können auch als Beleg für die Vertrauenskultur zwischen Belegschaft und Geschäftsführung gedeutet werden. Frauen haben im Durchschnitt ein Viertel der Mandate errungen. Der gewerkschaftliche Organisationsgrad der Betriebsräte liegt im Durchschnitt bei knapp 64 Prozent. Bei der Wahl ihres Vorsitzenden setzen die Betriebsräte wie in den Jahren zuvor auf Erfahrung und Kontinuität. Auch hier setzt sich überproportional häufig ein Gewerkschaftsmitglied durch.
J83|Topics Concerning Social Dialogue And The Extension Of Working Life In Europe (O Sociálnom Dialógu A Možnostiach Predĺženia Pracovného Života V Európe)|The economic impact of an ageing population in Europe forces policy makers to adapt legislation towards the extension of working life. This tendency is met with opposition from the public. Trade unions, employers and governments in European countries develop their own measures to address this problem. This article presents the outcomes of social dialogue in this area, with special attention given to the role of trade unions, acting in countries with two completely different models of labour relations (LR). The article tests the thesis that in countries with dissimilar LR models, trade unions also play different roles in shaping and stimulating social dialogue on the extension of working life. (Ekonomické dôsledky starnutia populácie Európy vedú politikov k prijatiu zákonov na predĺženie pracovného života. Táto tendencia sa stretá s nesúhlasom verejnosti. Odbory, zamestnávatelia a vlády v jednotlivých európskych štátoch sa k tomuto problému stavajú rôzne. Predkladaný článok poukazuje na výsledky spoločenského dialógu v tejto oblasti, predovšetkým sa zaoberá rolou odborov v dvoch skupinách štátov s odlišnými pracovnoprávnymi vzťahmi. Článok testuje hypotézu, že v štátoch s rozdielnymi modelmi pracovnoprávnych vzťahov hrajú odbory vo vzťahu k otázke predĺženia pracovného života odlišné úlohy.)
J83|Institutional Solutions to Precariousness & Inequality in Labour Markets|It has become widely assumed that the standard employment relationship (SER) is in irreversible decline in industrialised societies. However, non-standard and precarious work relationships often complement the SER via labour market transitions, and are not displacing it as the focal point of labour market regulation. The coordination and risk management functions of the SER continue to be relevant in market economies, and the SER is adjusting to new conditions. The SER has a complex and evolving relationship to gender and to social stratification. In the European context where the SER originated and achieved its clearest legal expression, institutional solutions to precariousness and inequality are being developed, the most innovative of which avoid simple deregulation in favour of integrated policy responses involving a range of complementary regulatory mechanisms.
J83|Dimensiones de la precariedad laboral: un mapa de las características del empleo sectorial en la Argentina|El concepto de precariedad se refiere a un conjunto amplio de condiciones laborales. En este sentido, no hay puestos precarios y no precarios, sino menores o mayores grados de precariedad en los diferentes segmentos de la estructura productiva. Este artículo se propone, en primer lugar, construir con un método de análisis factorial indicadores que den cuenta de diferentes dimensiones que comprende el concepto de precariedad y luego evaluar qué formas adopta la precariedad en las distintas ramas de actividad de la estructura productiva argentina a partir de microdatos de 2010. ***** The concept of labour precariousness refers to a set of working conditions. There are no precarious jobs and non-precarious ones, but lower or higher degrees of precariousness in the different segments of the economic structure. This article aims at: a. constructing indicators (with a method of factorial analysis) to understand the different dimensions that the concept of precariousness embodies; b. evaluating the different types of precarious conditions in the different fields of the Argentinian productive structure on the basis of microdata collected in 2010.
J83|Works Councils: An Agency Perspective|Este artículo estudia el papel que juegan los comités de empresa (o works councils europeos) en la toma de decisiones de la empresa. El trabajo utiliza un modelo de teoría de la agencia donde los representantes laborales deben monitorear la información prevista por los gerentes de las empresas, procurando mejorar el bienestar de los trabajadores a quienes representan. Sin embargo, los representantes son estudiados como agentes económicos independientes quienes pueden perseguir intereses privados, no necesariamente alienados con los intereses de la fuerza laboral de la empresa. El modelo inicialmente considera que los trabajadores pueden dar incentivos monetarios a los representantes, contingentes a los resultados de su actividad. Para poder eliminar cualquier intención de coalición entre representantes y gerentes, los trabajadores deben pagar altos valores monetarios a sus representantes, haciendo que el bienestar de los trabajadores se disminuya. En segundo lugar, el modelo utiliza un mecanismo más real de alinear a los representantes e introduce un modelo de elecciones al final del periodo. Esta estructura del modelo introduce un trade-off intertemporal a los representantes entre aceptar transferencias de una coalición con los gerentes en el primer periodo y perder las rentas de estar en el puesto de representantes en un segundo periodo. Las elecciones incrementan el costo de entrar en coaliciones con los gerentes y permiten alinear más fácilmente los intereses de los representantes con el de los trabajadores.
J83|Employee Satisfaction, Labor Market Flexibility, and Stock Returns Around The World|"We study the relationship between employee satisfaction and abnormal stock returns around the world, using lists of the ""Best Companies to Work For"" in 14 countries. We show that employee satisfaction is associated with positive abnormal returns in countries with high labor market flexibility, such as the U.S. and U.K., but not in countries with low labor market flexibility, such as Germany. These results are consistent with high employee satisfaction being a valuable tool for recruitment, retention, and motivation in flexible labor markets, where firms face fewer constraints on hiring and firing. In contrast, in regulated labor markets, legislation already provides minimum standards for worker welfare and so additional expenditure may exhibit diminishing returns. The results have implications for the differential profitability of socially responsible investing (""SRI"") strategies around the world. In particular, they emphasize the importance of taking institutional features into account when forming such strategies."
J83|Labor Market Discrimination in Lima, Peru: Evidence from a Field Experiment|We analyze labor discrimination in Peru, a fast-growing country where much anecdotal evidence suggests the presence of discriminatory practices in everyday life. Using surnames (indigenous/white) as a proxy for race, we sent 4820 fictitious CVs in response to 1205 real job vacancies for professional, technical, and unskilled jobs in Lima. Overall, whites receive more callbacks than indigenous applicants, and beautiful applicants receive more callbacks than homely-looking ones. The magnitude and significance of the racial and beauty gaps in callbacks substantially vary by job category. In particular, better looks only seem to matter in getting more callbacks for professional jobs.
J83|Expanding Federal Family and Medical Leave Coverage: Who Benefits from Changes in Eligibility Requirements?|The Family and Medical Leave Act provides job-protected, unpaid leave to employees in firms with 50 or more employees. However, coverage and eligibility restrictions result in 49.3 million employees (44.1 percent) in the private sector being ineligible for leave in 2012. This paper looks at eligibility by demographic characteristics and finds that the probability of being eligible increases with educational attainment. Young men with high school degrees or less had the lowest rate of FMLA eligibility of all the demographic groups. Our analysis of the FMLA Employee and Workplace surveys examines various proposals to expand eligibility coverage. Expanding FMLA coverage to smaller employers and to employees working fewer hours would increase access to job-protected leave for 1.4 million to 8.3 million more employees in the private sector. Women of childbearing age would especially benefit from an expansion in eligibility coverage.
J83|Expanding Family and Medical Leave to Small Firms|The Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (FMLA) gives eligible employees the right to take job-protected, unpaid leave to bond with a new child, care for a family member or military service member, or for one’s own serious illness for up to 12 weeks in a year. About 60 million private sector employees (55.9 percent) were eligible for family and medical leave under the FMLA in 2012. However, more than two-in-five private sector employees do not have access to job-protected leave because they are employed by small employers, which are exempt from the FMLA, and/or because they do not meet the tenure and hours worked requirements for eligibility. If the FMLA were amended to cover all firms and worksites regardless of size, an estimated 34.1 million private-sector employees would gain access to job-protected family and medical leave, if they otherwise meet the eligibility requirements relating to length of tenure and hours of work.
J83|Documenting the Need for a National Paid Family and Medical Leave Program: Evidence from the 2012 FMLA Survey|The United States is the only high-income country that does not mandate paid family and medical leave. Instead American workers rely on a patchwork of employer-provided benefits, private insurance, state programs, public assistance, and savings to make ends meet during a leave event. About 30 percent of private-sector employees taking unpaid leave incur debt as result of their leave. More than 2.5 million employees cannot afford to take leave to care for self, a family member with a serious health condition, during pregnancy, to bond with a new child, or to care for an injured military service member every year. Our analysis of the Department of Labor’s 2012 Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) Survey found that 12.6 percent of private-sector employees took family and medical leave in 2012, while 4.5 percent had unmet leave needs. This means that one-in-four employees needing leave had their leave needs unmet in the past 12 months. Not being able to afford unpaid leave (49.4 percent) and the risk of loss of job (18.3 percent) were the two most common reasons given for not taking needed leave. Employees with children living at home and female employees had the greatest need for leave, but also had the highest rates of unmet leave.
J83|Business As Usual: New Jersey Employers’ Experiences with Family Leave Insurance|This study examines New Jersey employers’ experiences with employees who need time off to care for a seriously ill child or family member or to bond with a new baby since 2009, when the state began offering paid family leave through the statewide Family Leave Insurance (FLI) program. This program builds on the state’s Temporary Disability Insurance (TDI) Program, which has been in place since 1948 and has covered maternity leave since 1970. Since 2009, New Jersey has provided benefits for more than 100,000 FLI leaves, the vast majority of which were used for the care of new babies. This study examines how this relatively new, statewide program has affected employers’ processes for administering and managing employee leaves. Does the program generate excessive paperwork, for instance, or burden employers in other ways? Is the program being abused, as some initially feared? And how, if at all, has it helped employers?
J83|The Affordable Care Act: A Family-Friendly Policy|Most of the discussion of the Affordable Care Act (ACA) has focused on the extent to which it has extended health insurance coverage to the formerly uninsured. This is certainly an important aspect of the law. However by allowing people to buy insurance through the exchanges and extending Medicaid coverage to millions of people, the ACA also largely ends workers’ dependence on their employer for insurance. This gives tens of millions of people the option to change their job, to work part-time, or take time off to be with young children or family members in need of care, or to retire early.
J83|Minimum Wage Law for Domestic Workers: Impact Evaluation of the Indian Experience|We conduct an impact evaluation of the minimum wage legislation for domestic workers that was introduced in four states in India over the period of 2004-2012. Combining the matching and differencein-difference estimation strategies we estimate both the short-run and long-run impacts of the legislation on real wages and on employment opportunities. Our results show a positive impact of the legislation on real wages in the short-run, albeit of very small magnitude.However, the legislation seems to have no impact on real wages in the long-run. Further, the legislation did not seem to have had any impact on the extensive margin in terms of employment opportunities or the probability of being employed as a domestic worker in both the short and long run. Our conclusion is that minimum wage legislation for domestic workers need not improve the living standards of workers unless accompanied by strong enforcement mechanisms. To our knowledge, this is the first attempt at quantitatively evaluating the impact of minimum wage legislation for domestic workers in India.
J83|Le droit du travail et les migrants ruraux : instituer un nouveau salariat en Chine|Les normes du travail sont problématiques en Chine, mais constater l’impuissance du droit du travail à réguler le marché du travail est insatisfaisant. Pour dépasser les apparences, nous sommes amenée alors à replacer la législation du travail d’une part dans la dynamique de la transition chinoise et de l’autre dans une perspective analytique propre à l’institutionnalisme de J. R. Commons. La Chine rencontre en effet les « problèmes du travail » engendrés par un capitalisme non-raisonnable qui fait porter aux travailleurs migrants ruraux un coût exorbitant et déstabilisateur. Le droit du travail se présente alors comme une solution qui assure la viabilité de ce nouveau salariat chinois à travers des politiques socialement inclusives qui visent sa sécurité économique, une voie « raisonnable » de dépassement des conflits. Mais au-delà, dans un contexte marqué par l’héritage socialiste et l’absence de démocratie, il faut aussi s’interroger sur le rapport à la loi et à l’État. La Law & Economics forgée par J. R. Commons nous offre l’opportunité de comprendre en quoi consistent l’enjeu autour du conflit sur les règles et l’édification d’un nouveau compromis. Le droit du travail, clairement instrumentalisé par le Parti Communiste et au service de sa politique de stabilité sociale, apparaît alors au cœur du processus d’institutionnalisation du salariat des migrants ruraux.
J83|COMPARATIVE ANALYSIS OF COMPETITIVE FACTORS OF THE SMEs FROM THE STATES OF COLIMA, DURANGO AND VERACRUZ ANALISIS COMPARATIVO DE FACTORES COMPETITIVOS DE LAS PYMES DEL ESTADO DE COLIMA, DURANGO Y VERACRUZ|Competitiveness is getting increased attention, because it is the ability to obtain success against other organizations with profits above the market average. This paper presents a comparative analysis of factors influencing the competitiveness of SMEs in the states of Colima, Durango and Veracruz in Mexico. To achieve the goal, researches that have studied the factors were identified, both conceptually and empirically and have applied the same methodology. The results show four decisive factors in the level of competitiveness of companies: human resources, innovation, information and communication technologies and financial and accounting aspects. The authors conclude that, for a better analysis of the competitiveness factors it is necessary to include both quantitative and qualitative aspects.
J83|U.S. Free Trade Agreements and Enforcement of Labor Law in Latin America|The paper provides differenceâ€ inâ€ differences estimates suggesting that Latin American countries that signed a free trade agreement with the United States experienced an increase in the number of labor inspectors and inspections. We also find large heterogeneity across signers and no evidence that the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) had a positive impact on Mexico. We conclude by suggesting that the stringency of content of the accord and the resources devoted by the U.S. government to increase enforcement make a difference.
J83|Creating youth employment in Asia|Several countries in the Asia-Pacific region are experiencing demographic changes. Over 60 per cent of the world's youth live in Asia and the Pacific, which translates into more than 750 million young women and men aged 15 to 24 years. They represent a key asset for the countries of this region. Young people are a major human resource for development, key agents for social change and driving force for economic development and technological innovation. But harnessing these resources is a major challenge. The youth challenge is considered as the most critical of the 21st century's economic development challenge. In this context, this paper examines the labour market characteristics for adults and the entire population. Then it analyses challenges and opportunities in labour market for youth. Next, the paper discusses the existing and needed policies for taking care of the challenges in overall and youth labour markets. It also provides conclusions and recommendations. We also highlight the gender issues in the paper. The recommendations include direct policies such as active lbour market policies, social protection programmes, fair migration and indirect policies like pro employment macro policies. There are significant links between creating employment opportunities for the youth and enhancement of human development. Employment and livelihoods particularly productive youth employment has impact on most of the indicators of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). They can reduce poverty, under nutrition, improve the education, health and gender equality.
J83|Whistleblowers in the pharmaceutical industry: tragic hero, black sheep or alter ego ?|No abstract is available for this item.
J83|Inclusive Growth: What Future for the European Social Model?|This essay starts, after a short introduction on the importance and dimensions of “inclusive growth”, with a brief empirical sketch on to what extent Europe has already succeeded with respect to this ambitious goal. The result is quite sobering and gives rise to the question: why is it so? The main part of this paper is devoted to answering this question by presenting a model based on the trade-off between comparable productive capacity (CPC) and flexibility. After the introduction of the monetary union, this trade-off sharpened for many EU member states whose CPC now falls below the fair level playing field. To compensate for the lack of comparable productive capacities, flexibility measures would be necessary (e.g. downward wage flexibility, regional mobility and cuts in social expenditures) to an extent which is unrealistic or would erode social cohesion and democracy. As alternative, the possible future role of the European Social Model could consist of the implementation of four strategies: First, investive social transfers, in particular by establishing a European Fund for Employment and Income Security (EIS) to strengthen the inclusive function and stabilisation impact of national unemployment insurance systems; second, protected flexibility, in particular the promotion of an internal functional flexibility through work sharing; third, investing in people, in particular by strengthening dual learning systems and by inducing mobility chains (making transitions pay); and fourth, efficient labour market regulation for better utilising existing capacities and restraining inefficient forms of flexibility. Examples for each strategy are presented to illustrate and stimulate the debate.
J83|Regional Trade Agreements with Labor Clauses: Effects on Labor Standards and Trade| An increasing number of regional trade agreements (RTAs) include “labor clauses” that require or urge the signatory countries to commit to maintaining a certain level of labor standards. This paper, starting by classifying more than 200 currently effective RTAs depending on the nature and extent of labor provisions, empirically analyzes the effect of a RTA with labor clauses on domestic labor conditions in the signatory countries as well as the effect on trade growth between the countries, using data for up to 220 countries for the years 1995 through 2012. The study finds that (i) intensive trade with the partner(s) of a labor-clause-inclusive RTA may have a positive impact on labor earnings that concentrate on middle-income countries; but also that (ii) labor clauses may reduce the trade-promoting effect of the RTA for the middle-income countries, especially when the RTA partner is a high-income country. These results offer a policy implication that the inclusion of labor clauses in a trade agreement should involve non-negligible costs for possible benefits that may not be expected for every country.
J83|Employer Moral Hazard, Wage Rigidity, and Worker Cooperatives: A Theoretical Appraisal| We study the impact of employer's opportunism on wage rigidity in capitalist companies by arguing that the need to fix wages is crucially influenced by the asymmetric distribution of decision-making power and information in favor of the stronger contractual party — the employer, and against the weaker contractual party — employees. The capitalist entrepreneur can make decisions, whose negative consequences are borne by workers in terms of lower wages and more intense work pace. Excessive wage reductions in the face of negative exogenous shocks or too risky investment decisions represent the main instances of such opportunistic behavior. Fixed wages can represent workers' best response to the emerging risk of the employer moral hazard, but this implies a heightened risk of layoffs since wages and employment levels cannot be fixed at the same time. Besides discussing piece rate contracts, profit-sharing and codetermination as counterexamples, we observe worker cooperatives which depart from the presence of contrasting interests and private information in the principal-agent framework. Indeed, several empirical studies have shown greater employment stability and wage flexibility in worker cooperatives vis-à-vis the capitalist firm.
J83|Employee Satisfaction, Labor Market Flexibility, and Stock Returns Around The World|We study the relationship between employee satisfaction and abnormal stock returns around the world, using lists of the “Best Companies to Work For” in 14 countries. We show that employee satisfaction is associated with positive abnormal returns in countries with high labor market flexibility, such as the U.S. and U.K., but not in countries with low labor market flexibility, such as Germany. These results are consistent with high employee satisfaction being a valuable tool for recruitment, retention, and motivation in flexible labor markets, where firms face fewer constraints on hiring and firing. In contrast, in regulated labor markets, legislation already provides minimum standards for worker welfare and so additional expenditure may exhibit diminishing returns. The results have implications for the differential profitability of socially responsible investing (“SRI”) strategies around the world. In particular, they emphasize the importance of taking institutional features into account when forming such strategies.
J83|Prekaere Demokratie? Zu den Auswirkungen atypischer Beschaeftigung auf die betriebliche Mitbestimmung (Precarious democracy? The effects of atypical employment on plant-level co-determination)|Die demokratische Mitbestimmung von Arbeitnehmern entwickelte sich in der zweiten Haelfte des 20. Jahrhunderts fast durchweg positiv. Das zeigte sich, wie T.H. Marshall dargelegt hat, insbesondere in der Zunahme ihrer Staatsbuergerrechte. Im vorliegenden Text wird jedoch gezeigt, dass diese positive Entwicklung seit Ende des 20. Jahrhunderts entscheidenden Veraenderungen unterworfen ist. Die politische Konstellation der Postdemokratie laesst sich auch fuer das Feld der Industriellen Beziehungen und konkret fuer die Entwicklung der Mitbestimmung analysieren. Zwar bleiben die Ausdifferenzierungen und Institutionen der Staatsbuergerrechte von Arbeitnehmern formal stabil. Aber durch die Zunahme von prekaerer Beschaeftigung werden die Staatsbuergerrechte neu stratifiziert. Anhand empirischer Untersuchungen der Leiharbeit und einer Fallstudie zum Einsatz von Werkvertraegen wird gezeigt, wie Leiharbeiter und Werkvertragsnehmer mitunter gravierenden staatsbuergerlichen Defiziten im Vergleich zu Stammbeschaeftigen in einem Normalarbeitsverhaeltnis unterliegen und dadurch die betriebliche Mitbestimmung von innen erodiert. (Democratic employee participation has improved during the second half of the 20th century. According to T.H. Marshall, the increase of civil, political and social rights is a clear indicator for this development. In this paper we argue that fundamental changes have taken place since the end of the 20th century. The political constellation of post-democracy is currently shaping industrial relations and the area of co-determination in particular. Formally the differentiation of rights and their institutions remain robust, but the increase in precarious employment is leading to a new stratification as our empirical research on temporary work and contract work in their corporate contexts indicates. Here, temporary and contract workers are confronted with serious deficits in civil rights compared to the permanent workforce – endangering co-determination from the inside.)
J83|Atypische Beschaeftigungsverhaeltnisse – Einleitung zum Schwerpunktheft (Atypical employment - Introduction)|Zu den atypischen Beschaeftigungsverhaeltnissen zaehlen wir im Folgenden (im Sinne einer Nominaldefinition) Teilzeit, geringfuegige Beschaeftigung/Mini- und Midijobs, befristete Beschaeftigung, Leiharbeit, Werkvertraege sowie Solo-Selbststaendigkeit. Die dieses Schwerpunktheftes spiegeln sowohl die inhaltliche als auch die methodische Heterogenitaet der aktuellen Diskussion wider. Sie differenzieren und erweitern den Informationsstand ueber einzelne Formen und deren Folgen (vor allem von Minijobs und Leiharbeit) sowie ueber die sowohl kurz- als auch langfristigen Probleme, welche mehreren Formen gemeinsam sind (z. B. Qualifikationsrisiken, geringe Chancen der Aufwaertsmobilitaet).
J83|Os sentidos do passado: questão agrária e luta pela terra no interior de São Paulo (Brasil, 1949)|In this article, search the memories of the communist uprising of 1949, Fernandópolis, in the Northwest of São Paulo, Brazil. The dispute around the memory and the construction of meanings is related to the hiding the historical struggle for land and against exploitation in the country. The official versions about the movement are marked for limited communism memories. Other memories relate to the struggle of workers during the decades of 1940-50 to the land struggles of rural landless contemporary. This interpretive act is relevant, since attributes meaning to fact and constitute in evidence plural experiences.
J83|The Effect of Maritime Security Regime (ISPS Code) on World Supply of Seafarers|The efforts of IMO on the security of ports and ships after 11/9 are presented. IMO’s resolution on fatigue of crews -cause of marine accidents- is also presented. The introduction of ISPS code -carried out under the pressure of USA- made by a non holistic approach, created a number of issues involving and affecting seafarers. IMO and ILO, and other industry’s organizations, but USA, tried subsequently to correct this repercussion. ISPS created four issues: the fair treatment of seafarers –especially serious in USA ports; shore leave; SUA and PSI conventions, which all changed seafarers’ working conditions, analyzed here. Important is also the ‘criminalization of seafarers’, which had the most serious impact on crews. Moreover, examined is the possible impact of MLC 2006 Convention -in force since 2013- on seafarers supply. The efforts of OECD countries and EU, to reverse the falling supply of well qualified marine officers in last 10 years or so, showing in 2010 a deficit of 13,000 officers, are shown. This problem is more acute when world fleet grows, as this was the situation between 2003 and early 2013. OECD, EU, but Greece, also worried for the possible transfer of “shipowning know-how” from them…
J83|A vibrant European labor market with full employment|D31, D33, F55, I23, I24, I25, I28, J11, J18, J21, J31, J64, J83, O31, O38, O52 Copyright Ritzen and Zimmermann; licensee Springer. 2014
J83|Freie Gewerkschaften|Gewerkschaften werden oft von Liberalen und Libertären kritisiert. Dabei sind sie Ausdruck grundlegender Freiheitsrechte, insbesondere der Vereinigungsfreiheit. Auch das Streikrecht ist innerhalb gewisser Grenzen ein legitimes Freiheitsrecht. Eine freie Gesellschaft ist mehr als Marktwirtschaft und diese geht über Kapitalismus im Sinne der Herrschaft des Kapitals bzw. kapitalgeleiteter Unternehmen hinaus.
J83|Normy etyczne obowiazujace pracodawcow. Perspektywa systemu prawnego, organizacji i pracownika/Ethical Standards Binding on Employers. Perspectives of the Legal System, Organizations and Employees|The aim of this article is to point out the basic areas of judgment made by employees considering the ethical or unethical behaviour of employers in the workplace. The authors analyse this subject from three perspectives: The first one is labour legislation in Poland; the second is the perspective of employers, especially codes of ethical standards created by contemporary organizations, and the third perspective is the point of view of employees. The conclusions in this area have been made on the basis of research in two Polish insurance companies. The authors attempted to create a ranking of ethical elements significant for employees. Such knowledge could be very useful for creating proper personnel policy in any organisation.
J83|Labour Standards Application In The Informal Economy Of Ghana: The Patterns And Pressures|In spite of the rapid growth and importance of informal employment in Ghana, few studies have investigated the extent of coverage of labour standards application, as a form of labour market regulation. This paper investigates the extent of labour standards application in shaping the employment relations and conditions within the informal economy. The study focuses on 30 manufacturing firms in Ghana’s informal economy. Data were obtained through interviews with 43 entrepreneurs and their workers, as well as with key informants from the social partners of industrial relations. The study shows that labour standards are generally not applied among informal economy operators due to factors such as a lack of coverage of the existing labour legislation, ineffective enforcement, ignorance, peculiarities of work organisation, and the dynamics of the apprenticeship system. It is therefore concluded that informal economy workers, who constitute the majority of the workforce in Ghana, lack social protection and must be targeted for intervention.
J83|Economía, desarrollo y derechos humanos en Boyacá, Colombia 1990-2010|En las dos últimas décadas, el modelo de economía política neoliberal adoptado en Colombia, ha tenido repercusiones sobre el desarrollo y los derechos económicos, sociales y culturales de los boyacenses. Este problema se estudia desde la relación entre crecimiento económico y desarrollo en Boyacá, se analiza la importancia de los planes de desarrollo y el problema presupuestal del departamento. Por último se describe como el modelo neoliberal no genera sostenibilidad, desarrollo, ni respeto por los derechos de los boyacenses. Se hizo un análisis crítico de fuentes como: entrevistas, informes estadísticos de instituciones gubernamentales y no gubernamentales, artículos de periódicos y revistas, libros, capítulos, documentos y bases de datos bibliográficas en internet.
J83|"El mobbing: ¿el crimen perfecto? No, qué más quisieran algunos"""""|rESumENEl mobbing ocupa, desgraciadamente, en el mundo laboral del siglo XXIun destacado papel. En este proceso están implicadas no solo las víctimas(que son las más perjudicadas), sino también los acosadores (que con másfrecuencia que la que sería deseable en una sociedad sana y ética quedanlibres del delito cometido) y las empresas (fomentadoras o tolerantes, en lamayoría de las ocasiones, de tan flagrante delito contra la dignidad y respetotanto intelectual como personal de la víctima).SummarYUnfortunately, mobbing occupies an important place in the 21st century´swork environment.This process implicates victims, perpetrators (who usually get away with it),and companies that tolerate or encourage this crime against the victim´sintellectual and personal respect and dignity.rESumoO mobbing ocupa, desgraçadamente, no mundo trabalhista do séculoXXI um destacado papel. Neste processo estão implicadas não somenteas vítimas (que são as mais prejudicadas), senão também os assediadores(que com mais frequência que a que seria desejável em uma sociedade sãe ética terminam livres do delito cometido) e as empresas (fomentadorasou tolerantes, na maioria das ocasiões, de tão flagrante delito contra adignidade e respeito tanto intelectual como pessoal da vítima).réSuméMalhereusement, dans le monde du travail du XXIe siècle, l´harcèlementmoral a une place importante. Ce processus implique pas seulement lesvictimes (qui sont les plus défavorisés), mais aussi les intimidateurs (qui restentlibres) et les entreprises (tolérantes parfois, de ce crime contre la dignité et lerespect à la fois intellectuelle et personnelle de la victime).
J83|Who Earns Minimum Wages in Europe? New Evidence Based on Household Surveys|"This paper aims to provide a comprehensive, evidence-based, and up-to-date assessment of minimum wages in a range of European countries. A first step towards a better understanding of where Europe stands today on this issue requires to grasp the diversity of European minimum wage systems, a key objective of the paper at hand. The second objective is to document international differences in the so-called ""bite"" of the minimum wage. This leads to questions such as ""how do national minimum wages compare to the overall wage distribution?"" and ""how many people earn minimum wages in each country?"" that are assessed for a set of nine countries from Western, Central and Eastern Europe: Belgium, Bulgaria, Germany, Hungary, Ireland, Poland, Romania, Spain, and the United Kingdom. This sample was designed to include countries for which recent evidence has been missing prior to this paper. What is more, the study also overcomes the narrow focus of extant overviews that have typically focussed only on full-time employment. Crucially, the study improves on existing work by looking beyond aggregate numbers; it provides a detailed panorama of the population of minimum wage earners in each country under investigation, notably by describing their composition in terms of a range of socio-demographic characteristics."
J83|A race to the bottom in labor standards? An empirical investigation|One of the concerns over globalization is that as nations compete for investment, they relax labor standards to attract firms. Using spatial estimation on panel data for 135 countries over 17years, we find that the labor standards in one country are positively correlated with those elsewhere (i.e. a cut in labor standards in other countries reduces labor standards in the country in question). This interdependence is more evident in labor practices (i.e. enforcement) than in labor laws. Further, while we find evidence of competition in both developed and developing countries, it is strongest among developing countries with weak standards.
J83|The macroeconomic effects of the wage gap between regular and non-regular employment and of minimum wages|We develop a disequilibrium macrodynamic model in which two types of labor (regular and non-regular employment) are incorporated. We analyze how the expansion of the wage gap between regular and non-regular employment affects the economy. If the steady state equilibrium exhibits the wage-led demand regime, an increase in the wage gap does not affect the stability of equilibrium. In this case, the size of the reserve army effect affects the stability of the equilibrium. If the reserve army effect is strong, the steady state equilibrium is unstable. On the other hand, if the steady state equilibrium exhibits the profit-led demand regime, an increase in the wage gap destabilizes the equilibrium. It is possible that depending on conditions, an increase in the wage gap produces endogenous and perpetual business cycles. The introduction of the minimum wage is desirable in that it mitigates business cycle fluctuations. However, the introduction of an inappropriate minimum wage policy leads to a real wage and an employment rate that are lower than the steady state values.
J83|Fundamental Rights In The Eec Treaty And Within Community Freedoms|It has been widely argued that the European Economic Community (EEC) was based on principles of economic integrity and growth through the creation of a common market; this is not far from reality. The Treaty of Rome was full of provisions that enhanced economic co-operation and increased the sense of liberalization in Europe, such as the four, now traditional, Community freedoms. Although all the above applied, there were articles within the EEC Treaty where fundamental rights were guaranteed; more than that, fundamental rights that occurred from the Community freedoms, even in a basic level. This is of highest importance since the interpretation of those provisions gave the initiative for further development in the field of fundamental rights protection within the Community legal order, throughout legislative procedure and case law. The aim of this paper is to present the fundamental rights as highlighted in the EEC Treaty and critically approach their concept under Community law.
J83|Knowledge and entrepreneurial employees: a country-level analysis|According to the knowledge spillover theory of entrepreneurship, knowledge created endogenously results in knowledge spillovers, which allow independent entrepreneurs to identify and exploit opportunities (Acs et al. in Small Bus Econ 32(1):15–30, 2009 ). The knowledge spillover theory of entrepreneurship ignores entrepreneurial activities of employees within established organizations. This ignorance is largely empirical, because there has been no large-scale study on the prevalence and nature of entrepreneurial employee activities. This article presents the outcomes of the first large-scale international study of entrepreneurial employee activities. In multiple advanced capitalist economies, entrepreneurial employee activity is more prevalent than independent entrepreneurial activity. Innovation indicators are positively correlated with the prevalence of entrepreneurial employee activities, but are not or even negatively correlated with the prevalence of independent entrepreneurial activities. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2013
J83|Employer-paid Maternity Leave in Australia - A comparison of Uptake and Duration in 2005 and 2010|While the implementation of Australia’s Paid Parental Leave (PPL) scheme in January 2011 is expected to extend access to paid parental leave significantly, the program commenced in the context of regularly reported increases in the prevalence of employer-paid parental leave. The aims of this paper are to identify and explain changes in mothers’ use of employer-paid maternity leave over the five years prior to PPL. Our data come from broadly similar surveys conducted in 2005 and 2010. They show increasing uptake and duration of employer-paid maternity leave over this period, but marked and persistent inequalities in patterns of usage. We argue that inequalities are unsurprising in association with employer-provided entitlements, and that they will not necessarily be ameliorated with ongoing expansion of employer-paid provisions. Given its importance in the Australian context, employer-paid parental leave will need to be taken into account in assessing the impact of any government-initiated paid parental leave scheme.
J83|Calidad Del Trabajo: Aproximaciones Teóricas Y Estimación De Un Índice Compuesto|La calidad del trabajo ha ocupado recientemente un lugar central en los estudios del trabajo en América Latina. Dicho interés ha estado limitado por dos elementos centrales: un apropiado marco teórico y herramientas metodológicas para su medición. Este texto busca abordar tales limitaciones. Primero, coloca la definición y discusión de la calidad del trabajo en un marco teórico amplio, que considera su carácter multidimensional a partir de su relación con el concepto y análisis de la calidad de vida. Segundo, presenta una estimación de un índice compuesto de calidad del trabajo con base en la técnica estadística de análisis de componentes principales, para llamar la atención sobre el tema y contribuir en sentar las bases para su medición y seguimiento.
J83|Calidad Del Trabajo: Aproximaciones Teóricas Y Estimación De Un Índice Compuesto|La calidad del trabajo ha ocupado recientemente un lugar central en los estudios del trabajo en América Latina. Dicho interés ha estado limitado por dos elementos centrales: un apropiado marco teórico y herramientas metodológicas para su medición. Este texto busca abordar tales limitaciones. Primero, coloca la definición y discusión de la calidad del trabajo en un marco teórico amplio, que consi¬dera su carácter multidimensional a partir de su relación con el concepto y análisis de la calidad de vida. Segundo, presenta una estimación de un índice compuesto de calidad del trabajo con base en la técnica estadística de análisis de componentes principales, para llamar la atención sobre el tema y contribuir en sentar las bases para su medición y seguimiento.
J83|Riesgo Sistémico Y Estabilidad Del Sistema De Pagos De Alto Valor En Colombia: Análisis Bajo Topología De Redes Y Simulación De Pagos|Este artículo estudia la estabilidad del sistema de pagos (SP) de alto valor en Colombia (CUD) ante el incumplimiento de una entidad sistémicamente importante, y evalúa la capacidad de respuesta de las entidades afectadas a partir de la utilización de sus recursos y a través de los mecanismos de liquidez que brinda el Banco de la República. De acuerdo con la literatura reciente, las entidades sistémica¬mente importantes se identifican bajo el concepto de too-connected-to-fail (TCTF) para diferentes escenarios de volatilidad del mercado de TES y de actividad del SP. La estabilidad del SP se evalúa mediante topología de redes (TR) y un modelo de simulación de pagos (MSP), el cual incorpora un algoritmo de resolución de colas recursivo tipo First In First Out (FIFO) y un algoritmo de compensación multilateral.
J83|Determinantes Del Número De Relaciones Bancarias En Colombia|En este documento se realiza una exploración inicial sobre los determinantes del número de rela¬ciones bancarias del sector corporativo privado de Colombia. Siguiendo otros estudios similares reali¬zados para distintos países, se utilizan modelos de datos de cuenta y se estima un modelo de regre¬sión de Poisson y un modelo de regresión binomial negativa para hallar los determinantes de la variable de interés. Encontramos que los datos presentan sobredispersión, razón por la cual el modelo de regresión binomial negativa es más adecuado que el modelo de regresión de Poisson en este contexto. Dentro de este ejercicio se encuentra que las varia¬bles de liquidez, tamaño de la firma, composición de la deuda, eficiencia, la tasa activa real y la tasa de crecimiento del PIB, resultan ser importantes en la determinación del número de relaciones bancarias. El hecho de que las relaciones bancarias sean afec¬tadas por la actividad económica, podría sugerir que durante los tiempos de desaceleración econó¬mica las empresas buscan fuentes alternativas de financiamiento.
J83|La Meta Del Banco Central Y La Persistencia De La Inflación En Colombia|En este documento se estima un modelo economé¬trico que descompone la serie de inflación trimestral anualizada entre un componente transitorio y otro permanente; este último inducido probablemente por las variaciones en la meta del Banco Central. Se concluye que la persistencia inflacionaria se elevó en Colombia entre 1979-1989 y 1989-1999, y se redujo a sus menores niveles en 1999-2010, gracias a la adopción del régimen de inflación objetivo. También se concluye que la brecha de la inflación presenta baja persistencia, un resultado consistente con la curva de Phillips Neo-Keynesiana. La parte final del documento evalúa la persistencia de los diferentes componentes de la inflación utilizados por el Banco de la República en sus pronósticos.
J83|La Meta Del Banco Central Y La Persistencia De La Inflación En Colombia|En este documento se realiza una exploración inicial sobre los determinantes del número de relaciones bancarias del sector corporativo privado de Colombia. Siguiendo otros estudios similares realizados para distintos países, se utilizan modelos de datos de cuenta y se estima un modelo de regresión de Poisson y un modelo de regresión binomial negativa para hallar los determinantes de la variable de interés. Encontramos que los datos presentan sobredispersión, razón por la cual el modelo de regresión binomial negativa es más adecuado que el modelo de regresión de Poisson en este contexto. Dentro de este ejercicio se encuentra que las variables de liquidez, tamaño de la firma, composición de la deuda, eficiencia, la tasa activa real y la tasa de crecimiento del PIB, resultan ser importantes en la determinación del número de relaciones bancarias. El hecho de que las relaciones bancarias sean afectadas por la actividad económica, podría sugerir que durante los tiempos de desaceleración económica las empresas buscan fuentes alternativas de financiamiento.
J83|La meta del Banco Central y la persistencia de la inflación en Colombia|Se presenta un modelo econométrico que descompone la serie de inflación trimestral anualizada entre un componente transitorio y otro permanente. Para analizar el período entre 1979-1999.
J83|La Persistencia Estadística De La Inflación En Colombia|"En este documento se discuten los distintos factores estructurales que podrían explicar la persistencia de la inflación y se evalúan formas alternativas de calcularla. Con base en las mejores"" metodologías se presenta la evolución de la persistencia tanto para el nivel como para la brecha de la inflación en Colombia en el período 1990-2010, por medio de un modelo de cambio de régimen y de un filtro de Kalman. Se concluye que el régimen de infla¬ción objetivo adoptado en 1999 permitió reducir la media y la varianza de la inflación pero no ha modificado la persistencia estadística de manera significativa."""
J83|La persistencia estadística de la inflación en Colombia|En este documento se discuten los distintos factores estructurales que podrían explicar la persistencia de la inflación y se evalúan formas alternativas de calcularla. Con base en las “mejores” metodologías se presenta la evolución de la persistencia tanto para el nivel como para la brecha de la inflación en Colombia en el período 1990-2010, por medio de un modelo de cambio de régimen y de un filtro de Kalman. Se concluye que el régimen de inflación objetivo adoptado en 1999 permitió reducir la media y la varianza de la inflación pero no ha modificado la persistencia estadística de manera significativa.
J83|La persistencia estadística de la inflación en Colombia|Se evalúan las diferentes formas de medición de la persistencia estadística y los distintos factores estructurales que podrían explicarla. Se presenta una medición de la persistencia estadística de la inflación y de la brecha de inflación en Colombia para el período 1990-2010, por medio de un modelo de cambio de régimen y de un filtro de Kalman.
J83|The case for the virtual strike|No abstract is available for this item.
J83|Does Employment Protection Inhibit Labor Market Flexibility? Lessons from Germany, France, and Belgium|Laws in most West European countries give workers strong job rights, including the right to advance notice of layoff and the right to severance pay or other compensation if laid off. Many of these same countries also encourage hours adjustment in lieu of layoffs by providing prorated unemployment compensation to workers on reduced hours. This paper compares the adjustment of manufacturing employment and hours in West Germany, France and Belgium, three countries with strong job security regulations and well-established short-time compensation systems, with that in the United States. Although the adjustment of employment to changes in output is much slower in the German, French and Belgian manufacturing sectors than in U.S. manufacturing, the adjustment of total hours worked is much more similar. The short-time system makes a significant contribution to observed adjustment in all three European countries. In addition, we find little evidence that the weakening of job security regulations that occurred in Germany, France and Belgium during the 1980s affected employers' adjustment to changes in output. These findings suggest that, given appropriate supporting institutions, strong job security need not inhibit employer adjustment to changing conditions.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
J83|Does Employment Protection Inhibit Labor Market Flexibility? Lessons from Germany, France, and Belgium|Laws in most West European countries give workers strong job rights, including the right to advance notice of layoff and the right to severance pay or other compensation if laid off. Many of these same countries also encourage hours adjustment in lieu of layoffs by providing prorated unemployment compensation to workers on reduced hours. This paper compares the adjustment of manufacturing employment and hours in West Germany, France and Belgium, three countries with strong job security regulations and well-established short-time compensation systems, with that in the United States. Although the adjustment of employment to changes in output is much slower in the German, French and Belgian manufacturing sectors than in U.S. manufacturing, the adjustment of total hours worked is much more similar. The short-time system makes a significant contribution to observed adjustment in all three European countries. In addition, we find little evidence that the weakening of job security regulations that occurred in Germany, France and Belgium during the 1980s affected employers' adjustment to changes in output. These findings suggest that, given appropriate supporting institutions, strong job security need not inhibit employer adjustment to changing conditions.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
