J89|Demography, Unemployment, Automation, and Digitalization: Implications for the Creation of (Decent) Jobs, 2010–2030|"Globally, an estimated 734 million jobs will be required between 2010 and 2030 to accommodate recent and ongoing demographic shifts, account for plausible changes in labour force participation rates, and achieve target unemployment rates of at or below 4 percent for adults and at or below 8 percent for youth. The facts that i) most new jobs will be required in countries where ""decent"" jobs are less prevalent and ii) workers in many occupations are increasingly subject to risks of automation further compound the challenge of job creation, which is already quite sizable in historical perspective. Failure to create the jobs that are needed through 2030 would put currently operative social security systems under pressure and undermine efforts to guarantee the national social protection floors enshrined in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)."
J89|Work Load Analysis on State-Owned Companies in The Health Sector in Bandung-Indonesia|Objective – This study conducts a workload analysis on state-owned companies in the health sector in BandungIndonesia. The study focuses on a company established on 6 August 1890, which is a manufacturer of vaccines and antisera, and is now developing into a life science company. The objective of Polio eradication by 2020 demands competitiveness and a change in organizational culture in order to increase organizational profits. There are two possible solutions to this phenomenon. From a technical perspective, the company has decided to undertake market expansion. From a psychological perspective, the company needs to change the attitude of its employees to effectively meet the competition. This situation raises problems for the human resources division of the company. First, it increases employee health problems such as high cholesterol, high blood pressure and lower back pain, which increases health costs. Methodology/Technique – Based on the phenomena of excessive workload and the problems posed, this study aims to examine empirical data regarding the workload of the company. The workload analysis in this study is conducted in October 2016 using several methods such as discussions, interviews, questionnaires, and observation. The validation of the data is achieved using a triangulation methodology. Findings – The result show that, when comparing the fair amount workload index with the total number of employees in the company, there is a difference of 11.61%. The six directorates have 75-85% for effectiveness and 79-87% for efficiency. This shows that work load is not a contributing factor to the phenomena's described above in this company. Novelty – The research sheds light on the increasing need for counselling in companies. One of the leading reasons for this is employee work loads and the increase in some employees working overtime. These factors may lead to other problems such as family issues, low job satisfaction, discipline, and absenteeism.
J89|Quality of Work Life in Colombia: A Multidimensional Fuzzy Indicator|Abstract Quality of work (QoW) encompasses multiple objective and subjective dimensions, which may include labor income, job stability, job satisfaction, and social security. This paper follows the method proposed by Gómez-Salcedo et al. (2013) that introduces a new way of measuring QoW, which consists of (1) the use of Sen’s functioning and capabilities approach and (2) a fuzzy sets method to define membership to the sets of good job quality. Using the Gran Encuesta Integrada de Hogares, we obtain results at the national level about age, gender, educational level, firm size, and industry sector. The results are consistent with previous literature. One topic that is highlighted from our results is the existence of a “Quality of Work Life Cycle”, with higher levels of the index up to age 30, that may have critical implications for the social security system; people with lower quality jobs may not be contributing to health and pension funds, leaving many people without access to a retirement fund and implying more demands on the subsidized system to cover health expenses.
J89|Master and Servant The birth of self-consciousness through recognition|"Hegel's famous Master and Slave dialectic which he develops in his work Phenomenology of Spirit describes in narrative form the development of self­ consciousness - the result of a struggle between two „beings"". The central point is recognition. Not only recognition of your own self-consciousness but also of the other. He presents this idealized in a situation where two beings meet and the development they have to undergo. The following article doesn't make a strict distinction between „inside the mind"" and „reality"" but uses Hegel's „pattern"" adapting it to working life and the relationship between workers and their leaders. This article will help tounderstand the social phenomenon of achieving self-conscious­ ness - not only necessary for the own wellbeing but an important factor for a good working team and company - and to make the lector reflect about asymmetrical recognition."
J89|Economic And Social Consequences Triggered By The Neet Youth|The NEET rate is a relatively new indicator which gained during the last two decades an increasingly higher importance with respect to youths’ labour market both in the approaches of international organisations and in the mass-media. The high rates of the young NEET population represents one of the important challenges for each country, not only due to the risks of the “scarring effects” but also due to the negative effects of this statutes on the future outcomes of the labour market for the individual and for the community and the society in which he/she lives. Evaluating the economic and social consequences of the NEET statutes plays an important role in developing the policies for youths and in adopting measures for increasing their insertion on the labour market and for encouraging them to remain enrolled in educational or vocational training systems. The paper presents a brief analysis of the NEET youths’ situation in Romania within the European context and highlights a series of economic and social consequences generated by the NEET statutes for some youths.
J89|Un juego experimental sobre emprendedurismo y políticas de protección laboral|En la investigación se desarrolla un juego, dentro de la línea de economía experimental, utilizando un esquema de utilidad esperada, que es aplicado a 108 participantes. En particular, se busca evaluar la premisa de que, frente a un escenario de incertidumbre sobre las habilidades de los trabajadores a contratar, los empleadores escogen políticas de flexibilidad laboral a aquellas de protección, y que cuando no existe la opción de contratos flexibles, la creación de empleos se reduce. Los resultados muestran que en el 79,3% de las respuestas válidas la política de flexibilidad es preferible, y que frente a la exclusión de esta opción, algunos de los participantes dejan de ser emprendedores ?y generar empleos? para ser trabajadores.
J89|Calidad de vida laboral en Colombia: un índice multidimensional difuso|"La calidad del trabajo abarca múltiples dimensiones objetivas y subjetivas, que pueden incluir las rentas del trabajo, la estabilidad laboral, la satisfacción laboral y la seguridad social. En este trabajo se sigue el método propuesto por Gómez et al. (2013), que introduce una nueva forma de calcular la calidad del trabajo, consistente en la medición de: i) el uso del enfoque de funcionamientos y las capacidades de Sen y ii) un método de conjuntos difusos. Usando la Gran Encuesta Integrada de Hogares (GEIH), se calcula un Índice Multidimensional de Calidad del Empleo (IMCE) a nivel nacional según edad, sexo, nivel educativo, tamaño de la empresa, y el sector de la industria. Un tema que se destaca de nuestros resultados es la existencia de una ""Ciclo de calidad de vida laboral"", con los puntajes más altos del índice a los 30 años, lo cual puede tener implicaciones importantes para el sistema de seguridad social. ******ABSTRACT: Quality of Work encompasses multiple objective and subjective dimensions, which may include labor income, job stability, job satisfaction, and social security. This paper follows the method proposed by Gómez et al. (2013) that introduces a new way of measuring Quality of Work, which consists of: i) the use of Sen’s functioning and capabilities approach and ii) a fuzzy sets method to define membership to the sets of good job quality. Using the Gran Encuesta Integrada de Hogares, we obtain results for a Multidimensional Index of Quality of Employment, at the national level about age, gender, educational level, firm size, and industry sector. One topic that is highlighted from our results is the existence of a “Quality of Work Life Cycle”, with higher levels of the index up to age of 30, which may have critical implications for the social security system."
J89|Perception of Quality of Life and its Components among Russian Students – Implications for Academic Teaching|The paper has 3 objectives: (i) identify QoL determinants of Russian Students; (ii) assess their relevance for decision-making when choosing life strategies; (iii) recognize their implications for academic teaching. The research sample were students from two Russian Universities. The study employed: literature analysis; exploratory research (direct individual in-depth interviews, survey based on a self-administered, web-based questionnaire with single-answer, limited choice qualitative & quantitative questions and gradings based on the Likert-type scale); explanatory research (informal moderated group discussions). The research findings show the relatively high significance of finance, career, stability, family, free time and other non-material QoL determinants. Research analysis reveals an inconsistency between respondents’ expectations and their work-life balance, which imposes a question about decision-making criteria at an early stage of career planning and the role of tertiary education in this process. Implications & Recommendations: (i) multicriteria decision-making processes, such as career planning, should comprise work-life balance; therefore both material and non-material QoL determinants should be incorporated into the analysis; (ii) as the role of Universities, beside educating, is also to guide and shape characters, Academia seems to be the right place for this task; (iii) therefore Universities should promote conscious lecturers as assistants to the process of identification of individual QoL determinants by their students. Contribution & Value Added: the research provides a fresh and improved perspective on quality of life and its determinants; it includes non-material QoL components and therefore brings qualitative determinants into economic research; it will provide data for future comparisons; it comes from a research network linking European and Russian tertiary education institutions and University lecturers with intercultural teaching experience.
J89|“Calidad de vida laboral en Colombia: un índice multidimensional difuso”|"La calidad del trabajo abarca múltiples dimensiones objetivas y subjetivas, que pueden incluir las rentas del trabajo, la estabilidad laboral, la satisfacción laboral y la seguridad social. En este trabajo se sigue el método propuesto por Gómez et al. (2013), que introduce una nueva forma de calcular la calidad del trabajo, consistente en la medición de: i) el uso del enfoque de funcionamientos y las capacidades de Sen y ii) un método de conjuntos difusos. Usando la Gran Encuesta Integrada de Hogares (GEIH), se calcula un Índice Multidimensional de Calidad del Empleo (IMCE) a nivel nacional según edad, sexo, nivel educativo, tamaño de la empresa, y el sector de la industria. Un tema que se destaca de nuestros resultados es la existencia de una ""Ciclo de calidad de vida laboral"", con los puntajes más altos del índice a los 30 años, lo cual puede tener implicaciones importantes para el sistema de seguridad social."
J89|Exploring Hotel Employees? Individual and Work-Related Outcomes from the aspect of Customer Online Reviews: A Qualitative Approach|The purpose of this study is to determine hotel employees individual traits and work-related attitudes and behaviors based on customer e-reviews. Qualitative research methods were used to analyze the data gathered from 522 foreign customers e-comments in English for three resort hotels (high scored in top-3 on an international online commercial travel platform, dated to the year 2013) located in Antalya Region, southern coast of Turkey. Firstly, results indicated that customers have generally evaluated hotel all employees as highly friendly, helpful, hard-working, polite, lovely, amazing, smiling, efficient and attentive persons. Secondly, they evaluated individual traits of the only certain departments staff; Entertainment Staff as highly entertaining, hard-working, and friendly persons; Food and Beverage (service) Staff as highly friendly and smiling persons; Front-Office Staff as highly friendly and helpful persons, and Housekeeping Staff as neat, smiling and brilliant persons. Finally, customers evaluated employees work-related attitudes and behaviors as the aspect of interaction, relationship, service performance, extra-roles and service/customer orientation. A discussion of the findings, implications, and recommendations for future research were all presented.
J89|Measurement of Highly Qualified Employees Productivity|Nowadays all economies are more and more based on knowledge and information. Economists therefore are increasingly interested in the measurement of productivity of highly qualified employees. While in the case of other factors of production (labour, land, capital) we know the number of economic and statistical approaches how to deal with the measurement of efficiency or productivity, there is no single methodology in relation to highly qualified employees. Also there is a lack of an internationally agreed definition of highly qualified employees. This article offers possible approaches in this field focusing mainly on a staff segment with tertiary education. Although measuring of qualitative impacts is sometimes difficult, it does not mean that it is impossible. On the contrary, properly interpreted and applied indicators increase employment on the labour market and reinforce the positive contributions of highly qualified employees in the business.
J89|What is it About Democracies that Pays Higher Wages?|"Democracy and democratisation are associated with higher manufacturing wages. However, classifying a country as democratic does not highlight what institutional characteristics (if any) may be leading to higher wages within democracies. In order to shed light on this issue, this paper uses a dataset that ""decomposes"" democracy into six different governance indicators in a panel of 84 countries over the period 1996 to 2009. The evidence suggests that in poor and middle-income countries, greater voice and accountability as well as rule of law will lead to increments in manufacturing wages. It is argued that these characteristics increase wages by allowing for freedom of association and assembly as well as by encouraging greater respect for labour laws. The paper also uncovers some evidence to suggest that greater voice and accountability and rule of law can lead to a fall in wages in more developed nations. It is argued that since more developed countries are undergoing a process of deindustrialisation, more democratic wage bargaining activities will lead to faster downward adjustment of manufacturing wages."
J89|Social Network and Social Protection: Evidence from Cameroon|Household in developing countries use a variety of informal and formal mechanisms to cope with risk, including mutual support and public social security program. The present study addresses the issue of the relationship between social network and social protection both formal and informal. Using dataset of Cameroon’s survey on employment and informal sector (EESI , 2005) and after controlling for the endogeneity of social network, our results suggest two main facts. First, while the relationship between social network and formal social protection is not significant, there is a strong and positive effect of social network on informal social protection. Second, formal social protection and informal social protection are substitute in Cameroon.
J89|THE CONCEPT OF ACTIVE AGING (English version)|2012 is the European Year for Active Aging and Intergenerational Solidarity. The concept of active aging seems to be the cornerstone of future European approach to employment policies and working to resolve issues raised by global aging. What does this concept mean and what it entails in Europe where the risks and challenges of aging are at highest level? How well known is it acquired in Romania, especially by social policy generators? There are two questions to what this study will try to answer using the comparative analysis discursive textual method of European and Romanian approaches.
J89|Self-searching, the Anchor in the River of Globalization (English version)|When the soul is affected, the body suffers too. The fluctuations of the individual identity, determined by a feeling of uprooting occurred as a result of educational and labour migration, foreign cultural patterns, new corporate attitudes influencing the market, produce emotional disturbances, even pathological, among individuals affected by this phenomenon. Holding grudges, being corrupted by ancient resentments or uncertain pains, has an effect to soul similar to poison and manifests as diseases of the body. Many diseases that we experience are caused by a lack of forgiveness. In general, we are reluctant to this diagnosis because we don’t want to believe that a certain pain, located in a part of our body, can be caused by something abstract and unaccountable in our laboratories. Forgiveness is a voluntary act that frees us from negative feelings or emotions that maintain the pain, therefore being an effective method for the treatment of depression.
J89|Do We Really Hate Our Jobs? Determinants Of Job Satisfaction In Romania|Job satisfaction is said to be an important factor of work productivity along with having the proper training, interests and motivation. Frustrations at work may derive from different aspects of the job itself, the work environment as well as personal motivation for work and its results. Human resources management theories focus on job satisfaction and motivations as means for achieving the institution's objectives, and consequently see motivations and satisfaction at an individual level. Our paper investigated these issues at macro level, going beyond the individual variables of job satisfaction to the ones that explain the attitudes towards work at national level. This approach is derived from cultural theories analyzing attitudes towards work as a cultural value that varies across nations. In this manner we analyze data at national level, investigating the factors that influence work satisfaction and attitudes towards work of Romanians. Our aim is to explain the identified differences regarding the individual's attitude towards their professional life. Considering the fact that work occupies a lot of time in people's life and it is considered the second most important aspect of life after family, we questioned the aspects that explain the levels of job satisfaction both in the light of theoretical constructs and as results on the Romanian population. These indexes have a direct impact on the quality of life, reflect the level of development, as well as point to further social aspirations of individual actors. The current analysis reflects on different aspects of the appreciation of work and investigates variations of work satisfaction: Which is the value attributed to work? How important is work and how satisfied are individuals with their jobs? Which are the characteristics that determine variations of job satisfaction? After a theoretical synthesis of different approaches of work related attitudes in the literature, the second section presents the data and the main research findings. For data analysis we used the data obtained in the European Values Survey 2008, research conducted by the Romanian group for the study of social values, supported by the Quality of Life Research Institute. Other data used in this paper derived from a research program developed at University of Oradea - Social Sciences Faculty - HURO 0801/180 ENRI. The research section of this paper follows the theoretical questions: first we focus on the value attributed to work by Romanians and its contribution to self definition, then reflect on the significations of work, and finally explain the levels of work satisfaction. The main findings of our analysis suggest that even though work is seen as very important by Romanians, the main explanatory factor of job satisfaction at a general level is connected to economical status provided by a certain job. In the concluding section we stated several research directions that would provide better insight in this topic.
J89|¿Es alto el salario mínimo en Colombia?: una comparación internacional|"Resumen: este artículo muestra que Colombia parece tener niveles de salariomínimo e informalidad laboral mayores que los esperados de acuerdo con su ingreso per cápita, aunque no se encuentra entre los países de maxi salarios mínimos"". La evidencia empírica descriptiva mostrada no parece apoyar el enfoque tradicional sobre la relación entre salario mínimo e informalidad. Esto significa que gobiernos, analistas y organizaciones multilaterales deberían ser prudentes cuando recomiendan para los países en desarrollo reducciones en el salario mínimo con el fin de mejorar el ingreso de los trabajadores informales. De gran importancia resulta modificar la política de salario mínimo contra-cíclica implementada en el período analizado, a juzgar por el comportamiento de sus niveles relativos. Finalmente, la política de salario mínimo en Colombia parece estar cambiando su objetivo, debido a la estrategia empresarial de eliminar la negociación colectiva descentralizada"""
J89|Presenteeism in Finland: Determinants By Gender and The Sector of Economy|We study the prevalence of sickness presenteeism, using survey data covering 725 Finnish union members in 2008. Controlling for worker characteristics, we find that sickness presenteeism is sensitive to working-time arrangements. Permanent full-time work, mismatch between desired and actual working hours, shift or period work and overlong working weeks generally increase the prevalence of sickness presenteeism. The estimates by gender suggest that participation in permanent full-time work has an effect on presenteeism only for women. Furthermore, the adoption of three days? paid sickness absence without a sickness certificate and the easing of efficiency demands decrease sickness presenteeism especially in private services.
J89|A Critique of the Global Wage System|It is widely believed that international wage differences are a result of international productivity differences. That belief has been criticized by various economists for the differential in wages being much higher than in productivity. Another criticism has been that productivity increases in developing countries have tended to lead to lower world prices for their products and services, rather than to higher wages for their workers. The thesis of this article is that international wage differences are, to a large extent, caused by discrimination, rather than by productivity differences.
J89|A Study of the Wage Impacts of Unions and Industrial Councils in South Africa|Some argue that a high union wage premium and the industrial council system are important causes of inflexibility in the South African labor market. We estimate union premia on the order of 20 percent for African workers and 10 percent for White workers. We also find that African nonunion workers who are covered by industrial council agreements receive a premium of 6-10 percent; the premium is positive but not statistically significant for Whites. In addition, although the union gap is smaller inside of the industrial council system than outside of the system for Africans, the total union premium for union members covered by an industrial council agreement is similar to the union premium outside of the industrial council system. Among Africans, the industrial council and union wage gaps are largest among low wage workers.
J89|Street and Working Children: Global Seminar Report, 1993|No abstract is available for this item.
J89|Urban Unemployment in England|The urban areas of England experience widely different unemployment rates. This research examines male unemployment in the 78 English county boroughs using data from the 1971 Census. The impact of socio-demographic characteristics, the local industrial structure and environment, and regional deficient demand on spatial unemployment differentials is analyzed by regression analysis. The analysis is rich in policy implications concerning, for example, the merits of broad regional policy as against industrial training and racial employment problems.
