K12|Quality of enforcement and investment decisions. Firm-level evidence from Spain|Investment decisions are generally irreversible and could be affected by holdup problems and opportunism. Thus, investment may need sound enforcement institutions. This paper analyzes firm level data to identify the impact of judicial system efficacy, as representative of the institutional quality, in business investment decisions. More specifically, this research measures the effects of congestion in the Spanish civil (private) jurisdiction at the local level, both when solving ordinary trials and executions (when a judge forces the debtor to pay or to fulfill an obligation) and finds a negative and significant relationship between judicial inefficacy and the gross investment ratio. The effect holds after running several robustness checks. This paper also analyzes the efficacy of the administrative jurisdiction, inspired by the hypothesis of Acemoglu and Johnson (2005), but it does not have a significant impact on investment in our sample.
K12|Solidarity in the Eurozone|Proposals for Eurozone reform aim to complete its institutional architecture by securing stability without creating moral hazard. Such policy arguments inevitably rely, however, on implicit assumptions about justice, or on what is owed to whom. A common assumption is that member states are solely responsible for what happens to them. This paper, written from the point of view of public law and legal theory, asks if this assumption is correct. The relevant idea is often considered to be that of solidarity. Yet, solidarity is a puzzling concept. Although it is mentioned in the EU treaties, it does not appear to create any clear duties of mutual assistance. Many prominent legal theorists argue that solidarity will only become relevant in the future, when new European institutions bring citizens together under a single Europe-wide political community. This paper argues, however, that these arguments are misleading. They are at least incomplete in that they miss the key role played by corrective justice. Unlike distributive justice, which applies within states but not among states, corrective justice applies to cooperative arrangements creating interdependence. Corrective justice creates a principle of redress, which requires that those who are unfairly burdened by an agreement should be compensated by those who caused the unfairness. Any state that was unfairly burdened by the Eurozone’s flawed architecture, may thus have a claim of redress for the losses it incurred as a result of the unfairness. It follows that the programmes of financial assistance were not merely actions of self-preservation or prudence by the Eurozone. They were also manifestations of an existing European principle of solidarity based on corrective justice.
K12|International Trade Finance From the Origins to the Present: Market Structures, Regulation, and Governance|We describe how the structure and governance of international trade finance - the oldest domain of international finance- evolved from the Middle Ages until today. Trade finance products initially consisted of idiosyncratic assets issued by local merchants and bankers. The financing of international trade then became increasingly centralized and credit instruments were standardized through the diffusion of the local standards of consecutive leading trading centers (Antwerp, Amsterdam, London). This process of market centralization/product standardization culminated in the nineteenth century when London became the global center for international trade finance and the sterling bill of exchange emerged as the most widely used trade finance instrument. The structure of the trade finance market then evolved considerably following the First World War and disintegrated during the interwar de-globalization and Bretton Woods period. The reconstruction of global trade finance in the post-1970 period gave way to the decentralized market structure that prevails nowadays.
K12|FinTech and the future of financial services: What are the research gaps?|New financial technologies (FinTech) have erupted around the world. Consequently, there has been a considerable increase in academic literature on FinTech over the last five years. Research tends to be scantily connected with no coherent research agenda. Significant research gaps and important questions remain. There is much work to be done before this area becomes an established academic discipline. This paper offers coherent research themes formulated through focus group meetings with policymakers and academics, and also based on a critical assessment of the literature. We outline seven key research gaps with questions that could form the basis of academic study. If these are addressed it would help this area become an established academic discipline.
K12|Demand and supply of infrequent payments as a commitment device: evidence from Kenya|Despite extensive evidence that preferences are often time-inconsistent, there is only scarce evidence of willingness to pay for commitment. Infrequent payments for frequently provided goods and services are a common feature of many markets and they may naturally provide commitment to save for lumpy expenses. Multiple experiments in the Kenyan dairy sector show that: (i) farmers are willing to incur sizable costs to receive infrequent payments as a commitment device, (ii) poor contract enforcement, however, limits competition among buyers in the supply of infrequent payments. We then present a model of demand and supply of infrequent payments and test its additional predictions.
K12|The Fine Print in Smart Contracts|One of the purported benefits of blockchain technologies is the ability to house what have been termed ‘smart’ contracts. Such contracts are potentially self-executing depending on the state of information recorded on a blockchain ledger. This paper examines the capabilities of smart contracts from an economic perspective. It is demonstrated that by improving observability and reducing the costs of verification of contract obligation performance, the space of feasible contracts can be enlarged. Moreover, by providing commitments to various monetary payments, a blockchain can potentially create a foundation to house certain mechanisms that have been shown to overcome difficulties of contractual incompleteness. This is demonstrated using a simple international trade environment. Thus, even though smart contracts must respect the incentives of decision-makers in their obligations, they have the potential to use easily verifiable elements to create incentives to reduce hold-up and other contractual difficulties.
K12|Contract Enforcement and Productive Efficiency: Evidence from the Bidding and Renegotiation of Power Contracts in India|Weak contract enforcement may reduce the efficiency of investment in developing countries. I study how contract enforcement affects efficiency in procurement auctions for the largest power projects in India. I gather data on bidding and ex post contract renegotiation and find that the renegotiation of contracts in response to cost shocks is widespread, despite that bidders are allowed to index their bids to future costs like the price of coal. Connected firms choose to index less of the value of their bids to coal prices and, through this strategy, expose themselves to cost shocks to induce renegotiation. I use a structural model of bidding in a scoring auction to characterize equilibrium bidding when bidders are heterogeneous both in cost and in the payments they expect after renegotiation. The model estimates show that bidders offer power below cost due to the expected value of later renegotiation. The model is used to simulate bidding and efficiency with strict contract enforcement. Contract enforcement is found to be pro-competitive. With no renegotiation, equilibrium bids would rise to cover cost, but markups relative to total contract value fall sharply. Production costs decline, due to projects being allocated to lower-cost bidders over those who expect larger payments in renegotiation.
K12|Can Blockchain Solve the Hold-up Problem in Contracts?|Two parties sign a contract but before they fully perform they modify the contract. Should courts enforce the modified agreement? The modification may enable efficient trade in response to changed circumstances, or one party may have made an efficient relationship-specific investment and then been held-up by the other. Courts have had difficulty tackling this problem because the facts required to discriminate between the two situations are non-verifiable. A private remedy is for the parties to write a contract that is robust to hold-up or that makes the facts relevant to modification verifiable. But implementing such remedies requires commitment to the provisions, i.e., they themselves are subject to non-compliance. Conventional contract technology, e.g., the use of liquidated damages, to ensure commitment are disfavored by courts and subject to renegotiation. Smart contracts written on blockchain ledgers may offer a solution. We explain the basic economics of these technologies. We argue that they can used to implement liquidated damages without court involvement and thereby obtain commitment to renegotiation design and revelation mechanisms. We address the hurdles courts may impose to use of smart contracts and argue that sophisticated parties’ ex ante commitment to them may lead courts to allow their use as pre-commitment devices.
K12|Overcoming Contractual Incompleteness: The Role of Guiding Principles|We consider a buyer and seller who contract over a service. The contract encourages investment and provides a reference point for the transaction. In normal times the contract works well. But with some probability an abnormal state occurs and the service must be modified. The parties expect each other to behave “reasonably”, but given self-serving biases their views of reasonableness may not coincide, leading to aggrievement and deadweight losses. The adoption by the parties of guiding principles such as loyalty and equity in their contract can help. We provide supporting evidence in the form of case studies and interviews.
K12|Нарушенията На Трудовото Законодателство – Основание За Отстраняване От Обществена Поръчка<BR>[The violations of the labor legislation – a ground for exlusion from public procurement]|Резюме: В разработката се изследват основанията за отстраняване на кандидат или участник от процедура за възлагане на обществена поръчка за нарушаване на трудовото законодателство.Целта на изследването е анализирането на нормите, отразяващи, от една страна, основанията за отстраняване на кандидат или участник, а от друга, закрилната функция на законодателя, осъществявана спрямо правото на труд. Актуалността на представената тематика е обусловена от последните нормативни промени в областта, както и от паралелното изследване на два правно и икономически значими въпроса, а именно основанията за отстраняване от процедура за възлагане на обществена поръчка и нарушенията на трудовото законодателство. На база на извършения анализ се правят изводи с теоретична и практическа насоченост. За нуждите на изследването са използвани различни методи: нормативен, сравнителноправен, синтез, индукция и дедукция.
K12|Governance and foreign direct investment: comparative study between Arab Maghreb countries and ASEAN|The interest of this paper is to show the impact of governance on foreign direct investment and its different effects among Maghreb Arab countries and Asian countries. The results of the effect of political stability, the rule of law, the quality of regulation and the way responsibility and Showed That governance Positively and Significantly contributed to Improving the attractiveness of foreign direct investment (FDI) in Asia purpose in the Arab Maghreb countries, and the way responsibility: has a significant negative impact on FDI. The objective of this work is to study the impact of governance on direct foreign investment (FDI) for a panel of Maghreb Arab countries in Asia countries during 1996 to 2014. Empirical verification generally shows significant results in Asia and is not significant in countries of Arab Maghreb. Indeed, thesis results in Asian countries claim that governance plays a key role in attracting foreign direct investment (FDI).
K12|Contract law and Contract theory. A survey and some considerations|In this study we parallel Contract theory and Contract law and over a few considerations about the link between the two literatures. First, we highlight that studies in Contract theory can be classi ed in analyses of principal agent relation-ships and analyses of speci c investment problems, and that Contract law mainly focuses on the latter, in general. This leaves aside the analysis of the potential role of the law, for instance, in containing the contractual costs of asymmetric information. Second, we try and clarify under what legal rules the parties fully commit with the contract, or they do not, taking into account that the notions of full and limited commitment are very common in Contract theory whereas they are not in Contract law. This further allows us to provide a uni ed presentation of the literature, based on the features of the contractual environment: complete versus incomplete contracting, full versus limited commitment. Third, we point out that, unlike studies in Contract law, studies in Contract theory devote little attention to the litigation process. For this reason, there is no uni ed analysis of optimal contracts accounting for the transaction costs that appear in the various stages of a contractual relationship.
K12|Zur Empfehlung von Abfindungsobergrenzen für Vorstandsmitglieder|In diesem Beitrag wird untersucht, ob Vorstandsabfindungen von börsennotierten Unternehmen durch die Empfehlung 4.2.3 Abs. 4 Satz 1 des Deutschen Corporate Governance Kodex in ihrer Höhe begrenzt werden. Die Analyse umfangreicher empirischer Daten zu Entsprechenserklärungen aller CDAX-Unternehmen und tatsächlichen Abfindungshöhen vorzeitig ausgeschiedener Vorstandsmitglieder von DAX-Unternehmen in den Jahren 2010 bis 2014 zeigt, dass die empfohlenen Obergrenzen trotz anderslautender Entsprechenserklärungen mehrheitlich überschritten wurden. Mithilfe institutionenökonomischer, rechtswissenschaftlicher und soziologischer Ansätze wird theoretisch erklärt, warum das Comply-or-Explain-Prinzip des § 161 AktG, das der Konzeption der Empfehlungen des DCGK zugrunde liegt, bei der untersuchten Empfehlung versagt. Auf dieser Basis wird eine Gestaltungsempfehlung für die Praxis abgeleitet, welche der Empfehlung zu einer stärkeren Wirkung verhelfen kann.
K12|Corporate governance reporting: Compliance with upper limits for severance payments to members of executive boards in Germany|This paper examines how corporate governance reporting corresponds to actual conduct regarding severance payment caps for prematurely departing members of companies' executive boards in Germany. For this purpose, we first evaluate the declarations of conformity for all companies listed in the CDAX between 2010 and 2014, which we use to determine conformity and deviation rates, and analyse reasons for deviation. In a further full survey, we assess the compensation amounts of all severance payments made and published by DAX companies to their executive board members who were prematurely terminated, which allows us to compare the respective severance ratio with the cap recommended by the German Corporate Governance Codex (GCGC). We find that more than 20% of companies listed in the CDAX declared deviation in the declaration of conformity, and one-third of all deviations were justified by a rejection of the normative decision of the recommendation. Moreover, in 57% of actual severance cases where DAX companies had previously declared their compliance, the cap was exceeded; yet, none of the companies that had exceeded the cap in a severance case disclosed this in the following declaration of conformity. In the years under review, for the majority of severance cases in companies listed in the DAX, the GCGC's cap did not have any factual binding effect. Finally, in most cases the corporate reports deviated from reality and therefore could not serve as a suitable basis for decisions by the capital market.
K12|Penimbunan Barang Perspektif Hukum Ekonomi Islam<BR>[Stockpiling of Islamic Economic Law Perspective]|Hoarding is one form of inner trade hoarding is none other than the sale of goods, which the seller did hoarding based on their stated objectives, one of which is for profit doubled, the sellers are willing to wait wares on sale when prices the market rose. It is part of buying and selling is prohibited caused harm to others and only benefit yourself only. In other words mentioned as Ihtikâr or monopoly. Therefore, in running a business or trade affairs should be looking for more good luck does not run fairly one-sided manner detrimental or beneficial unilaterally but by the way in the pleasure of Allah SWT. The aim of this study is to determine To know the effect of hoarding goods to economic stability. To determine what factors are causing the accumulation of goods. And to know how the basic concept of hoarding goods in general. The methodology used in this studyused a qualitative approach normative. From the research, hoarding of goods sold in the perspective of Islamic law which prohibited economy is in the form of hoarding staple foods. Economically sale of staple food stockpiled by the seller in the form of groceries may result in inflation, the rise in prices on the market resulting in buyers also feel difficulty to get the goods is nothing but a daily food needs. This can lead to famine which originated from the inability to buy goods or because of the scarcity of items needed. Therefore trade must also be fair.
K12|Struggles of security and secularism in Turkey and its impact on gender issues|The process of securitization reflects the dominant security understanding, the forces that play on this security understanding in a country. In Turkey the process of securitization is experienced in close relation to militarization. Turkey has gone through an intensified process of militarization that has affected the process of securitization. These processes are constructed, but claimed to be “natural” for the securitization to work smoothly. This construction is based on a gendered understanding and discourse especially with the way that the security agenda is constituted, that helps for consolidation of the dominant security understanding. With the effect of militarization on the process of securitization, security agenda is formed with the state as the sole referent object, and this results in the individual security being taken for granted. The state can also be a source of threat for individual security within this relationship of securitization and militarization. The militarized understanding of security and the close relationship between the processes of securitization and militarization results in a hierarchical attitude towards events, developments where individual security in general and the security of women, in particular, are neglected. This paper analyzes the relationship between the securitization and militarization and shows their gendered construction in Turkey.
K12|Data Ownership and Governance – Finnish Law Perspective|Abstract As a general rule, information and data cannot be owned. Information and data may belong to various actors, but they cannot be owned in the legislative sense. Information can, however, be managed. The most natural view of information and data management is that the actor is the one who owns the device and the service where the information and data are. The ownership of a device or service is the default situation of data management when no contractual arrangements or the like have been made. In this case, the owner of the device and service usually have a natural ability to prevent others from accessing the data by preventing access to the device or service. Within the freedom of contract, it can be specified who data belongs to, what kinds of access rights there are to the data, whether they are exclusive, parallel, etc. It is aimed at agreements between parties on the ownership of data and use restrictions even when no one owns the data and only restrictions on any contractual partner. The restriction of contract comes, however, from the fact that the contract cannot be binding on a third party. In the end, the contractual policies between the actors will define the relative strengths of information and data ownership between parties, for example how the ownership of information and data will be established in the autonomous smart device and service entities of the future.
K12|Will Ukraine Be Able to Establish Real Property Rights?|Over time, the necessary economic reforms have become so obvious that they have become politically possible in most places. The great problem has become the establishment of real property rights. By and large, Central and Eastern Europe have managed to accomplish that not least thanks to support from the European Union. In the former Soviet Union, however, only Georgia succeeded in that endeavor. The big question today is whether Ukraine will manage to do so, or whether it will be caught in a low-economic-growth trap. The three main elements that are needed are independent courts, autonomous prosecutors, and a law-abiding law enforcement, while no old secret police structures should be allowed to sabotage them.
K12|Joint ventures|When the new Romanian Civil Code entered into force (in 2011), both legal regulations on partnerships and joint ventured were expressly abolished, as the two regulatory documents (meaning the Civil Code of 1864 and the Business Code of 1887) were repealed in full (express repealing according to art. 230 of Law no. 71/2011 for the application of the new Civil Code).However, by means of a similar regulation, the new Civil Code took over the two types of companies without legal personality in Chapter VII (Company Contracts) of Book V (On Obligations), Title IX (Various Special Contracts). The chapter concerning company contracts consists of three distinct sections of which we will hereby approach the 2nd Section (Partnerships) and the 3rd Section (Joint ventures).In fact, in the chapter on company contracts, the new Civil Code includes special provisions referring only to the two types of companies without legal personality. Therefore, the two sections of Chapter VII (the 2nd and the 3rd Section) are the legal framework for the companies without legal personality in Romania and, at the same time, they are a special legal regulation in the matter, that is no other law may govern in this field. As we have previously shown, the Tax Code may rule on various aspects concerning the organization of this type of companies, as a special legal regulation (which applies with preference against the provisions of the Civil Code); nevertheless, we believe that, in legal terms, the tax regulations should not be allowed to change significantly the legal requirements set by the Civil Code for the establishment and operation of the companies without legal personality. Unfortunately, the regulatory contradictions between the two legal instruments (the Civil Code and the Tax Code) are obvious and of essence in some cases, therefore they cannot be overlooked; this is why we have thought it appropriate to approach such matter, namely the interference of civil and tax regulations, as this interesting topic may give rise to many debates in practice.
K12|A Comparative Study on arbitrary clauses of E-commerce contracts|The arbitrary clauses are supplied by the professional or the stronger party in contracts concluded where one party is a weaker non-professional compared the stronger professional, with aims of realizing the interests of the non-professional at the expense of the other party. Compliance Contracts include arbitrary clauses and the emergence of compliance contracts was one of the most important reasons leading to the creation the arbitrary clauses. As a number of researchers have claimed it is the fertile field on which the arbitrary clauses clearly appear. This study explains the meaning and features of the compliance contract briefly, then goes on to explain to what extent E-Commerce Contracts along with compliance contracts can be considered by the consumer. The study also analyses the meaning of the arbitrary clause and its invalidity. Finally, the study will present the constitutions of arbitrary clauses in E-Commerce contracts and how to resist them. In particular, comparisons are made in the Egyptian and French legislations as well as a number of European directives and legislations, with an analysis on various legal provisions contained in Egyptian, French and other European directives. Attention will also be paid to Arab laws and articles which serve to regulate electronic transactions.
K12|Knowledge spillovers in the mutual fund industry through labor mobility|Firms’ competitive advantages are unsustainable when competitors poach their employees away to study and recreate those advantages. We document inter-firm knowledge spillovers through labor mobility in the mutual fund industry. About one quarter of the competitive advantage of the originating fund family spills over to the recipient family. These knowledge spillovers intensify when switching managers had better access to the organization processes of the originating family and frictions hampering knowledge absorption are weaker. Ease of knowledge integration, greater organizational similarity, and lower information barriers at the recipient family—acting as mitigants for the aforementioned frictions—also magnify these knowledge spillovers.
K12|On (intellectual) property and other legal frameworks in the digital economy: An economic analysis of the law|The significance of data as an economic good in the digital economy quickly raises the question of who owns the data. More specifically, within the context of a data marketplace in which data is being exchanged or traded and where different bundles of rights (property rights) are trans-ferred (contract law) - an answer regarding the genuine assignment of property rights for data seems important. From an economic standpoint, this paper investigates the need for an (new) intellectual prop-erty right for data. Firstly, an overview of the status quo of the literature on property rights for data will be provided. This will be followed by an analysis of the characteristics of data as a good, clarifying the circumstances under which a market failure can occur. Accordingly, only a market failure situation will authorise economic policy intervention. Lastly, we will derive specific policy implications, offering economic reasoning on a new intellectual property right for data and spe-cifically pointing to other forms of law that may be more applicable for reaching an efficient allocation of data resources.
K12|Introducing Severance Payment Systems in Japan ——A Proposal for Vacancy Decontrol——| In Japan, the court requires job restoration rather than a severance payment from a firm after it decides that a dismissal has been abusive. This results in a high settlement cost for termination. This paper makes two proposals for introducing severance payments to reduce settlement costs in Japan. The first applies to existing contracts and proposes to specify levels of severance payments that would replace the current job restoration requirement after the court determines that a case is abusive. The second applies to new employees either for a recently vacated position or a new position and proposes vacancy decontrol, which allows firms to set the levels of severance payments freely while also honoring the existing contracts. Within this category, this paper proposes government-assisted vacancy decontrol, a transitional measure, where the government sets a minimum level of statutory severance payment, which is equal to six months of wages for a worker who has worked for 20 years, following the Taiwan precedent. After the need for the transitional measure is dissolved, complete vacancy decontrol should be introduced, abolishing the statutory severance payment. We have proposed that even at this stage, the government should publicly set a default level of the severance payment, which a firm should observe unless an explicit agreement or contract stipulates otherwise. The government should immediately introduce some form of vacancy decontrol for senior workers who have already retired from a regular job.
K12|Transaction Costs and Institutional Change of Trade Litigations in Bulgaria|The methods of new institutional economics for identifying transaction costs of trade litigations in Bulgaria are used in the current paper. The main purpose of the model is to be forecasted the rational behaviour of trade litigation parties in accordance with the transaction costs in the process of enforced execution of the signed commercial contract. The implementation of the model is related to the more accurate measurement of transaction costs on microeconomic level.
K12|Dealing with corporate crises in a timely way. Notes on the optimal design of an «Early warning and composition system»|Since the 2005 Bankruptcy Law reform, policymakers have set the goal to detect and manage corporate crises at an early stage, in order to both improve the chances of a company restoring its economic-financial equilibrium and of limiting the dispersion of its values. However, the tools developed over the years have not fully achieved the desired outcomes. We start by surveying the economic benefits stemming from timely action. Then, by using a law and economics approach, we map the disincentives to taking action that affect debtors and creditors, looking separately at the phases of detection and management. On the basis of our findings, the paper discusses the characteristics of effective regulatory strategies, taking into account recent changes in the law. We argue in favour of both strengthening the governance of distressed companies and fine-tuning the existing restructuring and liquidation tools. These objectives are also pursued, to some extent, by the Enabling Bill for the Bankruptcy Law. We highlight the critical issues related to the new «early warning and composition proceedings», especially where they commence automatically if some economic and financial thresholds are breached.
K12|Courts' Decisions, Cooperative Investments, and Incomplete Contracts|Buyers may try to motivate their sellers to make relationship-specific investments to reduce the probability that the design of the goods they procure is defective. In some countries, courts examine how much real authority the seller had in performing the work to assign liability for a design failure. I show that this courts’ approach induces the sellers to under-invest and the buyers to under-specify the design of the goods. I find that this approach can also make it harder to sustain optimal relational contracting, leading to the conclusion that it cannot be justified on efficiency grounds.
K12|Costly Pretrial Agreements|Legal disputes are either settled or end up in Court. Settling a dispute involves some costs (time and money invested in preparations) that the parties have to incur ex-ante, in order for the pretrial negotiation and possible agreement to become feasible. Even in a full information world, if the distribution of these costs is sufficiently mismatched with the distribution of the parties' bargaining powers, a pretrial agreement may never be reached even though actual Court litigation is overall wasteful. As parameters vary, the equilibrium of our full information model with costly pretrial agreements sheds light on two key features of how disputes are initiated and subsequently handled. First, in some cases a Plaintiff may initiate a law suit even though the parties fully anticipate that it will be settled out of Court. Second, the “likelihood” that a given law suit ends up in Court is unaffected by the way trial costs are distributed among the litigants (e.g. English Rule or American Rule). The choice of fee-shifting rule can only affect whether the Plaintiff files a law suit in the first place. It does not affect whether a given suit is settled before trial or litigated in Court.
K12|Plataformas de Capital versus Plataformas Sociales en la Economía Colaborativa: Punto de vista jurídico internacional|In the economy, we distinguish, in a simple way, the strictly capitalist business sector and the corporate social sector. This simple dichotomy has been transferred to the scope of the collaborative economy, which mistakenly includes under the same name capital platforms and social platforms. These platforms have in common different factors, for instance, namely that they essentially use the digital platform to develop their activity; but they differ in that the first ones seek to maximize capital and the platform is a mere messenger that manages economic transactions just like the classical economy. In front of these, there are social platforms in which the main objective is not for profit, although benefits are obtained, the goal being to have a social impact, at the same time that it provides services or products to the users, following specific values. On the one hand, it is necessary to analyze the legal structure of these platforms. The capitalist economy has as a leading actor the mercantile company, while the social economy is based on cooperatives, associations, foundations. The last assertion does not imply that limited companies of social economy exist in comparative law. On the other hand, is very important to determine the legal position of the parties or participants in the collaborative economy and the value of their agreements, especially in situations where does not exist peer-to-peer. In particular, our study aims to focus on contractual and noncontractual relationships exist between the three participants. At this point, we introduce the initial legislative proposals that are being made in the European Union, which specifically wants to protect the consumer, especially online.
K12|The Persistent Power of Promises|Using a large-scale hybrid laboratory and online trust experiment with pre-play communication this paper investigates how the passage of time affects trust, trustworthiness, and cooperation. We provide evidence for the persistent power of communication. Even when three weeks pass between messages and actual choices and even when these choices are made outside of the lab, communication (predominantly through the use of promises) raises cooperation, trust, and trustworthiness by about 50 percent. Delays between the beginning of the interaction and the time to reciprocate neither substantially alter trust or trustworthiness nor affect how subjects choose to communicate.
K12|Trade law and trade flows|This paper performs a structural gravity estimation of the effect of commercial law conventions on international trade flows. We focus on trade law agreements aimed to privately resolve disputes among partners: international commercial arbitration, model law and conciliation. Our results suggest three interesting traits. First, international dispute resolution mechanisms have a moderate positive impact on trade, which is stronger for similar country-pairs in terms of income. Second, this effect is not observed in agreements which do not tackle private resolution mechanisms. Third, international commercial arbitration is the most effective tool to promote trade.
K12|Effects of contract governance on public private partnership (PPP) performance|Using the basic instruments of governance as highlighted in the transaction cost economics literature, this paper empirically examines the impact of differences in contract attributes on project outcomes. The hypothesis is to test whether better incentive structure and stricter administrative controls lead to more efficient project outcomes. It compares two sets of contracts (called as toll and annuity) from Indian PPP road projects which are designed for the same task and implemented under the similar conditions, but have some differences in the contract governance attributes. It carries out this exercise using data from more than 150 projects. The empirical findings highlight how instruments of governance influence the degree of efficiency in achieving the desired results. For instance, the annuity model, that has tighter budget constraint (i.e. better incentive structure) than the toll model, performs better in terms of minimizing cost and time overruns. Moreover, the results demonstrate that changes in administrative controls also influence outcomes. Stricter the control, better is the efficiency in the desired outcomes. The empirical findings could be useful to the policymakers for designing better contracts for the road as well as other infrastructure related sectors.
K12|Can Reputation Discipline the Gig Economy? Experimental Evidence from an Online Labor Market|In two experiments, we examine the effects of employer reputation in an online labor market (Amazon Mechanical Turk) in which employers may decline to pay workers while keeping their work product. First, in an audit study of employers by a blinded worker, we find that working only for good employers yields 40% higher wages. Second, in an experiment that varied reputation, we find that good-reputation employers attract work of the same quality but at twice the rate as bad-reputation employers. This is the first clean, field evidence on the value of employer reputation. It can serve as collateral against opportunism in the absence of contract enforcement.
K12|Dynamic Pricing of Credit Cards and the Effects of Regulation|We construct a two-period model of revolving credit with asymmetric information and adverse selection.In the second period, lenders exploit an informational advantage with respect to their own customers. Those rents stimulate competition for customers in the first period. The informational advantage the current lender enjoys relative to its competitors determines interest rates, credit supply, and switching behavior. We evaluate the consequences of limiting the repricing of existing balances as implemented by recent legislation. Such restrictions increase deadweight losses and reduce ex ante consumer surplus. The model suggests novel approaches to identify empirically the effects of this law.
K12|Legal Efficiency and Consistency|We consider a stylized model of judicial decision making under common and civil law to study whether and why legal institutions affect economic outcomes. Judges are of two types: some judges are conservative and mechanically follow the precedent or the statute, while others maximize social welfare. The civil law and common law traditions have different centers of authority (legislatures vs. judges), but they also differ with respect to the timing of legal decisions (ex-ante vs. ex-post). As a motivating example, we study the enforcement of property rights in courts. We analyze the efficiency and consistency of courts' decisions in both legal systems. We find that legal certainty is higher under common law than under civil law. We show that common law achieves higher expected welfare than civil law regime when the proportion of conservative judges is neither too low nor too high, and judges are sufficiently forward looking. In changing economic environments, civil law courts do not respond to economic shocks. Conversely, common law courts change the law only if shocks are persistent. Shock persistence is what makes common law more likely to dominate civil law because of its greater adaptability.
K12|Effects of Contract Governance on Public Private Partnership (PPP) Performance|This paper empirically examines the impact of differences in contract attributes on project outcomes. The hypothesis is to test whether better incentive structure and stricter administrative controls lead to more efficient project outcomes. It compares two sets of contracts (called as toll and annuity) from Indian PPP road projects which are designed for the same task and implemented under the similar conditions, but have some differences in the contract governance attributes. It carries out this exercise using data from more than 150 projects. The empirical findings highlight how instruments of governance influence the degree of efficiency in achieving the desired results. For instance, the annuity model, that has tighter budget constraint (i.e. better incentive structure) than the toll model, performs better in terms of minimizing cost and time overruns.
K12|More than the Money: Payoff-Irrelevant Terms in Relational Contracts|We investigate how payoff-irrelevant terms can negatively impact relational contracts. In a lab experiment we compare two economically equivalent contracts – a fixed-term renewable and an open-ended at-will contract. Each contract provides partners with full flexibility regarding the length and termination of their interaction. When only one contract type is available, principals and agents in our experiment manage to form long-term profitable relationships irrespective of the contract type. However, when both contracts are available offering a fixed-term instead of an open-ended contract is perceived as unkind and results in lower effort provided by the agents. We show that this observed difference is not a matter of sorting, but a direct response to the contract type. Our results demonstrate that a relational contract might be affected by payoff-irrelevant terms and their perceived kindness.
K12|Towards a Legal Theory of the Firm: The Effects of Enterprise Liability on Asset Partitioning, Decentralization and Corporate Group Growth|Limited liability is a key attribute of the corporate form and one of the most important institutional innovations of the nineteenth century. However, when the owner of a corporation is another corporation as in many corporate groups, an important justification for limited liability—to protect small, passive investors from unlimited losses—is severely weakened. Accordingly, countries differ considerably in their propensity to protect parent and sister companies from the liabilities incurred by other group affiliates, with some countries (e.g. Germany) viewing a subsidiary as an integral part of the group that controls it while others (e.g. Great Britain) emphasizing the legal rather than the economic substance. In this paper, we construct a novel country-level measure of enterprise liability, the propensity of courts to hold an entire group liable for the obligations of one of its subsidiaries. Using data from sixteen countries in Europe, the Americas, and Asia, we examine how enterprise liability affects firm boundaries, internal organization, and corporate group growth. We find that in countries where enterprise liability is weaker, groups tend to partition their assets more finely into distinct legally independent subsidiaries and grant their subsidiaries more autonomy. Groups also tend to grow faster. This paper highlights one underappreciated channel—risk compartmentalization through incorporation—through which legal systems affect economic outcomes.
K12|Relationship-specificity, incomplete contracts, and the pattern of trade: a comment on the role of natural resources|In his seminal paper, (2007) finds that countries with good contract enforcement have a comparative advantage and, therefore, specialize in exporting goods for which relationship- specific investments are most important. We argue that this result cannot be extrapolated to all industries: there is substantial heterogeneity regarding the effect of contract enforcement on exports. In particular, we empirically demonstrate that there is a disconnection between judicial quality and exporting in relationship-specific natural resource related industries. Due to the lack of input factor mobility, for such industries, the quality of contract enforcement cannot explain the pattern of trade, but rather other factors that are widely discussed in the literature. We discuss some relevant implications of this disconnection between judicial quality and relationship-specific industries in terms of the natural resource curse and the impact of natural resources trade on economic development.
K12|Cost Uncertainty and Time Overruns in Public Procurement: a Scoring Auction for a Contract with Delay Penalties|Drawing on the real-options theory we analyse bidding behaviour in a sealed-bid-first-score procurement auction where suppliers, facing variable production costs, must simultaneously report the contract price and the cost level at which they intend to perform the project. We show that this award mechanism is potentially able to maximize total welfare. Next we look at the time incentives required to ensure compliance with the promised optimal trigger value. We show that ex-post efficiency may call for delay penalties higher than the anticipated harm caused by time overruns, in so doing questioning the efficiency rationale of existing liquidated damages rules.
K12|Property as sequential exchange: the forgotten limits of private contract|The contractual, single-exchange framework in Coase (1960) contains the implicit assumption that exchange in property rights does not affect future transaction (i.e., trading) costs. This is pertinent for analyzing use externalities but limits our understanding of property institutions: a central problem of property markets lies in the interaction among multiple transactions, which causes exchange-related and non-contractible externalities. By retaining a single-exchange simplification, the economic analysis of property has encouraged views that: (1) overemphasize the initial allocation of property rights, while some form of recurrent allocation is often needed; (2) pay scant attention to legal rights, although these determine enforceability and, therefore, economic value; and (3) overestimate the power of unregulated private ordering, despite its inability to protect third parties. These three biases have been misleading policy in many areas, including land titling and business firm formalization.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
K12|How should we model property? Thinking with my critics|Inspired by comments made by Allen (2017), Lueck (2017), Ménard (2017) and Smith (2017), this response clarifies and deepens the analysis in Arruñada (2017a). Its main argument is that to deal with the complexity of property we must abstract secondary elements, such as the physical dimensions of some types of assets, and focus on the interaction between transactions. This sequential-exchange framework captures the main problem of property in the current environment of impersonal markets. It also provides criteria to compare private and public ordering, as well as to organize public solutions that enable new forms of private ordering. The analysis applies the lessons in Coase (1960) to property by not only comparing realities but also maintaining his separate treatment of the definition of property rights and transaction costs. However, it replaces his contractual, single-exchange, framework for one in which contracts interact, causing exchange externalities.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
K12|How to make land titling more rational|Substantial variety exists among systems of land and business formalization both over time and across countries. For instance, England relied on private titling and delayed land registration for centuries. In contrast, early on, its American colonies imported land recordation and its Australian colonies land registration. Similarly, in most of the world, governments used to allow voluntary land titling, in which owners decide whether they register their land. Recently, however, governments and international agencies have more often opted for universal titling, aiming to register all the land in a certain region. This paper critically examines these strategies, analyzing the costs and benefits of the two main decisions: whether to create a public titling system or to rely exclusively on private titling, and the choice between voluntary and universal titling. It concludes that universal titling is seldom optimal. In particular, it argues that lack of titling is more a consequence than a cause of poverty.
K12|Scope of Maximum Interest Rate Regulations (Report of Workshops (1))|"Statutory provisions regulating maximum interest rates (referred to generally hereafter as ""maximum interest rate regulations"") employ words that are interpreted to include various payments to creditors such as ""fees"" in addition to ""interest in substance"" (i.e. ""compensation for the use of principal""). Although this is considered effective in preventing evasion of regulation, it may have the effect of including payments made by parties to financial transactions without any intention to evade these regulations. The Report of the Workshops on ""Contemporary Financial Transactions and Their Regulatory Treatment"" (2016) (the ""Report"") explores this issue with regard to the interpretation of relevant laws and legislative actions. The Report refers to economics discourses related to maximum interest rate regulations and clarifies the intent and purpose of such regulations."
K12|Scope of Rules Concerning Personal Guarantee Agreements (Report of Workshops (4))|"The draft legislation revising the Law of Obligations (the Civil Code) introduces a number of new rules which impose procedural requirements on the personal guarantee agreement formation process. These new rules are desirable as people becoming guarantors without adequately considering the risks involved has been a major social problem in Japan. However, there are a number of other forms of contractual arrangements which have similar legal functions to personal guarantees. The Report of the Workshops on ""Contemporary Financial Transactions and Their Regulatory Treatment"" (2016) (the ""Report"") discusses the appropriate scope of the new requirements when parties employ forms of contractual arrangements other than personal guarantee agreements in order to achieve a similar legal function. The Report uses an analytical framework from the economics literature as a point of reference for legal discussions."
K12|Understanding the Time to Court Case Resolution: A Competing Risks Analysis Using Belgian Data|Court delays are a frequent concern, yet what explains court case duration remains incompletely understood. We study the time to court case resolution by drawing on a detailed case-level dataset of civil suits filed at a major Belgian court. We utilize the competing risks regression framework to address the typically neglected heterogeneity in the modes of court case resolution and examine the role of a wide range of both time-invariant and time-varying covariates. Controlling for judge fixed effects, we find substantial disparities in the effect of party and case characteristics on the time to settlement versus trial judgment. Exploiting the de facto random assignment of cases to serving judges within the court's chambers, we further find that judge characteristics matter for time to trial judgment, but not for time to settlement. Modeling heterogeneity in the modes of court case resolution is therefore central to understanding of court case durations.
K12|Praxiserfahrungen mit den Befreiungsvorschriften des Kleinanlegerschutzgesetzes|Dieser Forschungsbericht untersucht die Auswirkungen der im Sommer 2015 eingeführten Befreiungsvorschriften des Kleinanlegerschutzgesetzes. Durch eine stärkere Regulierung soll das Kleinanlegerschutzgesetz für mehr Transparenz für Anlegerinnen und Anleger auf dem grauen Kapitalmarkt sorgen. Das Gesetz beinhaltet jedoch auch Ausnahmeregelungen. Diese entbinden sowohl Unternehmen, die sich über Crowdinvesting-Plattform finanzieren, als auch soziale, gemeinnützige und kirchliche Projekte von der Pflicht einer Prospekterstellung bei dem Angebot von Vermögensanlagen. Grundlage der Untersuchung dieser Ausnahmeregelungen ist die Crowdinvesting-Datenbank, eine Befragung unter sozialen und gemeinnützigen Organisation sowie Expertengespräche. Zusammenfassend lassen sich rund ein Jahr nach Einführung des Kleinanlegerschutzgesetzes keine starken Effekte für den Markt für Schwarmfinanzierungen in Deutschland erkennen. Die von uns analysierten Daten zeigen auch, dass sich das Anlageverhalten durch die neu eingeführte Pflicht zur Selbstauskunft über das Einkommen und Vermögen der Investierenden nicht verändert hat. Allerdings haben sich die bei Schwarmfinanzierungen verwendeten Vermögensanlagen in den letzten Jahren weg von stillen Beteiligungen und hin zu partiarischen Darlehen und Nachrangdarlehen entwickelt. Im Bereich sozialer und gemeinnütziger Projekte finden die geschaffenen Ausnahmeregelungen so gut wie keine Anwendung, da andere Regelungen eine wesentlich einfachere Entbindung von der Prospektpflicht ermöglichen.
K12|Die Befreiungsvorschriften des Kleinanlegerschutzgesetzes|Der Beitrag untersucht die Auswirkungen der im Sommer 2015 eingeführten Befreiungsvorschriften des Kleinanlegerschutzgesetzes. Durch eine stärkere Regulierung soll das Kleinanlegerschutzgesetz für mehr Transparenz für Anleger auf dem grauen Kapitalmarkt sorgen. Das Gesetz beinhaltet jedoch auch Ausnahmeregelungen. Diese entbinden sowohl Unternehmen, die sich über eine Crowd­investing-Plattform finanzieren, als auch soziale, gemeinnützige und kirchliche Projekte von der Pflicht einer Prospekterstellung bei der Finanzierung über Vermögensanlagen. Grundlage der Untersuchung dieser Ausnahmeregelungen ist die Crowdinvesting-Datenbank, eine Befragung unter sozialen und gemeinnützigen Organisation sowie Expertengespräche. Zusammenfassend lassen sich rund ein Jahr nach Einführung des Kleinanlegerschutzgesetzes keine starken Effekte für den Markt für Schwarmfinanzierungen in Deutschland erkennen. Die analysierten Daten zeigen auch, dass sich das Anlageverhalten durch die neu eingeführte Pflicht zur Selbstauskunft über das Einkommen und Vermögen der Investierenden nicht verändert hat.
K12|Contingent judicial deference: theory and application to usury laws|Legislation that seems unreasonable to courts is less likely to be followed. Building on this premise, we propose a model and obtain two main results. First, the enactment of legislation prohibiting something raises the probability that courts will allow related things not expressly forbidden. In particular, the imposition of an interest rate ceiling can make it more likely that courts will validate contracts with interest rates below the legislated cap. Second, legal uncertainty is greater with legislation that commands little deference from courts than with legislation that commands none. We discuss examples of e§ects of legislated prohibitions (and, in particular, usury laws) that are consistent with the model.
K12|Resaleable debt and systemic risk|Many debt claims, such as bonds, are resaleable, whereas others, such as repos, are not. There was a fivefold increase in repo borrowing before the 2008 crisis. Why? Did banks’ dependence on non-resaleable debt precipitate the crisis? In this paper, we develop a model of bank lending with credit frictions. The key feature of the model is that debt claims are heterogeneous in their resaleability. We find that decreasing credit market frictions leads to an increase in borrowing via non-resaleable debt. Borrowing via non-resaleable debt has a dark side: it causes credit chains to form, since if a bank makes a loan via non-resaleable debt and needs liquidity, it cannot sell the loan but must borrow via a new contract. These credit chains are a source of systemic risk, since one bank’s default harms not only its creditors but also its creditors’ creditors. Overall, our model suggests that reducing credit market frictions may have an adverse effect on the financial system and may even lead to the failures of financial institutions.
K12|Contingent judicial deference: theory and application to usury laws|Legislation is less likely to be enforced when courts disagree with it. Building on this premise, we propose a model of Bayesian adjudicators that use their own prior knowledge to evaluate the appropriateness of legislation. The model yields a non-monotonic relation between written rules and effectively enforced rules. Hence the enactment of legislation prohibiting something raises the probability that courts will allow related things not expressly forbidden. Moreover, legal uncertainty is greater with legislation that commands little deference from courts than with legislation that commands none. We discuss examples of effects of legislated prohibitions (and, in particular, usury laws) that are consistent with the model.
K12|Preordered Service in Contract Enforcement|We propose a procedural rule that we refer to as preordered service to replace sequential service of civil cases for breach of contract. The judiciary preannounces a list that ranks all entities that may enter contracts by some uniquely identifying information, such as taxpayer numbers. Courts use this list to enforce the contracts of the highest ranked entities that file a contract case. In theory, unlike sequential service, preordered service ensures efficiency in a population of investment games. Results from a laboratory experiment suggest that it may substantially reduce the caseload at courts and mitigate payoff inequality.
K12|Contingent Judicial Deference: theory and application to usury laws|Legislation is less likely to be enforced when courts disagree with it. Building on this premise, we propose a model of Bayesian adjudicators that use their own prior knowledge to evaluate the appropriateness of legislation. The model yields a non-monotonic relation between written rules and effectively enforced rules. Hence the enactment of legislation prohibiting something raises the probability that courts will allow related things not expressly forbidden. Moreover, legal uncertainty is greater with legislation that commands little deference from courts than with legislation that commands none. We discuss examples of effects of legislated prohibitions (and, in particular, usury laws) that are consistent with the model.
K12|Informal Homeownership Issues: Tracking Contract for Deed Sales in the Southeast|Since the Great Recession, homeownership rates have dropped and the wealth divide has widened for low-income and racial and ethnic minority households. Homeownership is a significant contributor to household balance sheets and generator of household wealth, particularly for these populations. {{p}} A contract for deed is a seller-financed real estate contract consisting of installment payments. For households that desire the financial and physical security of owning a home, contracts for deed may provide an inexpensive option. However, risks may exist. Unlike the recipient of a mortgage, the purchaser of a home under the terms of a contract for deed does not hold title or build equity on the property, despite being responsible for all expenses. In addition, corporate sellers of contracts for deed have been shown to include many undesirable elements, such as high interest rates and inflated purchase prices. {{p}} Based on our analysis, corporate contract for deed sales increased from 2008 to 2013 and have plateaued or declined since that time in four major southeastern cities. These properties tended to be located in majority-African-American neighborhoods with less access to financial services. However, a much larger yet unknown number of contracts for deed involve a small-scale seller, such as a private individual or local firm. The terms of these contracts vary, with roughly equal numbers of seemingly low-risk contracts and contracts with extremely high interest rates and unfair forfeiture clauses.
K12|The new system of formation of the public Contract in 2016: the main risks and prospects of development|A switchover from financing of budget-funded entities on the basis of a financial estimate to financing of the services they rendered was underway for more than a decade, however, real changes took place only in 2016 when calculation of the volume of budget allocations to those entities on the basis of baseline expenditure normals became mandatory for all the entities of the budget system.
K12|The economics of ownership, access and trade in digital data|Despite the rapidly growing volume and economic importance of data in the digital economy, the legal framework for data ownership, access and trade remains incompletely defined in the EU and elsewhere. De facto data ownership dominates and often leads to fragmentation or anti-commons problems in data. Combined with limited access and trade, this inhibits the realisation of the full economic benefits of non-rival data. It may slow down innovation and affect the efficiency of data markets. We examine three potential sources of data market failures: externalities related to economies of scope in data, strategic behaviour of data owners and transaction costs in data exchanges. We link the legal debate on data ownership with relevant branches of the economics literature, including intellectual property rights economics, the commons and anti-commons literature, models of trade under the Arrow Information Paradox and multi-sided markets. Economists are inclined to think that well-defined private property rights are a necessary condition for an efficient resource allocation. The question in this paper is to what extent this view holds for non-rival data. We show that the allocation of data ownership or residual control rights matters, not only for private benefits but also for social welfare. The outcomes of bargaining over data ownership and access rights do not necessarily maximize social welfare. Can regulators intervene to improve these outcomes? Would a better specification of legal ownership rights or introducing access provisions to improve efficiency and reduce data market failures? There are no easy answers to these largely empirical questions. We offer no policy solutions yet and more research is required to bring economics up to speed with these questions.
K12|Barriers to European cross-border E-commerce|We analyse survey data to investigate the main barriers to European cross-border e-commerce. We investigate the determinants of selling online, as well as the frequency and determinants of cross-border e-commerce, and the role of barriers. Large firms, which are part of a group, are more likely to sell online. Firms generally make most of their online sales to their home country, although EU firms are more likely to engage in cross-border online trade with EU countries than non-EU countries. Firms report that they are facing a variety of barriers to e-commerce. Regulatory barriers are negatively associated with online sales. There is weak evidence that firms which use their own websites are more vulnerable to financial, market and information barriers. Firms that use a large platform experience fewer financial and market barriers. On the positive side, we find that small and young firms do not seem to be more vulnerable to barriers than large or more experienced firms.
K12|The competitive landscape of online platforms|This paper describes the different forces that shape the market structure of four different 'online platform ecosystems' and the competition between them. The paper focuses on the following categories of platforms, which represent a wide scope of online activities: (i) e-commerce marketplaces; (ii) app stores; (iii) social media; and (iv) online advertising platforms. A central concern is to provide descriptive, empirical evidence on the relative strength of the forces operating in each case. In the past decade or so, many theoretical and conceptual contributions have been very helpful in developing a clear understanding of many of the issues around multi-sided markets, and have analysed these activities from many different perspectives. Unfortunately, they have provided hardly any empirical evidence. This paper attempts to reduce the lack of empirical evidence available on online platforms.
K12|Quality discrimination in online multi-sided markets|"The aim of this paper is to explain evidence of unfair practices by online platforms towards business users, particularly SME's. First, using survey data, we show that sellers operating with four different categories of platforms multi-home (marketplaces, app stores, social networks and online advertising). Hence, the appropriate competitive framework is the ""competitive bottleneck"" model. Second, we develop an empirical model of platform competition adding an additional dimension: service quality. The results indicate that the costs of providing quality to sellers are higher than the costs of providing quality to buyers. These differences may reflect different needs or preferences across groups. While buyers would require simple functionalities sellers would need more sophisticated services. When sellers' multi-home, platforms care more about buyers than sellers and while buyers will get an efficient level of quality, quality to sellers will be ""degraded"". We argue that this service quality degradation explain unfair trading practices simply because platforms are not willing to invest to take care of sellers."
K12|Platforms to business relations in online platform ecosystems|This report presents evidence on the relationship between online platforms and businesses using these platforms to reach consumers or conduct their operations. First, we review the literature on vertical relationships both from a classic approach and from a multi-sided market perspective. Second, we use survey data to explain the factors behind firms’ choice of online channel. Third, we explore the results of a survey passed to firms using platforms to understand their concerns about the behaviour of some of these online gatekeepers. Finally, we offer some conclusions.
K12|Stabilize the peasant economy: Governance of foreclosure by the shogunate|Regulation of foreclosure in a financial crisis has been a centuries-long conundrum to authorities. Japan in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries had free financial, land and coercive labor markets. It raised the growth but resulted in recurrent financial crises. Therefore, the Edo shogunate, 1600–1868, banned coercive labor, protected peasants’ property right and regulated the farmland-collateral loans. Seeking an appropriate degree of regulation, the shogunate first banned foreclosure and invited a credit shrink. Then the shogunate introduced legislation to legalize foreclosure of pledged farmland as clarifying the rights of borrowers. The regulation asymmetrically lowered interest rates for timely repayment.
K12|Commission Splits in Real Estate Transactions|Abstract We examine commission splits between listing and selling agents in real estate transactions. We construct a theoretical model to show that agency problems arise when a listing agent attempts to maximize his or her payoff while setting the commission split. Mitigation to these agency problems can be achieved through the imposition of a limited duration on listing contracts. Our model produces several testable hypotheses, which are supported by empirical evidence. We find property listings with higher list prices and quick sales are associated with lower commission splits. Commission split is more likely to be higher when the listed property has a high degree of atypicality and/or is overpriced. Additionally, agent-owned properties pay higher commission splits.
K12|Cost-of-Completion versus Diminution-of-Value Damages for Deliberate Breach: An Economic Analysis|Whether to measure expectation damages by the cost of completing the contract or the buyer's loss in value is a central, unresolved issue in contract law. This paper analyzes the issue assuming that the buyer places unobservable, idiosyncratic value on performance. While cost of completion deters efficient breach, diminution of value induces inefficient breach. The latter is more severe the more likely is large idiosyncratic value. Cost of completion also tends to be superior if the event (low market value/high cost) leading to the breach is very likely, because then the existence of the contract itself indicates substantial idiosyncratic value.
K12|Efficient Compensation: Lessons from Civil Liability|This paper deals with compensation requirements ensuring efficient incentives in a setting with two active parties whose decisions affect a third party through an external effect. To achieve efficient incentives under civil liability, expectation damages should be based on a reasonable-person standard, and enrichments due to deviations from obligations may have to be returned. Adapting these lessons to the takings interpretation of the model would require unusual steps, unheard of in actual compensation practice. Yet, if taking decisions are reached in line with theories of public choice, an externality is implicitly present that, if neglected, tends to distort incentives.
K12|The Moral-Hazard Effect of Liquidated Damages: An Experiment on Contract Remedies|Recent evidence suggests that liquidated-damages clauses provide efficiencyadvantages by crowding out contracting parties' deontological concerns about efficient breach. In this paper we highlight an important downside to damage stipulations by parties. Based on findings obtained in a controlled laboratory experiment, we suggest that express damage stipulations trigger negative reciprocity and moral hazard, reducing performance by contract promisors. Such negative effects are absent when damages are exogenously imposed. Moreover, our results indicate that when stipulating damages, contract parties attain less cooperative surplus than when they are subject to an exogenously imposed remedy. Principals, not agents, bear this loss.
K12|How to Protect Entitlements: An Experiment|We study the effects of legal protection on the likelihood of efficient trade. Fairness norms that affect the parties' willingness to pay (WTP) and willingness to accept (WTA) may depend on how strongly the entitlement is protected. We show that our participants can be divided into three groups corresponding to three fairness norms: negative types, whose WTP and WTA are decreasing in the strength of the legal remedy; positive types, whose WTP and WTA are increasing in the strength of the legal remedy; and flat types, whose WTP and WTA do not depend on the strength of the legal remedy. We find that type is role dependent such that a higher WTP and a lower WTA--the combination most conducive to efficient trade--is obtained with a weaker legal remedy.
K12|Committing the English and the Continental Way – An Experiment|On the doctrinal surface, there is a deep divide between common and continental law when it comes to the origin of contractual obligations. Under continental law, in principle a unilateral promise suffices. Common law by contrast requires consideration. When it comes to deciding cases, the divide is much less pronounced. But for the most part the law does not govern people's lives through adjudication. It matches or molds their moral intuitions. We test these intuitions in the lab. If consideration is required, participants believe that all participants make more ambitious promises. But they themselves make a more cautious promise. These two effects cancel out, so that promises are not more likely to be kept with consideration.
K12|Behaviorally Efficient Remedies – An Experiment|Under common law, the standard remedy for breach of contract is expectation damages. Under continental law, the standard is specific performance. The common law solution is ex post efficient. But is it also ex ante efficient? We use experimental methods to test whether knowing that non-fulfilment will only lead to damages deters mutually beneficial trade. The design excludes aversion against others willfully breaking their promises. We find that there is indeed less trade if specific performance is not guaranteed, provided the preference for the traded commodity is sufficiently pronounced.
K12|Experimental Social Planners: Good Natured, but Overly Optimistic|Public goods are dealt with in two literatures that neglect each other. Mechanism design advises a social planner that expects individuals to misrepresent their valuations. Experiments study the provision of the good when preferences might be non-standard. We introduce the problem of the mechanism design literature into a public good experiment. Valuations for the good are heterogeneous. To each group we add a participant with power to impose a contribution scheme. We study four settings: the authority has no personal interest and (1) valuations are common knowledge or (2) active participants may misrepresent their types; the authority has a personal interest (3) and must decide before learning her own valuation or (4) knows her own valuation. Disinterested social planners predominantly choose a payment rule that gives every group member the same ?nal payoff, even if misrepresentation is possible. Authorities are overly optimistic about truth telling. Interested social planners abuse their power, except if the opportunity cost of a more balanced rule is small.
K12|Governance and Stakeholders|Economic models routinely assume firms maximize shareholder wealth; however common law legal systems only require that officers and directors pursue the interests of the corporation, leaving this ill-defined. Economic arguments for shareholder wealth maximization derived from shareholders’ status as residual claimants are vulnerable on several fronts. Share valuations fluctuate as sentiment shifts. Introductory finance casts firms as maximizing expected net present values, which are quasirents, expected earnings beyond expected costs of capital from investors, to which shareholders have no obvious claim. Other stakeholders – entrepreneurial founders or CEOs, employees, employees, customers, suppliers, communities or governments, having made firm-specific investments, may exert stronger claims than atomistic public shareholders have to shares of their firms’ quasirents. Consistent with this, their contractual claims are often augmented by residual claims and liabilities. Still, shareholder value maximization constitutes something of a bright line; whereas stakeholder welfare maximization is an ill-defined charge to assign boards that gives self-interested insiders broader scope for private benefits extraction. The common law concept of “the interests of the corporation” captures this ambiguity.
K12|Governing together: An international review of contracts across levels of government for regional development|Contracts are a key tool for vertical co-ordination, enabling dialogue and capacity building across levels of government. They are frequently used for regional development policy in OECD and non-OECD countries. Drawing on contract theory and a variety of national experiences, this paper identifies three main types of contracts between central and subnational governments according to their objectives: i) empowerment; ii) delegation; and iii) policy-sharing contracts. The differentiation of contracts depending on their objective is based on two key factors: the maturity of decentralisation and the capacity of national and subnational governments. It is expected that with the development of subnational /central government capacities (or both), and with the increasing maturity of decentralisation, contracts can shift from one type to another. The paper concludes by suggesting enforcement mechanisms for more effective contracts across levels of government.
K12|Neutralnosc podatkowa przy dzierzawie gospodarstwa rolnego lub jego skladnikow na cele rolnicze|Jedna z form lokowania wolnych srodkow pienieznych przez osoby fizyczne sa nieruchomosci. Zainteresowanie wzbudzaja zarowno nieruchomosci lokalowe jak i gruntowe. Zakresem przedmiotowym przytaczanej tresci objeto nieruchomosci wystepujace w postaci gruntow rolnych. Do pierwszego maja 2016 r. kazda osoba fizyczna mogla stac sie wlascicielem gruntow rolnych. Swobodny zakup ziemi rolnej ograniczono restrykcyjnymi przepisami ustawy z 11 kwietnia 2003 r. o ksztaltowaniu ustroju rolnego (Dz.U. Z 2012 r. poz. 803 ze zm.) . Zmiana przepisow dotyczaca swobodnego obrotu nieruchomosciami rolnymi nie spowodowala tego, (chociaz ku temu zmierza), ze grunty rolne pozostaja jedynie w rekach rolnikow. Osoby fizyczne, ktore nabyly ziemie przed 1 majem 2016 r., a nie sa zwiazane z rolnictwem udostepniaja ja innym w drodze umowy najmu czy tez dzierzawy. Otrzymywany czynsz jest korzyscia majatkowa, ktora prawo podatkowe traktuje w szczegolny sposob. Pozytki osiagane w drodze dzierzawy przez osobe fizyczna niezwiazana z rolnictwem sa traktowane w swietle podatku dochodowego od osob fizycznych na preferencyjnych zasadach. Celem artykulu jest analiza opodatkowania dochodow uzyskiwanych przez osoby fizyczne z tytulu udostepniania nieruchomosci rolnych osobom trzecim. W opracowaniu zastosowano analize regulacji prawnych dotyczacych dzialalnosci rolniczej i podatku dochodowego od osob fizycznych. Dla okreslenia rozbieznosci w opodatkowaniu czynszu z dzierzawy nieruchomosci rolnej na cele rolnicze i nierolnicze posluzono sie analiza porownawcza i dedukcja. Wynagrodzenie otrzymywane z dzierzawy gospodarstwa rolnego lub jego skladnikow na cele rolnicze nie stanowi zrodla przychodow w rozumieniu podatku dochodowego od osob fizycznych. Przychody uzyskiwane z udostepniania osobom trzecim innych nieruchomosci lub gospodarstw rolnych na cele nierolnicze podlegaja opodatkowaniu podatkiem dochodowym od osob fizycznych. Tutaj otrzymywany czynsz stanowi zrodlo przychodow w podatku dochodowym od osob fizycznych i podlega zgloszeniu do wlasciwego urzedu skarbowego.
K12|Human Rights and Sovereign Debts in the Context of Property and Creditor Rights|Post-War conceptions of human rights have evolved independently of long-established theory and practice of property and creditor rights, to the detriment of the development and implementation of human rights law. This chapter attempts to build a first bridge between these two fields of law. It begins by recalling the strikingly different origin and implementation of ‘human’ versus property and creditor rights, because the differences have significant implications. Human rights laws are more honoured in the breach than in the observance in most parts of the world, principally because states accepted international standards governing the treatment of their own nationals in their own territory while reserving to themselves the sovereign right to enforce those rights as they saw fit. In sharp contrast, when it comes to property and creditor rights, there are few gaps between principled intentions, legal mandates, and actual enforcement. Property and creditor rights are important for the attainment of other human rights, especially those of an economic nature, and many human rights are connected to, and are rather inseparable from, broadly conceived property rights. There follows a discussion of the still wide gap between aspirational human rights and economic reality. The time has come for human rights scholars to ratchet down their expectations to match the very limited capacity of low-income and formerly communist countries most prone to human rights deficiencies to import the Western European welfare state model. The final section focuses on the poorly understood interconnections between sovereign debts and human rights. Neglect of property and creditor-rights considerations has led many contemporary human rights advocates down an infertile, if not inappropriate, intellectual and policy path. Speculation that contracts governing cross-border debts and investments may not be sufficiently compelling, at least relative to human rights commitments, is unwarranted and counterproductive.
K12|Legal Systems and Blockchain Interactions|A large amount of money is spent globally in the litigation process. A significant chunk of litigations can actually be prevented from even arising if the policies, contracts and laws can be fully objectivised. Presently, the interpretation of law, contracts, policies etc. lead to a lot of confusion and ambiguities. This complicates the justice process. This paper deals with simplifying the legal procedures by using Blockchain Technology. Firstly I introduce the concept of Blockchains and Cryptocurrencies. Then we discuss the present legal services. The ways in which Blockchain technology can be applied to legal processes is identified. Civil and Common law systems are the most widespread in the world. The probable impact of Blockchain on law systems is evaluated. The paper concludes by summarizing the consequences and suitability of using Blockchain Technology in Law systems and Legal services.
K12|Pembiayaan Bank Syariah<BR>[Syariah Bank Financing]|This paper aims to describe more deeply the understanding of Islamic bank financing. As a country that is predominantly Muslim, it should be expected that the presence of Islamic banks in Indonesia is something to be expected. A bank is an industry that operates in the field of trust, which in this case is a financial intermediary between debtors and creditors. Islamic banks function as intermediary institutions, which function to collect funds from the community and redistribute these funds to the people who need them in the form of financing. namely to collect funds from the community and redistribute these funds to the people who need them in the form of financing. Financing is the largest source of income for Islamic banks, but at the same time is the biggest source of risk for business operations. Therefore, these funds must be used correctly, fairly, and must be accompanied by bonds and clear conditions that are mutually beneficial for both parties.
K12|Pembahasan Pembiayan Mudharabah<BR>[Discussion Of Mudharabah Financing]|abstract Mudharabah agreement is different from the financing agreement in banking in general (conventional banking). Conventional banking in general offers financing by determining certain interest rates and returns on capital that mudharib has used for a certain period of time. However, the mudharabah contract does not specify a certain interest rate on mudarib which uses mudharabah financing, but requires that the mudarib provide profit sharing from the benefits obtained by mudharib.
K12|Optimally vague contracts and the law|Many real-world contracts contain vague clauses despite the enforcement risk they entail. To study the causes and consequences of this phenomenon, we build a principal- agent model in which contracts can include vague clauses whose enforcement may be distorted by opportunistic litigants and biased judges. We find three results. First, the optimal contract is vague, even if courts are very imperfect. Second, the use of vague clauses is a public good: it promotes the evolution of precedents, so future contracts become more complete, incentives higher powered, and surplus larger. Third, as precedents evolve, vague contracts spread from sophisticated to unsophisticated parties, expanding market size. Our model sheds light on the evolution and diffusion of business-format franchising and equity finance.
K12|Smart Contracts – How will Blockchain Technology Affect Contractual Practices?|Abstract Unlike conventional contracts established through speech, written words, or actions, smart contracts are algorithmic, self-executing and self-enforcing computer programs. In this article, we analyze smart contracts from the perspective of digital platforms and the Finnish contract law. We examine how well the formation mechanisms of the general principles of contract law can be applied to the new technological framework of smart contracts. In addition, the adoptability of smart contracts as a part of our current legislation is evaluated on the basis of this analysis. We find that instead of a clearly defined single use case, smart contracts can be applied in a multitude of different ways, with highly varying goals and circumstances. We conclude that at least in some cases, smart contracts can create legally binding rights and obligations to their parties. The mechanism best suited for describing the formation of a smart contract seems to be analogous to a vending machine where the declaration of intent is implicitly expressed by performing contractual obligations. Contracts have not been formerly percieved as a technical boundary resource in the sense that platform ecosystems could foster broader network effects by opening their technical contracting interfaces to third parties. Smart contracts are an example of the new kinds of technology-enabled contracting practices to which companies and public policy makers should start preparing well ahead of time. However, due to the relative immaturity of the smart contract technology, the number of current real-world applications is still very limited. The evolution of digital platforms requires an approach with a combination of technological, economic and legal perspectives.
K12|The (Unfulfilled) Potential of Data Marketplaces|Abstract Although industrial datasets are abundant and growing daily, they are not being shared or traded openly and transparently on a large scale. We investigate the nature of data trading with a conceptual market design approach and demonstrate the importance of provenance to overcome protection and quality concerns. We consider the requirements for data marketplaces, comparing existing data marketplaces against standard market design metrics and outline both centralized and decentralized multilateral designs. We assess the benefits and potential operational features of emerging multilateral designs. We conclude with future research directions.
K12|Blockchain's struggle to deliver impersonal exchange|The paper identifies what value blockchain adds to the contractual and property processes, exploring its potential and analyzing the main difficulties it is facing. It argues that, contrary to naive conceptions that proclaim the end of intermediaries and state involvement, blockchain applications will rely on a variety of interface, completion and enforcement specialists, including standard public interventions, especially for property transactions. Without these interventions, blockchain applications will at most enable trade in in personam claims—instead of in rem rights—, therefore facilitating personal instead of truly impersonal—that is, asset-based—transactions.
K12|How to Make Land Titling more Rational|Substantial variety exists among systems of land and business formalization both over time and across countries. For instance, England relied on private titling and delayed land registration for centuries. In contrast, early on, its American colonies imported land recordation and its Australian colonies land registration. Similarly, in most of the world, governments used to allow voluntary land titling, in which owners decide whether they register their land. Recently, however, governments and international agencies have more often opted for universal titling, aiming to register all the land in a certain region. This paper critically examines these strategies, analyzing the costs and benefits of the two main decisions: whether to create a public titling system or to rely exclusively on private titling, and the choice between voluntary and universal titling. It concludes that universal titling is seldom optimal. In particular, it argues that lack of titling is more a consequence than a cause of poverty.
K12|Theoretische Erklärungsansätze für die Entsprechenserklärungen zu Abfindungen für Vorstandsmitglieder<BR>[Theoretical explanation approaches for the declarations of conformity regarding severance payments for members of the management board]|In diesem Beitrag werden theoretische Erklärungen gesucht für die dauerhaft hohe Abweichungsquote der Entsprechenserklärungen hinsichtlich Vorstandsabfindungen von über 20 % von Empfehlung Ziffer 4.2.3 Abs. 4 Deutscher Corporate Governance Kodex und für die Unabhängigkeit der Abweichungsquote von der Zugehörigkeit des Unternehmens zum Prime Standard und von der Zugehörigkeit des Unternehmens zu einem der Auswahlindices DAX, MDAX, TecDAX oder SDAX. Auch die mehrheitliche Überschreitung der Obergrenze trotz Entsprechenserklärungen und das Unterlassen der Erwähnung der Überschreitung im vergangenheitsorientierten Teil der folgenden Erklärung sollen erklärt werden. Aus verschiedenen theoretischen Modellen werden jeweils Veränderungsempfehlungen für die Regelung der Abfindungsobergrenzen für Vorstandsmitglieder abgeleitet.
K12|Reassessing the Ethicality of Some Common Financial Practices|Depositors have perceived banks as acting unethically during the most recent recession. One area of consternation is the ambiguity of the legal obligations entailed by the deposit contract when it is backed with only fractional reserves. In this article we apply an existing analysis of the legitimacy and ethicality of banking practices to a wider range of financial transactions, including insurance policies, securities lending, perpetual bonds and callable loans. Securities lending in particular creates rights violations analogous to those in fractional-reserve banking. Both callable loans and perpetual bonds have clear legal obligations which are not inherently problematic, though we herein clarify what these obligations are. Finally, we apply our ethical framework to demonstrate that insurance products are distinct from banking deposit contracts, and that perceived parallels between the two products underestimate these differences.
K12|Analysis of Contracts in Various Formats of Blockchain|One of the important features of Blockchain is that it allows the hosting and execution of contracts. Such a contract in the digital world is known as a Smart Contract. But the process and consequences of a contract vary radically from one format of Blockchain to another. One of the formats (and the most common at present) is the Unregulated Blockchain (like Bitcoin and Ethereum) with no government supervision whatsoever. Another format is the Controlled Blockchain which is managed and guaranteed by the Government. It is this difference that is vital in understanding the impacts and consequences of entering into and abiding by Smart Contracts. Firstly, the concept of cryptocurrencies (also referred to as cryptocoins in this paper) is explained. Then the concept of Regulated and Sovereign Backed Cryptocurrencies (RSBCs) is discussed. Later on, I explain how contracts vary between the two Blockchain formats. Finally, the paper concludes as to how smart contracts can be best executed and on which format of Blockchain.
K12|Online Communication and E-Commerce Dynamics in the European Union. A Consumer-Based Approach|The European Union has settled facilitating transactions within a single market as a primary aim. Consumers’ rights and protecting their safety are priorities for the European Union, alleging a partnership between member states and citizens. National legal systems represent the first problem in applying European rules because contract laws are different in many aspects, as many authors posit. The interest of this paper is finding out if consumers consider themselves well-informed, and which are the main channels used with a view to feeling comfortable and to trusting European market dynamics. Consumers’ opinions about the efficiency of online communication have a double impact on the social spectrum: being adaptive or being repellent. Hereby, the research questions mark the importance of online communication in delineating economic transactions. Our approach is from a social-cognitive perspective, acknowledging the importance of behavioral communication in economic boundaries. The environment in which consumers work or spend spare time determines and influences their acts, attitudes and social behavior. In order to understand how consumers’ look at the European Union’s interest in being more open to citizens and to how their social behavior in online area can mark the way consumers react to European goods, we resorted to a qualitative research, with in-depth interviews. Investigating the bond between consumers’ trust and consumers’ acts in acquiring European services brings into light the fact that communication remains unavoidable and compulsory for gaining citizens’ credential regardless of the frame of reference.
K12|Brief comments on the recovery of unused EU structural funds|Protection of EU financial interests is an important element of the Commission's political agenda in order to strengthen and enhance public confidence and to ensure proper use of taxpayers' money. The Lisbon Treaty has significantly strengthened the tools available that allow action to be taken in this regard (Articles 85, 86 and 325 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union - TFEU). Articles 310 (6) and 325 TFEU oblige both the EU and its Member States to combat all forms of illegal activities affecting the financial interests of the EU. It features a comprehensive set of tools to prevent and detect misuse of the EU budget.
K12|Termination Of The Caretaking Contract For Enforcement Objective Impossibility. Case Study|This study refers to a frequently used contract, namely the contract of caretaking, and presents the cancellation of this contract for the objective impossibility of out carrying it. Also, this case study highlights the legal issues that may occur in the situation of objective impossibility of execution of the caretaking obliga tion by the debtor – caretaker. In case of cancellation of such a contract there can be no discussion of succesors in rights from the debtor – caretaker because there is no mention about the continuity of the contract with the successors. Only from the creditor that was taken care of, there has been a will in favour of another person from outside the family, namely a third party
K12|The Risk Of Occurance Of An Unforseen Event While Performing A Contract For Execution Of Works|No matter if we are discussing the case of a material, an intellectual work or of a provision of services, the contract for the execution of works is of the utmost importance in the economic dynamics, having a large object that includes basically any kind of service procurement or execution of works, which are no t expressly regulated as being a different special type of contract. Considering the practical importance of this type of contract, we wanted to focus on an aspect which is essential, but sensitive at the same time- the subject of risks in the contracts for the execution of works. In order to incur the practical issues, we will draw our attention especially on those risks which may lead to the obstruction of works. After presenting the categories of identified risks, we will point out the party responsibl e for each of these risks and also the different types of liability that may be applicable. Lastly, in order to identify the most suitable solutions for practitioners, we will discuss those situations in which one of the parties of the contract for the exe cution of works intends to suspend or to terminate the contract and also the posibility of the parties to revise the price of the contract.
K12|Essential Clauses Of Individual Employment Contract - Questions And Answers|This study aims to analyze the legal texts of the Labour Code which refers to the elements / clauses in individual employment contract and clarifying those that have been essential. Rules of the Labour Code which refer to the contents of the individual employment contract are not consistent. The texts of the La bour Code which refer to the essential and specific clauses in individual employment contract are art. 17 para. (1) - (3), art. 20 and art. 41-48. Also Order no. 64/2003 sets out the mandatory elements that must be included in the individual employment con tract, showing that through negotiation between the parties, the contract may include specific clauses under the law. The analysis is done in the light of the provisions of art. 1179 and art. 1185 of the Civil Code, as in common law. At the end of the study, we conclude that certain provisions were essential character to the conclusion of any individual employment contract, others result of the negotiation, have essential character only to the contracting parties, while certain clauses are essential for certain types of individual employment contracts . Finally, it is assessed and the consequences of lack of essential clauses and establish its content contrary to legal norms.
K12|Tenant'S Insolvency In Lease Agreements|Constantly increasing interest rates along with the recent economic downturn represent real challenges not only for the tenants but also for the landlords. Usually, the economical blockage is reflected on the business performance of the landlord of commercial premises whose tenants, succumbing to the pressure of creditors and the repercussions of excessive pecuniary obligations intend to file for a reorganization plan.
K12|Critical Remarks On The Collective Labor Agreement In The Sphere Of Machine Building Companies And Metal Production For The Years 2016-2017|In this study we analyze the provisions of the collective labor agreement concluded in the sphere of machine building companies and metal production for the years 2016-2017.The analysis will reveal useful aspects that complement labor laws and also the offending clauses in the field of labor legislation. Study findings lead to the formulation of proposals with the purpose to improve collective bargaining in terms of reporting of the collective labor agreements to the provisions of the law.
K12|The Insurance Contract - A Support In The Business Sphere|"The Romanian Civil Code regulates, in the IXth Title (Various special contracts) of Book V (About obligations), a wealth of contracts, in a greater number than the old civil legislator (sale and purchase, exchange, lease, society, transport, warehouse, insurance, loan etc.), but the subject of this article makes me move towards the assurance contract. The insurance activity materializes as a contract by which, according to the Romanian Civil Code, the policyholder or the insured is obliged to pay a premium to the insurer, and the latter undertakes, if the insured case occurs, to pay an allowance, where necessary, to the insured, the insurance beneficiary or the injured third party. The insurance contract is commonly used in business because operators are subject to numerous risks and, for the safety and future of their business, for this activity to have as much life span as possible, they must ensure all goods and persons representing "" the engine"" of their business, as well as the licit/illicit nexpected events. The insurance area is a business, and more than that: it can support a business."
K12|The Company Contract In The New Romanian Civil Code, Reporting To The Special Provisions Of Law No. 31/1990|This study proposes its principal objective the analysis of the company contract, one of the most updated and used in the present, both regulated by the Civil Code and the Law no.31 / 1990. The general conditions of validity and the specific elements of the contract are presented and analyzed as well as the effects and changes made to the contract and the legal consequences concerning the constitution of the society. The desire to reform the Civil Code is not enough, a unitary conception of matter has to be promoted in the sphere of civil law, to avoid a chain reaction that will include amendments to other laws in force and to determine the development of others. The present study provides an overview of trying to create a new perspective and a more complete analysis.
K12|Practical Aspects Regarding Fiduciary Operations|The trusts have been frequently used in the countries which function under the Anglo-Saxon law system, but it most certainly represents an innovation in the new Romanian legislation. For this reason, in this paper, we tried to highlight the main differences between the trust regulated in the Romanian Civil code and its corespondent in other legal systems. Observing that the trust in an institution that is mainly theoretical, and the reluctance of practicioners in using it, we tried to analyze the trust, regarding its practical side. In this paper, we will take into consideration the following aspects: the rights that the trustee acquires after establishing the trust, that will be explained through the new regulations regarding the division of assets, the quality of the parties and the limits in which the trustee may be held liable. Other important aspects are: the means that the new regulations provide in order to protect the interests of the creditors and at the same time, the fiduciary assets; the formalities which the law requires and the means of termination of the contract. In the end, in order to identify alternative solutions, we will compare the trust (regulated in the Civil code) with the management of assets that belong to a third party.
K12|Considerations On The Termination Of The Insurance Contract By Denunciation|This study addresses the issue of termination of insurance contracts by unilateral denunciation in accordance with Article 2209 of the Civil Code. Distinguishing features of this unusual or specific type of insurance contract are highlighted, together with its differences from the unilateral denunciation of the co ntract provided in the common law. Simultaneously, we aim at analyzing the prerequisites for making unilateral denunciation of an insurance contract, the legal effect of the denunciation throughout the notice period, as well as the effects of the insurance contract termination as a result of its denunciation.
K12|Transport Contract - Exception To The Relativity Effects Of Legal Document|The parts to the contract are the shipper freight and the carrier. But the beneficiary of the contract is the conignee, although he doesn’t take part to the signing of the contract, he is (if he is adhering to the contract) acquirer of rights and obligations which result from the contract of carriage. The contract of carriage is considered an exception to the principle of relativity effects of the legal act and it is considered by some authors in the literature as a stipulation for another with certain features. Stipulation for another is the contract whereby one part (stipulate) provide that the other side (promisor) to give, to do or not to do something for the benefit of a third person (beneficiary) who do not participate, and he doesn’t take part to the conclusion of the contract. It is considered the only real exception of the principle of relativity. Called contract for another's benefit, stipulation for another creates for the beneficiary third-part right, directly and immediately created in his benefit since the conclusion of the contract between the promisor and the stipulate. The right is created from the time of signing the contract, in the patrimony of beneficiary, regardless of beneficiary’s accepting or waivering this right.
K12|Aspects Regarding The Enforceability Against Third Parties Of Choice Of Court Agreements In International Disputes|The problem enforceability of agreements conferring jurisdiction to persons other than the parties that have accepted knows no textual legal settlement in European procedural law. Through its action, the European Court of Justice, however, brought important clarifications in the matter, without following yet a uniform: the disputes brought before it, the high European court preferred for certain hypotheses to consider solutions of national law, effectiveness agreements conferring jurisdiction admissible conditioning; other times, she opted for the formulation of European autonomous substantive rules recognizing or, alternatively, directly denying their effectiveness. In an attempt to bring more clarity in the matter, the study proposes a review of existing solutions, identifying their justifications and offering several key milestones that should be considered in solving concrete problems in practice.
K12|Risks In The Enforcement Of Assignment Of Claim Arising From A Bank Loan Agreement|Identifying the risks generated in the matter of by the assignment of claim arising from a bank loan agreement following the review the of the court judgments delivered by courts within the Cluj Court of Appeal. The result of the study is practical, topical,with implications on the banking market in Romania of the practitionersidentified deem that the bank loan agreement loses its enforceability following the assignment of claim, and the novation of the assignee creditor during the enforcement did not occur.
K12|Sale Subject To Modalities|The study proposed by the author discusses a distinct version of the sale-purchase agreement, i.e. the sale subject to term or condition. The scientific approach of the author concentrates on highlighting the main legal aspects specific to the analysed category of sales and their correct interpretation. Moreover, the paper supplements the scientific study of the varieties of the sale-purchase agreement, the range of which is practically infinite, given the principle of contractual freedom governing the civil circuit in our legal system. The author examines the legal norms in the current Civil Code that regulate the modalities that the sale-purchase agreement in question is subject to, the term and condition, as well as the means in which they influence the legal relationship existing based on the conclusion of such agreement, especially with regard to the rights and obligations of the contracting parties. The study also presents certain doctrinary points of view in this regard and is addressed equally to legal sciences theorists, researchers, professors, students, MA students and PhD students, as well as attorneys, who it provides with a few reference points that could arouse their interest for researching the subject and expanding the conclusions with regard to the fair application of the special norms in the examined field.
K12|Instrumentos alternativos de financiación para las cooperativas españolas<BR>[Alternative financing instruments for spanish cooperative]|La búsqueda de financiación constituye un quehacer permanente de la empresa, que se agudiza, particularmente, en los momentos de crisis económica y afecta, también, a las cooperativas. La legislación cooperativa pone a disposición de estas entidades diversos instrumentos de financiación externa a través de la emisión de valores (obligaciones; títulos participativos; participaciones especiales), a ellos se añaden las cuentas en participación, aunque sin mucho detalle en los textos legales. En el trabajo indagamos sus posibilidades, fijándonos, especialmente, en esas últimas; buscamos clarificar su régimen jurídico y contrastar sus potencialidades como un instrumento técnico, alternativo, para la financiación en el ámbito de las sociedades cooperativas. En fin, vemos también la incidencia de la reciente Ley 5/2015, de fomento de la financiación empresarial, en el sector del cooperativo y terminamos proponiendo algunas adaptaciones normativas.
K12|Coase and the departure from property|Ronald H. Coase was one of the most innovative and provocative economists of the twentieth century. Besides his best known papers on ‘The Nature of the Firm’ and ‘The Problem of Social Cost’, he had a major role in the development of the field of law and economics, and made numerous influential contributions to topics including public utilities, regulation and the functioning of markets. In this comprehensive Companion, 31 leading economists, social scientists and legal scholars assess the impact of his work with particular reference to the research programs initiated, the influence on policymakers, and the challenge to conventional perspectives.
K12|How Rome enabled impersonal markets|Impersonal exchange increases trade and specialization opportunities, encouraging economic growth. However, it requires the support of sophisticated public institutions. This paper explains how Classical Rome provided such support in the main areas of economic activity by relying on public possession as a titling device, enacting rules to protect innocent acquirers in agency contexts, enabling the extended family to act as a contractual entity, and diluting the enforcement of personal obligations which might collide with impersonal exchange. Focusing on the institutions of impersonal exchange, it reaches a clear positive conclusion on the market-facilitating role of the Roman state because such institutions have unambiguously positive effects on markets. Moreover, being impersonal, these beneficial effects are also widely distributed across society instead of accruing disproportionately to better-connected individuals.
K12|I rinvii legali ai contratti collettivi e il jobs act: problemi e sfide della contrattazione aziendale|LÕautore affronta il tema dei rinvii alla contrattazione collettiva nel d.lgs. 81/2015 focalizzando lÕattenzione sui suoi contenuti. Innanzitutto, egli sintetizza il dibattito in materia di rapporto fra legge e contratto collettivo, poi evidenzia le caratteristiche specifiche dei nuovi rinvii alla contrattazione collettiva aziendale e ne propone una classificazione. Infine, individua dei possibili problemi di funzionamento che possono depotenziare la portata innovativa del nuovo decreto e che rappresentano lÕennesima prova dellÕurgenza, nellÕinteresse generale, di regolare il rapporto fra le fonti del diritto del lavoro.
K12|Freedom of contract and financial stability through the lens of the Legal Theory of Finance (LTF): LTF approaches to ABS, Pari Passu-Clauses, CCPs, and Basel III|This paper is the outcome of a related broader project, exploring the explanatory power of the Legal Theory of Finance, which proposes a new institution-based analytical framework for the analysis of phenomena of financial markets. One of its most important theoretical assumptions, the legal construction of financial markets, is highlighted by the example of the private creation of money by structured finance products in this paper. Further implications can then be shown referring to pari passu clauses and collective action clauses, which are both exhibit a differential application of these legal rules according to the hierarchical status of the respective market participant, and can therefore endanger sovereign debt restructurings. Legal instruments to avoid this are briefly explored. An example of another key role of the law in crisis that is the task to resolve the tension between market discipline and financial stability is exemplified by the regulation of the OTC derivatives market and proposals of effective loss-sharing among CCPs. Related questions about the significance of legal rules to ensure financial stability are raised in the analysis of minimum capital requirements under Basel III.
K12|Settlement Offers|We analyze how early settlement offers affect Nash bargaining outcomes when agents are asymmetrically informed about the distribution of bargaining powers and exhibit expectations-based loss-aversion preferences. Before the start of the bargaining process, the sender has private information about the receiver’s bargaining power. His settlement offers may convey this private information so that they change the receiver’s expectations and, by loss aversion, preferences. We show that the sender can exploit this mechanism by making non-binding settlement offers, i.e., the receiver is free to accept them at any time, even after learning her true bargaining value.
K12|Global Commercial Law between Unity, Pluralism, and Competition: The Case of the CISG|The global legal system consists of a multitude of legal regimes of various origin, thus constituting a regulatory framework which is significantly different from the one of a nation state. In the absence of a world state, international and supranational law regimes, various domestic legal systems, and transnational law regimes such as the lex mercatoria each claim normative authority in the global sphere, which inevitably overlap and interfere in some issue areas. Not surprisingly, this messy state has attracted some attention among legal theory scholars, stimulating various different lines of thought on how global law is actually structured and which organizing principles ought to be in operation. In this paper we identify unity, pluralism, and competition as three paradigms, which qualify in particular to guide our discourse on the structure and the organizing principles of global law. Since theoretical debates tend to remain quite abstract and vague, if not opaque, we decided to flesh out the differences and commonalities between the approaches by applying the three paradigms to the concrete field of the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods (CISG) as a cornerstone of global commercial law. This brings together up to now more or less separate theoretical and dogmatic discourses in a fruitful cross-disciplinary way. As a result, we plea for a paradigmatic pluralism, meaning that global law should not be constructed according to one single organizing principle only. This paper serves as an introduction to three in-depth papers, which each explore the issue from the perspective of one paradigm. Altogether they will publish in a focus issue of the Uniform Law Review in 2016.
K12|Book Review: Jurisprudence of the Islamic Financial Engineering: Foundation and Practical Study, by: Murdi Al-Enazi, Reviewed by: Abderrazak Said Belabes مراجعة علمية لكتاب: فقه الهندسة المالية الإسلامية: دراسة تأصيلية تطبيقية - تأليف: مرضي مشوّح العنزي - مراجعة: عبدالرزاق سعيد بلعباس|Financial engineering is considered one of the hottest topics that attract the attention of researchers in Islamic finance. In this context, Murdi al-Anzi prepared a Ph.D. thesis at Qassim University in order to establish a foundation for the topic according to Islamic law on the basis of some products used in the Islamic financial industry. The book review concludes several results, notably: the awareness of the non-neutrality of means, the rigor in the use of the concept of innovation, and overcoming the elitist view which holds that financial solutions are the prerogative of financial engineers. The book review recommends the preparation of two survey studies: The developments concerning the research on financial engineering in the light of the financial crisis, and the writings about Islamic financial engineering in English and French. تُعدُّ الهندسة الماليّة من الموضوعات الساخنة التي تجلب اهتمام الباحثين في التمويل الإسلامي. في هذا الإطار أعدّ مرضي العنزي أطروحة دكتوراه بجامعة القصيم لتأصيل الموضوع بناء على بعض المنتجات المتداولة في الصناعة المالية الإسلامية. وتخلص المراجعة العلمية إلى نتائج عدّة، من أبرزها: الوعي بعدم حيادية الوسائل، وضبط مصطلح الابتكار، وتجاوز النظرة النخبوية التي ترى أن الحلول المالية هي من اختصاص المهندسين الماليين. وتوصي المراجعة العلمية بضرورة إعداد دراستين مسحيتين: تتناول أولاهما مستجدات البحث العلمي في الهندسة المالية في ضوء الأزمة المالية العالمية، والثانية الكتابات عن الهندسة المالية الإسلامية باللغتين الإنجليزية والفرنسية.
K12|Enforceable contracts and the consequences of termination on them in Romania|The article is dedicated to the overall presentation of contracts to which the law recognizes the power of enforcement, in a brief retrospect carried out through the Roman law and their evolution to the present day as they are found in the Civil Code or special laws that govern them. The contract is in effect, the conventional framework by which parties incur obligations and acquire rights in relation to each other, representing the materialization of the agreement of the parties and is only deemed validly concluded if the parties have expressed their consent freely and without undue influence. Contract partners are free to insert any clauses they want in the Covent signed, provided that they do not contravene to public order or morality. But the aim is to highlight both the power of the contract, and even more the importance of expressing the individual’s will on its fate. The importance of this legal act never contested, made the legislator invest it with the force of law between the contracting parties. So in cases expressly stipulated by the rules of law, this legal act has been given the benefit of enforcement, however without prejudicing in any way the principle of autonomy of will and without creating a contractual imbalance, privileges or discriminations.
K12|La contractualisation des rapports pecuniaires entre epoux en droit camerounais|The matrimonial regimes in Cameroonian’s law is known nowadays as the venue of unexpected solutions in matters concerning divorce, corps’ separation and widowage because of severe confusions made by the Jurisprudence every time It’s sued to liquidate or share a matrimonial patrimony. Though, it has been long times stated that throughout a marriage’s agreement signed before the marriage celebration, spouses could organize their patrimonial relationship by themselves, choosing clearly and precisely their matrimonial regime. Such old and viable solution shows the place of contract in the Law of matrimonial regimes. It appears as one of the remedies against the incertitude of the jurisprudence in family’s patrimonial cases in Cameroon, where the customs are so heavy that even judges in charge of modern law, couldn’t resist in applying its solutions as they did in the KOUM’s case. To correct those incertitude in the “contractualization” of the patrimonial relationships in marriage remain the best solution. It can be possible according to the civil code by or without spouses will. Any way, it’s a means to modernize the Law of matrimonial regimes and reduce matrimonial unsolved cases.
K12|The fiduciary guarantee in the Romanian and European legal context|The importance of the fiduciary guarantee has not reached its full potential in the Romanian market, nor in the European area. The ongoing “dispute” between the fiduciary operations (familiar to the continental law) and the trust (with its common -law heritage) seems to be won by the latter. However, considering the express provisions on the fiduciary operations in the Romanian Civil Code entered into force in 2011, similar to the introduction of the same legal instrument in the French Civil Code in 2007, could give a boost to this ancient tool, present from the Roman era. Even if the European legal framework do not provide many rules on this institution, however, the Financial Collateral Directive raised many questions on how the fiduciary guarantees can be used in practice, and contributed to the change that followed in this area.
K12|FIDIC contracts: analysis of the impact of general and particular conditions on the financial risk management in Romanian infrastructure projects|Construction projects are characterized by risks and uncertainties mainly due to technical and economic complexity. Risk management is an important tool in making decisions involving the identification and reduction, avoidance or transfer risk and uncertainties consequences of events that occurs during project implementation. For this reason, the objective of the contract between the beneficiary and the contractor is the allocation of risk. The distribution of risk in contracts for the execution of construction works was and is an ongoing challenge faced by parties having a significant impact on the type of contract is used. On the one hand, the beneficiaries tend to transfer to the contractors as many of the project risks and uncertainties, on the other hand, the contractors look to exploit any weakness contract, so as to reduce their impact on the expected profit. One of the most important risks assumed by the contractor by signing the contract which is also increasingly common in the current economic situation is the reduced financial capacity to support the project. A purely legal or purely technical interpretation is not meant to describe the complexity of issues related to implementation of construction projects. For this reason the authors have adopted a multi-disciplinary approach, which includes the legal issues related to the nature of the contract, but also the financial and technical aspects of construction projects. The paper aims to analyze how special contract clauses can influence the implementation of construction projects and in particular the financial management of contractors. The authors propose a model for analyzing the impact of FIDIC contract conditions applied on a case study of five transport infrastructure projects.
K12|Some considerations on the legal qualification of the contracting authority|The present study makes an analysis of the concept of contracting authority in the context in which the legal definition of this concept leads, in several specific cases, to doubts and the impossibility of correct application of the law when one puts into discussion the local authorities and some legal persons of public law who have a well-defined legal status. Both situations create real difficulties in practice by the correct application of public procurement law so that it may challenge these parts of such public contracts even if they are of good faith and desire the fair enforcement of law.
K12|Land lease contract and prior right of lessee to concluding the new land lease contract - case of Slovakia|Land lease is one of the few possible ways to use the agricultural land effectively. This is caused by problems in the proprietary and user relationships, therefore the agricultural land lease and its legal regulation is especially important for Slovakia. This paper deals with the selected legal arrangements related to the agricultural land lease in Slovakia with an objective to identify application problems faced by lessees and lessors of agricultural land. When regulating the agricultural land lease relationships, the Slovak law maker prefers dispositive legal norms. However, this method is rarely used in the application practice. Contracting parties often focus only on obligatory characters of the contract, relying on the legal text of dispositive provisions. The legal arrangement of the lessee’s prior right to sign the new lease contract attracts a particular attention. Current legal regulation of this lessee’s right seems to be unenforceable; on the other hand, it collides with the basic human rights. This provision needs to be either cancelled or adjusted so that it achieves the objective defined by the law maker and so that it is legally enforceable in compliance with superior legal norms .
K12|The balance between the parties in Law N° 2015/018 of December 21, 2015 governing the commercial activity in Cameroon|"On the 21st of December 2015, the Cameroonian legislature adopted Law N° 2015/018 with the aim of modernizing the mechanisms put in place for the supervision of the commercial activity in this State. This modernization results in the establishment of tools aimed at eliminating situations which are detrimental to the contractual balance. The idea behind these provisions is to reinforce the clarity and integrity of consent when concluding the contract, while at the same time eliminating the abuses that have endured during the conclusion. However, the assessment of these measures reveals a diminished efficiency. These shortcomings are due to two reasons: the discrimination against the protection of victims of the imbalance according to the ""consumer / professional"" distinction made and the lack of instruments to restore the balance in the contractual relationship of the parties."
K12|The distribution contracts: an Iberian approach|The contracts of commercial distribution are indispensable legal instruments to the development of the economic activity. The distribution, since the industrial revolution, acquired autonomy, given the necessity of specialized intermediation to distribute good and products. In this process, the structural organization of the distribution process suffered mutations, starting to assume a set of activities aiming at adjusting demand to supply, including, among others, clients canvassing, after-sales services, financing and assumption of risks, advisory services, promotion and advertising. The insufficiency of traditional contracts of purchase and sales and commission to satisfy the distributive needs caused by the industrial revolution will justify the development of new contractual schemes, such us agency contract, commercial concession and franchising. The obligation of the distributer to ensure the interests of the producer and to promote the distribution of the goods and services of the producer, in the context of a lasting relation of cooperation between the parts, through which the distributer is incorporated, with greater or minor intensity, in the producer distribution network, allowed us to sustain, as affirmed in the Portuguese and European literature, that distribution contracts could be framed in the same legal category. These contracts, as contracts that were shaped by praxis, do not have, with excepti on of agency contract, a legal framework in Portugal and Spain. It has been discussed in literature if agency contract legal framework can be applied, by analogy, to the contracts that fit in the legal category of distribution contracts. This paper aims at analyzing the legal framework of contracts of distribution in these legal systems, with the purpose to discuss the analogical application of the agency contract to these contracts.
K12|The unilateral declaration of rescission - an extrajudicial mean of terminating a contract|Based on the provisions of article 1169 of the Civil Code, the parties are free to conclude any contract; however, based on the principle of the mandatory force of contract, the parties are held to execute the contract as signed. According to article 1549 of the new Civil Code, in case the debtor fails to execute its obligations accordingly, the creditor is entitled to invoke one of the following remedies: execution by equivalent; foreclosure; rescission or termination of contract or the reduction of the debtor’s performance or the use of any other legal mean available in order to achieve his right. Rescission can manifest under any of the two forms: judicial and extrajudicial. Extrajudicial rescission also has two forms: unilateral rescission and conventional rescission. Unilateral rescission operates based on the unilateral declaration of rescission. At first sight, the creditor’s possibility to terminate the contract by rescission presents some practical issues regarding the conditions when it can be invoked, the form of the declaration, its legal effects (namely the real possibility of reinstating the parties in their previous position) and the statute of limitation of the right to invoke rescission. All these aspects were subject to our analysis, thus attempting to find the practical solution for enforcing this highly anticipated solution in the new social-legal context.
K12|Collateral in Italy: a legal and economic analysis of privileges, pledges and mortgages|The work presents a legal and economic analysis of how collateral works in Italy. Specific attention is focused on privileges, pledges and mortgages, because of the prominent role they play in banking relationships. The paper highlights the critical issues in the current legislative framework and discusses some recent regulatory changes. It argues in favour of a simplification of privileges, reserving them for involuntary or unsophisticated creditors. At the same time, it analyses the rationale of the recent modernization of pledges, which, among other things, allows debtors to retain control over an asset and to use it within the production process. The new repossession mechanisms are an important alternative to judicial foreclosure for liquidating collateral. However, fine-tuning them, along with creating appropriate safeguards tailored for debtors in difficulty, would make them more effective.
K12|International Delivery Risks: The Case of Delivered Duty Paid in Australia|The choice of delivery terms in international contracts has significant impact on both physical and financial risks for importers and exporters. This paper considers implications resulting from a recent Australian tribunal case involving transactions based on Delivered Duty Paid (DDP) terms (Incoterms). This case highlights how importers may become exposed to unexpected financial penalties caused by incorrect processes from foreign suppliers that result in duty and taxation payment shortfalls. The discussion focuses on the risk elements related to DDP for importers and the interpretation of legislation and policy documents. A chronological timeline of events is provided to explain the changes in policies and interpretation related to ownership as defined by Australian customs legislation. The conclusion is that, due to customs considerations and the decision of the tribunal in this case, DDP may no longer be a viable option for international trade transactions, not only in Australia, but also in other nations.Fulltext: https://doi.org/10.1515/acta-2016-0005
K12|Unbundling Efficient Breach: An Experiment|Current law and economics scholarship analyzes efficient breach cases monolithically. The standard analysis holds that breach is efficient when performance of a contract generates a negative total surplus for the parties. However, by simplistically grouping efficient breach cases as of a single kind, the prior literature overlooks that gainseeking breaches might be different from loss-avoiding breaches. To capture these different motives, we designed a novel game called Contract-Breach Game where we exogenously varied the reasons for the breach — pursuing a gain or avoiding a loss — under a specific performance remedy. Results from an incentivized laboratory experiment indicate that the motives behind the breach induce sizable differences in behavior; subjects are less willing to renegotiate when facing gain-seeking than loss-avoiding breaches, and the compensation premium obtained by the promisee is higher. Our analysis suggests that inequality aversion is an important driver of our results; indeed, inequality-averse subjects accept low offers more often in cases of loss-avoiding breaches than gain-seeking breaches. These results give us insight into the preferences and expectations of ordinary people in a case of a breach.
K12|Normalizing Leasing Operations. National Issues|The current economic context requires companies to have the capacity for innovation, dynamism and flexible approach of the techniques to finance business, meaning choosing the best solutions both in terms of costs and in terms of the accounting impact. A financing decision must be the result of management involvement and company accountancy involvement. Changing the economic environment where companies act requires the reconsideration of financing sources and the use of all solutions, including leasing. The dynamics of the leasing sector, the increase in the level of using this technique as a financing source, both due to the lending restrictions caused by the eligibility conditions imposed by the banking sector and as a consequence of increasing the degree of economic culture, make it necessary to know how the normalization of leasing operations works. Based on such considerations, the present paper aims at highlighting the main issues of leasing operations, both as a trade and financing variant, and their accounting treatment.
K12|Law, Trust & Institutional Change in China: Evidence from Qualitative Fieldwork|China’s rapid growth in the absence of autonomous legal institutions of the kind found in the west appears to pose a problem for theories which stress the importance of law for economic development. In this paper we draw on interviews with lawyers, entrepreneurs and financial market actors to illustrate the complexity of attitudes to law and economic growth in contemporary China. In the case of product markets, business relations are increasingly characterised by a mix of trust-based transacting and legal formality which is not fundamentally different from practice in the west. Financial markets are less like their western counterparts, thanks to the preponderant role of government in asset allocation, and a lack of transparency in market pricing. However, in both sets of markets we find evidence of a transition from inter-personal trust (guanxi) to impersonal transacting, and of growing demands from business and legal groups for the impartial application of legal rules and market regulations. China’s experience does not suggest that law is irrelevant or unrelated to growth, but that legal and economic institutions coevolve in the transition from central planning to a market economy.
K12|Enforcement Of Mortgage Contract|A chattel mortgage contract is the expression of a real guarantee that gives the creditor precedence over other creditors, in addition to the general pledge upon the belongings of the debtor. It refers to the sale of mortgaged movable assets, exclusively or prioritized in favor of the mortgaging creditor, in case the debtor does not comply with his / her commitments, under the signed mortgage contract. Beginning from this purpose, shared by both sides (as the chattel mortgage contract is synallagmatic), in case the debtor is unable to fulfill his / her commitments, the sides reach a situation of enforcement of the signed chattel mortgage contract. Given the legal status of the chattel mortgage contract [Art. 2387-2477 Noul Cod Civil , Universul Juridic, Bucureşti, 2016, ISBN 978-606-673-792-0], the principle of binding force of the contract and the principle according to which signed legal conventions will entail legal effects, the Romanian law maker developed the proper legal framework for the enforcement of the chattel mortgage contract. [art. 622 si urm. Noul Cod de Procedură Civilă, ed. Hamangiu, Bucureşti, 2016, ISBN 978-606-27-0459-9].
K12|Political risk in foreign direct investments and its reduction by bilateral investment treaties|The first part of this paper focuses on the definition of political risk in foreign direct investments. The main objective of this paper is to present the role and the evaluation of the functioning of Bilateral Investment Treaties (BIT) in Poland. BIT’s play an important role in polish economy. Research studies, that were conducted at the beginning of 2016, concentrated on comparative analysis of selected BIT’s. These studies bring interesting conclusions concerning BIT’s in Poland.
K12|The Register of Dishonest Tenants as a solution to problems on the real estate market|The study analyzes the problems encountered by property lessors in dealing with dishonest tenants on the Polish rental market. The article proposes a new legal tool, a Register of Dishonest Tenants (RDT), which would provide property owners with more extensive rights in protecting their property against dishonest lessees. The main objective was achieved in three steps: 1) the legal regulations and the literature relating to lease contracts were analyzed; 2) the situation on the Polish rental market was discussed; 3) the proposed legal tool for protecting property owners against dishonest tenants was presented. The authors also postulated the need to introduce legal definitions of the terms “dishonest tenant” (the definition is formulated in the article) and “commercial premises”, including their functions. The authors argue that the proposed legal instrument could be an effective and rational solution to the growing problem of dishonest tenancy. The presented RDT would protect the interests of landlords and would contribute to the effectiveness of the rental market in Poland.
K12|Psychic Punishment Costs and Deterrence|"In this paper we analyze criminal deterrence in the presence of specific psychic costs of punishments. We consider a dynamic model with three players, analyzing the choices of a representative lawmaker, potential criminal and judge. In our setting the lawmaker decides whether to introduce a fixed punishment enhancement above a chosen threshold of crime level, depending on its popularity among the voters. In reaction, the judge, who is influenced by her own preferences as well as the opinion of her peer group, might change the probability of punishment, through affecting the standard of reasonable doubt. Our results suggest that large discontinuous and mandatory increases in punishment can have unintended effects that are contrary to the stated goal of such punishment enhancements. In equilibrium, when either the judge or her peer group is ""anti-punishment"" enough, the level of criminal activity might increase in response to the punishment enhancement. This perverse effect is less likely to occur if there is a higher number of peer groups within the ""elite"", so that a greater extent of self-selection by judges can occur. Our results have relevance for a number of areas outside the traditional criminal justice system as well, such as special courts (such as ecclesiastical or military courts), or the strictness and enforcement of regulations."
K12|Dynastic entrepreneurship, entry, and non-compete enforcement|We investigate entry in a dynastic entrepreneurship (overlapping generations) environment created by employee spinoffs. Contracting failures, caused by non-verifiability of profits from new activities in original firms and overall profits from subsequent entrants, may lead respectively to implementation of new employee ideas in spinoffs and constraints on borrowing to buy out non-compete agreements. If borrowing constraints are not binding, enforcement of non-compete agreements unambiguously improves social welfare outcomes, increasing the entry of both original firms and subsequent generations of spinoffs. However, if employees are unable to buy out their non-compete covenants, enforcement of these agreements shuts down socially profitable spinoff firms. Non-enforcement sacrifices entry of original firms that would be marginally profitable in the absence of employee spinoffs, but otherwise clearly improves social welfare outcomes over enforcement in the presence of binding finance constraints.
K12|Debt covenants and credit spread valuation: The special case of Chinese global bonds|Bond covenants protect against risk factors in Chinese global bonds. This paper examines the impact of bond covenants on credit spread valuation and the configural cue processing of analysts in the aftermath of the Global Financial Crisis at the beginning of the 2011 China economic slowdown. We used a mixed methods approach that incorporates surveys and interviews to collect data from bank and investment analysts representative of the market. The results reveal important and statistically significant relationships between Chinese global bond valuation and covenant protection against 1) information asymmetry; 2) the agency problem; 3) financial distress and 4) bankruptcy. Covenant protection against bankruptcy is identified as the most significant factor in main effects and two-factor interactive effects. This is followed by a moderate influence on bond valuation from covenant protection against agency problems, financial distress and information asymmetry risks.
K12|Efficient incentives from obligation law and the compensation principle|The compensation principle provides an analytical link between the requirement to compensate for deviations from legal or contractual obligations and the economic desideratum of rules providing efficient incentives. Quantifying damages suitably in line with the difference hypothesis, even relative to an inefficient obligation profile, would ensure the compensating goal being achieved as required for the compensation principle. The paper applies this insight to various settings from tort and contract law, leading to new results but also to a unifying perspective on findings from the existing literature.
K12|Optimal rules of negligent misrepresentation in insurance contract law|Rules of misrepresentation in insurance contract law differ widely between jurisdictions. When the insured has negligently misrepresented a fact prior to contracting, common law allows the insurer to rescind the contract if the misrepresentation was material, while civil law countries apply more lenient rules. The article compares the efficiency of the common and the civil law rules in an adverse selection model in which the insurer separates types of risk not only through a deductible but also by requiring the insured to represent their type. A strict rule of misrepresentation increases the incentive for policy-holders to represent truthfully but also exposes them to risk when they may misrepresent by mistake. While the economic literature has tended to defend the strict common law rule, because it makes it easier for the insurer to separate types, the present article demonstrates that the more lenient civil law rules may be more efficient, especially when the cost for the insurer of auditing types is low.
K12|The governance of blockchain financial networks|Since the emergence of the virtual currency Bitcoin in 2009, a new, Internet-based way of recording entitlements and enforcing rights has increasingly captured the interest of businesses and governments. The technology is commonly called ‘blockchain’ and is often associated with a closely related phenomenon, the ‘smart contract’. The market is now exploring ways of using these concepts for financial assets, such as securities, legal tender and derivative contracts. This article develops a conceptual framework for the governance of blockchain-based networks in financial markets. It constructs a vision of how financial regulation and private law should set the boundaries of this new technology in order to protect market participants and societies at large, while at the same time allowing for the necessary room for innovation.
K12|L’Unione bancaria e il suo impatto sul rapporto tra intermediari e consumatori|Nel diritto europeo, la vigilanza bancaria si sovrappone chiaramente a discipline giuridiche privatistiche, tanto più a seguito della progressiva realizzazione dell’Unione bancaria. Ciò si verifica anzitutto nella governance societaria della banca, ossia nella disciplina della sua auto-organizzazione, in particolare per quanto riguarda i poteri e le responsabilità dei singoli organi. Diritti e doveri di rilevanza privatistica derivano poi dalla disciplina del risanamento e della c.d. risoluzione delle banche, soprattutto per quanto riguarda il meccanismo del bail-in. Infine, si deve esaminare l’impatto della vigilanza bancaria sui diritti e gli obblighi contrattuali e pre-contrattuali tra le banche e i loro clienti. Un esempio paradigmatico di tale fenomeno si può rinvenire nella disciplina del credito ai consumatori. In particolare, gli standard di vigilanza inerenti alle pratiche di prestito responsabile (responsible lending) si traducono nell’obbligo della banca di prestare nella fase pre-contrattuale un vero e proprio servizio di consulenza finanziaria a favore del consumatore.
K12|Usura e interessi|Il tema dell’usura tocca diversi aspetti centrali della disciplina del contratto e delle obbligazioni. Di particolare attualità sono il problema dell’assoggettamento o meno degli interessi moratori al giudizio di usura e, in caso affermativo, il nodo della valutazione congiunta o disgiunta dagli interessi corrispettivi. Al riguardo si è registrata una diversa presa di posizione dell’ABF rispetto all’orientamento della Corte di Cassazione. Il saggio mira a sottoporre a valutazione entrambi gli orientamenti, la prassi bancaria sul calcolo degli interessi moratori e le opinioni principali della dottrina così da giungere a una proposta di soluzione che include gli interessi moratori nel costo complessivo del finanziamento, ma affida la reazione al superamento del tasso soglia a un sistema di rimedi che cerca di bilanciare la protezione del cliente tanto con la necessaria remunerazione del finanziamento quanto con la reazione all’inadempimento del sovvenuto.
K12|Il consumatore di servizi finanziari nelle norme di diritto internazionale privato dell’Unione europea|"In questo breve contributo ci si propone di tracciare un quadro delle norme di diritto internazionale privato, intese in senso lato, vigenti nell’Unione europea in relazione ai contratti che riguardano gli strumenti finanziari e la prestazione di servizi finanziari nei confronti dei consumatori. In tale prospettiva, particolare attenzione viene prestata alla nozione di ""consumatore"" nel diritto dell’Unione europea e nella giurisprudenza della Corte di giustizia nonché al coordinamento dello strumento internazional- privatistico con le direttive di tutela sostanziale dei consumatori."
K12|"Il ""rent to buy"": problemi e prospettive di un contratto di recente tipizzazione"|"Il presente contributo si prefigge di analizzare brevemente l'istituto del ""rent to buy"" alla luce dei principali orientamenti dottrinali emessi dopo la sua regolamentazione legislativa e delle primissime pronunce giurisprudenziali. Oltre che sull'esame generale dei profili strutturali del contratto e della relativa disciplina, ci si è soffermati in particolare sulle caratteristiche del corrispettivo: certamente tra gli aspetti più innovativi che connotano questa nuova figura rispetto agli istituti tradizionali."
K12|Business Transaction Invalidity In the Context of the Principle of Legality|This paper explores business transactions in the context of the principle of legality. It will be argued that Article 168 of the Russian Civil Code, as a meta-rule, contains three types of rules: 1) rules dealing with the priority of special rule and exceptions (exclusive rules); 2) rules dealing with the interpretation of general, special and exclusive rules as well as with the requirements of statutes or other legal acts violated by a transaction and established outside Article 168 of the Civil Code; 3) rules dealing with the admissibility of special rule and exceptions, as well as with the conditions of admissibility of these rules. With regard to the first group of the rules, the legislature and commercial courts consider Article 168 of the Civil Code a common base with respect to other grounds in the Civil Code and in certain other statutes for declaring transactions invalid. According to the second group of rules, the subject-matter (object) of legal interpretation consists of two elements: à) the text of Article 168 of the Civil Code; and b) the texts of legal acts, described by the generic term “statute or other legal act.” Article 168 of the Civil Code provides instructions not only for rules as objects of application of the article, but also for the methods of interpreting violated requirements. The rules of admissibility for special rule and exceptions, as well as the conditions of admissibility for these standards, are aimed at the numerous cases in which the legislature, in the Civil Code or in other legal acts, expressly establishes nullity (voidness), voidability and other legal consequences for illegal transactions. The paper also answers questions regarding the impact of recent amendments to the Russian Civil Code on using rules for business transaction invalidity in commercial courts
K12|Principals, Agents and Incomplete Contracts: Are Surrender of Control and Renegotiation the Solution?|Companies can be regarded as nexuses with contractual relationships between management and shareholders (Jensen and Meckling, 1976). The extent to which managerial and shareholder rewards are determined by incompleteness of contracts has been extensively studied (Hart, 1995a). Incomplete contracts affect the stability of the relationship between managers and shareholders as managers can leave or be dismissed (Oyer, 2004; Gillan, Hartzell, and Parrino, 2009). Furthermore, discretion for renegotiation of such contracts can be desirable, if stability is improved (Schwab and Thomas, 2006; Roberts and Sufi, 2009). Discretion for renegotiation of contracts between management and shareholders is increased in public companies when shareholders surrender control over management to boards (Blair and Stout, 1999; Peters and Wagner, 2014). Corporate stability, renegotiation of agreements and control rights over assets are not systematically captured by principal-agent models.
K12|Reassessing the Ethicality of Some Common Financial Practices|Abstract Depositors have perceived banks as acting unethically during the most recent recession. One area of consternation is the ambiguity of the legal obligations entailed by the deposit contract when it is backed with only fractional reserves. In this article, we apply an existing analysis of the legitimacy and ethicality of banking practices to a wider range of financial transactions, including insurance policies, securities lending, perpetual bonds, and callable loans. Securities lending in particular creates rights violations analogous to those in fractional-reserve banking. Both callable loans and perpetual bonds have clear legal obligations which are not inherently problematic, though we herein clarify what these obligations are. Finally, we apply our ethical framework to demonstrate that insurance products are distinct from banking deposit contracts, and that perceived parallels between the two products underestimate these differences.
K12|Stipulated Damages as a Rent-Extraction Mechanism: Experimental Evidence|This paper experimentally studies stipulated damages as a rent-extraction mechanism. We demonstrate that contract renegotiation induces the sellers to propose the lowest stipulated damages and the entrants to offer the highest price more frequently. We show that complete information about the entrant's cost lowers exclusion of high-cost entrants. Unanticipated findings are observed. The majority of sellers make more generous offers than expected. Rent extraction also occurs in renegotiation environments. Our findings from the dictatorial-seller and buyer-entrant communication treatments suggest the presence of social preferences.
K12|Past Performance and Procurement Outcomes|Reputational incentives may be a powerful mechanism for improving supplier performance. We analyze their role in contract awarding, exploiting an experiment run by a firm which introduced a new vendor rating system scoring suppliers' past performance and linking it to the award of future contracts. We study responses in both price and performance to the announcement of the switch from price-only to price-and-rating auctions. Across the 136 parameters scored, overall compliance improves from 25 percent to 80 percent. Improvements involve all parameters and suppliers, but are more pronounced for parameters receiving a higher weight in the announced scoring auction. Prices do not significantly change overall, but we find some evidence of lower prices right after the announcement when suppliers compete to win contracts to get scored, and of higher prices once they have established a good reputation. Even under an upper bound estimate for this price increase, however, the cost of the policy is below its lower bound benefit estimate, which derives from a reduction in fatal accidents driven by improvements on the subset of parameters involving worksite safety.
K12|Corporate Control around the World|"We provide an autopsy of the patterns of corporate control and ownership concentration in a dataset covering more than 40,000 listed firms from 127 countries over 2004−2012. Employing a plethora of original and secondary sources, big data techniques, and applying the Shapley-Shubik algorithm to quantify shareholder’s voting power we trace ultimate controlling shareholders from the complex, pyramidal, and often obscure corporate structures. First, we show that there are large differences in the type of corporate control (widely held firms with and without significant equity blocks, firms controlled by families, governments, and other public-private firms) across and within continents. Corporate structures appear persistent as the recent global financial crisis did not affect them much. Second, we examine the role of legal traditions on corporate control. There are economically large differences on corporate structure across legal families, with the share of controlled (widely-held) firms being the highest (lowest) in French civil-law countries, followed by German and then Scandinavian civil law countries. State ownership and control by individual/families via complex corporate structures is pervasive in civil-law countries. And while equity blocks are commonplace across widely-held firms all around the world and across all legal families, the share of widely-held firms with large blocks is the highest in French civil-law countries. Moreover, ownership concentration is considerably higher in French civil-law (and to a lesser extent in German civil-law) countries as compared to common-law countries. These patterns apply to very large, big, medium-sized and small listed firms and are not driven by regional differences, the level of economic development, or industrial structure, suggesting that legal origin has sizable long-lasting consequences on corporate structure. Third, as legal origin may affect corporate control via multiple channels, we examine the role of some likely mechanisms. We find that shareholder protection rights against self-dealing activities of insiders correlate strongly with corporate control and ownership concentration. Legal formalism and creditor’s rights do not seem to play a role. Yet, the ""reduced-form"" link between legal origin and corporate control (and ownership concentration) is also driven by entry and labour market regulation."
K12|Incentive Contracts for Environmental Services and their Potential in REDD|Projects for reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation (REDD) have not been widely adopted by carbon credit schemes due to the inherent problems with forest carbon credits that often lead to high transaction costs given the complications of measuring, monitoring, and verifying credits. Incentive-based contracts, where it is in the best interest of the environmental service users and providers to comply with the contracts, may be one way to reduce these costs if providers have incentives to uphold their end of the contract. While the literature on REDD is extensive, there is little information available to guide policymakers or investors on what form such contracts should take. After providing an overview of the current status of REDD and its role as a tool for reducing carbon emissions on an international scale, this paper considers the key issues that need to be addressed when implementing REDD projects, and how contracts can be designed to alleviate some of the subsequent problems with carbon credits. We draw from the literature on agricultural contracts, payments for ecosystem services, and other environmental service-related contracts and discuss the various implications associated with their design and implementation.
K12|Regime of Carrier’s Macro and Micro-Liability Dealing with the International Carriage of Goods by Sea Contracts|The present research is dedicated on one of most significant legal problems dealing with in­ternational carriage of goods by sea contracts – the carrier’s liability. The carrier is the bearer of the characteristic contract’s performance. In this article some basic international con­ventional rules have been analyzed, as follows – the Haag rules (1924), the Haag-Visby rules (1968), the Hamburg rules (1978) and, first of all – the recent Rotterdam rules (2009), which, even if not yet ratified, after their entrance into force, they will trace the future development of international carriages of goods by sea.
K12|Contracting Externalities and Mandatory Menus in the US Corporate Bankruptcy Code|"Our article offers the first justification for the US bankruptcy code, in which firms are not allowed to commit themselves ex ante in their lending agreements either to (Chapter 7) liquidation or to (Chapter 11) reorganization in case of distress ex post. If fire-sale liquidation imposes negative externalities on their peers, then firms can be collectively better off if they are all forced into a no-opt-out choice (a mandatory ""menu""). This is the case even though they would individually want to commit themselves to liquidation, and it is collectively better for them than voluntary contract choice or mandatory liquidation. Our article’s innovation is thus to show not when a later choice should be prohibited, but when a later choice should be mandatory. Equivalent analyses could justify when other ex post choices should remain inalienable (not contractible). (JEL G33, D62, K12)"
K12|Some Aspects Concerning the Concept of Rent in the Romanian Law|"The notion of rent was analyzed through the ages by both lawyers and economists generically representing an equivalent to the lack of use due to the owner of the property by the person who benefits from that good and form of profit that can be obtained by the owner of a good from the person exploiting the good. The interest that this issue presents refers to the location of each of these types of understanding the concept of rent in areas where it is found and used to get to know the specifics and peculiarities of this term. Whether we speak of ""ground rent"" or ""land rent"" or ""farm rent"", we will consider the real legal relationships of the property, regarding the relationship between the land owner to the other people, who must adopt a certain behavior towards the owner and his/her good."
K12|Optimal Design of Trade Agreements in the Presence of Renegotiation|"We study the optimal design of trade agreements when governments can renegotiate after the resolution of uncertainty but compensation between them is inefficient. In equilibrium, renegotiation always results in trade liberalization, not protection. The optimal contract may be a ""property rule"" or a ""liability rule"". High uncertainty favors liability over property rules, while asymmetries in bargaining power favor property over liability rules. Moreover, optimal property rules are never renegotiated. With a cost of renegotiation, property rules are favored when this cost is higher, reversing a central conclusion of the law-and-economics literature. (JEL C78, D86, F13, F15, K12)"
K12|The joint venture contract. Practical aspects regarding the admissibility of the request for exclusion of the associate|The present paper aims at pointing out an important aspect in the implementation of the professionals’ activity through the joint venture, more precisely, it raises the problem of the admissibility of the request for exclusion of the associate. Thus, although one can tell that to a certain extent the joint venture can be regarded as a species of the partnership deed, it does not acquire legal personality, reason why we have set as objective to analyse the problem of the exclusion of an associate from the practical perspective, as the legislation does not offer a clear solution in this regard. Consequently, the present study shall have the following structure: 1) Introduction, 2) The concept of joint venture, 3) The relation between the joint venture parties and the third parties, 4) Exclusion of the associate, 5) Conclusions.
K12|Le maître d’ouvrage et le contrat de sous-traitance dans les marchés publics de travaux au Cameroun|Any subcontracting in public procurement contracts is subject to the prior approval of the Contracting authority. This is a manifestation of excessive powers which holds the administration in public law contracts. Therefore, the public contract is liable to termination as soon as the Contracting authority finds by any means whatsoever subcontracting occult on the work site. However, as soon as subcontracting is allowed, the Contracting authority appears foreign to its implementation, leaving the parties freely fulfill their contractual obligations. The situation of the contractor who is generally a small business or PMI is abandoned to the will of the contracting party of the public person, usually powerful multinationals. The Contracting authority displays a certain neutrality in both the quality of work performed by the contractor in terms of payment of the latter. Contractual freedom seems to have taken precedence here on the powers of control and direction of which is coated the Contracting authority in the execution of public contract, to the detriment of the subcontractor. A reform of the Government Procurement Code and subsequent legislation is needed to better protect the interests of the subcontractor. This article is striving to clarify the relationship Contracting authority - Contractor - subcontractor in works contracts. It demonstrates that the subcontractor weaker party to the contract must be better protected so as to safeguard the contractual solidarism which seems to be based the existence of the outsourcing contract.
K12|Implied terms in English and Romanian law|This study analyses the matter of implied terms from the point of view of both English and Romanian law. First, the introductory section provides a brief overview of implied terms, by defining this class of contractual clauses and by providing their general features. Second, the English law position is analysed, where it is generally recognised that a term may be implied in one of three manners, which are described in turn. An emp hasis is made on the Privy Council’s decision in Attorney General of Belize v Belize Telecom Ltd and its impact. Third, the Romanian law position is described, the starting point of the discussion being represented by the provisions of Article 1272 of the 2009 Civil Code. Fourth, the study ends by mentioning some points of comparison between the two legal systems in what concerns the approach towards implied terms.
K12|The late payment under the EU legislation|According to Article 14 EC, the European Union shall guarantee the free movement of goods and services. In this regard, it is necessary that the entrepreneurs should be able to do their business throughout the internal market and to recover their receivables in due time. Therefore, that late payment represents an obstacle to the proper functioning of the internal market. The Directive on combating late payment in commercial transactions, Directive 2000/35/EC is placed in the context of maintaining and developing an area of freedom, security and justice. This Directive governs all commercial transactions irrespective of whether they are carried out between private or public entrepreneurs or between entrepreneurs and public authorities, having regard to the fact that the latter handle a considerable volume of payments to business. It should therefore also regulate all commercial transactions between main contractors and their suppliers and subcontractors. This paper explores the legal framework on late payment of trade credit from the European legislation perspective.
K12|Intercreditor and Debtor-creditor Equity Issues in Sovereign Debt Restructuring|Different types of creditors have different political and financial claims and thus different —at times, divergent or conflictive— interests. This means that the burden-sharing exercise of sovereign debt restructuring is played out not just between debtors and creditors, but also between different types of creditors. The private sector approach centered on collective action clauses (CACs) is not sufficient to solve the myriad problems, including those of inter-creditor and debtor-creditor equity, associated with sovereign debt restructuring. In response to the deficiencies of the current approach, several policy measures to enhance the equity and efficiency of sovereign debt restructuring procedures should be considered. These include: tighter regulation of sovereign credit default swap (SCDS) contracts; the provision of a greater role for debt reprofiling and bondholder aggregation; the development of common rules and norms for valuing public and private concessions in sovereign debt restructurings; and the establishment of greater creditor rights for implicit creditors.
K12|The institutions of Roman markets|I analyze the basis of the market economy in classical Rome, from the perspective of personal-versus-impersonal exchange and focusing on the role of the state in providing market-enabling institutions. I start by reviewing the central conflict in all exchanges between those holding and those acquiring property rights, and how solving it requires reducing information asymmetry without endangering the security of property. Relying on a model of the social choice of institutions, I identify the demand and supply factors driving the institutional choices made by the Romans, and examine the economic circumstances that influenced these factors in the classical period of Roman law. Comparing the predictions of the model with the main solutions used by Roman law in the areas of property, business exchange and the enforcement of personal obligations allows me to propose alternative interpretations for some salient institutions that have been subject to controversy in the literature, and to conclude with an overall positive assessment of the market-enabling role of the Roman state.
K12|Contract Innovation and Legal Evolution under Imperfect Enforcement|We model the joint evolution of contracts and precedents by introducing imperfect enforcement into a standard incomplete contracts setup. We assume that biased trial courts can refuse to verify novel evidence but are bound to respect precedents, namely to verify evidence that other judges verified in past cases. We find that optimal contracts are innovative (contingent on both precedents and novel evidence), but noisy evidence and judicial biases introduce enforcement risk and cause incentives to be low-powered. Litigation of innovative contracts refines the law, making it more informative. This evolution improves enforcement and makes contracts more complete, thereby enabling higher-powered incentives and improving welfare. This beneficial mechanism is hampered by judicial bias, which slows down legal evolution and causes enforcement risk to persist for a long time.
K12|Continuing Contracts|Parties often regulate their relationships through “continuing” contracts that are neither long-term nor short-term but usually roll over: a leading example is a standard employment contract. We argue that what distinguishes a continuing contract from a short-term (or fixed-term) contract is that parties apply notions of fairness, fair dealing, and good faith as they revise the terms of the contract: specifically, they use the previous contract as a reference point. We show that a continuing contract can reduce (re)negotiation costs relative to a short-term or long-term contract when there is uncertainty about future gains from trade. However, fair dealing may limit the use of outside options in bargaining and as a result parties will sometimes fail to trade when this is efficient. For-cause contracts, where termination can occur only for a good reason, can reduce this inefficiency.
K12|Haftungsrechtliche Folgen eines griechischen Staatskonkurses|In seinem Kommentar befasst sich Markus C. Kerber, Technische Universität Berlin, mit den haftungsrechtlichen Folgen eines Grexit, die Parameter der gegenwärtigen Verhandlungen sind.
K12|Contracts and cooperation: the relative failure of the Irish dairy industry in the late nineteenth century reconsidered|Why did the establishment of cooperative creameries in late nineteenth-century Ireland fail to halt the relative decline of her dairy industry compared with other emerging producers? This paper compares the Irish experience with that of the market leader, Denmark, and shows how each adopted the cooperative organizational form, and highlights that an important difference was institutional: specifically, regarding the enforcement of vertically binding contracts. We argue that this failure, combined with a strong proprietary sector which was opposed to cooperation, reinforced the already difficult conditions for dairying in Ireland due to poor social capital.
K12|Economic analysis of hiring forms dedicated to managerial positions in Poland|This paper deals with the economic analysis of hiring forms dedicated to managerial positions. Theoretical frames for corporate governance are based on agency theory. Crucial problems considered within agency theory are: information asymmetry, conflict of interests and supervision (monitoring) of management. Presented analysis covers also remuneration forms and manager’s participation in ownership. Theoretical underpinnings of this research supports the analysis of managers hiring methods available in Poland (managerial contracts and employment contracts) in order to point out the solution, which reduces agency costs to the greatest extent.
K12|Long-term Relationships: Static Gains and Dynamic Inefficiencies|In the 1980s the Japanese “keiretsu” system of interconnected business groups was praised as a model to emulate, but since then Japan has often been criticized for being less innovative than the United States. In this paper we connect the two views and argue that tight business relationships can create dynamic inefficiencies and reduce broad innovations. In particular, we consider the repeated interaction between final good producers and intermediate input suppliers, where the provision of the intermediate input is noncontractible. We build a cooperative equilibrium where producers can switch suppliers and start cooperation immediately with new suppliers. We first consider broad innovations: every period, one supplier has the opportunity to create a higher quality input that can be used by all producers. Since relationships are harder to break in the cooperative equilibrium the market size for potential innovators is smaller and the rate of innovation might be lower than in the noncooperative equilibrium. We contrast this with a setting with relationship-specific innovations that we show are encouraged by the establishment of relational contracts. We illustrate the predictions of the model using the recent business history of the United States and Japan and further use patent data to show that U.S. patents are more general than Japanese and even more so in sectors using more differentiated inputs.
K12|Legal Evolution and Contract Evolution under Imperfect Enforcement|We model optimal contracts and the evolution of precedents by introducing imperfect enforcement into a standard incomplete contracts setup. We assume that biased trial courts can refuse to verify novel evidence but are bound to respect precedents, namely to verify evidence that other judges verified in past cases. Despite judicial biases, optimal contracts are innovative (contingent on both precedents and novel evidence). Noisy evidence and judicial biases, however, introduce enforcement risk and cause incentives to be low-powered. The use of innovative contracts is key. Their litigation refines the law and makes it more informative, so enforcement improves. As a result, parties can in turn write more complete contracts, which enable higher- powered incentives and improve welfare. This beneficial mechanism is hampered by judicial bias, which slows down legal evolution and causes enforcement risk to persist for a long time.
K12|Where do firms issue debt? An empirical analysis of issuer location and regulatory competition in Europe|In this article, we study the choice of issuer location and regulatory competition in the European corporate debt market. We find that, in absolute terms, Germany has by far the highest outflow of debt issues, while the Netherlands, the UK, Ireland, and Luxembourg see the most inflows (in that order). We use a panel gravity model to investigate country specific factors attracting foreign subsidiaries as issuers. The data clearly support the prediction that the locational choice is positively influenced by a low withholding tax rate. We find only mixed evidence that corporate tax rates play a role. In contrast to previous results of the ‘law and finance’ literature, we do not find support for creditor protection rules in bankruptcy as a driver of cross-border debt securities issues.
K12|The role of dynamic renegotiation and asymmetric information in financial contracting|Using data from Securities and Exchange Commission filings, I show that the typical bank loan is renegotiated five times, or every nine months. The pricing, maturity, amount, and covenants are all significantly modified during each renegotiation, whose timing is governed by the financial health of the contracting parties and uncertainty regarding the borrowers’ credit quality. The relative importance of these factors depends on the duration of the lending relationship. I interpret these results in light of financial contracting theories and emphasize that renegotiation is an important mechanism for dynamically completing contracts and for allocating control rights ex post.
K12|The role of informational uncertainty in the decision to strategically default|This study identifies a severe gap between the financial backlash borrowers believe awaits them after strategic mortgage default and the reality that lenders rarely pursue deficiency judgments. This coupled with the social norm finding that borrowers widely view strategic default as immoral, leads us to recommend lenders and policymakers seeking to stem the tide of defaults to pursue a policy of informational opacity. We make several recommendations for how to carry out such a policy as well as what might need to change in society before the alternative policy of informational transparency becomes ideal.
K12|Employment-At-Will Exceptions and jobless recovery|This paper studies the effects on jobless recovery of diminishing the power of an employer to fire an employee through Employment-At-Will Exceptions (EWEs). I use dynamic panel regressions with quarterly data ranging from 1976 to 2010 for the 50 states in the U.S. I test both changes in state unemployment rates and state-weighted GDP growth. I also resolve differences in the various sources documenting the three types of EWEs in different states and show two of the three contribute significantly to jobless recovery in the U.S. The results lend support to predictions of theory that increased firing costs decrease the rate of hiring during recoveries. Statistical tests show the adoption of both EWEs would slow decreases in the unemployment rate during recovery from recession by up to 0.352 percentage points annually.
K12|Il diritto della sicurezza sul lavoro nel contratto di rete|Mediante il contratto di rete, le imprese possono creare un’organizzazione economica complessa. Tali forme organizzative costringono il giuslavorista a rivalutare e adattare il campo di applicazione del diritto del lavoro, e a riflettere sui criteri di imputazione delle posizioni giuridiche. Nel presente contributo, l’autrice fornisce alcuni esempi di come le regole di diritto della sicurezza sul lavoro debbano essere applicate alle imprese unite da un contratto di rete, e sulle modalità di imputazione degli obblighi di sicurezza tra i diversi soggetti che partecipano al programma di rete.
K12|Economic Duress and Significant Imbalance: Two Different Approaches of Contractual Imbalances|In France, the draft order of February 25th 2015 devotes two new tools permitting the control of contractual imbalance: economic duress on the one hand, and significant imbalance on the other hand. These two mechanisms attest to the interest given to this issue and to the renewal of traditional tools in favour of mechanisms which are inspired by consumer and competition laws. While economic duress sanctions the abuse of economic dependence, significant imbalance shows a broad scope for its implementation, which raises many interrogations. The challenge is to determine the goals of such tools and to ensure the consistency and readability of general contract law.
K12|Particular Aspects on General Assemblies of Members in Cooperative Companies in Romania|Cooperative enterprises, the most commonly met forms of development of an industrial activity within the cooperative system; justify, from the organizational and operational point of view, a model for the company institution-contract, where the shareholders’ agreement is circumscribed to certain specific principles. The companies governed in this manner by special law have all the elements typically characterizing the companies regulated by the common law, thus acknowledging a series of particularities regarding their organization and operation, among which are distinguished those referring to general assemblies, as deliberative decisionmaking authorities, defined by a superior formalism, resulted from the application of their own regulations, with compulsory property, issued by the National Union of Handicraft and Production Cooperatives.
K12|Secured Loans In Mexico And Its Effects, Prestamos Prendarios En Mexico Y Sus Efectos|This research examines the process, regulations, pros and cons of secured loans (collateral loan or pawnshop loans) which have proliferated in Mexico in recent years. The study focuses on analyzing financial aspects and the interest rate. Specifically, we examine the cost it represents to the consumer and the economic returns for companies engaged in this business. Two pawnshops that operate nationwide were analyzed. The legal, social and financial aspect of secured loans providers was verified, as well as the financial impact on its consumers. Moreover, a comparison between secured loans and bank loans was performed, as an alternative for consumers and in that manner acquire a reference of the options provided by the Mexican Financial System, through the commercial banking. The study seeks to answer: What is the history of the pawnshops? How much to pawn an item? What are the benefits brought by this type of financing to the Mexican economy? Why are these businesses proliferating?
K12|Lemons on the Edge of the Internet: The Importance of Transparency for Broadband Network Quality|Network performance measurements from OECD countries between 2007 and 2012 document a significant increase in the variability of broadband infrastructure quality, which helps explain growing demand for technologies and policies that counteract information asymmetries between network operators and end users. A cross-country analysis documents the negative association between quality uncertainty and variations in digital infrastructure quality. The analysis suggests public policies and business models that promote market transparency can enhance the efficiency of the broadband access market on the edge of the internet and stimulate incentives for the diffusion of next generation platforms.
K12|Court-ship, kinship and business: a study on the interaction between the formal and the informal institutions and its effect on entrepreneurship|In this paper we theoretically and empirically examine how the interaction between the formal court system and the informal loan network affects a household’s decision to start a business. We find that when the formal court system is weak, expansion of informal credit network leads to the proliferation of business. However, with a sufficiently strong court system, expansion of the credit network has a negative effect on business prospects. This result is explained by the contradictions between formal laws and norms used by informal networks. JEL codes K12; L26; O17 Copyright Chakraborty et al.; licensee Springer. 2015
K12|Dispute resolution in the Islamic finance industry in Nigeria|With the gradual increase of Islamic finance products in Nigeria, which was spurred by the initial licenses issued to some banks by the Central Bank of Nigeria to operate Sharī‘ah-compliant banking, an unprecedented trend has been introduced in the world of Islamic finance litigation. Litigating the legality of the Islamic banking license issued by the apex bank in Nigeria was the first in the yet unknown phase of the dispute resolution trends in the nascent Islamic finance industry in the country. This study therefore examines the challenges, prospects and future directions of sustainable dispute resolution practices in the Islamic finance industry. It proposes a practical dispute resolution framework for Nigeria through best practices from three key jurisdictions—Malaysia, Indonesia and Pakistan—who have some unique mechanisms that have stood the test of time. The study concludes that for Nigeria to be able to attract foreign direct investment into its nascent Islamic finance industry, particularly from the oil rich Middle Eastern countries, it requires a sound and robust judicial system and dispute resolution mechanism that can stand the test of time. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
K12|Litigation as dispute resolution mechanism in Islamic finance: Malaysian experience|Litigation as the popular mode of dispute resolution in Islamic finance has proven inadequate in its application and interpretation of Shariah. Trails of Islamic finance cases have shown that civil court judges have no problems deciding on the civil law issues pertaining to Islamic finance, however, they are unsuited for adjudicating the Shariah issues. Section 55–58 of the Central Bank Act 2009 accords formal recognition to the Shariah Advisory Council (SAC) as their rulings is binding to the Islamic financial institutions and the courts. Post 2009 have seen that cases of law challenged the said sections as unconstitutional. The objective of this paper is to analyse the role of SAC either as expert ascertain or expert determination of the rulings on Islamic finance. In the course of discussion, s. 55–58 of Central Bank of Malaysia Act 2009 and Article 121(1) of the Constitution are analysed. Findings of the study showed that the role of SAC is merely expert ascertain of the rulings since they have no judicial power. Islamic financial law is divine in nature and different from the man made laws. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2015
K12|Oil and Water Do Not Mix, or: Aliud Est Credere, Aliud Deponere|The financial crisis has led to new interest in the ethics of financial markets. In this article, we further the debate on the nature of banking contracts by showing that the fundamental subjective purposes of loan and deposit contracts are irreconcilable. Any resultant mixture of the two contracts is a legal aberration. We consider a mutual fund as an important and legitimate alternative to the common demand deposit to provide high liquidity and some yield without offering full availability of a nominal sum. Besides being a close substitute for how many deposit accounts function today, the mutual fund has the additional benefit of satisfying all legal and ethical requirements. Loan and investment contracts (such as money market mutual funds) allow for the “bank” to make use of their clients’ funds while the intents of money owners are clearly classified without running into legal or ethical problems. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media Dordrecht 2015
K12|Does (average) size matter? Court enforcement, business demography and firm growth|Previous literature finds that the quality of judicial enforcement has a positive impact on average firm size, but it has not disentangled its effect on the growth of incumbent firms from that on business demography. This distinction is crucial, as entrants are generally smaller than incumbents, but both high entry rates and high firm growth are associated with better economic performance. This paper fills this gap, finding that judicial efficacy fosters the growth of incumbents and promotes entry in Spain. The paper also shows for the first time that the specific type of judicial procedure that companies face in case of a conflict, rather than the overall functioning of courts, is the relevant matter. Specifically, judicial efficacy at the declaratory stage (when a debt is verified by a judge) has a positive impact on both firm growth and entry, while it has no impact at the execution stage (when the judge requires its payment). Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
K12|Abusive Terms in Loan Contracts|This study displays several theoretical and practical remarks on certain abusive terms of loan contracts. Considering the European Law, the main regulation framework is given by Directive 93/13/EEC approved by the Council on the 5th April, 2013, regarding the abusive terms and conditions within the contracts concluded with customers, Directive 2008/48/EC regarding the credit contracts for consumers and the repeal of Directive 87/102/EEC of the Council; Directive 2009/22/EC regarding the cease action related to the protection of consumers „interests. This year, there has been Directive 17/2014 regarding the credit contracts concluded with different consumers for residential real estates and the modification of Directives 2008/48 and 2013/36/EU and EU Regulation no. 1093/2010. Directive 93/13/EEC aims at “eliminating the abusive terms stipulated in the contracts.” We must add that the Romanian trial courts entitled to solve the actions regarding the identification of the abusive terms in credit contracts- as the paper refers only to this type of contracts- took in consideration the jurisprudence of the High Court of Luxembourg.
K12|Consumer Contracts Distance Concluded - Required Information / Advice|Consumer Contract in any form is the most common economic market contract. Although part of the institution's special contracts, the consumer contract is imposed excessive economic market just by the amount of the duties imposed between the two subject contractors. Therefore, besides current obligations laid down according to the type of contract, the contract sums also the consumer’s obligation of information, the obligation of counselling, the obligation of conformity, the obligation of security. However, we believe that the obligation to inform or in other opinions the advise obligation requires attention both theoretically and from the point of view of jurisprudence
K12|An Empirical Analysis of Primary and Secondary Pharmaceutical Patents in Chile|We analyze the patent filing strategies of foreign pharmaceutical companies in Chile distinguishing between “primary” (active ingredient) and “secondary” patents (patents on modified compounds, formulations, dosages, particular medical uses etc.). There is prior evidence that secondary patents are used by pharmaceutical originator companies in the U.S. and Europe to extend patent protection on drugs in length and breadth. Using a novel dataset that comprises all drugs registered in Chile between 1991 and 2010 as well as the corresponding patents and trademarks, we find evidence that foreign originator companies pursue similar strategies in Chile. We find a primary to secondary patents ratio of 1:4 at the drug-level which is comparable to the available evidence for Europe; most secondary patents are filed over several years following the original primary patent and after the protected active ingredient has obtained market approval in Chile. This points toward effective patent term extensions through secondary patents. Secondary patents dominate “older” therapeutic classes like anti-ulcer and anti-depressants. In contrast, newer areas like anti-virals and anti-neoplastics (anti-cancer) have a much larger share of primary patents.
K12|Short-term, Long-term, and Continuing Contracts|Parties often regulate their relationships through “continuing” contracts that are neither long-term nor short-term but usually roll over. We study the trade-off between long-term, short-term, and continuing contracts in a two period model where gains from trade exist in the first period, and may or may not exist in the second period. A long-term contract that mandates trade in both periods is disadvantageous since renegotiation is required if there are no gains from trade in the second period. A short-term contract is disadvantageous since a new contract must be negotiated if gains from trade exist in the second period. A continuing contract can be better. In a continuing contract there is no obligation to trade in the second period but if there are gains from trade the parties will bargain “in good faith” using the first period contract as a reference point. This can reduce the cost of negotiating the next contract. Continuing contracts are not a panacea, however, since good faith bargaining may preclude the use of outside options in the bargaining process and as a result parties will sometimes fail to trade when this is efficient.
K12|Legal Issues Relating to the Liability of the Carrier for the Air Carriage of Passengers|The analysis of the problems of the current legislation on the liability of the carrier for the carriage of passengers should cover both inter­nal acts and those of EU law and international treaties, as a result of it are derived existing in the Bulgarian Civil Aviation Act gaps. So that they be overcome made relevant proposals de lege ferenda for amendments to the said leg­islation. The detailed analysis of the national legislation requires comparing it with the right of countries with highly developed air transport. As the Bulgarian legal system follows the con­tinental tradition, as well as receptions of our private right of French law, the latter may serve as a suitable basis for comparative analysis and mapping trends in the development of legislation on issues of liability of the carrier in air transpor­tation passenger.
K12|Procurement with Unenforceable Contract Time and the Law of Liquidated Damages|Time overruns are common in public projects and are not confined to inherently complex tasks. One explanation is that sellers can undergo changes in production costs which generate a value of waiting. Using the real-option approach, we examine the effects of the lack of incentives for on-time delivery on competitive bids for a fixed-price procurement contract. Next, we analyze the effects of liquidated damages aimed at protecting the buyer for the expected losses due to project delays. We show that when the expectation damage measure fails to discourage time overruns, a liquidated damages stipulation does not lead to a Pareto superior outcome. Although liquidated damages tend to make the seller better off, the buyer’s expected payoff is lower than when the contract does not provide for any damages for breach. (JEL C61, D44, D86, K12)
K12|Client-Based Entrepreneurship|Client relationships create value, which employees may try to wrest from their employers by establishing their own firms. If an employer and worker cannot contract on the output and profits of the worker’s prospective new firm, at the beginning of their relationship the employer induces the worker to sign a contract that prohibits him from competing or soliciting the current client in the event of termination of employment. The socially optimal level of entrepreneurship will nevertheless be achieved if clients, employers, and workers can renegotiate these restrictive employment contracts and make compensating transfers. If workers cannot finance transfers to employers, however, employers and workers will sign contracts that are too restrictive and produce too little entrepreneurship, and governments can increase welfare by limiting enforcement of these contracts. With or without liquidity constraints, locations where noncompete contracts are less enforced will attract more clients and have higher employment and output. (JEL K12, L26, R10)
K12|Contracting among Founders|This article develops a theory of contracting among founders of a new firm. It asks at what stage founders agree to commit to each other, how they structure optimal founder contracts, and how this affects team formation, ownership, incentives, and performance. The article derives a trade-off between upfront contracting, which can result in teams with ineffective founders, versus delayed contracting, which can enable some founders to appropriate ideas and start their own firms. Delayed contracting becomes more attractive when there are significant doubts about the skills of founders. We show that contingent contracts with vesting of shares may be used to mitigate inefficiencies in the team formation process. We also show that laws that provide protection to implied partnerships may have the unintended effect of encouraging more formal contracting. (JEL D82, D86, K12, L26)
K12|Regulación económica de industrias de redes: ¿contractual o administrativa?| Los contratos de concesión o de asociación público-privada han sido ampliamente utilizados como mecanismo para atraer la inversión privada para la provisión de infraestructura o de servicios públicos. La literatura reciente (Stern (2003), Spiller (2008)) ha enfatizado que el uso de estos contratos ha permitido, además, mitigarlos riesgos asociados a la intervención administrativa de los gobiernos sobre la inversión privada en esas actividades. Si bien la figura del contrato de concesión ha estado asociada con la delegación por parte del Estado de la prestación de servicios públicos a empresas privadas,obligaciones regulatorias tales como la fijación de tarifas, de acceso e interconexión o de niveles de servicio pueden estar expresamente incorporadas en los contratos de concesión o alternativamente ser aprobadas mediante normas administrativas. El presente artículo muestra evidencia empírica correspondiente a Perú, que identifica los factores que influyen en la decisión de incorporar regulación económica a nivel contractual, a partir de una muestra de 65 contratos de concesión de infraestructura de transporte, energía y telecomunicaciones. Los resultados ilustran que los riesgos de demanda, la escala de los proyectos, la fuentede financiamiento y la tecnología han influido de manera significativa en dicha decisión por parte del gobierno. Finalmente, a partir de los criterios definidos por Stern y Holder (1999) se analizan las fortalezas y debilidades de la regulación contractual y administrativa en el caso del Perú, estableciendo recomendaciones para una necesaria revisión de la agenda regulatoria durante los próximos años. JEL Classification-JEL: L51, L97, K12, K23.
K12|Reflexiones Sobre el Contrato en el Derecho Colombiano<BR>[Reflections about the Contract in Colombian Law]|"Spanish Abstract: En este capítulo de libro se realiza una aproximación al contrato en el derecho colombiano, a través de una guía de estudio que abarca su conceptualización doctrinal. Ello con el fin de motivar el interés para los estudiosos y estudiantes del derecho comparado iberoamericano, quienes son los destinatarios finales del libro que tiene por título: Reflexiones sobre Derecho Privado Patrimonial (Universidad de Salamanca, 2015). English Abstract: This book chapter makes an approach to contract in Colombian law. We propose a basic study guide, in order to encourage interest for scholars and students of Latin American comparative law. They are the final recipients of the collective book under the title ""Reflexiones sobre Derecho Privado Patrimonial"" (Universidad de Salamanca, 2015), where this chapter was published."
K12|Conventional Futures: Derivatives from Islamic Law of Contract Perspective|Islamic finance has emerged as a sustainable alternative of conventional finance for last two decades or so thanks to development of Islamic banking industry and more recently Islamic capital market. As Islamic finance industry is based on the principle of Islamic Law of Contract, there are certain rules that need to be followed in every financial transaction to be complaint with Shari’ah. As risk is inherent in business and finance, investors across the world use various risk mitigating tools or instruments including derivative instruments like futures contract. Although, the necessity of this kind of instrument is essential for development of Islamic finance industry but the permissibility of using them is still a debatable issue. In this research paper, a humble attempt has been made to explain the concept of conventional futures contract from Islamic Law of Contract perspectives. It is found in this study that there are arguments for and against the futures contract. On the one hand, majority scholars consider futures contracts are non-compliant with Islamic Law because of selling something that does not exist, deferment in the both counter values, excessive risk taking, uncertainty, pure speculation, and sale of one debt for another. In support of their argument they provided references from the Quran and Sunnah, also views of classical scholars and Jurists. On the other hand, many scholars argue that futures contracts are permissible while refuting the arguments provided against its impermissibility; while others argue that contemporary business environment demand to use them, so it is considered as custome (urf), while others argue it is permissible on the basis of Istihsan (juristic perference), maslaha (public benefits), dharurah (necessity). After analyzing the arguments for and against the futures contract, it can be concluded that contemporary scholars and Jurists in the field of Islamic Law are still divided on this issue as it is quite a new area of research from Islamic Law of Contract perspectives. However, it is safe to assume that conventional futures contracts in its current form do not comply with the Islamic Law.
K12|"Praktek Jual Beli Kain Kiloan dalam Perspektif Ekonomi Islam<BR>[The Practice of the Selling and Buying ""Clothing Yarn"" in Islamic Economic Perspective]"|"Selling and buying of Islam have prescribed rules of law, as has been expressed by the scholars, both regarding terms, pillars and other forms of buying and selling are not allowed. As well as buying and selling ""kilogram fabric"" can not see the whole things. Sale and purchase containing gharar or fraud, the goods are not clear about the terms of its properties bought and sold so that buyers feel aggrieved because they do not know the items were genuine. Sale and purchase of fabrics kilogram in the market Tegal Gubug has become customary, for buying and selling that it meets the requirements and provisions, so that buying and selling are no longer gharar, in conducting transactions with their ""right to bid"" as a condition, as in the contract sale and purchase agreement between the parties, the seller and the buyer should be pleased with one another in doing so the sale and purchase transaction to be valid. The results of this research note that the implementation of buying and selling cloth kilogram performed in Market Gubug Tegal Cirebon using kilogram system, there still exists gharar because the fabric is sold in sacks or bundles."
K12|Transaksi drop shipping perspektif ekonomi syari’ah<BR>[Dropshipping transaction in shariah economic perspective]|The drop shipping transaction which a glance look like bai’ assalam, especially parallel salam, which is suspension transaction model that allowed in Islam. But, there is a little difference in the dropship (online store) does not accommodate for sell. Therefore, from that thing makes obscurity of drop shipping law status in the domain of the law economic shariah. So, to avoid the doubt transaction in drop shipping it is should be the shariah clarity of the law, in order that the businessman can be wide in the transaction. The goal of this research: (1) To know the drop shipping concept in the business world, (2) To know bai as-salam concept in the business world, and (3) To know the drop shipping concept in line with bai as-salam concept. The result shows that the drop shipping transaction cannot line with bai as-salam concept. Because did not accommodate in bai as-salam seller condition by dropship (online store), namely the drop ship never accommodate the commodity so that the drop ship have not dominance toward accommodating to sell, and played dirty on goods dispatch label made as if drop ship as owner and real goods dispatch. So that, the dropship has did accommodate sale which did not have and it is did not allowed in the law of economic shariah.
K12|Riba Dalam Perspektif Fiqih Muamalah dan Teori Bunga Atas Produk Lembaga Keuangan Konvensional<BR>[Riba In Perspective Fiqh Muamalah and Interest Theory of Conventional Financial Institutions Products]|Dalam perekonomian dulu, kini dan esok kelihatannya praktek ribawi tidak mudah untuk segera dihilangkan. Hal ini karena sudah terbiasa praktek riba selalu menjadi harapan untuk meraih keuntungan. Inti dari praktek riba adalah eksploitasi orang kaya (kuat) atas orang lemah (mustada’fin) dengan cara yang tidak benar. Aktifitas ribawi merupakan aktivitas dari kegiatan yang mengeksploitasi kebutuhan orang lemah, penimbunan kekayaan berlebih atas modal ekonomi lemah, baik dilaksanakan oleh pihak lembaga keuangan maupun lainnya. Karena itu, kehadiran Islam sebagai ajaran agama sangat tidak mengharapkan riba. Riba dan semua jenisnya di larang.
K12|Law and economics and tort litigation institutions: theory and experiments|In tort litigation, delayed settlement imposes high costs on the parties and society. An appropriate design of litigation institutions and tort reform requires a good knowledge of the factors that affect litigants’ behavior. Both theoretical and experimental law and economics, which represent the cornerstones of the application of the scientific method, enhance our understanding of the effects of litigation institutions and tort reform on settlement and deterrence. This chapter evaluates the interaction between theoretical and experimental law and economics in the study of tort litigation institutions. Special attention is devoted to liability, litigation and tort reform institutions, and behavioral factors that might affect an impasse. The analysis suggests a productive interaction between theoretical and experimental law and economics. In particular, findings from experimental economics work on litigation institutions indicate the presence and robustness of cognitive biases, and provide evidence of the effects of litigants’ biased beliefs on the likelihood of impasse.
K12|Specific aspects related to the partnership agreement|The scientific paper covers specific aspects of the partnership agreement, according to the provisions of the New Civil Code. The paper explains why the partnership agreement is different from other contracts set forth in the New Civil Code. It focuses mainly on answering the question if the partnership agreement has a synallagmatic nature or not. In this sense, it explains the meaning of the classification in unilateral and bilateral (synallagmatic) contracts and it analyses the obligations of the parties of a partnership agreement in order to determine if they are reciprocal and interdependent or not.
K12|Same-sex relationship escalation with uncertain marriage legality: Theory and empirical implications|We develop a strategic model of same-sex dating, cohabitation, and potential marriage with location-specific marriage legality. With an initial illegal location, couples bargain over a relationship path that internalizes the probability of future legalization and potential migration-for-marriage. Our model generates testable, empirical implications on relationship hazard rates, migration, and utility due to changes in migration costs and legalization probabilities. Specifically, we show that decreased migration costs or increased legalization probabilities will increase relationship hazard rates (dissolution) for both daters and cohabitators. These changes will also decrease utility for an identifiable segment of the relationship quality distribution.
K12|An Overview To The Circumstances Causing Legal Liability Sustained In The Event Of The Damages To The Passenger Baggage During The Carriage By Air|The liability of the carriage by air sustained in the case of the damage of any baggage ( or luggage) has already been regulated in the article 12 of Turkish Civil Aviation Code (TSHK.), the article 18 of Warsaw Convention (War.C.) and in the subsection 2, 3, 4 of the article 17 of 1999 Montreal Convention (Mon.C.). TSHK.a.121/ s.1 that regulates the liability of the carrier in the event of domestic flight is as: ?The carrier is liable for damage sustained in case of the loss of, or of damage to checked baggage on condition that the loss or damage took place during the carriage by air.? The liability indicated here, in Warsaw Convention a.18/s.1, is as: ? The carrier will be liable for the damage sustained in case of destruction, or loss of, or of damage to checked baggage; however the event causing the destruction must take place during the carriage by air?, and the liability is adjudged, in Montreal Convention a.17/s.2, is as ? The carrier is liable for the damage sustained in the event of destruction, or loss, or damage of the checked baggage on condition that the event which caused the destruction, loss or damage took place on board the aircraft or during the period in which the checked baggage was in the charge of the carrier.? As understood from these regulations, the carrier is liable for the damage sustained during the period that the registered baggage is in the charge of the carrier, whether it is domestic or international flights. The conditions of the liability mentioned above will be examined in this study.
K12|Comparative Contact Law Differences Between Civilian Legal Systems ,The Common Law And The Albanian Contac|This article analysis the comparative contract law differences between civilian legal systems, the common law and the Albanian law , as well as between French and German law as two main exponents of the civil law tradition , to some extent, even between English and US-American law .- The first part gives , the origins of modern comparative law in the civil law world - of the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, and in that world, contracts have been widely considered the pre-eminent area of law The second, modern comparative law soon began to focus particularly on the study of the similarities and differences between the civil law and the common law, and contract law turned out to be an enormously fertile field for such studies.-The third part addresses Third, contract law is a favourite topic for comparative study because it is among the practically most salient areas of law, both in terms of economic importance and in terms of the realities of international negotiation and litigation.- The Fourth part treats a number of differences between civil law commun ,common law the Albanian contact law. Conclusions The overview provided in this article has revealed a number of differences between civilian legal systems and the common law, and also between French and German law as two main exponents of the civil-law tradition and, to some extent, even between English and US-American law. The same is true of other major issues in the field of general contract law that have not been touched upon: contractual capacity, mistake,agency or assignment.
K12|Conditions And Effects Of The Commissoria Lex In The Leasing Contract|The main problem with the execution of a leasing contract in Romania is that there are still shortcomings to the laws in force. The complexity of this contract which, at first sight, seems so commonplace, as well as the void in our ambiguous law are an inexhaustible source of research and exploration, but also the origin of controversial conflicts. With this paper I decided to elaborate I would like to contribute to consolidating the ”status” of national leasing operations, which are still in search of their own identity. Aiming to place the leasing contract back in its rightful place, that of a contract from which nobody has anything to lose but everything to gain, I consider it appropriate to analyse the conditions and effects of the commissoria lex fragments inserted in the leasing contract. One of the most controversial aspect of these last years brought to the attention of the courts of law cases where the financier, once the leasing contract was cancelled, requests the foreclosure of the user. The cancellation we are taking into account is based on the commissoria lex inserted in the clauses of the leasing contract. We have therefore to an alyse whether the foreclosure of the user can be carried on, based on the provisions of GO 51/1997 referring to leasing contracts.
K12|Juridical Regime Of The Interest In The Romanian Law. Particular Case. Comparison Between The Regulations Of The Remuneratory Interest Versus The Penalizing Interest, In The Romanian Banking Law|The analysis of a case where the rate of the conventional interest is not specified made me investigate what is the maximal limit that can be obtained in this case, under the regulation in force, in the Romanian law (sect.1)! To formulate a solution, I considered as necessary to analyze : the provision on the moratory damages (according to the Roman Civil Code) and the putting of the debtor in default, in order to know what is the date starting from which the moratory damages are calculated (according to the Roman Civil Code)-sect.2; the juridical regime of the interest (according to the Roman Bankin Law)-sect.3;comparison between the remuneratory interest and the penalizing interest (according to the Roman Banking Law)-sect.4; solution for the case and conclusions-sect.5.
K12|The Preemption Right Regarding The Transactions Of Agricultural Lands Located Outside The Built-Up Areas|The sale of agricultural lands located out-side the built-up areas has been recently limited through the obligation to follow the preemption procedure based on Law no. 17/2014, as subsequently amended (”Law 17”) on the regulation measures for sale of agricultural lands located out-side the built-up areas and for the amendment of Law no. 268/2011 on the privatization of companies holding in administration public or private State owned agricultural lands and the establishment of the State Domains Agency. The preemptors are: (i) the joint owners, (ii) the lessees, (iii) the neighboring owners, (iv) Romanian State, through State Domain Agency. The preemption procedure commence with posting by the seller of its sale offer at the competent city hall and ends with the issuance of the positive/negative sale approval or, as the case may be, the conclusion of the sale agreement with one of the pre-emptors.
K12|Aspects Regarding Imprevision In Employment Contracts|Imprevision was first regulated in the internal law by the current Civil Code in response to doctrine and jurisprudence appeals but also due to the new economic, social and political realities. Apart from civil agreements, due to the dynamics of economic activity, the question of the applicability of imprevision for other contracts is raised. In this study, we shall analyze the possibility of applying imprevision in individual and collective labour contracts.
K12|Legal Environment For B2b Cross-Border Sales Between Cisg And Cesl|The main purpose of the Proposal for a Regulation on a Common European Sales Law (CESL) is to establish “a comprehensive set of uniform contract law rules covering the whole life -cycle of a contract” In the field of B2B transaction, the CESL, a regional legal provision, seems to bear several similarities with the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods (CISG) of 1980. This paper will examine the relationship between both legal instrument for uniformisation of sales law at regional and global leve l. Thus, it will compare the provisions regarding the major aspects of the commercial sale contract, such as: the objectives, the scope of application, the formation of contract, the rights and obligations of the parties, and the conflict of laws problem, as well. In the end, it will be analyzed whether the CESL offer better solutions than those already found in the CISG in order to stimulate the cross-border sales.
K12|The Rights And Obligations Of The Main Stakeholders In Cloud Computing Services|The current technological progress triggers a new approach in the way the personal data are collected, processed or stored, by a multitude of data controllers or processors involved in the chain of trophic relations in the delivering of cloud computing services. In this circumstances, it is our objective to examine the rights and obligations of the contractual parties involved in the cloud computing agreements according to the European Union law and national legislation, and their legal consequences for the data subjects
K12|The Transport Contract In The New Civil Code Form, Proof And Means Of Transport|Article 1956 of the New Civil Code provides: “The transport contract is proved by shipping documents such as consignment notes, receipt of luggage, roadmap, bill of lading, travelticket or IDor other similar documents, from case to case”. The new Civil Code does not provide details regarding the form the transport contract, which means that the documents referred to in the legal standard concern the proof and not the validity of the contract. According to Article 1957 of the Civil Code, the transport may be carried out by one or more carriers, in the latter case it can often be successively combined. Successive transport is performed by two or more successive carriers using the same means of transport. Combined transport is that for which the same carrier or successive carriers use the same means of transport, reason for which it is also known as multimodal transport. Carriers that succeed one another hand over their goods and luggage until reaching the destination, without the intervention of the passenger or consignor [Article 1957, paragraph (3) of the new Civil Code].
