K14|The Importance Of Punishment Substitutability In Criminometric Studies|This study investigates the role of punishment substitutability in the empirical estimation of the economic model of crime. Using a dynamic panel data model fitted to a panel of Local Government Areas in New South Wales, Australia, we evaluate the effects of financial penalties and imprisonment on the crime rate. Our results show that crime is clearly a dynamic phenomenon, and that failure to incorporate both financial penalties and imprisonment can lead to a misspecified model. Furthermore, our results vary significantly for different crime categories, highlighting the importance of analysing specific crime categories separately.
K14|Money Laundering And Corruption: Birds Of A Feather Flock Together|This paper is the first to analyse the three-way relationship among money laundering, anti-money-laundering efforts and corruption. On the one hand, if we assume that the goal of criminals involved in corruption is to minimize the probability of being detected, then corruption represents a demand for money laundering (trigger effect), while money laundering can serve as an effective way to clean the revenue from corruption for re-investment (multiplier effect). On the other hand, criminals can try to maximize the likelihood that anti-money-laundering activities will be ineffective. Corruption can be an effective device for maximizing this likelihood, as organized crime may corrupt financial institutions – both regulators and regulated firms – in order to prevent crime detection (accelerator effect). The paper proposes a novel theoretical framework for these interconnections, which is then used to simulate the three effects in 101 countries for the period 1990 to 2040.
K14|Under Pressure? Performance Evaluation of Police Officers as an Incentive to Cheat: Evidence from Drug Crimes in Russia|This paper provides an empirical analysis of possible manipulations of amounts of seized drugs, based on a unique dataset that contains full information on drug crimes in Russia reported during 2013-2014. First, using a standard bunching estimator, I investigate the incentives for police officers to manipulate and find that the motivation most likely arises from the officers’ performance evaluation system. Second, applying a novel bunching technique, I determine that police officers are more likely to manipulate the drug amounts seized from repeat offenders. The overall effect of manipulation is an additional year of incarceration, and this is not dependent on a guilty plea.
K14|Fighting Mobile Crime|We develop a model in which two countries choose their enforcement levels non- cooperatively, in order to deter native and foreign individuals from committing crime in their territory. We assume that crime is mobile, both ex ante (migration) and ex post (fleeing), and that criminals who hide abroad after having committed a crime in a country must be extradited back. We show that, when extradition is not too costly, countries overinvest in enforcement compared to the cooperative outcome: insourcing foreign criminals is more costly than paying the extradition cost. By contrast, when extradition is sufficiently costly, a large enforcement may induce criminals to flee the country in which they have perpetrated a crime. Surprisingly, the fear of extraditing criminals enables countries to coordinate on the e¢ cient (cooperative) outcome.
K14|Money laundering and corruption: birds of a feather flock together|This paper is the first to analyse the three-way relationship among money laundering, anti-money-laundering efforts and corruption. On the one hand, if we assume that the goal of criminals involved in corruption is to minimize the probability of being detected, then corruption represents a demand for money laundering (trigger effect), while money laundering can serve as an effective way to clean the revenue from corruption for re-investment (multiplier effect). On the other hand, criminals can try to maximize the likelihood that anti-money-laundering activities will be ineffective. Corruption can be an effective device for maximizing this likelihood, as organized crime may corrupt financial institutions – both regulators and regulated firms – in order to prevent crime detection (accelerator effect). The paper proposes a novel theoretical framework for these interconnections, which is then used to simulate the three effects in 101 countries for the period 1990 to 2040.
K14|Impulse Purchases, Gun Ownership and Homicides: Evidence from a Firearm Demand Shock|Do firearm purchase delay laws reduce aggregate homicide levels? Using quasi-experimental evidence from a 6-month countrywide gun demand shock starting in late 2012, we show that U.S. states with legislation preventing immediate handgun purchases experienced smaller increases in handgun sales. Our findings are hard to reconcile with entirely rational consumers, but suggest that gun buyers behave time-inconsistently. In a second step, we demonstrate that states with purchase delays also witnessed 2% lower homicide rates during the same period compared to states allowing instant handgun access. We report suggestive evidence that lower handgun sales primarily reduced impulsive assaults and domestic violence.
K14|Coca, Cocaine and Drug Trafficking|The increase in the area cultivated with coca in Colombia has cast doubt on the country’s anti-drug strategy and has encouraged skepticism about the possibility of a complete and definitive peace. Furthermore, this perception of failure has given rise to policy proposals based on the idea that illicit crops are a criminal issue, not a development one. This paper is a complete review of the available evidence and aims at organizing the information related to this debate and shedding light on the convenience or inconvenience of certain policies. There are six highly relevant facts: (i) With respect to reducing cocaine supply, the efforts in seizures and destruction of infrastructure are more efficient than the efforts in eradication. (ii) Seizures and destruction of infrastructure may help in reducing coca plantations. (iii) There is no evidence to support the hypothesis that the consumption of cocaine in Colombia has increased. (iv) Most regions of the country have seen a decrease in the amount of coca crops. However, at least one armed group is present in the regions where the cultivated area has increased. (v) Coca growing municipalities are, on average, poorer than the rest of the country. These municipalities have a low tax revenue, and reduced levels of connectivity and institutional development. (vi) The increase in the consumption of cocaine in the United States is concentrated in a specific age group and in certain states. This fact makes it difficult to relate the increase in consumption to an exogenous increase in the supply.
K14|Do Immigrants Threaten U.S. Public Safety?|Opponents of immigration often claim that immigrants, particularly those who are unauthorized, are more likely than U.S. natives to commit crimes and that they pose a threat to public safety. There is little evidence to support these claims. In fact, research overwhelmingly indicates that immigrants are less likely than similar U.S. natives to commit violent and property crimes, and that areas with more immigrants have similar or lower rates of violent and property crimes than areas with fewer immigrants. There are relatively few studies specifically of criminal behavior among unauthorized immigrants, but the limited research suggests that these immigrants also have a lower propensity to commit crime than their native-born peers, although possibly a higher propensity than legal immigrants. Evidence about legalization programs is consistent with these findings, indicating that a legalization program reduces crime rates. Meanwhile, increased border enforcement, which reduces unauthorized immigrant inflows, has mixed effects on crime rates. A large-scale legalization program, which is not currently under serious consideration, has more potential to improve public safety and security than several other policies that have recently been proposed or implemented.
K14|When Women are the Criminals: Governing Violent Extremism in Malaysia via 'Hard' and 'Soft' Modalities|Objective - This paper seeks to examine the multiple roles of women in preventing and countering violent extremism (PVE/CVE) efforts and the existing legal ('hard') and non-legal ('soft') modalities governing such criminality. Methodology/Technique - This paper adopts a library-based research methodology through not only the conceptual analysis but also content analysis and doctrinal legal analysis. The secondary data consists of the primary sources, which includes the terrorism-related laws and the Penal Code. The secondary sources include books, law reports, journals, and online databases. Findings - The authors contend that despite the significance of women's role in preventing and countering violent extremism, the gender perspective is glaringly absent in the current Malaysian PVE/CVE initiatives. Novelty - There is a dearth of research on the involvement of women in violent extremism in Malaysia, and their role in PVE/CVE. This paper is very useful in contributing to the existing literature on the role of women in PVE/CVE efforts and beneficial for policy-makers and law enforcement agencies in curbing such criminality.
K14|Combating Malaysia's Involvement in Worldwide Organ Trafficking by Tapping into the Potential of Bioprinting|Objective - Organ shortages have caused many Malaysian people to travel to India or China to purchase organs illegally and to have those organs transplanted into their body, thus contributing to the worldwide problem of organ trafficking. Bioprinting presents the potential to develop human organs in the future. The objective of this study is to explore, through empirical research, the potential of bioprinting as a means of addressing Malaysia's organ shortages, thereby discouraging Malaysians from obtaining illicitly acquired organs abroad. Methodology/Technique - This is a qualitative study involving primary data including binding international agreements, soft law (non-binding documents issued by international organizations) and Malaysian legislation dealing with organ trafficking. These legal documents are interpreted through a textual analysis. A content analysis was also conducted on the secondary resources consisting of journals, book chapters, conference and working papers, newspaper reports, and other internet materials. Findings - The results of the study show that between 2014 and 2018, Malaysia experienced significant organ shortages, particularly shortages of kidneys. They also suffered from a lack of transplant specialists and medical teams as well as overburdened government hospitals. The Organ and Tissue Transplantation Bill, a new law replacing the Human Tissues Act of 1974, aims to ban organ trading and regulate organ donations. Malaysian research universities have embraced bioprinting through the production of blood vessels and skin, and the Malaysian government has introduced grants and technology transfers that are hoped to accelerate bioprinting. This has the potential to curb Malaysian involvement in worldwide organ trafficking. Novelty - This study is novel as it proposes bioprinting as a technological solution to illicit organ trading and transplantation within the Malaysian context, which has not been previously suggested.
K14|Digital Piracy under a Graduated Response Policy|Graduated response policies (e.g., three-strikes laws) are often adopted to deter repeated criminal activity. In 2009 France passed the Hadopi three-strikes law targeting digital piracy. We model the individual intertemporal decision to engage in illegal activity before and after receiving each strike and, contingent on this decision, the level of illegal content acquisition (piracy) within each stage. We find that monitoring efforts typically believed to deter criminal activity can have unintended results. For example, an increase in the probability of detection can increase piracy. An increase in the punishment is the only policy that unambiguously deters illegal activity.
K14|Scaring or Scarring? Labour Market Effects of Criminal Victimisation|Little is known about the costs of crime to victims and their families. In this paper, we use unique and detailed register data on victimisations and labour market outcomes from the Netherlands to overcome data restrictions previously met in the literature and estimate event-study designs to assess the short- and long-term effects of criminal victimisation. Our results show significant decreases in earnings (6.6-9.3%) and increases in the days of benefit receipt (10.4-14.7%) which are lasting up to eight years after victimisation. We find shorter-lived responses in health expenditure. Additional analyses suggest that the victimisation can be interpreted as an escalation point, potentially triggering subsequent adverse life-events which contribute to its persistent impact. Heterogeneity analyses show that the effects are slightly larger for males regarding earnings and significantly larger for females regarding benefits. These differences appear to be largely (but not completely) driven by different offence characteristics. Lastly, we investigate spill-over effects on nonvictimised partners and find evidence for a spill-over effect of violent threat on the partner's earnings.
K14|Addressing Seasonality in Veil of Darkness Tests for Discrimination: An Instrumental Variables Approach|Veil of Darkness tests identify discrimination by exploiting seasonal variation in the timing of sunset to compare the rate that minorities are stopped by police at the same hour of the day in daylight versus darkness. Such tests operate under the presumption that race is more easily observed by police prior to traffic stops during daylight relative to darkness. This paper addresses concerns that seasonal variation in traffic patterns could bias Veil of Darkness tests. The conventional approach to addressing seasonality is to restrict the sample to a window around Daylight Savings Time (DST) changes when the time of sunset is abruptly changed by one hour twice a year. However, this restriction reduces the variation in the timing of sunset potentially exacerbating measurement error in daylight and may still fail to address seasonality. The latter point is due to the fact that a substantial fraction of the seasonal change in daylight hours occur in the fall and spring (near DST) because of the elliptical nature of earth’s orbit. Therefore, we consider an alternative to simply restricting the sample to fall and spring where we instead apply an instrumental variables and fuzzy regression discontinuity approach. Our approach allows us to isolate the treatment effect associated with one hour of additional daylight on the share of police stops that are of African-American motorists. We find larger racial differences in Texas highway patrol stops using the regression discontinuity approach as compared to the annual sample, even though traditional approaches using the DST sample yield smaller estimates than the annual sample. The larger estimates are robust to the fall DST change sample, addressing concerns that motorists are tired and more accident prone immediately after the spring DST change.
K14|An Empirical and Qualitative Assessment of Terrorism Sentencing Decisions in Canada since 2001: Shifting Away from the Fundamental Principle and Towards Cognitive Biases|In this paper, we take a comprehensive and multidisciplinary look at terrorism sentencing decisions over a 17-year period, between September 2001 when the ATA was first conceived of and September 2018. In so doing, we first offer an empirical analysis of the sentences for all terrorism offenses to date, including the total number of sentences, conviction rates, charges, demographics associated with the accused and other factors. We then engage in a qualitative assessment of the sentencing decisions to date. We also investigate the role that section 718.2(a)(v) of the Criminal Code has had on terrorism sentences in Canada and whether it might help to explain the empirical and qualitative shifts we are seeing in terrorism sentencing decisions. Finally, we ask whether there is anything inherent to the legislative and judicial framing of terrorism as a crime, and therefore in its sentencing, that might explain the unique nature of terrorism sentences.
K14|Judging Judge Fixed Effects|"We propose a test for the identifying assumptions invoked in designs based on random assignment to one of many ""judges.'' We show that standard identifying assumptions imply that the conditional expectation of the outcome given judge assignment is a continuous function with bounded slope of the judge propensity to treat. The implication leads to a two-part test that generalizes the Sargan-Hansen overidentification test and assesses whether implied treatment effects across the range of judge propensities are possible given the domain of the outcome. We show the asymptotic validity of the testing procedure, demonstrate its finite-sample performance in simulations, and apply the test in an empirical setting examining the effects of pre-trial release on defendant outcomes in Miami. When the assumptions are not satisfied, we propose a weaker average monotonicity assumption under which IV still converges to a proper weighted average of treatment effects."
K14|A Panel-based Proxy for Gun Prevalence in the US|There is a consensus that the proportion of suicides committed with a firearm is the best proxy for gun ownership prevalence. Cerqueira et al. (2108) exploit the socioeconomic characteristics of suicide victims in order to develop a new and more refined proxy. It is based on the fixed effects of the victim's place of residence estimated from a discrete choice model for the likelihood of committing suicide with gun. We empirically assess this new indicator using gun ownership data from the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) and suicide registers of the US National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) from 1995 through 2004. We demonstrate that this new gun proxy provides significant gains in correlation with the percentage of households with firearms.
K14|Do Private Prisons Affect Criminal Sentencing?|This paper provides causal evidence of the effect of private prisons on criminal sentencing. Our identification strategy uses state-level changes in private-prison capacity and compares changes in sentencing across trial court pairs that straddle state borders. We find that a doubling of private prison capacity raises sentence lengths by 1.3 percent, but not the likelihood of conviction. The effect is not driven by changes in state legislation, and we find no evidence for ‘judicial capture’. We do find some evidence that judges may internalize the lower cost of imprisonment in private prisons. Lastly, private prisons do not appear to accentuate existing racial biases in sentencing decisions.
K14|Deterrence and the Adjustment of Sentences During Imprisonment|The prison time actually served by a convicted criminal depends to a significant degree on decisions made by the state during the course of imprisonment—on whether to grant parole or other forms of sentence reduction. In this article we study a model of the adjustment of sentences assuming that the state’s objective is the optimal deterrence of crime. In the model, the state can lower or raise the sentence based on deterrence-relevant information that it obtains about a criminal during imprisonment. Our focus on sentence adjustment as a means of promoting deterrence stands in contrast to the usual emphasis in sentence adjustment policy on reducing recidivism.
K14|Race, Skin Tone, and Police Contact Among Contemporary Teens|Contemporary urban youth are heavily policed, many as early as preadolescence. This policing is characterized by significant racial disparities,with black teens reporting more,and more intrusive experiences. Along history, and growing literature, suggests that police encounters may vary not only by race, but by complexion.We examine skin tone disparities in police contact among a population-based sample of over 1,000 teens from the Fragile Families and Child Wellbeing Study. We observe a robust â€œlight skin privilegeâ€ in which light-skinned adolescents are less likely than others to report contact with the police, and report lower levels of police intrusion. Significant skin tone differences in the probability of reporting stops were also observed within the subsample of black teens (N=504). Differences within the smaller subsample of Hispanic teens were of similar magnitude but statistically insignificant. For both black and Hispanic teens, within-race skin tone differences in stop intrusion were suggestive of a light skin privilege, but statistically significant.
K14|Transforming Police Surveillance of Kids to the Civic Incorporation of Youth|The standard account of policy feedback scholarship centers on self-reinforcing dynamics of social policies: the provision of resources not only promotes economic security and well being, it also enables the individuals and communities directly affected by the policies to engage more constructively with state actors. Criminal justice policies have typically had the opposite effect: they embolden those with interests in a punitive policy agenda, while disempowering those most affected by the policies.This is of particular concern for children and adolescents, whose first encounters with state actors often come through police contact, and carry adverse social and political consequences at a critical developmental stage. In this article we reimagine youth engagement with the state, not only by substantially reducing police surveillance of young people, but by promoting youth attachment to civic life. We call for an investment in institutions, both state-based and community-based, that reinforce citizenship and civic health.
K14|Electoral Campaign Financing and Criminal Policy|Money is power, prestige and status in a society. In a democratic society, money-giving power can be as great as it can affect every aspect of society, especially in a state's policy. The power of money is even more powerful in countries where democracy is fragile. The money control power on political influence is weak in countries where democracy is not consolidated and in transitional societies. Through the present paper, I will contribute by analyzing the impact of money on the Albanian state politics, examined from the point of view of electoral financing as well as of political parties' and individuals' financing during the electoral campaigns.The first part will address and analyze the influence of money and electoral financing on the constitutional principles of the right to vote and on the right to a fair representation of the elected representatives in state institutions through the electoral elections. The present part is also on constitutional requirements for electoral and fair elections and on the principles of election campaigns.The second part will analyze the way of financing of the electoral subjects, the Albanian legal framework for financing political parties and individuals in electoral campaigns, and the legal framework of the Albanian political parties in the way of financing. It will also analyze the state mechanisms of the financial control of electoral campaigns, the illegal financing of election campaigns as well as the violation of the constitutional principles for free and fair elections.The third part will deal with and analyze the criminal policies in ensuring the principle of free and fair elections in the terms of unlawful campaign financing, the incriminating actions that affect the electoral elections in the Criminal Code, the incrimination of illegal financing of the subjects participating in campaigns and electoral elections, the criminal policy that the Albanian state should follow in preventing illegal financing and the due legal mechanisms for the financial control of the electoral campaign subjects.ConclusionsIllegal financing of the electoral campaigns is a current phenomenon of the Albanian society which leads to the incrimination of Albanian politics. The illegal financing of the subjects that participate in the electoral campaigns comes from the organized crime or from people with suspicion in criminal activities and this leads to the decision to give power to those who protect the interests of the latter and not the interests of the electorate or the democratic interests of a state.The intensification of the fight against illegal financing in electoral campaigns has created not only the full legal framework for the prevention of illegal financing, but also mechanisms in practice for the implementation not only of the law, but also for the practical prevention of uncontrolled financing of electoral subjects.The imposition of harsh criminal policies on the illicit financing of electoral campaigns and the revision of the Criminal Code in incriminating all illegal anti-trust actions that affect free and fair elections may be the most important step towards combating illegal funding of electoral campaigns. Illegal financing of electoral campaigns in Albania calls into question free and fair elections and discusses the fundamental principles of representation of political entities in governmental institutions so intervention in law and criminal policy is current and immediate.
K14|Addressing Seasonality in Veil of Darkness Tests for Discrimination: An Instrumental Variables Approach|Veil of Darkness tests identify discrimination by exploiting seasonal variation in the timing of sunset to compare the rate that minorities are stopped by police at the same hour of the day in daylight versus darkness. Such tests operate under the presumption that race is more easily observed by police prior to traffic stops during daylight relative to darkness. This paper addresses concerns that seasonal variation in traffic patterns could bias Veil of Darkness tests. The conventional approach to addressing seasonality is to restrict the sample to a window around Daylight Savings Time (DST) changes when the time of sunset is abruptly changed by one hour twice a year. However, this restriction reduces the variation in the timing of sunset potentially exacerbating measurement error in daylight and may still fail to address seasonality. The latter point is due to the fact that a substantial fraction of the seasonal change in daylight hours occur in the fall and spring (near DST) because of the elliptical nature of earth’s orbit. Therefore, we consider an alternative to simply restricting the sample to fall and spring where we instead apply an instrumental variables and fuzzy regression discontinuity approach. Our approach allows us to isolate the treatment effect associated with one hour of additional daylight on the share of police stops that are of African-American motorists. We find larger racial differences in Texas highway patrol stops using the regression discontinuity approach as compared to the annual sample, even though traditional approaches using the DST sample yield smaller estimates than the annual sample. The larger estimates are robust to the fall DST change sample, addressing concerns that motorists are tired and more accident prone immediately after the spring DST change.
K14|Mafia Firms and Aftermaths|We use a unique and unexplored dataset to investigate the determinants and effects of mafia firms in Italy. Mafia may use several tools to expand its firms. However, in this paper, we show that they prefer political corruption to violence to expand mafia firms. In particular, they use the latter more to build up their reputation in new established regions. Mafia firms hamper entrepreneurial activity but they can have beneficial effects on unemployment if mafia firms add to not substitute current economic activities. Policy makers should take account of this twofold effects of mafia firms.
K14|Prosecution and Conviction under Hindsight Bias in Adversary Legal Systems|The plea bargaining mechanism in criminal procedure serves as a favorable screening device, separating between the guilty and the innocent. Previous literature ignored the impact of asymmetric information on prosecutor performance inside the adversarial court, which degrades his bargaining position. This paper presents a sequential prosecution game with endogenous courts, and shows that the successful conviction in court crucially depends on prosecutor´s beliefs and incentives. If the prosecutor is sufficiently convinced of the defendant´s guilt ex-ante, he can commit to trial, and the favorable semiseparating equilibrium is obtained. Applying the first formal model of a hindsight biased prosecutor, we find that the negative impact of uncertainty on prosecutor performance is partly mitigated by hindsight bias, and the self-selection of guilty defendants can even improve. Several caveats, like excessive charges, the nature of the case or the quality of investigations by the police force are discussed.
K14|The US Opidemic: Prescription Opioids, Labour Market Conditions and Crime|In response to the recent opioid crisis, US states have implemented several policies to reduce the dispensing of opioids and contain drug mortality. We analyse the effectiveness of these laws and their unintended fallouts on labour participation and crime at the local level. Using multiple data sources and a difference-in-difference set-up, we show that the laws targeting the supply for opioids yield larger reductions in prescribed drugs compared to the demand-side policies, particularly in the absence of cross-bordering effects. We observe an improvement in labour market participation and higher crime rates following the enforcement of some of the policies considered.
K14|How Internal Violence Lowers Economic Growth: A Theoretical and Empirical Study|In this paper, we introduce a new variable called Internal Violence Index (IVI) and study its effects on economic growth both theoretically and empirically. The first part builds a stochastic endogenous growth model which demonstrates that Internal Violence harms economic growth. On the theoretical side, this paper is the first to introduce a fully-micro-founded endogenous economic growth model that illustrates the explicit effect of Internal Violence on long-run growth in a stochastic dynamic optimization in continuous time framework. On the empirical side, this paper is also the first to employ Linear Regressions and Instrumental Variables Estimations techniques to empirically study the impact of Internal Violence on economic growth. The empirical results corroborate the theoretical predictions that Internal Violence acts negatively on economic growth. The negative impact of Internal Violence on growth are maintained when we use alternative measurements of Internal Violence and subsamples of Least Developed Countries (LDCs) and Non Least Developed Countries.
K14|The Minimum Wage, EITC, and Criminal Recidivism|For recently released prisoners, the minimum wage and the availability of state Earned Income Tax Credits (EITCs) can influence both their ability to find employment and their potential legal wages relative to illegal sources of income, in turn affecting the probability they return to prison. Using administrative prison release records from nearly six million offenders released between 2000 and 2014, we use a difference-in-differences strategy to identify the effect of over two hundred state and federal minimum wage increases, as well as 21 state EITC programs, on recidivism. We find that the average minimum wage increase of $0.50 reduces the probability that men and women return to prison within 1 year by 2.8%. This implies that on average the effect of higher wages, drawing at least some released prisoners into the legal labor market, dominates any reduced employment in this population due to the minimum wage. These reductions in returns to incarcerations are observed for the potentially revenue generating crime categories of property and drug crimes; prison reentry for violent crimes are unchanged, supporting our framing that minimum wages affect crime that serves as a source of income. The availability of state EITCs also reduces recidivism, but only for women.
K14|The Intergenerational Effects of Parental Incarceration|We estimate the causal effect of parental incarceration on children’s medium-run outcomes using administrative data from Sweden. Our empirical strategy exploits exogenous variation in parental incarceration from the random assignment of criminal defendants to judges with different incarceration tendencies. We find that the incarceration of a parent in childhood leads to significant increases in teen crime and pregnancy and a significant decrease in early-life employment. The effects are concentrated among children from the most disadvantaged families, where teen crime increases by 18 percentage points, teen pregnancy increases by 8 percentage points, and employment at age 20 decreases by 28 percentage points. In contrast, there are no detectable effects among children from more advantaged families. These results imply that the incarceration of parents with young children may increase the intergenerational persistence of poverty and criminal behavior, even in affluent countries with extensive social safety nets.
K14|Leniency, Asymmetric Punishment and Corruption: Evidence from China|Leniency policies and asymmetric punishment are regarded as potentially powerful anticorruption tools, also in the light of their success in busting price-fixing cartels. It has been argued, however, that the introduction of these policies in China in 1997 has not helped fighting corruption. Following up on this view, the Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party passed, in November 2015, a reform introducing heavier penalties, but also restrictions to leniency. Properly designing and correctly evaluating these policies is difficult. Corruption is only observed if detected, and an increase in convictions is consistent with both reduced deterrence or improved detection. We map the evolution of the Chinese anti-corruption legislation, collect data on corruption cases for the period 1986-2010, and apply a new method to identify deterrence effects from changes in detected cases developed for cartels by Miller (2009). We document a large and stable fall in corruption cases starting immediately after the 1997 reform, consistent with a negative effect of the reform on corruption detection, but under specific assumptions also with increased deterrence. To resolve this ambiguity, we collect and analyze a random sample of case files from corruption trials. Results point to a negative effect of the 1997 reform, linked to the increased leniency also for bribe-takers cooperating after being denounced. This likely enhanced their ability to retaliate against reporting bribe-givers – chilling detection through whistleblowing – as predicted by theories on how these programs should (not) be designed.
K14|Optimal Leniency and the Organization Design of Group Delinquency|We study a simple law enforcement model in which the organizational structure of criminal organizations is endogenous and determined jointly with the amnesty granted to criminals who ip and blow the whistle (leniency program). We allow criminals to choose between a horizontal (partnership) and a vertical structure and study how this choice affects the optimal leniency chosen by a benevolent Legislator whose objective is to minimize crime. We show that when soldiers in vertical organizations have valuable information about the boss, the policy mainly targets vertical hierarchies, leaving horizontal structures proliferate in number. By contrast, when soldiers are poorly informed about their heads, the Legislator implements a policy that completely eradicates partnerships. When the two types of organization coexist, partnerships emerge only for intermediate levels of trust between criminals, while organizations take a vertical structure for low or high levels of trust among felons.
K14|Fighting Mobile Crime|We develop a model in which two countries choose their enforcement levels non- cooperatively, in order to deter native and foreign individuals from committing crime in their territory. We assume that crime is mobile, both ex ante (migration) and ex post (eeing), and that criminals who hide abroad after having committed a crime in a country must be extradited back. We show that, when extradition is not too costly, countries overinvest in enforcement compared to the cooperative outcome: insourcing foreign criminals is more costly than paying the extradition cost. By contrast, when extradition is sufficiently costly, a large enforcement may induce criminals to ee the country in which they have perpetrated a crime. Surprisingly, the fear of extraditing criminals enables countries to coordinate on the efficient (cooperative) outcome.
K14|Expunction Of Conviction For Fiscal Criminal Offences In Poland|The subject of the article is the expunction of conviction for fiscal criminal offences and misdemeanours under Polish criminal law. The author starts her article by emphasising the social and legal importance of the expunction of conviction and explains the essence of the institution. She then goes on to present the Fiscal Criminal Code as an independent legal act and elaborates on its connections to the Criminal Code. In the main part of the article, the author analyses the legal basis for the expunction of conviction for fiscal criminal offences and presents an in-depth analysis of the regulations governing the expunction of conviction for fiscal criminal offences. She goes on to examine the issue of absolution of a conviction for fiscal criminal offences and misdemeanours through a Presidential pardon. As a result of the analysis, the author makes assessment of the present state of the law as to the expunction of conviction for fiscal criminal offences and misdemeanours. The author suggests that it is necessary to amend some of the existing regulations and proposes a number of de lege ferenda postulates.
K14|The Right To A Fair Trialin Criminal Law. Legal Time Limits|The object of this paper is the challenge related with the justice system, and in particular with one of its fundamental principles that is the right to a fair trial especially in criminal law. The right to a fair trial in criminal law is analyzed in all of its elements but a particular focus is reserved to the legal time limits.The first part gives , Legal time limits in a legal system based on the democratic principles constitute a fundamental right in the procedural as well in the human aspect. The second part is concentrated, Legal time limits are a constitutional guarantee as the country's highest law, but also legal guarantees stemming from the conventions that the Albanian state has ratified. They include a period of time within which the criminal procedure action is to be carried out and are measured according to clearly defined criteria in the Criminal Procedure Code.The third part , case law on the violation of the right to a fair trial (legal time limits) Conclusions The overview provided in this article will focus on law enforcement in practical court cases, in the implementation by the prosecution of the procedures during both detention of arrest, investigation and detention. Practical observation confirms that sending arrestees to a judge within 48 hours from the moment of arrest occurs only as an exception and it is not uncommon for them to appear before the judge 4 or 5 days after the arrest.According to some indicators, longer delays may come as a result of the incorrect practice of starting counting hours not at the moment of arrest.
K14|The legal roles and professional ethics of defence attorneys in relation to the electronic monitoring of offenders in Slovakia (vis-à-vis the situation in the USA and the EU)|This paper deals with the legal roles, and to a small extent also with the professional ethics of defence attorneys in relation to the use of electronic monitoring in the criminal justice field. Its scientific aim is twofold: (1) to briefly summarize relevant results of the pilot research conducted within the Slovak-national project acronymed IAEMPS, and (2) to compare them with the relevant desk research results concerning the USA and the EU. In the concluding part, the authors open the discussion about the potential shifts of emphasis (a) from technical aspects of EM aimed at replacing imprisonment to electronically monitored probation programs as autonomous sentences; and (b) from ?traditional penal? attorneys to ?more holistic defence attorneys?.
K14|Electronic monitoring of offenders and accused persons in Slovakia in the international and European context|The first program of Electronic monitoring of offenders and accused persons in Slovakia was launched by Law adopted in 2015 and shaped by the results of the pilot project co financed by the European Union. The aim of this presentation/paper is threefold: (1) to briefly summarize the key facts and data concerning this program, (2) to introduce the project titled ?Interdisciplinary approach to electronic monitoring of accused and convicted persons in the Slovak environment? (acronymed IAEMPS), and (3) to present the results of the research concerning the international and European context of the above mentioned Slovak national program, carried out within the IAEMPS project.
K14|A Victim-Oriented Justice Dispute in the context of the Judicial System Reform in Albania|The position and status of victims in the criminal justice process have been the subject of recent developments at the domestic, European and international levels in many aspects. The adoption of domestic legislations reflects the understanding of the challenges faced by victims and their commitment to a progressive judicial system. In this context, the recent amendments to its Code of Criminal Procedure in light of the recent Judicial System Reform by Albania seem to be a positive development towards the extensive participation of victims of crime in criminal proceedings. However, there are debates whether the right to participate is practically implemented and what is its impact on the criminal trial. This research shows the demand for the establishment of a neutral support mechanism to assist victims at all stages of the judicial process - from investigation to a final judgment. This paper addresses the perceptions and expectations of the judicial staff to address all the issues pertaining to victims? needs in and outside the criminal proceedings. This article aims: (1) to shed a light on the reasons behind the Judicial System Reform approach to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure rather than to adopt a comprehensive and comprehensible victim-oriented justice; (2) to reflect upon the role and rights of victims in the Albanian criminal justice system; and (3) to conclude with the recommendation to set up an effective long-term mechanism with the sole responsibility to provide the required support and assistance to the victims in Albania and in the context of the Kosovo Specialist Chamber.
K14|Impulse Purchases, Gun Ownership and Homicides : Evidence from a Firearm Demand Shock|Do firearm purchase delay laws reduce aggregate homicide levels? Using quasi-experimental evidence from a 6-month countrywide gun demand shock starting in late 2012, we show that U.S. states with legislation preventing immediate handgun purchases experienced smaller increases in handgun sales. Our findings are hard to reconcile with entirely rational consumers, but suggest that gun buyers behave time-inconsistently. In a second step, we demonstrate that states with purchase delays also witnessed 3% lower homicide rates during the same period compared to states allowing instant handgun access. We report suggestive evidence that lower handgun sales primarily reduced impulsive assaults and domestic violence.
K14|Now You See Me, Now You Don't: The Geography of Police Stops|This paper uses state police stop data in Texas to assess patrol activity. We find that both the types of stops and allocation of resources over space change in darkness relative to daylight, and that the changes in stop type and manpower allocation are correlated within police officers. We also find that the counties receiving more police resources in darkness have a higher share of minority residents. Veil of Darkness (VOD) tests of racial discrimination in traffic stops require that the distribution of motorists be independent of darkness, which is unlikely to be the case without detailed geographic controls.
K14|Cryptocurrency or usury? Crime and alternative money laundering techniques|Abstract The article presents a novel dynamic setting to compare old—usury—and new—cryptocurrency—money laundering techniques and uses it for calibration to shed light on their relative role as an effective device for the criminal organizations to clean their illegal revenues. The specialness of the usury contract depends on its role in laundering illegal revenues originating from criminal activities and it is independent from the interest rate level, while the cryptocurrency money laundering is associated with an initial coin offering tool. The calibration compares the leverage effect on the overall capital owned by the criminal organizations triggered by the two money laundering techniques.
K14|Detecting the Fifty Shades of Grey: Local Crime, Suspicious Transaction Reporting and Anti-Money Laundering Regulation|This paper investigates the efficiency of the suspicious transaction reporting (STR) activity to the Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU) as a means to deter money laundering. A baseline theoretical model is used as a framework to guide the empirical analysis of the relationship between STR and the vulnerability of Italian provinces to money laundering in the 2008-2013 period. Instrumental variables are used to limit the problems stemming from the endogenous nature of the number of reports to the FIU with respect to vulnerability. Results provide a positive assessment of the riskbased mechanism of reporting suspicious operations to the FIU.
K14|Formal Employment and Organized Crime: Regression Discontinuity Evidence from Colombia|Canonical models of criminal behavior highlight the importance of economic incentives and employment opportunities in determining crime (Becker, 1968). Yet, there is little causal evidence leveraging individual-level variation in support of these claims. Over a decade, we link administrative micro-data on socio-economic measures with the universe of criminal arrests in Medellin. We test whether increasing the relative costs to formal-sector employment led to more crime. We exploit plausibly exogenous variation in employment around a cutoff in the socio-economic score, below which individuals receive health care if they are not formally employed. Using a regression discontinuity design, we show that the policy had the unintended consequence of inducing a fall in formal-sector employment and a corresponding spike in organized criminal activity. There are no effects on less economically motivated crimes like those of impulse or opportunity. Our results confirm the relationship between formal employment and crime, validating models of criminal activity as a rational economic choice **** RESUMEN: Los modelos canónicos del comportamiento criminal resaltan la importancia de los incentivos económicos y las oportunidades de empleo como determinantes del crimen (Becker, 1968). A pesar de esto, existe poca evidencia causal que soporte estos modelos a nivel de individuos. Nosotros pareamos, a lo largo de una década, información socioeconómica de individuos con el censo de todos los arrestos en Medellín. Nosotros probamos si incrementar el costo relativo del empleo formal conlleva a un incremento del crimen. Se explota una variación exógena en el empleo alrededor de un corte en el puntaje socioeconómico, por debajo del cual los individuos reciben aseguramiento en salud si no están formalmente empleados. Utilizando un diseño de regresión discontinua, mostramos que la política tuvo como consecuencia inducir una reducción en el empleo formal y un correspondiente incremento en la actividad del crimen organizado. No se encuentran efectos en crímenes con una motivación económica menor como aquellos de impulso u oportunidad. Nuestros resultados confirman la relación entre empleo formal y crimen, validando los modelos que explican la actividad criminal como una decisión racional.
K14|Sectoral and aggregate response to oil price shocks in the Colombian economy: SVAR and Local Projections approach|We employ Structural Vector Autoregressive (SVAR) and Jordà’s (2005) Local Projection approaches to analyze the impact of a shock to international oil prices on the aggregate economy and three sectoral activities in Colombia: Agriculture, Mining and Industry. As an oil producer and exporter, this analysis is relevant due to the importance of the oil sector for Colombia’s economy. Using data from 2000:Q1 to 2017:Q3, our results show that a positive shock to the price of oil increases Gross Domestic Product, lowers risk perception, appreciates the exchange rate, and leads to the adoption of contractionary monetary policy. An inflation-targeting scheme with flexible exchange rate makes both inflation and Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) non-responsive to the shock. Results at the sectoral level are mixed. Agriculture’s FDI, production and Producer Price Index (PPI) are unaffected by the shock. Industry’s production falls between the second and fifth quarters after the shock, with no significant responses in its PPI and FDI. Finally, the FDI and PPI respond positively in the Mining sector. **** RESUMEN: Usando Vectores Autorregresivos Estructurales (SVAR) y proyecciones locales (Jordà’s (2005)) analizamos el impacto de choques temporales no anticipados en los precios del petróleo sobre el agregado de la economía y tres sectores: agricultura, minería e industria. Dada su condición exportadora de petróleo, el presente análisis cobra especial importancia en Colombia. Usando datos desde 2000:T1 a 2017:T3, los resultados muestran que un choque positivo al precio del petróleo incrementa el Producto Interno Bruto (PIB), disminuye la percepción de riesgo internacional, aprecia la tasa de cambio e induce la adopción de una política monetaria contractiva. El esquema de inflación objetivo con tipo de cambio flexible hace que tanto la inflación como la inversión extranjera directa (IED) no respondan de manera significativa al choque. A nivel sectorial se presentan resultados mixtos. El sector agrícola no presenta impactos significativos en IED, PIB y en los precios al productor (IPP). En el sector industrial, el PIB disminuye entre el segundo y el quinto trimestre luego de recibir el choque, con respuestas no significativas en el IPP e IED. Finalmente, en el sector minero tanto la IED como el IPP responden de manera positiva.
K14|Dynamics in Gun Ownership and Crime - Evidence from the Aftermath of Sandy Hook|Gun rights activists in the United States frequently argue that the right to bear arms, as guaranteed by the Second Amendment, can help deter crime. Advocates of gun control usually respond that firearm prevalence contributes positively to violent crime rates. In this paper, we provide quasi-experimental evidence that a positive and unexpected gun demand shock led to an increase in murder rates after the mass shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School and the resulting gun control debate in December 2012. In states where purchases were delayed due to mandatory waiting periods and bureaucratic hurdles in issuing a gun permit, firearm sales exhibited weaker increases than in states without any such delays. We show that this finding is hard to reconcile with standard economic theory, but is in line with findings from behavioral economics. States that saw more gun sales then experienced significantly higher murder rates in the months following the demand shock, as murders increased by 6-15% over the course of a year.
K14|Measuring Organized Crime: Statistical Indicators and Economics Aspects|One of the most negative factors that characterize Italian economy and society is the pervasive and oppressive presence of organized crime, affecting many aspects of the daily live and every sector of business. The data unfortunately show how this phenomenon is increasingly growing and involves more and more aspects of our society (Albanese & Marinelli, 2013). In recent years there have been peaceful demonstrations but also concrete acts by the police that has made numerous arrests and thwarted many robberies. (Calderoni, 2014). However, the work done in recent years is not sufficient to definitively delete organized crime (OC), even more difficult and targeted intervention by the institutions is needed in order to definitively resolve this question. (Fedeli et al., 2017; Visco of the Bank of Italy, 2014). This work introduces new indexes that measure and compare organized crime in different territories. We apply then to Italian provinces and we obtain a ranking at national level.
K14|High on Crime? Exploring the Effects of Marijuana Dispensary Laws on Crime in California Counties|Regulated marijuana markets are more common today than outright prohibitions across the U.S. states. Advocates for policies that would legalize marijuana recreational markets frequently argue that such laws will eliminate crime associated with the black markets, which many argue is the only link between marijuana use and crime. Law enforcement, however, has consistently argued that marijuana medical dispensaries (regulated retail sale and a common method of medical marijuana distribution), create crime in neighborhoods with these store-fronts. This study offers new insight into the question by exploiting newly collected longitudinal data on local marijuana ordinances within California and thoroughly examining the extent to which counties that permit dispensaries experience changes in violent, property and marijuana use crimes using difference-in-difference methods. The results suggest no relationship between county laws that legally permit dispensaries and reported violent crime. We find a negative and significant relationship between dispensary allowances and property crime rates, although event studies indicate these effects may be a result of pre-existing trends. These results are consistent with some recent studies suggesting that dispensaries help reduce crime by reducing vacant buildings and putting more security in these areas. We also find a positive association between dispensary allowances and DUI arrests, suggesting marijuana use increases in conjunction with impaired driving in counties that adopt these ordinances, but these results are also not corroborated by an event study analysis.
K14|Violence while in Utero: The Impact of Assaults During Pregnancy on Birth Outcomes|Evidence about the effects of violent crime on victims is sparse, but is necessary to measure the social costs of crime and the cost-effectiveness of policy interventions in the justice system. We present new evidence about the effects of violent crime on pregnancy and infant health outcomes, using unique linked administrative data from New York City. We compare mothers who lived in a home where an assault was reported during their pregnancies to mothers who lived in a home where an assault took place shortly after the birth. We find that assaults during pregnancy significantly increase the incidence of negative birth outcomes. Our results are robust to the use of alternative control groups and to using maternal fixed effects models. Based on these impacts, we calculate that the social cost per assault during pregnancy is at least $36,857, implying a total annual cost of around $3.8 billion. Since infant health is a strong predictor of life-long well-being and women of lower socioeconomic status are more likely to be victims of domestic abuse, violence in utero is an important potential channel for intergenerational transmission of inequality.
K14|The Effect of Risk Assessment Scores on Judicial Behavior and Defendant Outcomes|The use of risk assessment scores as a means of decreasing pretrial detention for low-risk, primarily poor defendants is increasing rapidly across the United States. Despite this, there is little evidence on how risk assessment scores alter criminal outcomes. Using administrative data from a large county in Texas, we estimate the effect of a risk assessment score policy on judge bond decisions, defendant pretrial detention, and pretrial recidivism. We identify effects by exploiting a large, sudden policy change using a regression discontinuity design. This approach effectively compares defendants booked just before and after the policy change. Results show that adopting a risk assessment score leads to increased release on non-financial bond and decreased pretrial detention. These results appear to be driven by poor defendants. We also find risk assessment scores did not increase violent pretrial recidivism, however there is some suggestive evidence of small increases in non-violent pretrial recidivism.
K14|The Intergenerational Effects of Parental Incarceration|We estimate the causal effect of parental incarceration on children's medium-run outcomes using administrative data from Sweden. Our empirical strategy exploits exogenous variation in parental incarceration from the random assignment of criminal defendants to judges with different incarceration tendencies. We find that the incarceration of a parent in childhood leads to significant increases in teen crime and pregnancy and a significant decrease in early-life employment. The effects are concentrated among children from the most disadvantaged families, where teen crime increases by 18 percentage points, teen pregnancy increases by 8 percentage points, and employment at age 20 decreases by 28 percentage points. In contrast, there are no detectable effects among children from more advantaged families. These results imply that the incarceration of parents with young children may increase the intergenerational persistence of poverty and criminal behavior, even in affluent countries with extensive social safety nets.
K14|Do Ban the Box Laws Increase Crime?|Ban-the-box (BTB) laws, which prevent employers from asking prospective employees about their criminal histories at initial job screenings, are intended to increase employment opportunities and reduce economic incentives for crime. This study is the first to explore the relationship between BTB laws and crime. Using agency-by-month data from the National Incident-Based Reporting System (NIBRS), we find that BTB laws are associated with a 10 percent increase in criminal incidents involving Hispanic male arrestees. This finding is supported by parallel analysis using data from the National Longitudinal Survey of Youth 1997 (NLSY97) and is consistent with BTB law-induced job loss due to employer-based statistical discrimination. We find no evidence that BTB laws increase property crime among African American men despite their also facing statistical discrimination. Supplemental analyses from the American Community Survey (ACS) suggest that barriers to welfare participation among Hispanic men may explain this result. Our estimates suggest that BTB laws generate $401 million in annual crime costs.
K14|Is Your Lawyer a Lemon? Incentives and Selection in the Public Provision of Criminal Defense|Governments in the U.S. must offer free legal services to low-income people accused of crimes. These services are frequently provided by assigned counsel, who handle cases for indigent defendants on a contract basis. Court-assigned attorneys generally garner worse case outcomes than privately retained attorneys. Using detailed court records from one large jurisdiction in Texas, we find that the disparities in outcomes are primarily attributable to case characteristics and within-attorney differences across cases in which they are assigned versus retained. The selection of low-quality lawyers into assigned counsel and endogenous matching in the private market contribute less to the disparities.
K14|Judicial Politics and Sentencing Decisions|This paper investigates whether judge political affiliation contributes to racial and gender disparities in sentencing using data on over 500,000 federal defendants linked to sentencing judge. Exploiting random case assignment, we find that Republican-appointed judges sentence black defendants to 3.0 more months than similar nonblacks and female defendants to 2.0 fewer months than similar males compared to Democratic-appointed judges, 65 percent of the baseline racial sentence gap and 17 percent of the baseline gender sentence gap, respectively. These differences cannot be explained by other judge characteristics and grow substantially larger when judges are granted more discretion.
K14|Racial Divisions and Criminal Justice: Evidence from Southern State Courts|The US criminal justice system is exceptionally punitive. We test whether racial heterogeneity is one cause, exploiting cross-jurisdiction variation in punishment in four Southern states. We estimate the causal effect of jurisdiction on arrest charge outcome, validating our estimates using a quasi-experimental research design based on defendants charged in multiple jurisdictions. Consistent with a model of in-group bias in electorate preferences, the relationship between local punishment severity and black population share follows an inverted U-shape. Within states, defendants are 27%-54% more likely to be sentenced to incarceration in ‘peak’ heterogeneous jurisdictions than in homogeneous jurisdictions.
K14|Violence While in Utero: The Impact of Assaults during Pregnancy on Birth Outcomes|Causal evidence of the effects of violent crime on its victims is sparse. Yet such evidence is needed to determine the social cost of crime and to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of policy interventions in the justice system. This study presents new evidence on the effects of violent crime on pregnancy and infant health outcomes, using unique linked administrative data from New York City. We merge birth records with maternal residential addresses to the locations of reported crimes, and focus on mothers who lived in a home where an assault was reported during their pregnancies. We compare these mothers to women who lived in a home with an assault that took place shortly after the birth. We find that assaults in the 3rd trimester significantly increase rates of very low birth weight (less than 1,500 grams) and very pre-term (less than 34 weeks gestation) births, possibly through a higher likelihood of induced labor. We show that our results are robust to multiple choices of control groups and to using maternal fixed effects models. We calculate that these impacts translate into a social cost per assault during pregnancy of $41,771, and a total annual cost of over $4.25 billion when scaled by the national victimization rate. As infant health is a strong predictor of life-long well-being, and women of lower socioeconomic status are more likely to be victims of domestic abuse than their more advantaged counterparts, our results suggest that in utero subjection to violent crime is an important new channel for intergenerational transmission of inequality.
K14|Organized Crime and Technology|This paper investigates the relation between the presence of organized crime and the technology level in north Italy. Our analysis proposes two provincial indexes. The first portrays technology at a fine-grained industrial sector level. The second describes mafia-type organizations in line with the investigation approach currently used by Italian National Antimafia Directorate (DNA) and Antimafia District Directorates (DDAs). With these indexes, we provide empirical evidence that in north Italy, the larger the presence of organized crime, the less innovation and the technological level of the industrial fabric. Our reading of this finding is that without organized crime, Nature selects agents according to their capacity to innovate. Instead, with organized crime, agents can choose an alternative strategy: relate with organized crime, which hinders innovation. Modelling the interaction innovation - relation with mafias by evolutionary game theory, we show that the presence of organized crime, through natural selection, leads to low levels of technology. Our model also shows how to use sanctions and indemnities to address the problem.
K14|Lowering the minimum age of criminal responsibility: Consequences for juvenile crime and education|This paper exploits a Danish policy reform combined with population-wide administrative registers to investigate whether being above the minimum age of criminal responsibility deters juveniles from crime. We study young individuals’ tendency to commit crime as well as their likelihood of recidivism by exploiting police records on offenses committed by the population of children and youth, including those below the minimum age of criminal responsibility. The reform lowered the minimum age of criminal responsibility from 15 to 14 years. We find that the reform did not deter 14-year-olds from committing crime. Moreover, conditional on committing crime in the first place, youths affected by the lower minimum age of criminal responsibility were more likely to recidivate and less likely to be enrolled in the 9th grade, just as they have lower grades at the 9th grade exit exam, conditional on participating. The latter results are consistent with labeling effects of processing in the criminal justice system.
K14|How do police use race in traffic stops and searches? Tests based on observability of race| When a police officer decides whether to initiate a traffic stop, the driver’s race is less likely to be known during darkness, but always observed after the stop takes place. If officers use information optimally, this flow of information about race leads to specific empirical predictions, which are tested using data on traffic stops in Minneapolis. The prediction about stops is supported, but those concerning searches are not. This pattern of results implies that police choices were inconsistent, which is evidence against both statistical discrimination and optimizing with a taste for discrimination. The results may reflect cognitive biases present in the time-sensitive decision to initiate a stop.
K14|Crimes Related To The Profession Of Medic|A comparative study on the penal responsibility of the medical profession in respect of the form of employement, privat practice or employed by the government.
K14|Crime, Money Laundering, And Credit Markets: Can Usury Exist At The Zero Lower Bound?|In advanced economies, the recent collapse of interest rates to the Zero Lower Bound (ZLB) has triggered a series of research questions on how to navigate the new zero-interest credit environment. Focusing on illegal markets, it is possible to explain why usury still remains widespread after the legal nominal interest rate has fallen to zero. If the lender is a criminal agent with money-laundering aims, the ZLB isn’t an obstacle to design and implement usury contracts. Using a dynamic model of usury for a loan having a variable interest rate and the value of the borrowing firm itself as collateral it is possible to show that notwithstanding the ZLB the criminal actor can be able achieve the money laundering purpose by expropriating the borrower of his/her collateral.
K14|Vulnerability to Money Laundering and Crime Deterrence: Evidence from Italy|This paper examines the economy's vulnerability to money laundering in a given region. Assuming that criminals are rational investors who take into account risks and returns of both legal and illegal investments, we define vulnerability as a function of well-identified drivers. Proxies of these variables are used to empirically investigate the relationship between the institutional/economic characteristics of Italian provinces and their vulnerability to money laundering in the 2008-2013 period. We focus on the impact of the reporting of suspicious transactions to the Financial Intelligence Unit, by using instrumental variables to address endogeneity in the relationship between the number of reports made and our measure of vulnerability. Results highlight positive effects of the institutional policies adopted to fight money laundering, especially as far as the reporting of suspicious transactions is concerned. Further dimensions of local vulnerability are outlined: time-invariant heterogeneity across provinces, showing that certain areas are more systematically vulnerable because of persistent local features that cannot be individually identified; and idiosyncratic vulnerability, which pinpoints the fact that some provinces have been periodically subject to abnormally intense money-laundering activity.
K14|Malice Aforethought|This paper examines why criminal intent matters in sentencing. In particular, it considers two types of crimes, opportunistic and premeditated. Opportunistic crimes are ones that present themselves to a criminal and can be deterred if the victim makes it too costly for the criminal through private property protection. Premeditated crimes are ones sought out by the criminal, and the effect of private property protection is simply to displace crime. This difference between deterrence and displacement leads to the result that it is optimal to punish premeditated crimes more. The extent to which this is true, however, lies in the response by potential victims. If victims protect themselves from premeditated crimes in ways that also protect them from opportunistic ones, then the difference in penalties is relatively less.
K14|Criminals on the Field: A Study of College Football|Economists have found mixed evidence on what happens when the number of police increases. On the one hand, more law enforcers means higher probability of detecting a crime, which is known as monitoring effect. On the other hand, criminals incorporate this increase into their decision making process and thus may commit less crimes, constituting the deterrence effect. This study analyzes the effects of an increase in the number of on-field college football officials, taking players as potential criminals and officials as law enforcers. Analyzing a novel play by play dataset from two seasons of college football, we report evidence of a monitoring effect being present in the overall dataset. This effect is mainly driven by offensive penalties which are called in the area of jurisdiction of the added official. The decomposition of the effect provides a limited evidence for the presence of the deterrence effect in the case of penalties with severe punishment and committed by teams with moderately high ability.
K14|Marginal Deterrence at Work|We test the rational economic model of marginal deterrence of law enforcement --- i.e., the need for graduating the penalty to the severity of the crime. We combine individual-level data on sentence length for a representative sample of US inmates with proxies for maximum punishment and monitoring costs across US states over 50 years. Consistent with the theory of marginal deterrence, we show that an increase in maximum penalty or a decrease in monitoring cost are associated with longer sentences. We also provide evidence that steeper sanctions are associated with less severe crimes, consistent with marginal deterrence being effective. Overall, these findings favor the marginal deterrence framework over competing theories of justice.
K14|Condiciones de Reclusión y Reincidencia: Evidencia de una expansión de cupos carcelario|En este artículo estimo el efecto causal de las condiciones de reclusión sobre la reincidencia explotando la entrada en operación de nuevos centros de reclusión en Colombia. Entre marzo de 2010 y enero de 2013 entraron en funcionamiento diez nuevos centros de reclusión denominados de tercera generación. Estos centros cuentan con mejor infraestructura, servicios de alumbrado y alojamiento, redes eléctricas y sanitarias, y disposición de personal de vigilancia, administrativo y de rehabilitación para los internos. Los resultados con base en la información de más de 7,000 individuos trasladados a los nuevos centros dentro de los diez primeros días de operación, muestran que un incremento de una desviación está andar en la proporción del tiempo de reclusión que un interno pasa en los centros de tercera generación, está asociado con una disminución del 15.8% en la probabilidad de ser capturado en el año siguiente a su egreso y eventualmente condenado.
K14|El Gasto Fiscal de la Guerra contra los Portadores y Traficantes de Drogas Ilícitas: Una Aproximación para Colombia|Colombia concentra grandes esfuerzos fiscales a la persecución del delito de porte, fabricación y tráfico de estupefacientes. Estos costos no son siempre visibles, en tanto corresponden al costo de oportunidad de una gran cantidad de funcionarios que intervienen en el ciclo criminal. En este artículo estimamos el costo esperado por una captura motivada por este delito, y a partir de ello calculamos los costos anuales del esfuerzo fiscal. Discutimos si este gasto se justifica por la persecución al tráfico internacional de drogas ilícitas, al crimen asociado al micro-tráfico y mercados locales, o a un esfuerzo para disuadir consumidores. Concluimos que ninguna de estas motivaciones justifica este esfuerzo fiscal, y que más bien parece relacionarse con incompatibilidad de incentivos en la policía.
K14|Impact of a Judicial System Reform on Police Behavior: Evidence on Juvenile Crime in Colombia|This paper uses a natural experiment to identify the impact of a judicial system reform on police behavior. The study finds that, after a decrease in the severity of judicial punishment imposed on Colombian adolescents, arrest rates for adolescents in most misdemeanor crimes decreased due to a change in police behavior. The magnitude of this effect ranged between 0.08 to 0.321 standard deviations. The uncertainty on how to operate the new system, the lack of training, and the potential disciplinary sanctions led police officials to reduce arrest rates. Nonetheless, police forces learned gradually how to operate within the new system and adjusted their operations, countervailing the initial negative impact on arrest rates. We present suggestive evidence that the reduction in arrest rates and the lower sanctions increased crime incidents in cities with a large proportion of adolescents in their population. Qualitative evidence collected in focus groups with police officials supports the principal quantitative findings and contextualize the obstacles that led to the decrease in arrest rates and the perceived increase of juvenile crime based on the officials’ experiences in the streets.
K14|Coca, cocaína y narcotráfico|El aumento en el área cultivada con coca en Colombia ha generado dudas con respecto a la estrategia antinarcóticos del país, y ha estimulado el escepticismo con respecto a las posibilidades de lograr una paz completa y definitiva. Asimismo, la percepción de fracaso ha dado pie a propuestas de política basadas en la idea de que los cultivos ilícitos son un problema de criminalidad y no de desarrollo. En este documento, se hace una revisión completa de la evidencia disponible con el fin de ordenar la información asociada a este debate y arrojar luces acerca de la conveniencia o inconveniencia de algunas medidas de política. En particular, hay seis hechos de alta relevancia: (i) Para educir la oferta de cocaína son más eficientes los esfuerzos en incautaciones y destrucción de infraestructura que los esfuerzos en erradicación. (ii) Asimismo, las incautaciones y la destrucción de infraestructura también ayudan a reducir los cultivos de coca. (iii) No hay evidencia que apoye la hipótesis de que el consumo nacional de cocaína ha aumentado. (iv) En la mayoría de las regiones del país han caído los cultivos de coca. No obstante, las regiones donde ha aumentado el área cultivada tienen presencia de uno o más grupos armados. (v) Los municipios cocaleros son, en promedio, más pobres que el resto de municipios del país. Estos municipios tienen ingresos tributarios bajos, bajos niveles de conectividad y bajos niveles de desarrollo institucional. (vi) El aumento del consumo de cocaína en Estados Unidos está concentrado en un grupo etario y en algunos estados. Este hecho hace difícil relacionar el aumento en consumo con un aumento exógeno en la oferta.
K14|The Fall of Capital Punishment and the Rise of Prisons: How Punishment Severity Affects Jury Verdicts|This paper studies the effect of punishment severity on jury decision-making using a large archival data set from the Old Bailey Criminal Court in London from 1715 to 1900. We take advantage of three natural experiments in English history, which result in sharp decreases in punishment severity: The offense specific abolition of capital punishment in the 1800s, the temporary halt of penal transportation during the American Revolution, and the abolition of transportation in 1853. Using a difference-in-differences design to study the abolition of the death penalty and pre-post designs to study the temporary and permanent halts to transportation, we find that decreasing expected punishment (especially via the end of the death penalty), had a large and significant impact on jury behavior, generally leading to the jury being ‘harsher’. Moreover, we find that the size of the effect differs with defendants’ gender and criminal history. These results raise concerns about the impartiality of juries as well as the implicit assumption often made when designing and evaluating criminal justice policies today – that the chance of conviction is independent of the harshness of the penalty.
K14|The certainty versus the severity of punishment, repeat offenders, and stigmatization|There is a widely held presumption among criminologists that the certainty of punishment p is a greater deterrent than the severity of punishment (s). This presumption is at odds with recent experimental work as well as the implications of simple law enforcement models. This article shows that when offenses may be committed repeatedly, p may have a greater deterrent effect than s, even when each individual offender is more responsive to sthan p. This resolves the discrepancy between experimental results and the common belief held among criminologists.
K14|Prisons, recidivism and the age–crime profile|This paper provides a descriptive analysis of the economic and non-economic channels that led to a U-shaped trend in the average age of male convicts in 19th century London using detailed data from the Old Bailey central criminal court. In addition to discussing industrialization and changing attitudes towards juveniles as potential mechanisms underlying the initial decrease and subsequent increase in criminal age, we put forth a new explanation of the latter. Did the abolition of capital punishment and penal transportation, which led to the rise of the modern day prison system and the emergence of recidivism, lead to a mechanical increase in the average age of criminals?
K14|The consequences of sex offender residency restriction: Evidence from North Carolina|In recent years, a number of state and local governments in the United States have imposed residency restrictions on sex offenders to lower the risk of repeat sex offenses against children. The restriction prohibits sex offenders from living near places where children regularly congregate, such as schools and daycare centers. In this paper, I estimate the effect of the North Carolina residency restriction on recidivism patterns of affected sex offenders by exploiting a quasi-experimental variation in the timing of the release. I find that the restriction increases the likelihood of a new property crime conviction within two years of release by 2.5 percentage points. On the other hand, the effect of the North Carolina residency restriction on the risk of repeat sex offenses is mostly modest, although the restriction seems to decrease the number of repeat sex offenses among newly-released and young sex offenders. (JEL K14, K42)
K14|Do more guns lead to more crime? Understanding the role of illegal firearms|Using a detailed jurisdiction-quarter level dataset, I create a proxy for illegal firearm flows: the number of firearms reported stolen in each police jurisdiction, and map their effect on crime in the U.S. Estimates show a strong, positive impact of increased stolen firearms, in the previous quarters, on firearm aggravated assaults, homicides, and robberies in the current quarter. However, no statistically significant relationship is estimated between firearm flows and non-firearm offenses, providing a crucial falsification test. Various other robustness checks, including an analysis of potential spillovers in illegal firearm flows, find no evidence of a spurious relationship driving the results.
K14|How do police use race in traffic stops and searches? Tests based on observability of race|When a police officer decides whether to initiate a traffic stop, the driver's race is less likely to be known during darkness, but always observed after the stop takes place. If officers use information optimally, this flow of information about race leads to specific empirical predictions, which are tested using data on traffic stops in Minneapolis. The prediction about stops is supported, but those concerning searches are not. This pattern of results implies that police choices were inconsistent, which is evidence against both statistical discrimination and optimizing with a taste for discrimination. The results may reflect cognitive biases present in the time-sensitive decision to initiate a stop.
K14|Local labor markets and criminal recidivism|This paper estimates the impact of local labor market conditions on criminal recidivism using administrative prison records on four million offenders released from 43 states between 2000 and 2013. Exploiting the timing of each offender's release from prison, I find that being released to a county with higher low-skilled wages significantly decreases the risk of recidivism. The impact of higher wages on recidivism is larger for both black offenders and first-time offenders, and in sectors that report being more willing to hire ex-offenders. These results are robust to individual- and county-level controls, such as policing and corrections activity, and do not appear to be driven by changes in the composition of released offenders during good or bad economic times.
K14|Should Inflation Measures Used by Central Banks Incorporate House Prices? The Czech Approach|In this paper we describe the Czech National Bank’s approach to incorporating macroprudential considerations into monetary policy decision making: the use of a broader inflation measure that gives substantial weight to house prices and is considered along with headline CPI inflation. We argue that, in terms of theory, the broader inflation gauge is at least as suitable for measuring the value of money as headline CPI inflation is, but we also acknowledge practical problems that arise from the use of the broader index.
K14|Criminals on the Field: A Study of College Football|Economists have found mixed evidence on what happens when the number of police increases. On the one hand, more law enforcers means a higher probability of detecting a crime, which is known as the monitoring effect. On the other hand, criminals incorporate the increase into their decision-making process and thus may commit fewer crimes, constituting the deterrence effect. This study analyzes the effects of an increase in the number of on-field college football officials, taking players as potential criminals and officials as law enforcers. Analyzing a novel play by play dataset from two seasons of college football, we report evidence of a monitoring e ect being present in the overall dataset. This effect is mainly driven by offensive penalties which are called in the area of jurisdiction of the added official. Decomposition of the effect provides evidence of the presence of the deterrence effect in cases of penalties with severe punishment or those committed by teams with moderate to high ability, suggesting that teams are able to strategically adapt their behavior following the addition of an official.
K14|The effect of changing employers’ access to criminal histories on ex-offenders’ labor market outcomes: evidence from the 2010–2012 Massachusetts CORI Reform|Many regard the 2010–2012 Massachusetts Criminal Offender Record Information (CORI)Reform as a national model to improve ex-offenders’ labor market outcomes. This reform prohibits most employers from inquiring about an individual’s criminal history on the initial job application (the “ban the box” reform), and reduces employers’ access to an applicant’s criminal record (the record-access reform). Using the CORI Reform as a natural experiment and a unique large confidential dataset linking individuals’ CORI records with their unemployment insurance quarterly wage records, we examine the impact of changing employers’ access to applicants' criminal histories on ex-offenders’ labor market outcomes. We find that contrary to the intended goal, the CORI Reform has a small negative effect on ex-offenders’ employment that grows over time, with mixed effects on earnings and industry composition. Suggestive evidence shows that the negative employment effect is more likely to result from a labor supply response rather than a labor demand response to the policy changes.
K14|Does changing employers’ access to criminal histories affect ex-offenders’ recidivism?: evidence from the 2010–2012 Massachusetts CORI Reform|This paper examines how changes in employers’ access to job applicants’ criminal histories affect ex-offender recidivism. We use extensive state administrative data on individual criminal histories spanning the 2010–2012 Massachusetts Criminal Offender Record Information (CORI) Reform, widely regarded as landmark legislation governing access to individuals’ criminal information. The CORI Reform: i) banned inquiring about criminal history on initial job applications, and ii) broadened the list of groups eligible to use the state’s criminal records repository while simultaneously restricting the scope of record access. Using survival analysis and panel regressions, we generally find small reductions in recidivism resulting from each component of the CORI Reform.
K14|The Use of Electronic Medical Records as Evidence in the Criminal Process in Indonesia|"""Objective – This article deals with the prospective use of electronic medical records as instruments of evidence in criminal procedural law in Indonesia. In particular, this article concerns the usefulness of these records in criminal cases. Methodology/Technique – This article applies doctrinal research involving a consideration of the relevant legal norms. Hence, a qualitative method is used to analysis the relevant data. Findings – The study suggests the legal basis in article 184 of the KUHAP should be revised by adding electronic evidence so that the use of electronic medical records can be used as evidence in the criminal process in Indonesia. Novelty – The study tries to provide ways to enhance the evidencing in criminal process."""
K14|Kwangju Incident and Role of the Judiciary in South Korea|"""Objective – The Constitutional Court of South Korea (‘the Court’) is the guardian of the constitution and has jurisdiction to decide cases concerning potential violations of the constitution. In the Kwangju incident, innocent citizens were murdered and injured while they were protesting against the military government. Their demand was to be provided the basic rights which are granted by the constitution of South Korea, as well as seeking democracy in the country. This paper analyses the judgment of the Court and observations of the judges. Further, it discusses the effects of the judgment on legislation, as well as analysing the situation involved in deciding the case in which unconstitutional actions of the military government were declared inhumane. Methodology/Technique – The research reviews articles in related area. Findings – Through this judgement, the Court played a major role in strengthening the constitution and democracy, through the way in which it reached a conclusion in the Kwangju incident case. The Court suggested the legislator should introduce new legislation to remove the latches of the case. Novelty – The study intends to learn the effects of the judgement on South Korean legislation."""
K14|Law Enforcement with a Democratic Government|In this article, we analyze how political competition affects the design of public law enforcement policies. The article arrives at two main conclusions (assuming that the cost of enforcement is linear, criminal’s type is uniformly distributed, and the society is wealthy enough): (1) electoral competition entails no loss of efficiency at equilibrium for both minor and major offenses (e.g., minor offenses are not enforced, while major ones are fully deterred); (2) distortions arises at equilibrium only in the range of intermediate offenses: enforcement expenditure for small offenses is lower than at optimal level, such that the issue of under-deterrence is exacerbated; in contrast, for more serious offenses, enforcement measures are higher, and there is more (possibly, over) deterrence as compared to what efficiency requires. We show that these results also generalize under more general assumptions, except that full deterrence of major offenses is no longer achievable (a less wealthy society), or enforcement expenditure is bounded above (under convex enforcement costs).
K14|Endogenous Driving Behavior in Veil of Darkness Tests for Racial Profiling|Policy evaluations of police traffic stops have increasingly used variation in the timing of sunset, “Veil of Darkness” (VOD) tests, based on the assumption that police are better able to detect race during daylight. Here, we propose that African-American motorists adjust their driving behavior in response to increased scrutiny by police during daylight when their race is more easily observed, potentially biasing estimates of discrimination. Using nationally representative data, we demonstrate that African-Americans are less likely to have fatal motor vehicle accidents when driving in daylight. These effects are largest in states with historically high levels of structural racism and that rank highest in terms of police shootings of unarmed African-Americans. We find no such daylight effects on fatal accidents across any other observed motorist or vehicle attributes. Using police traffic stop data, we also find that the speed distribution of stopped African-American motorists in Massachusetts and Tennessee is shifted towards slower speeds in daylight with no evidence of such shifts for whites or over other observables. Finally, we develop and calibrate a model of police stop and motorist speeding behavior and use this model to demonstrate the effects of changes in driving speed on the VOD test. Theoretically, we show that the VOD test statistic can be reversed by motorist responses to the presence of police prejudice, and our calibration model demonstrates that substantial bias is introduced into the VOD test statistic by these responses.
K14|Making Friends in Violent Neighborhoods: Strategies among Elementary School Children|While many studies have examined friendship formation among children in conventional contexts, comparatively fewer have examined how the process is shaped by neighborhood violence. The literature on violence and gangs has identified coping strategies that likely affect friendships, but most children in violent neighborhoods are not gang members and not all friendship relations involve gangs. We examine the friendship formation process based on in-depth interviews with 72 students, parents, and teachers in two elementary schools in violent Chicago neighborhoods. All students were African American boys and girls ages 11 to 15. We find that while conventional studies depict friendship formation among children as largely affective in nature, the process among the students we observed was, instead, primarily strategic. The children’s strategies were not singular but heterogeneous and malleable in nature. We identify and document five distinct strategies: protection-seeking, avoidance, testing, cultivating questioners, and kin-reliance. Girls were as affected as boys were, while they also reported additional preoccupations associated with sexual violence. We discuss implications for theories of friendship formation, violence, and neighborhood effects.
K14|Inequality, crime, and the long run legacy of slavery|This paper investigates the relationship between economic inequality and crime in Colombian municipalities. Following recent scholarly research that suggests that the legacy of slavery is largely manifest in persistent levels of economic inequality, we instrument economic inequality with a census-based measure of the proportion of slaves in each municipality before the abolition of slavery in the 19 century. We also explore the robustness of our estimates to relaxing the exclusion restriction, as the slavery instrument is only plausibly exogenous. We document a strong association between inequality and both violent and property crime rates at the municipal level. Our estimates are robust to including traditional determinants of crime (like population density, the proportion of young males, the average education level, the quality of law enforcement institutions, and the overall economic activity), as well as current ethnic differences and geographic characteristics that may be correlated both with the slave economy and with crime.
K14|If we Confess our Sins Abstract I consider the problem a social planner faces in constructing a criminal justice system which addresses two needs: to protect the innocent and to punish the guilty. I characterize the socially optimal criminal justice system under various assumptions with respect to the planner’s ability to commit. In the optimal system, before a criminal investigation is initiated, all members of the community are given the opportunity to confess to having committed the crime in exchange for a smaller than socially optimal punishment, independent of any future evidence. Leniency for confessing agents is efficient because there are informational externalities to each confession|No abstract is available for this item.
K14|Mandatory Minimums and the Sentencing of Federal Drug Crimes|The US federal mandatory minimum sentences are controversial not only because of the length of the mandatory sentences for even first-time offenders but also because eligibility quantities for crack cocaine crimes are small compared with those for other drug offenses. This paper shows that the impact of these mandatory minimums on sentencing is quite nuanced. A large fraction of mandatory-minimum-eligible offenders, particularly first timers, are able to avoid these mandatory minimums. Moreover, despite lower eligibility thresholds for crack-related offenses, a smaller fraction of those convicted of crack-related offenses are eligible for mandatory minimums relative to those convicted of other drug offenses. Furthermore, while being just eligible for a mandatory minimum increases sentence length on average, the impact is not uniform across drug offenses. Notably, sentences for crack offenders are generally sufficiently long such that, on average, sentences for crack offenders are not impacted by eligibility for a mandatory minimum.
K14|Using a Ratio Test to Estimate Racial Differences in Wrongful Conviction Rates|We show that under arguably plausible assumptions regarding the DNA exoneration process, in expectation, the ratio of DNA exoneration rates across races among defendants convicted for the same crime in the same state provides an upper bound on the ratio of wrongful conviction rates across races among these defendants. Our estimates of this statistic reveal that among those sentenced to incarceration for rape in the United States between 1983 and 1997, the wrongful conviction rate among white defendants was less than two-thirds of what it was for black defendants. Our results with respect to murder are inconclusive.
K14|Prohibiting Sex or Prohibiting True Love? An Empirical Assessment of Effect of Statutory Rape Law on Teenage Marriage in Japan|"Local statutory rape laws in Japan, where the national marriageable age is 16 for females (18 for males), criminalize sexual acts with those generally under 18 unless the offender and the victim are in ""serious love toward marriage."" The critiques argue that the vagueness of the law interferes ""true love"" toward legal marriage, rather than protecting minors. This paper provides some evidence on this question by estimating the effects of the passage of statutory rape rule and the changes in the degree of enforcement at local prefectures on teenage marriage. Using the regional data of cohorts born between 1940-1990, we find that the passage of the law significantly encourages new marital formation of women under 18. We do not find evidence that the law increases the divorce rate of women under 18. Therefore, the statutory rape law is likely to prohibit ""true love"" sexual relationships, encouraging the formal marital formation as a substitute, without increasing reluctant ""cover-up"" marriage."
K14|Prison Work Programs in a Model of Deterrence|This article considers the social desirability of prison work programs in a model in which the function of imprisonment is to deter crime. Two types of prison work programs are studied—voluntary ones and mandatory ones. A voluntary work program is socially beneficial: if prisoners are paid a wage that just compensates them for their disutility from work, the deterrent effect of the prison sentence is unaffected, but society obtains the product of the work program. But a mandatory work program is superior to a voluntary work program: if prisoners are forced to work without compensation, the deterrent effect of the prison sentence rises, allowing society to restore deterrence and save resources by reducing the probability of detection or the sentence length, and also to obtain greater output than under the optimal voluntary work program. In an extension of the basic analysis, however, in which prisoners vary in their disutility from work, a voluntary work program may be superior to a mandatory work program because prisoners with relatively high disutility from work can elect not to work.
K14|Comparing Apples to Oranges: Differences in Women’s and Men’s Incarceration and Sentencing Outcomes|Using detailed administrative records, we find that, on average, women receive lighter sentences in comparison with men along both extensive and intensive margins. Using parametric and semiparametric decomposition methods, roughly 30% of the gender differences in incarceration cannot be explained by the observed criminal characteristics of offense and offender. We also find evidence of considerable heterogeneity across judges in their treatment of female and male offenders. There is little evidence, however, that tastes for gender discrimination are driving the mean gender disparity or the variance in treatment between judges.
K14|Optimal Multistage Adjudication|In many settings, there are preliminary or interim decision points at which legal cases may be terminated: e.g., motions to dismiss and for summary judgment in U.S. civil litigation, grand jury decisions in criminal cases, and agencies’ screening and other exercises of discretion in pursuing investigations. This article analyzes how the decision whether to continue versus terminate should optimally be made when (A) proceeding to the next stage generates further information but at a cost to both the defendant and the government and (B) the prospect of going forward, and ultimately imposing sanctions, deters harmful acts and also chills desirable behavior. This subject involves a mechanism design analogue to the standard value of information problem, one that proves to be qualitatively different and notably more complex. Numerous factors enter into the optimal decision rule – some expected, some subtle, and some counterintuitive. The optimal rule for initial or intermediate stages is also qualitatively different from that for assigning liability at the final stage of adjudication.
K14|Racial Bias in Bail Decisions|This paper develops a new test for identifying racial bias in the context of bail decisions – a high-stakes setting with large disparities between white and black defendants. We motivate our analysis using Becker's (1957) model of racial bias, which predicts that rates of pre-trial misconduct will be identical for marginal white and marginal black defendants if bail judges are racially unbiased. In contrast, marginal white defendants will have a higher probability of misconduct than marginal black defendants if bail judges are racially biased against blacks. To test the model, we develop a new estimator that uses the release tendencies of quasi-randomly assigned bail judges to identify the relevant race-specific misconduct rates. Estimates from Miami and Philadelphia show that bail judges are racially biased against black defendants, with substantially more racial bias among both inexperienced and part-time judges. We also find that both black and white judges are biased against black defendants. We argue that these results are consistent with bail judges making racially biased prediction errors, rather than being racially prejudiced per se.
K14|The Cross-Border Spillover Effects of Recreational Marijuana Legalization|We examine the spillover effects of recreational marijuana legalization (RML) in Colorado and Washington on neighboring states. We find that RML causes a sharp increase in marijuana possession arrests in border counties of neighboring states relative to non-border counties in these states. RML has no impact on juvenile marijuana possession arrests but is rather fully concentrated among adults. Using separate data on self-reported marijuana use, we show this is accompanied by an increase in use in neighboring states relative to non-neighboring states. We do not find conclusive evidence that marijuana sale/manufacture arrests, DUI arrests, or opium/cocaine possession arrests in border states are affected by RML.
K14|Deterrence and the Optimal Use of Prison, Parole, and Probation|In this article we derive the mix of criminal sanctions—choosing among prison, parole, and probation—that achieves any target level of deterrence at least cost. We assume that prison has higher disutility and higher cost per unit time than parole and probation and that potential offenders discount the future disutility of sanctions at a higher rate than the state discounts the future costs of sanctions. Our primary insight is that there is a “front-loading advantage” of imprisonment due to these differential discount rates. This advantage implies that (a) whenever a sentence includes both a prison term and a parole term, the prison term should be imposed first; and (b) it may be optimal to employ a prison term even if prison has higher cost per unit of disutility than parole and probation and even if prison is not needed to achieve the target level of deterrence.
K14|Right-to-Carry Laws and Violent Crime: A Comprehensive Assessment Using Panel Data and a State-Level Synthetic Control Analysis|This paper uses more complete state panel data (through 2014) and new statistical techniques to estimate the impact on violent crime when states adopt right-to-carry (RTC) concealed handgun laws. Our preferred panel data regression specification, unlike the statistical model of Lott and Mustard that had previously been offered as evidence of crime-reducing RTC laws, both satisfies the parallel trends assumption and generates statistically significant estimates showing RTC laws increase overall violent crime. Our synthetic control approach also strongly confirms that RTC laws are associated with 13-15 percent higher aggregate violent crime rates ten years after adoption. Using a consensus estimate of the elasticity of crime with respect to incarceration of 0.15, the average RTC state would need to roughly double its prison population to offset the increase in violent crime caused by RTC adoption.
K14|The Grass is Greener on the Other Side: How Extensive is the Interstate Trafficking of Recreational Marijuana?|Marijuana is partially prohibited: though banned federally, it will soon be available to almost 1 in 4 U.S. adults under state statutes. A chief concern among policy makers is marijuana trafficking from states with legal markets elsewhere. We measure trafficking with a natural experiment. Oregon opened recreationally licensed stores on October 1, 2015, next to Washington where stores had been legally selling recreational marijuana since July, 2014. Using administrative data covering the universe of recreational market sales, we find Washington retailers along the Oregon border experienced a 41% decline in sales immediately following Oregon's market opening. In counties that are the closest crossing point for the majority of the neighboring population, the estimated decrease grows to 58%, and is the largest for the biggest transactions. We also test if these inter-state spill-overs led to health externalities by studying traffic accidents in Oregon from 2011-2015.
K14|The Effects of Marijuana Liberalizations: Evidence from Monitoring the Future|By the end of 2016, 28 states had liberalized their marijuana laws: by decriminalizing possession, by legalizing for medical purposes, or by legalizing more broadly. More states are considering such policy changes even while supporters and opponents continue to debate their impacts. Yet evidence on these liberalizations remains scarce, in part due to data limitations. We use data from Monitoring the Future’s annual surveys of high school seniors to evaluate the impact of marijuana liberalizations on marijuana use, other substance use, alcohol consumption, attitudes surrounding substance use, youth health outcomes, crime rates, and traffic accidents. These data have several advantages over those used in prior analyses. We find that marijuana liberalizations have had minimal impact on the examined outcomes. Notably, many of the outcomes predicted by critics of liberalizations, such as increases in youth drug use and youth criminal behavior, have failed to materialize in the wake of marijuana liberalizations.
K14|The Criminalization Of Child Pornography: The Problem Of Ensuring A Balance Between Fundamental Human Rights And Public Order And Morals|Protecting human rights has been the focal point of international legislation for the past years, criminal provisions being often under scrutiny, since they are the ones that, by their very nature, can prove most intrusive in this area. Without questioning the severe nature of the crime of child pornography, it is important to observe the way in which social or moral norms can influence the line between which action can be considered to be within the bounds of legal exertion of basic rights and which is a transgression. It has been established that freedom of expression includes even subjects that can shock and while some materials formally fulfill the requirements to be considered pornographic, at the same time they might present artistic and scientific value, preventing such a classification. A balance must be ensured to properly apply the legal norm, but at the same time to prevent the stifling creative manifestations. Also, certain issues may be raised regarding the right to the protection of private life, since the actions of a person while in the privacy of his own home or in other place that cannot be considered as public may only be sanctioned if justified under specific conditions.
K14|Policing America's Children: Police Contact and Consequences Among Teens in Fragile Families|Recent high-profile incidents of police violence and misconduct have brought widespread attention to long-standing tensions between police departments and the communities they serve. Policy shifts over the past 20 years have led to the broad adoption of â€œproactiveâ€ policing, which emphasizes active engagement of citizens at low levels of suspicion. Police use investigative stops, citations, and arrests to detect and disrupt low-level disorder or other circumstances interpreted as indicia that crime is afoot. However, these encounters rarely uncover illegal activity, and in many cities are characterized by stark racial disparities. Such encounters threaten the health and wellbeing of individuals and communities targeted. Due largely to data constraints, little is known about the experiences of youth stopped by the police, and the current national picture of policing and its implications for youth is unclear. I use new data from the Fragile Families and Child Wellbeing Survey (FFCWS) to measure the extent, nature, and health implications of police contact among a cohort of contemporary urban teenagers. I find that FFCWS teens have extensive police exposure: more than 75% report a police officer stationed at their school, and more than 25% report personal experience with the police. This contact is racially disparate, and often severe. Observed racial disparities in both a binary indicator of stop experience and a measure of police intrusion are robust to controls for adolescent behavior and their peer context. Further, I find that adolescentsâ€™ experiences with the police are significantly associated with multiple indicators of adverse mental health, suggesting that police contact has the potential to drive or exacerbate health disparities among urban teens.
K14|Marginal Deterrence at Work|We test the rational economic model of marginal deterrence of law enforcement --- i.e., the need for graduating the penalty to the severity of the crime. We use a unique data set, which combines individual-level data on sentence length for a representative sample of US inmates with proxies for maximum punishment and monitoring costs across US states over 50 years. We show that the penalty is increasing in the level of the offense. Consistent with the marginal deterrence framework, we also document that a decrease in maximum penalty or an increase in monitoring cost are associated with longer sentences and higher monitoring rates. We also provide evidence that the effects of maximum penalty and monitoring cost are stronger in states where income inequality is higher. Finally, we show that steeper sanctions are associated with less harmful crimes. Overall, these findings favor the marginal deterrence framework over the maximal penalty principle and other competing theories of justice.
K14|Mediation in the case of disrespecting measures concerning the custody of the minor|In criminal cases relating to offences for which, according to the law, the withdrawal of the preliminary complaint removes the criminal liability, mediation may be the best solution for the parties to reach an out-of-court-settlement. The defendant or the injured party, if interested in solving the situation faster or recovering the injury, will initiate the criminal mediation proceeding by addressing a mediator. Failure to comply with measures regarding child custody presupposes that a minor child is retained by one parent, without the consent of the other one, or repeatedly prevents a parent from getting in touch with the child. The Criminal Code stipulates that this kind of offences is initiated upon the complaint of the injured person - for which mediation agreement completely removes criminal liability. In this case mediation can take place at any time during the criminal proceedings, including the appeal stage.
K14|Long-term unemployment and violent crime|Abstract This study reinvestigates the relationship between unemployment and crime, but is the first to focus explicitly on the effects of long-term unemployment on crime. A unique finding is that long-term unemployment shows a strong association with violent crime, an effect which is greater than that of total unemployment on property crime in this and most previous studies. Long-term unemployment thus identifies a marginal group for committing crime (particularly violent crime) better than total unemployment, with the duration of unemployment plausibly increasing the strain that fosters violent behaviour.
K14|Do jurors and professional judges differ in their treatment of crime?: Evidence from French reform|Do citizens and professional judges agree on the accuracy of sentences? While surveys regularly point out a demand by citizens for harsher punishment, the differences between surveys’ and real decisions’ conditions are large enough to cast a doubt on the results. The introduction of two jurors into a court composed of three professional judges in two French regions and for a subsample of crimes in 2012 offers a good natural experiment for documenting the question of the differences between professional judges and citizens. Difference-in-differences or tripledifference methods do not permit me to identify any change in the probability of being convicted or in sentences given by a court including jurors. If some characteristics of the reform could partly explain those null results, they clearly go against the hypothesis of a major disagreement between professional judges and citizens when they have to make real decisions in criminal cases.
K14|Endogenous Driving Behavior in Veil of Darkness Tests for Racial Proﬁling|Several prominent applications of the Veil of Darkness (VOD) test, where solar variation is used to identify racial proﬁling in traffic stops, have found reverse discrimination in cities widely purported to disproportionately target minorities. We develop a theoretical model of traffic enforcement and demonstrate that the VOD test for racial proﬁling cannot distinguish between discrimination and reverse discrimination. In our model, this problem arises because motorists rationally alter their driving behavior when faced with discriminatory policing. For groups that face discrimination, our model implies that motorists who previously did not speed choose to speed in darkness, when demography cannot be observed, thus creating the possibility that the share of stopped minority motorists increases in darkness. We develop a follow-up test for identifying the direction of differential treatment by examining the speed distribution of motorists across daylight and darkness. Using data on traffic stops in Massachusetts made by State and Local Police, we reject the VOD test for equal treatment and demonstrate that driving speeds of stopped African-Americans are higher in darkness consistent with discrimination.
K14|Gun Violence in the US: Correlates and Causes|This paper provides a county-level investigation of the root causes of gun violence in the U.S. To guide our empirical analysis, we develop a simple theoretical model which suggests that firearm-related offenses in a given county increase with the number of illegal guns and decrease with social capital and police intensity. Using detailed panel data from the Federal Bureau of Investigation for the period 1986-2014, we find empirical evidence for the causal effects of illegal guns, social capital, and police intensity consistent with our theoretical predictions. Based on our analysis, we derive a range of policy recommendations.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
K14|Attitudes About The Rationale Behind Incriminatingcertain Categories Of Child Pornography|This study begins with analysing the legal provisions pertaining to the crime of child pornography on an international, European and national level, with the aim of ascertaining whether the legislator’s incrimination of certain forms of child pornography, pseudo-pornography and virtual pornography that involve minors is opportune. The literature is rife with reservations and controversies stemming from the fact that the social value protected by this crime has not been clarified, and situations can arise in which the legislator criminalises certain acts that, although immoral, nonetheless exceed the scope of criminal law. In order to fully analyse the phenomenon from the viewpoint of social perception as well, an empirical study has been performed comprising 607 persons. The aim of this study is to investigate the attitudes of the population with regard to child pornography, taking into account familiarity with the notion, the content of legislation and opinions about the rationale of criminalisation. The results show that certain demographic variables can give rise to differences in perceiving the object of the study, and respectively, that there are certain forms of the crime that are thought to be subject to an excessively harsh system of penalties. Nevertheless, a segment of the population is not fully informed as to child pornography, which justifies further efforts to raise awareness of the subject.
K14|Terrorisme Et Manipulation Financiere|: La société moderne est formée d’une série d’institutions, dès celles politiques, législatives, financièreset administratives, jusqu’à celles représentées par la famille et par les valeurs multiples reliées à ce concept. Tout cela contribue à la formation de la représentation de l’individu vue comme le montant de toutes accumulations, pendant un certain moment pris en compte. La crise de la société contemporaine est, en tout premier lieu, une crise de conscience qui se manifeste par rapport à l’opposition aux anciennes normes, étalons, coutumes. Le monde este accablé par une puissante élite des affaires, l’Establishment, qui, d’une part, domine les ressources naturelles dont on a besoin pour survivre, et qui, de l’autre part, contrôle l’argent indispensable à obtenir ces ressources. Le résultat est le monopole global basé sur les pouvoirs financier et corporatif qui ont comme objet central l’argent. La seule manière de créer de l’argent est par l’endettement. L’endettement est l’arme qui sert à conquérir et soumettre les sociétés, et l’intérêt en est la principale munition. Le vrai souverain est l’argent, créé de rien dans les banques, par un mécanisme extrêmement sophistiqué, dénommé la réserve fractionnelle, et qui retourne, inévitablement, dans les mêmes banques. Comme la Reserve Fédérale des États Unis maintien le peuple américain dans un état perpétuel d’endettement, d’inflation, d’intérêt, de la même manière, la Banque Mondiale et le FMI accomplissent ce rôle au niveau mondial. L’idée de base est simple: ils endettent un pays, soit par imprudence propre du pays, soit par la corruption de l’administration du pays respectif, l’objectif final en étant celui de contrôler ses ressources. De plus en plus états devinent conscients et s’efforcent à s’opposer à ce système. Ainsi, l’Establishment a été forcé de trouver une nouvelle méthode d’action contre ceux qui s’opposent au système. C’est ainsi que e terrorisme moderne prit naissance, comme une réaction contre le système. Le terme « terroriste » signifie toute personne, ou groupe de personnes, qui choisissent agir contre l’establishment. Pierre Henry Bunel, instructeur au cadre de Direction du Renseignement Militaire Français disait: “La vérité est qu’il n’y a aucune armée islamique ou groupe terroriste appelé Al Qaeda et tout officier bien informé des services d’information le sait. C’est une campagne de propagande pour rendre le publique croira l’existence d’une entité identifiée ainsi. Derrière cette propagandes trouvent les États Unis.” La plus grande la terreur, le plus grand le profit de l’Establishment.
K14|Settlement Vs. Mediation In The Criminal Trial|"The alternative methods of resolving disputes between different persons represents one of the concerns of the contemporary society which has risen in the context of economical, social and scientific development – catalysts of new types of conflicts. Thus, new approaches have had to be found in order to complement and be of help to the judicial system, as well as to the possible parties, hence promoting the amiable settlement of conflicts. By means of this study, the authors wish to identify a few aspects related to the institution of dispute settlement and to mediation in criminal law procedure, whilst presenting some advantages of these two which are able to influence the offender`s and aggrieved person`s behavior, in this way making them more responsible and helping them to be more aware of their actions. Are those judicial procedures such as settlement, withdrawal of the preliminary complaint, mediation, capable of spelling the end of dictum ""Homo Homini Lupus est""?"
K14|Nexus between Income Inequality, Crime, Inflation and Poverty: NewEvidence fromStructural Breaksfor Pakistan|Purpose: Thispaper examines the relationship between income inequality, crime, poverty and inflation over the period of 1984-2012 for Pakistan. Methodology: Augmented Dickey-Fuller and Phillips-Perron unit root tests have been applied to test the stationarity of data. Perron structural break unit root test is used to test the stationary of data in the presence of single unknown structural break. The series are found to be stationary at first difference or I(1). The newly developed combine cointegration approach has been taken to test cointegration between variables. The problem of structural break is solved by using ARDL bound testing approach. Findings: Theirresults confirm the existence of the long run relationship between income inequality, crime, poverty and inflation. In long run, poverty, income inequality and inflation have found to be positive and significant impact on crime but, in short run, only income inequality has positive and significant impact on crime. The robustness of causal analysis is tested by Innovative Accounting Approach (IAA). The results explain that 23 percent of crime is explaining by shocks stimulating in income inequality and 42 percent of income inequality is explaining by shocks ruining in crime. Recommendations: This study opens up new insights for policy makers.
K14|Ban the Box, Criminal Records, and Statistical Discrimination: A Field Experiment|"""Ban-the-Box"" (BTB) policies restrict employers from asking about applicants' criminal histories on job applications and are often presented as a means of reducing unemployment among black men, who disproportionately have criminal records. However, withholding information about criminal records could risk encouraging statistical discrimination: employers may make assumptions about criminality based on the applicant's race (or other observable characteristics). To investigate BTB's effects, we sent approximately 15,000 fictitious online job applications to employers in New Jersey and New York City both before and after the adoption of BTB policies. These applications varied the race and felony conviction status of the applicants. We confirm that criminal records are a major barrier to employment: employers that ask about criminal records were 63% more likely to call back an applicant if he has no record. However, our results support the concern that BTB policies encourage statistical discrimination on the basis of race: we find that the race gap in callbacks grows dramatically at the BTB-affected companies after the policy goes into effect. Before BTB, white applicants to employers with the box received 7% more callbacks than similar black applicants, but BTB increases this gap to 45%."
K14|The Effects of Pre-Trial Detention on Conviction, Future Crime, and Employment: Evidence from Randomly Assigned Judges|Over 20 percent of prison and jail inmates in the United States are currently awaiting trial, but little is known about the impact of pre-trial detention on defendants. This paper uses the detention tendencies of quasi-randomly assigned bail judges to estimate the causal effects of pre-trial detention on subsequent defendant outcomes. Using data from administrative court and tax records, we find that being detained before trial significantly increases the probability of a conviction, primarily through an increase in guilty pleas. Pre-trial detention has no detectable effect on future crime, but decreases pre-trial crime and failures to appear in court. We also find suggestive evidence that pre-trial detention decreases formal sector employment and the receipt of employment- and tax-related government benefits. We argue that these results are consistent with (i) pre-trial detention weakening defendants' bargaining position during plea negotiations, and (ii) a criminal conviction lowering defendants' prospects in the formal labor market.
K14|Corruption, organized crime and the bright side of subversion of law|We study an enforcement model in which, as soon as a Legislator grants an amnesty to low-rank criminals cooperating with the justice, top criminals react by bribing public officials in order to avoid being sanctioned. We show that, to prevent this form of subversion of law, the optimal policy must grant leniency not only to low-rank criminals but also to officials who plead guilty and report bribe-givers. By doing so, the policy increases the conviction risk not only for top criminals but also for their soldiers. This higher risk increases the reservation wage that top criminals must pay in order to recruit soldiers and therefore reduces the crime profitability (the bright side of subversion of law).
K14|Violent Video Games and Violent Crime|Video games are an increasingly popular leisure activity. As many best-selling games contain hyper-realistic violence, many researchers and policymakers have hypothesized that violent games cause violent behaviors. Laboratory experiments have found evidence suggesting that violent video games increase aggression. Before drawing policy conclusions about the effect of violent games on actual behavior, these experimental studies should be subjected to tests of external validity. Our study uses a quasi-experimental methodology to identify the short-run and medium-run effects of violent game sales on violent crime using time variation in retail unit sales data of the top 30 selling video games and violent criminal offenses from both the Uniform Crime Report and the National Incident-Based Reporting System from 2005 to 2011. We find no evidence of an increase in crime associated with video games and perhaps a decrease.
K14|Deterring Rearrests for Drinking and Driving|This study assesses why some individuals are rearrested for driving while intoxicated (DWI). Using longitudinal data from North Carolina containing information on arrests and arrest outcomes, we test hypotheses that individuals prosecuted and convicted of DWI are less likely to be rearrested for DWI. We allow for possible endogeneity of prosecution and conviction outcomes by using instrumental variables for the prosecutor's prosecution rate and the judge's conviction rate. With a three-year follow-up, the probability of DWI rearrest was reduced by 6.6% if the person was prosecuted for DWI and, for those prosecuted, by 24.5% if convicted onthis charge. Prosecution and conviction for DWI deters rearrest for DWI.
K14|The Fight Against Cyber-Crime In The Context Of Compliance With The Right To Protection Against Arbitrary Or U|The right to privacy of correspondence is enshrined in Article 8 of the European Convention and the jurisprudence of the ECHR. Violation of privacy is one of the crimes against the constitutional rights and freedoms of man. Within the framework of the problems in combating international terrorism and the legitimate interests of law enforcement or national security, restriction on the right of a citizen to privacy of correspondence is permitted only in accordance with the law, including international human rights law. Paragraph 2 of article 17 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights explicitly states that everyone has the right to the protection of the law against unlawful or arbitrary interference with their privacy. This implies that any communications surveillance programme must be conducted on the basis of a publicly accessible law, which in turn must comply with the State?s own constitutional regime and international human rights law.
K14|Prosecuting Genocide, Rape, And Sexual Enslavement In Time Of War: Southeastern Europe 1991-1995|As the 25th anniversary of the Balkan War approaches, people around the globe recall a terrible war of aggression that shocked the conscience of the modern world by its deliberate carnage, primitivism, and countless atrocities targeting civilian populations. This project addresses the experiences and concerns of tens of thousands of women who were raped in that war and are still awaiting prosecution of their victimizers, many still seeking official status as victims of war crimes entitled to moral, spiritual, and financial assistance. The widespread, systematic use of rape as an instrument of war by the Serbian military has been documented by the U.N., and the International Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia (ICTY). The U.N. estimates that between 20,000 and 50,000 women were raped by the Serbian military. Yet, to date, there have been few successful prosecutions of the war crimes of genocide, rape, and sexual enslavement. The Security Council, in forming the Tribunal sought a political mechanism for fulfilling two distinct purposes: 1) To meet the Security Council?s obligations ?to stop crimes against the peace and reestablish peace and security,? and 2) To meet the Tribunal?s single obligation to try individuals responsible for serious violations of international humanitarian law which delineates the legitimacy of the level of violence in an armed conflict. It failed to make the essential distinction between the aggressor, a war criminal committing a jus cogens crime (a crime that violates a fundamental principle of international law from which no derogation is permitted) and the defendant-victim of the crime lawfully engaged in self-defense. This presentation examines how the Tribunal?s controversial stance of moral equivalency, a formulation that replaces the concept of aggression with that of joint criminal enterprise, politicized the judicial process and contributed to victims being left alone in their suffering. The criminals live freely among them.
K14|A comparative study on the law of remedy system for patent infringement in US and Korea|"The purpose of this presentation is to review the right of patentee put in a statutory form in Korea patent law compared with that of USA and Japan patent law. The focus is a regular patent protect system, especially in criminal suit regarding patent infringement. The IP (?Intellectual Property?) protection should be strengthened as much as possible, rather than impeded, if economies seek to move up the global innovation value chain. And the most effective remedy for damages of patent infringement is the criminal penalties and sanctions for IP rights infringement. That is the reason why the U.S. Chamber International IP Index includes the indicators of ?Criminal standards including minimum imprisonment and minimum fines.? Therefore, comparative analysis of remedy system of US and Korea for the patent infringement is performed. In US, as you see in the statement of ""Except as otherwise provided in this title, whoever without authority makes, uses, offers to sell, or sells any patented invention, within the United States, or imports into the United States any patented invention during the term of the patent therefore infringes the patent"", the definition of the patent infringement is only stated comprehensively and there is no criminal punishment for patent infringement. When the damages are not found by a jury, the court shall assess them. In either event the court may increase the damages up to three times the amount found or assessed. On contrast, in the case of Korean patent infringement claims, both civil and criminal remedies are available. Patent Law enacted in 1961 for patent infringement when penalties are explicitly stipulated increasingly so criminal remedies have been strengthened. In the Patent Act of Korea, Any person who infringes a patent right or exclusive license shall be punished by imprisonment not exceeding seven years or by a fine not exceeding 100 million won. Furthermore, If a representative of a juristic person, or an agent, an employee or any other employed person of a juristic person or individual has committed an offense under Articles 225 (1), 228 or 229 with respect to the duties of the juristic person or individual, not only shall the offender be punished, but also the juristic person shall be punished by a fine under any of the individual shall be punished by a fine referred to in the relevant provisions in Korea, which is named as ?Joint Penal Provisions.?"
K14|Mediation in criminal cases|Mediation can solve conflicts arising from crimes which, under the Romanian law, the withdrawal of the preliminary complaint or the reconciliation of the parties removes criminal liability. Also, mediation can solve any civil side of the criminal file or of any type of crime. If, after the mediation agreement, the defendant covers the damages, he benefits from attenuating circumstances. The parties may resort to mediation in criminal prosecution stage and during the trial. If mediation is accepted by the parties, they will be ensured their right to legal assistance or to an interpreter, if required. To solve criminal cases, under the agreement concluded as a result of mediation in criminal cases, the parties are obliged to submit to the judicial the mediation agreement authenticated by a notary public or to appear before the judicial body to take note of their will, under the mediation agreement.
K14|Prevention, Detection, Investigation And Prosecution Of Terrorist Offenses And Other Serious Crimes By Using Passenger Name Record (Pnr) Data. Critical Opinions. De Lege Ferenda Proposals|In this study we have examined (sometimes critically) the provisions of Directive (EU) 2016/681 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the use of Passenger Name Record (PNR) data for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution terrorist offenses and serious crimes. Representing an absolute novelty in EU legislation, the European legislative act is examined from the perspective of transposing it into the Romanian law. The innovations that are brought to this study are the examination itself and the de lege ferenda proposals which can be useful to the European legislator, but mostly to the Romanian legislator in the transposition of this legislative act into the Romanian law. The paper can be useful to academics and practitioners in the field of preventing and fighting terrorist offenses and serious crimes.
K14|Issuance And Transmission Of The European Protection Order In The European Union. Critical Opinions. De Lege Ferenda Proposals|The objective of this study is to examine the provisions of Directive 2011/99 / EU concerning the procedure for issuing and transmission of a European protection order. The examination highlights the need for a previously ordered protection measure, under which it may issue a European protection order at the request of the person seeking protection. Along with the conducted examination there were identified also depositions that may cause some malfunctions into practice, which is why there were formulated some de lege ferenda proposals, which may be considered by the European legislator. We highlight here the proposal that regards the need, within the procedure for issuing a European protection order, to ensure the right to defense to the protected person and to the person representing a danger. The paper can be useful to both academics and practitioners and also to the European legislator, in terms of operating the necessary changes.
K14|Mediation In The Offences From The Special Laws|Changes in Romanian penal laws coming into force from 1st February 2014 brought an increasing number of offenses for which it is possible a penal mediation, including the offenses from the special laws (not included in the main Penal Code), for which the withdrawal of the advance complaint or the reconciliation of the parties removes the penal responsibility. These offences from the special laws are reviewed and detailed by the author with the mark of the removal mode of the penal responsibility, achieving a practical table for practitioners. Mediation procedure in the special laws crimes is similar into the general criminal mediation, but the application of the most favourable in time law may require special attention.
K14|Criminological Aspects On Customs Offences In Romania|The study undertaken aims at analyzing and determining the status, structure and dynamics of crime in the customs sphere, stressing that the charging structure in customs crime contributes to the knowledge of numerical composition and morphology (forms of crime) crime in a particular period and into a specific geographical area, understanding the general condition, overall, or those particular detailing the phenomenon on various statistical indicators, based on which can be carried out comparative studies on certain periods to see trends and dynamic s of the whole and different parts, analytical, allowing the formulation of weather and detection determinants contributing to the commission of unlawful acts in the customs sphere. In the study they were used various research methods, including: analysis, synthesis, deduction, induction. In order to intensify the struggle with the phenomenon of crime in the customs sphere in the study are advanced some proposals to improve the legal framework incriminating. In the same row it was argued the need to shift prosecution competence as specialized subdivision besides the National Customs Authority in order to streamline the recording and investigation of customs offenses.
K14|The Deterrent Effect of the Death Penalty? Evidence from British Commutations During World War I|During World War I, the British military condemned over 3,000 soldiers to death, but only executed 12% of them; the others received commuted sentences. Many historians believe that the military command confirmed or commuted sentences for reasons unrelated to the circumstances of a particular case and that the application of the death penalty was essentially a random, “pitiless lottery.” Using a dataset on all capital cases during World War I, I statistically investigate this claim and find that the data are consistent with an essentially random process. Using this result, I exploit variation in commutations and executions within military units to identify the deterrent effect of executions, with deterrence measured by the elapsed time within a unit between the resolution of a death sentence (i.e., a commutation or execution) and subsequent absences within that unit. Absences are measured via handwritten trial records and “wanted” lists prepared by British military police units searching for deserters and preserved in war diaries and police gazettes. I find some limited evidence that executing deserters deterred absences, while executing Irish soldiers, regardless of the crime, spurred absences, particularly Irish absences. I present a model where perceived legitimacy of authority affects why people obey the law.
K14|The War on Drugs: An Analysis of the Effects of Supply Disruption on Prices and Purity|Retail prices of illicit drugs have fallen despite rising supply disruption. This article presents and empirically tests a model which may explain the price puzzle. Supply disruption increases the cost of purity. Illicit drugs are experience goods, with demand depending on the seller’s purity reputation. There is an equilibrium in which seizures decrease purity, reducing future demand and prices. These predictions are tested using monthly data for crack cocaine in Washington DC. Persistence of the series is exploited to handle endogeneity resulting from seizures mirroring supply. A 10% increase in seizures reduces purity by 4.7% and future prices by 2.3%.
K14|The Deterrent Effect of the Death Penalty? Evidence from British Commutations During World War I|During World War I, the British military condemned over 3,000 soldiers to death, but only executed 12% of them; the others received commuted sentences. Many historians believe that the military command confirmed or commuted sentences for reasons unrelated to the circumstances of a particular case and that the application of the death penalty was essentially a random, “pitiless lottery.” Using a dataset on all capital cases during World War I, I statistically investigate this claim and find that the data are consistent with an essentially random process. Using this result, I exploit variation in commutations and executions within military units to identify the deterrent effect of executions, with deterrence measured by the elapsed time within a unit between the resolution of a death sentence (i.e., a commutation or execution) and subsequent absences within that unit. Absences are measured via handwritten trial records and “wanted” lists prepared by British military police units searching for deserters and preserved in war diaries and police gazettes. I find some limited evidence that executing deserters deterred absences, while executing Irish soldiers, regardless of the crime, spurred absences, particularly Irish absences. I present a model where perceived legitimacy of authority affects why people obey the law.
K14|How Rome enabled impersonal markets|Impersonal exchange increases trade and specialization opportunities, encouraging economic growth. However, it requires the support of sophisticated public institutions. This paper explains how Classical Rome provided such support in the main areas of economic activity by relying on public possession as a titling device, enacting rules to protect innocent acquirers in agency contexts, enabling the extended family to act as a contractual entity, and diluting the enforcement of personal obligations which might collide with impersonal exchange. Focusing on the institutions of impersonal exchange, it reaches a clear positive conclusion on the market-facilitating role of the Roman state because such institutions have unambiguously positive effects on markets. Moreover, being impersonal, these beneficial effects are also widely distributed across society instead of accruing disproportionately to better-connected individuals.
K14|Hard Labour in the lab: Are monetary and non-monetary sanctions really substitutable?|The theory of optimal deterrence suggests the substitution of mon- etary sanctions over non-monetary sanctions whenever this is possible because non-monetary sanctions are more socially costly. This pre- scription is based on the assumption that monetary and non-monetary sanctions are perfect substitutes: there exists a monetary equivalent of a non-monetary sanction that, if used as a ne, produces the same level of deterrence. We test this assumption with an experiment. In our stealing game potential thieves face the possibility of punishment. Our non-monetary sanction treatments mimic hard labour: we require convicted individuals to carry out a tedious real e ort task. In the monetary treatments sanctions are insteadones, which are based on individuals' willingness to pay to avoid the effort task to ensure com- parability to the non-monetary treatment. A second manipulation of our experiment concerns the balance of errors in the adjudication pro- cedure (convictions of innocents and acquittal of guilty individuals). We and that stealing is reduced most e ectively by a sanction regime that combines non-monetary sanctions with a severe procedure. Our data is consistent with the notion that both monetary punishment and pro-defendant sanction regimes are less effective in communicat- ing moral condemnation of an act.
K14|Politicians under investigation: The news Media's effect on the likelihood of resignation|This paper studies the effect of news media on the probability of resigning from office of politicians being subject to criminal investigation. Using data on cases in which the political immunity of German representatives was lifted, we find that resignations are more common when the media covers the case intensely. The amount of this news coverage, in turn, depends on the availability of other newsworthy, exogenous events. Therefore, we instrument for coverage of liftings of immunity with the overall news pressure. We estimate the causal effect and find that a change from no coverage to the mean coverage increases the likelihood of resignation by 6.4 percentage points. The effect is likely driven by the crowding out of reports on politicians with the same ideology as the newspaper, rather than reports on representatives with different political leanings. There is no evidence that the reporting affects the chances of conviction.
K14|C - Crimen|Resumen de la situación de crimen en Bolivia, 2005 - 2012
K14|Marijuana on Main Street? Estimating Demand in Markets with Limited Access|Marijuana is the most common illicit drug with vocal advocates for legalization. Among other things, legalization would increase access and remove the stigma of illegality. Our model disentangles the role of access from preferences and shows that selection into access is not random. We find that traditional demand estimates are biased resulting in incorrect policy conclusions. If marijuana were legalized, those under 30 would see modest increases in use of 28 percent, while on average use would increase by 48 percent (to 19.4 percent). Tax policies are effective at curbing use, where Australia could raise AU$1 billion (and the United States US$12 billion).
K14|Resource Constraints and the Criminal Justice System: Evidence from Judicial Vacancies|Ten percent of federal judgeships are currently vacant, yet little is known on the impact of these vacancies on criminal justice outcomes. Using judge deaths and pension eligibility as instruments for vacancies, I find that prosecutors dismiss more cases during vacancies. Prosecuted defendants are more likely to plead guilty and less likely to be incarcerated during vacancies, with defendants who are detained pretrial more likely to be incarcerated. The current rate of vacancies has resulted in 1,000 fewer prison inmates annually compared to a fully-staffed court system, a 1.5 percent decrease.
K14|Rural Crime in Developing Countries: Theoretical Framework, Empirical Findings, Research Needs| Anecdotal evidence and selected information from the International Crime Victims Survey suggest that crime is higher in developing countries than in developed countries and that there are regionally big differences. Explanations and solutions to the persistence and prevalence of rural crime in many developing countries are needed as rural crime undermines sustainable development to a large extent and may even affect social cohesiveness in rural communities. This discussion paper therefore calls for research which helps to shed light on this phenomenon in support of improved policies. For this, representative and good-quality data is needed. It is suggested to disentangle the complex research topic and allow for a more systematic approach by focusing on a certain type of crime. Research on most of these types is very selective and scarce. As mentioned, data is almost nonexistent and evidence on individual types is largely missing. The routine activity approach is suggested as a conceptual framework for further analysis. The paper concludes that research and policy design should focus on how to reduce opportunities to commit a crime in rural areas in developing countries in order to reduce environmental and social costs of crime, promote sustainable development and improve rural livelihoods of the often deprived and poor in rural areas in developing countries.
K14|The right to interpretation and translation within criminal proceedings in the European Union. Comparative examination. Critical opinions|In the present study we have examined the Directive 2010/64/EU of the European Parliament and the Council, the European legal instrument governing the right to interpretation and translation within criminal proceedings in the European Union. The innovations in this paper concern the examination of the regulatory way of the mentioned two rights, the formulated critical opinions and the proposals of de lege ferenda. The value of the paper lies in the de lege ferenda proposals, which that can contribute to improving the system of European legislation in the field, which in the constant interpretation of the ECHR it also requires respecting the right to interpretation and translation in ongoing criminal proceedings. Also, the examination highlights the importance and necessity of adopting this European legal instrument regarding the harmonization of the national laws in terms of compulsoriness and the procedure for complying with the two rights to which we referred, in case where the suspect or the accused is to be judged of the territory of a Member State other than his State of origin. The work can be useful to theorists, practitioners and to the European legislator from the perspective of operating the suggested changes.
K14|L’incrimination du terrorisme en droit pénal camerounais|Law No. 2014/28 of 23 December 2014 on the suppression of acts of terrorism in Cameroon was enacted in a context characterized by the resurgence of terrorism. But the caution with which it was greeted raises questions about the formal technique used by the legislator. A content analysis of this law, we come to two conclusions: First the legality principle is violated because the offense is not defined and it is formulated in vague terms. Second, the prominence it gives to mobile and indifference of the means used in the commission of the offense exalt guilt.
K14|European investigation order in criminal matters in the European Union. General considerations. Some critical opinions|Throughout this paper we have conducted a general examination of the principles under which it is regulated the newest form of European judicial assistance in criminal matters, namely, the European Investigation Order in criminal matters. The examination is focused in particular on the necessity and importance of establishing this new form of legal assistance in criminal matters between the Member States, given that it will override the order of freezing property or evidence in the European Union. When examining the general principles of this form of assistance we have noticed some imperfections of the European law, therefore we have formulated some critical opinions, supplemented by proposals of de lege ferenda. At the same time, given that up to May 22, 2017 the European legal instrument will have to be transposed into the Romanian law, we have formulated some proposals of de lege ferenda aiming at the improvement of Law no. 302/2004 on international judicial cooperation in criminal matters, republished, as amended and supplemented. The innovations of the work regard the examination of the general principles set out in the Preamble of the European legal instrument, the importance and the necessity for adopting this regulation, as well as formulating critical opinions supplemented by appropriate proposals de lege ferenda. The current study follows other works in the international and European judicial cooperation in criminal matters domain, published in some national and foreign publishing houses and in the volumes of international or national scientific conferences. The work can be useful to academics, practitioners in the field and to the Romanian legislator from the perspective of transposing the provisions into the national law of the European legal instrument.
K14|Analysis criminology customs offenses under Moldovan law|This paper aims to highlight the fact that crime, including that committed in the customs sphere, has a certain structure, made up of acts of smuggling and the evasion of customs payments, combined offenses under art. 248 and 249 of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Moldova. In addition, by presenting statistical data reveal that crime has a certain way, a certain dynamic (increases or decreases stationary). State and dynamics of crime are two Subconcepts criminology. If the structure crime of known composition and configuration phenomenon in a certain unit of time and in a certain space, dynamics helps to develop more realistic assumptions on the causes that generate or facilitate crimes, some forecasts on its deployment in the future, and effective means of preventing and combating the phenomenon. In the study they were used various research methods, including: analysis, synthesis, deduction, induction. In the study are advanced some proposals to improve the legal framework incriminating in developing tools for identifying features of criminal-law of customs offenses under Moldovan law, which led to the submission of proposals to improve the text of the law to prevent and combat crime in the customs sphere.
K14|Issuance and transmission of the European protection order by the Romanian judicial authorities. Some critical opinions. De lege ferenda proposals|The objective of the study aims at examining the provisions of Law no. 15 1/2016 on the European protection order and amending and supplementing certain legislative acts, starting from the transposition into the national law of the provisions of the European legal instrument. Also, in this study we have formulated some critical opinions, supplemented by de lege ferenda proposals which aim the improvement of the national criminal legal system. The innovations consist of both the conducted examination, supplemented by the interpretation of provisions of the Romanian law, the formulated critical opinions and the de lege ferenda proposals. The paper can be helpful to academics, particularly students of law faculties and practitioners in the field.
K14|"The investigation of committed crimes against “Myanmar’s Rohingya"" and the invoke necessity to ""the theory of responsibility to protect"""|"For several decades, the Rohingya ethnic minority, in ""Myanmar's Rakhine state"" is exposed to the systematic violence by the state and governmental agents. The intensity of this violence was emerged in June 2012 and attract the international community attention towards of the Myanmar's country. The theory of responsibility to protect, is the primary responsibility to protect of the people against the four major crimes, including genocide, war crimes, crimes against humanity and ethnic cleansing which are in charge of the each country state. At the same time, in the absence of willing or clear ability of the mentioned government, the international community has a responsibility to act under the Charter of the United Nations and in accordance with the charter provisions to prevent or stop of th e mentioned crimes. According to the necessary urgent support from the Rohingya, in this study, in addition to explain the concept of theory of responsibility to protect, the possibility of international crimes against of them is examined and whereas with regard to this question whether in the Myanmar’s Rohingya situation, there is the invoke condition in terms of the theory of responsibility to protect or not, indeed, whether the international community can invoke to protect them with regard to this theory or not, will be answered."
K14|The right to information within the criminal proceedings in the European Union. Comparative examination. Critical opinions|In the present study we have examined the provisions of Directive 2012/13 / EU of the European Parliament and the Council on the right to information in criminal proceedings and a compared examination relating to the provisions of Romanian law regarding ensuring the right to information within the Romanian criminal proceedings. The innovations and the value of the work consist of the examination of the European legal instrument, the comparative examination and the critical opinions and the proposals of de lege ferenda. As recognized in the jurisprudence of the ECHR, the right to information of the person suspected or accused of committing a crime or arrested for committing a crime on the territory of another Member State is part of the right to a fair trial, being necessary its compliance throughout the criminal trial, on the territory of each Member State. At the same time the European legislative act establishes a general procedure that needs to be respected by each Member State, which entails theobligation for Member States to ensure at least the same rights as for the citizen or the conditions under which a national of another Member State is suspected, accused or arrested for the commission of a crime. This paper continues the research conducted in the field of International and European judicial cooperation in criminal matters, which have resulted in the publication of papers in wellknown publishing houses in the country and abroad, in national and international specialized journals or conference proceedings. The work can be useful to both theorists and practitioners in the field of judicial cooperation in criminal matters regarding the rights of certain categories of people and to the Romanian or European legislator for amending and supplementing the legislation.
K14|The juridical status of the service firearm ownership and utilization procedure and the armament and munitions operations within the Romanian penitentiary administrative system|The general activity of the special status civil servants from within the Romanian penitentiary administration system, involves, due to the nature of the work-related duties, particular risks and tasks, therefore this activity cannot be conducted without ensuring a distinct and efficient juridical regime, ensuring the protection and safeguarding the fundamental rights of people deprived of their freedom. This paper aims to present the adoption of the current juridical regime of the procedure of owning and using the worksupplied weapons and the weapons and ammunition operations in the Romanian prison system, the no. 23/2016 Law regarding the possession and use of the work-supplied weapons and the weapons and munitions operations in the penitentiary administrative system, namely the use of weapons, munitions and military devices, by the civil servants with a special status from the penitentiary administrative system, being allowed only in the specially designed, approved and authorized shooting ranges, for this purpose; the situations in which the civil servants from the penitentiary administrative system, carrying lethal weapons, in the line of duty, are entitled to use their lethal or nonlethal weapon, depending on the case, only after the official warning has been made, as well as the situations in which they can use their weapons, without warning, if there is no time for this: in case of self-defense or in case of a state of emergency.
K14|Asset Forfeiture As A Law Enforcement Tool|" type=""main"" xml:id=""coep12106-abs-0001""> This article examines the impact on deterrence of laws that allow the seizure of assets used in the commission of a crime but owned by someone other than the offender. The results suggest that forfeiture can be used effectively, in combination with more standard tools (criminal fines or imprisonment), as a deterrent under certain conditions, but the risk of overuse is real. In particular, complete forfeiture (seizure of the entire value of the asset) is not generally socially optimal, but when enforcers are rent-seekers who care primarily about the revenue generated by forfeiture, they will use the tool to the maximum extent allowed by law. (JEL H11, K14, K41)"
K14|Comparative Criminal Law: An Economic Perspective|This paper develops an economic model to explain how societies make decisions about criminal law based on efficiency. The scope of criminal law depends on activities considered harmless or harmful. Besides different scope of criminal law, different societies can also have different punishments for certain kinds of crimes. This divergence stems from the relative importance of factors that societies consider in optimizing social loss from criminal activities. These factors are: the harmfulness of the crime, retributive or regretful emotions towards offenders or what is called “humanity of punishment” and the deterrent effect of certain punishments. Different attitudes towards these aspects lead to differences in criminal law. Once sources of divergence have been identified, the key question is who decides the above features? The answer depends crucially on the political constitution of the society. In authoritarian systems, the central planner formulates the criminal law; in democratic systems “public opinion” can have different degrees of influence. The most common style in forming criminal justice policies in advanced democracies is “insulated delegation” or “professionalization of punishment,” in the hands of the academic elite.
K14|Competitive Pressure and Corporate Crime|This paper explores the relationship between the intensity of product market competition and firms’ incentives to resort to illegal means to lower their production costs. To this end, our framework combines a crime model à la Becker with a Salop circle. When law enforcement includes a fixed fine for illegal conduct, more intense competition due to a higher number of firms in the industry reduces the prevalence of crime, whereas more intense competition due to better substitutability between products may increase or decrease crime. In contrast, when the fine for corporate crime is proportional to profits, more intense competition unambiguously increases the prevalence of crime. In addition, we discuss the implications of the link between product market competition and corporate crime decisions for market entry and optimal law enforcement and elaborate on the relationship between law enforcement and a firm’s ability to commit to refraining from the use of illegal practices.
K14|Panama Papers: Steueroasen im Visier – was ist noch legal, welche Mittel wirken gegen Missbrauch?|Im April 2016 veröffentlichte das »International Consortium of Investigative Journalists« die sogenannten »Panama Papers«, die Einblicke in ein System von Steueroasen und Briefkastenfirmen boten. Alfons J. Weichenrieder, Goethe-Universität Frankfurt, sieht den politischen Druck auf die internationalen Steueroasen erhöht. Im Vordergrund stünden dabei bi- und multilaterale Abkommen zum Informationsaustausch. Es bleibe abzuwarten, ob die ausgetauschten Informationen tatsächlich verwertbar seien. Friedrich Schneider, Universität Linz, betont, dass die Gründung einer Briefkastenfirma zwar grundsätzlich legal sei, sie aber häufig zum Steuerbetrug oder zur Geldwäsche benutzt werden. Wichtig wäre unter anderem, dass Länder wie Panama den internationalen Standard zum automatischen Informationsaustausch über Finanzkonten und die Geldwäscherichtlinie, die in Europa entwickelt wurde, verabschieden. Für Norbert Walter-Borjans, Finanzminister des Landes Nordrhein-Westfalen, gilt es, international für einen Transparenzstandard einzutreten und die Verhandlungspartner, bei denen Vorbehalte bestehen, zu überzeugen. Auch Michael Meister, Staatssekretär beim Bundesministerium der Finanzen, sieht in einer erhöhten Transparenz einen Schlüssel zur Lösung des Problems einer ausufernden Nutzung von Briefkastenfirmen zur Verschleierung von Vermögensverhältnissen. Lukas Hakelberg, Europäisches Hochschulinstitut, Florenz, und Thomas Rixen, Universität Bamberg, sehen in der Beschränkung des Marktzugangs ein Instrument zur Bekämpfung finanzieller Intransparenz. So sollten die Regierungen der großen Industrieländer den Zugang zu ihren Finanzmärkten von der Teilnahme an den Transparenzinitiativen abhängig machen. Für Jörg R. Werner, Frankfurt School of Finance & Management, liegt eine Gefahr der Reformbemühungen darin, dass die Sanktionierung von Steuersparmodellen nicht mehr nur auf illegale Steuerhinterziehung, sondern auch auf legale Steuervermeidung abzielt.
K14|The Impact of Legislation on the Hazard of Female Genital Mutilation/Cutting: Regression Discontinuity Evidence from Burkina Faso - Working Paper 432|In 1996, Burkina Faso enacted legislation banning the practice of female genital mutilation/cutting (FGM/C). Much of the qualitative literature surrounding FGM/C discounts the impact of legal change on what is considered a social/cultural issue. We use data from the Demographic and Health Surveys DHS(VI) in Burkina Faso to test for a discontinuous change in the likelihood of being cut in the year the law was passed. We ﬁnd robust evidence for a substantial drop in hazard rates in 1996 and investigate the heterogeneous impact of the law by region, religion, and ethnicity. Overall, we roughly estimate that over a ten year period the law averted the genital mutilation/cutting of approximately 237,591 women and girls. We qualify our ﬁndings recognizing that Burkina Faso is a special case with a long history of bottom-up and top-down approaches to eliminating the practice.
K14|Crime, apprehension and clearance rates: Panel data evidence from Canadian provinces|The Becker ( ) model of crime establishes the importance of the probability of apprehension as a key factor in a rational individual's decision to commit a crime. In this respect, most empirical studies based on US data have relied on variation in the number of police officers to estimate the impact of the probability of apprehension or capture. We measure the probability of apprehension by clearance rates and study their effects on crime rates, employing a panel of Canadian provinces from 1986 to 2005. OLS, GMM, GLS and IV estimates yield statistically significant elasticities of clearance rates, ranging from 0.2 to 0.4 for violent crimes and from 0.5 to 0.6 for property crimes. These findings reflect the importance of police force crime-solving productivity.
K14|Analysis Of Population Migration As A Criminogenic Factor|Migration is a voluntary movement of population from one geographic location to another. This movement can be of several types, depending on the cause determining the respective migration. Population movements or its mobility is not a new phenomenon but has deep roots in ancient history. We can even say that in the beginning man was migratory, nomadic and later it became steadfast, linked in some way to certain geographic locations. Population migration has multiple consequences, both positive and negative. Among the negative we can mention overpopulation or underpopulation of certain areas, heterogeneity of traditions and cultures of immigrants, inability of migratory population to adapt to the area they migrated to, not finding a job, marginalization, etc. All these are genuine and objective criminological factors that could actually cause committing crimes in the migratory population. We cannot and do not want to stop the mobility of people, but we can be careful to avoid harmful consequences caused by this phenomenon.
K14|Recepting The Principle Of Supremacy Of Constitution On The New Penal Code|The supremacy of Constitution has as main consequence the compliance of entire law with the constitutional norms. Guaranteeing of the observance of this principle is essential for the rule of law, is primarily an attribute of the Constitutional Court, but also an obligation of the legislator to receive by texts adopted, within its content and form, the constitutional norms. Entering into force of the new criminal codes generated a significant jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court on the verification of constitutionality of some regulations in the Criminal Code and Criminal Procedure Code. Through this study we intend to analyze the following key issues: a) how were the constitutional principles and values embodied in some criminal and criminal procedural norms of the new codes; b) the effects of Constitutional Court decisions in the process of constitutionalizing of the criminal law; c) applying into judicial activities of the Constitutional Court decisions, particularly those through which the new Criminal Code regulations were found unconstitutional.
K14|The European Public Prosecutor’s Office — the fiasco of the European Union financial security vision?|Aim: The article is devoted to the problem of financial abuses and frauds that undermines the public finances of EU and public interest. Motivation: The problem is not new and it is known for several years. There is no doubt that investments funded by the EU are common. A huge amount of EU money is also a huge temptation and purpose of economic crimes. Over the years, the EU and the Member States already took some action to prevent from embezzlement of the EU budget. Until now, the main institution that coordinated the fight against these phenomena was the European Commission and its structure, especially the European Anti-Fraud Office. Fighting against economic crimes violating the interests of the EU is difficult for the procedural reasons. European investigators have no prosecuting power. Investigative role is limited to gathering evidence and transferring it to the national prosecuting authorities. After that European investigators lose the control over conducted case. The Treaty on the functioning of the European Union gives us another tool to fight the frauds. It seems that the solution is to establish the European Public Prosecutor Office (EPPO) with full procedural rights to prosecute violators. That’s why the general thesis is that EPPO should be established as soon as it is possible to help prevent EU citizens money in more effective way than it is today. However this could be a contribution for the next article concerning the economic analysis of the law and the impact of new regulations on security funds entrusted to the EU. Results: The idea of establishing an EPPO has almost 10 years and was initiated in the connection with the latest financial crisis. Unfortunately, despite declarations and attempts to start it in January 2015 it is still not known if and when it will actually work. The article also takes the issue of commitment and various visions of the Member States of achieving the EU budget safety and other problems on this ground.
K14|A Jury of Her Peers: The Impact of the First Female Jurors on Criminal Convictions|This article uses an original data set of more than 3,000 cases from 1918 to 1926 in the Central Criminal Courts of London to study the effect of the Sex Disqualification (Removal) Act of 1919. Implemented in 1921, this Act made women eligible to serve on English juries. Results based on a pre-post research design imply that the inclusion of women had little effect on overall conviction rates but significantly impacted conviction rates on particularly female salient cases: sex offences, violent offences with female versus male victims and female defendants charged with ‘other’ (largely abortion related) offences.
K14|Organized Crime and the Bright Side of Subversion of Law|When Legislators award amnesties to `low-rank' criminals cooperating with the justice, top criminals may capture public officials to avoid being sanctioned. Optimal policies should anticipate this danger and fight it back by granting amnesties not only to low-rank criminals, but also to officials who plea guilty and report bribe givers. Even if the threat of being betrayed by their fellows may induce top-criminals to bribe prosecutors, these policies increase the conviction risk not only for top-criminals but also for low-rank ones, whereby increasing the risk premium that the latter require to participate the crime: the bright side of subversion of law.
K14|Fighting Corruption Generated By Accounting. Case Study Romania|In the last decades, corruption has become a global problem affecting each country in a different way. In Romania, corruption has a different structure, there are many small corrupt companies and a few big corrupt companies, but the European regulation has a positive impact on reducing corruption on the national level. Nowadays, corruption has become a part of our society. Accounting techniques are important as an efficient instrument for fighting corruption and new information systems improved the financial reporting. In our opinion, it is important to prevent corruption and identify the best accounting techniques to detect and to reduce the effects of corruption.
K14|Causal effects of mental health treatment on education outcomes for youth in the justice systemAuthor-Name: Cuellar, Alison|This study assesses whether mental health interventions can improve academic outcomes for justice-involved youth. Only a limited number of studies have linked justice policies to outcomes beyond crime, particularly education, which carries large monetary and non-monetary benefits. The current study relies on detailed administrative data and unique policy rules under which youth are assigned to behavioral treatment programs. The administrative data allow for a rich set of controls for observed family- and youth-specific heterogeneity. In addition, the treatment assignment rules create discontinuous thresholds among youth who are deemed eligible or not eligible for treatment, rules which the study exploits empirically to address the non-random selection bias in estimating plausibly causal effects of treatment eligibility and treatment receipt. Estimates indicate that certain types of intensive mental health intervention can lower dropout and increase high-school completion for justice-involved youth. Effects on grades are negative or not significant, possibly due to the greater retention of less academically-skilled students. We also assess heterogeneity in the treatment effects, and find that the effects on dropout tend to be greater among youth believed to be less academically engaged prior to treatment.
K14|A random shock is not random assignment|A random shock excludes reverse causality and reduces omitted variable bias. Yet a natural experiment does not identify random exposure to treatment, but the reaction to a random change from baseline to treatment. A lab experiment comparing higher certainty with higher severity of punishment for stealing (holding the expected value of the intervention constant) shows that the difference between the effects of a random shock and random assignment can be pronounced.
K14|Down and out in Italian towns: Measuring the impact of economic downturns on crime|The paper investigates the effect of local economic conditions on crime. The study focuses on Italy’s local labor markets and analyzes the response of crime to the severe slump of 2007–2011. It shows that the downturn led to a significant increase in economic-related offenses that do not require particular criminal skills or tools (namely, thefts).
K14|A structural analysis of U.S. drunk driving policy|The expected penalty for drunk driving can and does vary by blood alcohol content. This paper outlines the schedule of penalties that best achieves two key social objectives, efficacy and efficiency (subject to constraints), shows how the associated optimality conditions can be implemented with available data to analyze policy ex ante or ex post, and then uses these findings to assess four fundamental features of current U.S. drunk driving policy. Large penalties at very high alcohol concentrations are supported, but not reductions in per se blood alcohol thresholds, the most significant recent change in policy.
K14|Sentencing discretion and burdens of proof|In the US, judges typically retain sentencing discretion in criminal cases, but in some states this discretion is given to juries. One criticism of jury sentencing is that jurors will be tempted to issue “compromise verdicts,” where they return a guilty verdict but a light sentence when they are uncertain about the facts of a case. A simple expected utility model shows that any fact finder with sentencing discretion should engage in behavior that is observationally equivalent to a compromise verdict. Intuitively, the fact finder chooses a more lenient sentence than the punishment that fits the crime because he wants to mitigate the potential cost of a wrongful conviction; in turn, a lower cost of a wrongful conviction leads him to reduce his standard of proof. Although critics of jury sentencing intuit the risk of compromise, a bench trial poses the same risk for a judge. Alternatively, the jury trial format (jury verdict, judge sentence) can lessen the risk of compromise if juries are denied punishment information.
K14|New evidence on the impact of concealed carry weapon laws on crime|For more than a decade, there has been an academic debate over the deterrence effect of concealed carry weapon (shall issue) laws. However, all previous studies do not consider the types of gun-carry laws in place prior to the adoption of “shall issue” laws. Using difference-in-difference methodology, findings of this study imply that considering the type of regulations that states had prior to passing “shall issue” laws matters and “shall issue” laws do have a deterrence effect under certain circumstances. Adopting “shall issue” laws only reduces the crime rate in states with “no issue” laws in place, and “shall issue” laws are redundant to “may issue” (restricted concealed carry) laws in terms of crime reduction.
K14|Substance Abuse Treatment Centers and Local Crime|In this paper we estimate the effects of expanding access to substance-abuse treatment on local crime. We do so using an identification strategy that leverages variation driven by substance-abuse-treatment facility openings and closings measured at the county level. The results indicate that substance-abuse-treatment facilities reduce both violent and financially motivated crimes in an area, and that the effects are particularly pronounced for relatively serious crimes. The effects on homicides are documented across three sources of homicide data.
K14|Ban the Box, Criminal Records, and Statistical Discrimination: A Field Experiment|"""Ban-the-Box"" (BTB) policies restrict employers from asking about applicants' criminal histories on job applications and are often presented as a means of reducing unemployment among black men, who disproportionately have criminal records. However, withholding information about criminal records could risk encouraging statistical discrimination: employers may make assumptions about criminality based on the applicant's race or other observable characteristics. To investigate this possibility as well as the effects of race and criminal records on employer callback rates, we sent approximately 15,000 fictitious online job applications to employers in New Jersey and New York City, before and after each jurisdiction's adoption of BTB policies. Our causal effect estimates are based on a triple-differences design, which exploits the fact that many businesses' applications did not ask about records even before BTB and were thus unaffected by the law. Our results confirm that criminal records are a major barrier to employment, but they also support the concern that BTB policies encourage statistical discrimination on the basis of race. Overall, white applicants received 23% more callbacks than similar black applicants and employers that ask about criminal records are 62% more likely to call back an applicant if he has no record. However, we find that the race gap in callbacks grows dramatically at the BTB-affected companies after the policy goes into effect. Before BTB, white applicants to BTB-affected employers received about 7% more callbacks than similar black applicants, but BTB increases this gap to 45%."
K14|Pardon Does not Forgive Democracy: Econometrical Analysis of Pardons in Spain|The pardon is a legal, although controversial, instrument with a long history that persists in many different judicial systems across the world. The juridical literature often considers it to be a perversion in the separation of powers within the State, and the motivations behind it are always under scrutiny. In this paper we seek to establish whether there are specific factors that affect and determine pardons. Using a database of all pardons granted in Spain between 1995 and 2013, including our own elaborated individual data, the econometrical estimations produce the following conclusions: firstly, Spain’s right-wing political party processes pardons faster than that of the left; secondly, and due to public concern, pardons are less frequent near elections; and thirdly, the higher the fine, the faster the pardon. These results show that the pardon is used in a discretionary way and in most cases greatly distorts the separation of powers that should provide the basis of any healthy democratic system.
K14|Wheeling into School and Out of Crime: Evidence from Linking Driving Licenses to Minimum Academic Requirements|"Since the late 1980s, several U.S. states have set minimum academic requirements for high school students to apply for and retain their driving licenses. These laws popularly known as ""No Pass No Drive"" (NPND), encourage teenagers with a preference for driving to stay in school beyond the minimum dropout age. Using Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) arrest data, we exploit state, time and cohort variation to show that having an NPND law in place is associated with a significant decrease in arrests due to violent, drug-related and property crime among males between 16 to 18 years of age. We argue that our findings are driven by an increase in education rather than incapacitation and that NPND laws are a relatively low cost policy that generates positive externalities beyond and in addition to the minimum dropout age."
K14|Avoiding Convictions: Regression Discontinuity Evidence on Court Deferrals for First-Time Drug Offenders|This paper studies the causal impact of court deferrals, a legal strategy to help defendants avoid a felony conviction record, on the future criminal and labor market outcomes of first-time felony drug offenders. To accomplish this, we exploit two natural experiments in Harris County, Texas, in which defendants appearing in court one day versus the next experienced abruptly different likelihoods of deferral. In 1994 deferral rates dropped by 34 percentage points the day following the implementation of a penal code reform; in 2007 deferral rates increased by 22 percentage points the day after the unexpected failure of a ballot initiative to expand the county jail. Using administrative data and local polynomial regression discontinuity methods, we find robust evidence consistent across both experiments that regimes with expanded use of court deferrals generated substantially lower rates of reoffending and unemployment over a five-year follow-up period. Additional analysis delves further into the timing, nature and incidence of these impacts. Together our results suggest that increasing the use of deferral programs may be an attractive and feasible option for a jurisdiction seeking to reduce the fiscal cost and community impact of its criminal justice system.
K14|Liberal coercion? Prostitution, human trafficking and policy|Abstract Liberal prostitution policy aims at improving labor conditions for prostitutes and protecting victims of forced prostitution. Given its policy mandates, legalized prostitution should be linked to better protection policies for trafficking victims and stronger anti-trafficking measures. In this paper, I investigate empirically whether or not legalized prostitution improves protection policies for victims, as it is presumed. The results of my analysis—using data from 149 countries for the period of 2001–2011—suggest that a liberal prostitution policy does not lead to better protection and, in some cases, legalized prostitution can be detrimental to protecting victims of human trafficking.
K14|Organized Crime and the Bright Side of Subversion of Law|When Legislators introduce laws that award amnesties to `low-rank' criminals co- operating with the justice, top criminals may bribe public officials to subvert the law. Legislators should anticipate this reaction and fight it back by introducing policies that bundle amnesties for low-rank criminals with amnesties to corrupt officials who plea guilty. In fact, the threat of being betrayed by their fellows may induce top-criminals to rely on corruption (to avoid sanctions). However, a suitable amnesty for corrupt officials may increase the conviction risk not only for top-criminal but also for low-rank ones. This domino effect can deter crime more than a policy based only on amnesties to low-rank criminals would: a bright side of subversion of law.
K14|Experimental Criminal Law. A Survey of Contributions from Law, Economics and Criminology|In three distinct disciplines, crime and punishment are studied experimentally: in empirical legal studies, in experimental economics, and an experimental criminology. These three disciplines have surprisingly little interaction. The current paper surveys the rich evidence, and discusses the methodological reasons for running experiments on these issues, the limitations of the method, and how they can be mitigated.
K14|The Effects of Pre-Trial Detention on Conviction, Future Crime, and Employment: Evidence from Randomly Assigned Judges|Over 20 percent of prison and jail inmates in the United States are currently awaiting trial, but little is known about the impact of pre-trial detention on defendants. This paper uses the detention tendencies of quasi-randomly assigned bail judges to estimate the causal effects of pre-trial detention on subsequent defendant outcomes. Using data from administrative court and tax records, we find that being detained before trial significantly increases the probability of a conviction, primarily through an increase in guilty pleas. Pre-trial detention has no detectable effect on future crime, but decreases pre-trial crime and failures to appear in court. We also find suggestive evidence that pre-trial detention decreases formal sector employment and the receipt of employment- and tax-related government benefits. We argue that these results are consistent with (i) pre-trial detention weakening defendants' bargaining position during plea negotiations, and (ii) a criminal conviction lowering defendants' prospects in the formal labor market.
K14|Substance Abuse Treatment Centers and Local Crime|This paper estimates the effects of expanding access to substance-abuse treatment on local crime. It does so using an identification strategy that leverages variation driven by substance-abuse-treatment facility openings and closings measured at the county level. The results indicate that substance-abuse-treatment facilities reduce both violent and financially motivated crimes in an area, and that the effects are particularly pronounced for relatively serious crimes. The effects on homicides are documented across three sources of homicide data [Working Paper 22610]
K14|Blind Tigers and Red-Tape Cocktails: Liquor Control and Homicide in Late-Nineteenth-Century South Carolina|In 1893 South Carolina prohibited the private manufacture, transportation, and sale of alcohol and established a state monopoly in wholesale and retail alcohol distribution. The combination of a market decline in the availability of alcohol, reduced variety, and monopoly pricing at state-operated outlets encouraged black markets in alcohol. Because black market participants tend to resort to extra-legal mechanisms for dispute resolution, including violence, one result of South Carolina’s alcohol restriction was an increase in homicide. A continuous-treatment difference-in-difference approach reveals that homicide rates increased by about 30 to 60 percent in counties that more vigorously enforced the law.
K14|The effects of liberal reforms in Russian criminal law on conviction and sentencing of economic offenders|During the presidency of Dmitry Medvedev in 2008—2012 the Russian economy still remained highly regulated, so almost every economic activity could be recognized by the enforcement agencies as illegal. Under pressure of business some liberal reforms were launched in the criminal law and criminal procedure law related to economic crimes. The reforms were supposed to protect entrepreneurs from unwarranted prosecution and wrong conviction, and to make punishment less punitive. Using the data on 2 million defendants prosecuted for economic and property crimes in Russian criminal courts in 2009—2013, the paper examines how policy change affected the judicial decision making in criminal cases. Quasi-experimental design is used to test the impact of policy change on conviction and sentencing decisions. The results suggest that sentencing practices became more lenient rather due to the general changes in criminal law than the changes related specifically to economic offenders.
K14|General Considerations Concerning the Principle of Territoriality of the Romanian Criminal Law|The expression used by the legislator in article 8 paragraph 1 of the Romanian Penal Code shows that the Romanian criminal law enforcement is exclusive and unconditional, so regardless of the category of acts which are committed on the Romanian territory, the criminal jurisdiction will be always exercised by the Romanian State through its competent bodies. From this point of view it appears that the Romanian legislator remained constant regarding the territoriality of Romanian criminal law. In the current regulation of art. 8, paragraph 3 of the Penal Code, the offense committed in Romania, is any offense committed on the territory defined in art. 8 paragraph 2 of the Penal code or a ship under the Romanian flag or an aircraft registered in Romania.
K14|General Aspects Regarding the Crime of Human Trafficking|Wishing to emphasise the importance of the fundamental social values defended by the criminalization of the human trafficking crime, the Romanian legislator, with the change of the penal code, by the entering into force on February 1, 2014 the new code, incriminated human trafficking in the article 210 of this complex criminal law. Thus, according to article 210 of the Penal Code, the crime of human trafficking involves „recruiting, transportation, sheltering or receiving of a person with the purpose of exploiting.For the offense of human trafficking there may exist preparatory acts, but the law does not incriminate these acts as crimes and does not punish them. The attempt is punished according to article 217 of the Penal Code, stating that the attempt to the offenses stipulated at articles 209- 211 and article 213 paragraph 2 of the Penal Code shall be punished.
K14|The Effect Of Rural Development Policy On Domestic Violence| Rural development policy deals with achieving goals for rural areas and a wide range of socioeconomic activities are included within it. This work intends to connect rural development policies with the occurrence of domestic violence in rural areas. The area of research is the territory of Tuzla Canton, which is, by definition of OECD (less than 150 habitants/km2), a predominantly rural area. Domestic violence is a wide spread form of violence and a discrimination against women. Domestic violence includes all forms of violence occurring in the family, expanding the possibilities that perpetrators of violence and victims of violence may even be persons who do not live in the family but are related to family members, e.g. former partners, relatives, etc. Research results show that victims of domestic violence are in 90% of the cases women (wives, mothers, daughters, sisters, etc.) and that domestic violence is constantly increasing each following year. All forms of violence over women come stem from a principal discrimination towards women which results in coerce or use of force. For that reason, violence over women is a manifestation of a fundamentally unequal position of women and men, and it represents a form of discrimination against women. This paper uses data acquired from Federal Office of Statistics of Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and statistical data from the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Tuzla Canton. On the basis of the gathered data, we employed the descriptive method, the method of analysis and synthesis, as well as the comparative method of analysis. The hypothesis of this paper was the assumption that “women in rural areas are more frequently victims of domestic violence than women living in urban areas“.
K14|Le droit de grâce du Président de la République en Afrique noire francophone|The right of pardon is an institution recognized by all constitutions of the States of the French-speaking black Africa. It is a measure of clemency by which the President of the Republic subtracted in whole or part a condemned the execution of the sentence passed against him or replaces a sentence, another softer. The contemporary debate on this institution refers to its legitimacy. On the question, this paper has endeavored to show that if the right of pardon enables the re-socialization and reintegration of the offender and regulates criminal justice, which makes it acceptable, its exercise by the President of the Republic and the unpredictability that characterize make it questionable.
K14|The institutions of Roman markets|I analyze the basis of the market economy in classical Rome, from the perspective of personal-versus-impersonal exchange and focusing on the role of the state in providing market-enabling institutions. I start by reviewing the central conflict in all exchanges between those holding and those acquiring property rights, and how solving it requires reducing information asymmetry without endangering the security of property. Relying on a model of the social choice of institutions, I identify the demand and supply factors driving the institutional choices made by the Romans, and examine the economic circumstances that influenced these factors in the classical period of Roman law. Comparing the predictions of the model with the main solutions used by Roman law in the areas of property, business exchange and the enforcement of personal obligations allows me to propose alternative interpretations for some salient institutions that have been subject to controversy in the literature, and to conclude with an overall positive assessment of the market-enabling role of the Roman state.
K14|The Structure of Fines in the Light of Political Competition|Why infractions to some environmental legislations (protection of natural habitats) or antitrust law (collusion) are punished with fines based on damages, while other kinds of offenses (lack of adequate permits; cartels) are punished per se? This paper analyzes the determinants of public law enforcement policies when citizens vote for the timing and level of fines. We consider situations where citizens and politicians disagree on the value of the expected social harm associated with some activities. We find that a strong law enforcement equilibrium (high level of deterrence) emerges when citizens expect a high level of harm. On the reverse, a weak law enforcement equilibrium emerges when citizens expect a low level of harm. Furthermore, citizens vote for act-based (respectively harm-based) sanctions when they expect a level of harm lower than that of the government (respectively higher).
K14|The Effects of a Simpler Criminal Procedure on Criminal Case Outcomes: Evidence from Czech District-level Data|The paper estimates the effects of a simpler criminal procedure on case durations and the probabilities that the defendant is charged and convicted. The identification strategy exploits a policy reform in the Czech Republic as a quasi-natural experiment. The reform allowed petty offenses to be prosecuted via a simplified (fast-track) procedure but its actual implementation varied substantially across districts. The fast-track procedure reduced the average duration of the police/prosecutor phase of the criminal procedure by 27 days on average for the petty offenses. It increased the probability that the suspect is charged by 6 percentage points. The fast-track procedure released resources that could potentially be spent on prosecuting serious crimes; I therefore investigate for spillover effects. I find only weak evidence of such spillover effects on the probability that the suspect is charged and no evidence of spillover effects on other case outcomes.
K14|Bad Boys: How Criminal Identity Salience Affects Rule Violation|We conducted an experiment with 182 inmates from a maximum security prison to analyze the impact of criminal identity salience on cheating. The results show that inmates cheat more when we exogenously render their criminal identity more salient. This effect is specific to individuals who have a criminal identity, because an additional placebo experiment shows that regular citizens do not become more dishonest in response to crime-related reminders. Moreover, our experimental measure of cheating correlates with inmates' offences against in-prison regulation. Together, these findings suggest that criminal identity salience plays a crucial role in rule violating behaviour.
K14|General Considerations On Money Laundering|Lawyers are not immune to committing offences and the provisions of criminal law apply to them accordingly. The criminal liability of lawyers represents a natural aspect in the rule of law. Lawyers involved as defendants in criminal cases do not benefit from any special status or privileges compared to other defendants. In the international context of the fight against money laundering, the community law has submitted the profession of lawyer to two obligations concerning vigilance and denouncement. The assimilation of lawyer’s profession to financial or non-regulated professions entails the deformation of rules and principles specific to lawyers, as well as discussing the bases of any democratic society: the professional secrecy of lawyers and their independence.
K14|The Legal Protection Of The Property Right|The property right has been acknowledged as one of the personal fundamental rights since a very long time. It enjoys complete legal protection provided on the top of the national legislation hierarchy by constitutional norms as well as by juridical norms specific to the various legal branches where the property is present. The property right is protected consistently and by means of the criminal law, mainly by those juridical norms that incriminate the illicit behaviours which bring prejudice, as well as by the norms that regulate other criminal right institutions such as those ones which are specific to the safety measures with a patrimonial character. After examining the juridical norms that protect the property, the conclusion is that the juridical protection is awarded only if the property right has a licit character.
K14|Lawyers’ Legal Professional Privilege In Europe|This paper aims at analyzing the professional secrecy of lawyers within European States, both theoretically and practically. The right to defence – the corollary of any real democracy –is unconceivable in the absence of the service provided by lawyers, while the rights and freedoms of people would be seriously damaged were there not a guarantee for their protection and defence, including through means specific to the lawyer’s profession. Professional secrecy of lawyers does not have a juridical or contractual nature, but a legal one; it springs from the law and it is contained in the professional status of lawyers. The purpose of this study is to underscore the similarities and differences within the legislations of the countries studied; both analysis and synthesis are fructified in the elaboration of this study. Precisely this analysis in parallel and in juxtaposition will open the way for future effective research.
K14|The Ethnic Representation In The Collective Mentality – Roma Issues|"The ethnic reputation has multiple consequences for the rule of law, security, stability and justice, and the arguments proposed under this article shall take into account some basic elements such as: the significance of labeling an ethnic group as being tilted towards ""crime""; the complexity of the relationships that are established among marginalized groups; the legitimacy of the administrative measures and the reciprocity of the actions performed by each of the members of these groups. We will try to show that the labeling of various ethnic groups is not an independent phenomenon; it is related to several elements, factors and processes mutually influencing their developments, by their complexity, and generating multiple consequences in different areas of the private or public life of a community."
K14|Equality And Discimination – Roma Social Exclusion|"Substantiating the idea of equality of all citizens, Ion Ghica shows the special value of this concept and its importance for the Romanian society, saying that ""equality is a noble and good aspiration of the generous man, of the man endowed with a sense of justice and fairness; it is the urge and hope of the intelligent person, of the scholar and of the worker, of the one who wants to climb the social ladder, who aspires to the development of progress and civilization"". The purpose of this study is to focus on the issues of the Roma minority and on the ethnic discrimination in this segment, which is not limited to Romania, becoming rapidly a center of interest and concern throughout Europe."
K14|The Relationship Between The Legal Subject Of The Offense And The Concept Of Social Value|The society does not have to be a mere observer of reality; it should have an initiative and it should take measures in order to ensure the common good. It is very important to have in mind that, besides the criminal law, the church is another entity that protects social values. From this angle, they represent what we want, seek, cherish and love. The valuation criteria depend on the value assessment of the members of the society, on their conscience and, not least, on their degree of culture. The society categorizes as social values all those criteria on which it depends for its existence, development and sustainability.
K14|Property crime and private protection allocation within cities: theory and evidence|We model the allocation of property crime and private protection within cities. We provide a theory where city-specific criminals choose a neighborhood and whether they pay a search cost to compare potential victims, whereas households invest in self-protection. The model features strategic complementarity between criminals' search efforts and households' protection investments. As criminals' return to search increases with neighborhood wealth, households in rich neighborhoods are more likely to enter a rat race to ever greater protection that drives criminals towards poorer areas. The mechanisms of our model are tested with the Canadian General Social Survey. Household protection increases with household and neighborhood incomes, neighborhood protection, and neighborhood victimization.
K14|Regional Crime Rates and Fear of Crime: WISIND Findings|"Many people are afraid of falling prey to crime. The present report investigates the extent to which this fear is in line with the actual regional crime rates. This analysis is based on data from a comprehensive database on the fear of crime, combined with police crime statistics (specifically, adjusted crime statistics which factor in the ""dark figure"" of unreported crime). No evidence was found to support the (occasionally voiced) contention that the fear of falling prey to crime is irrational in many cases and not representative of the actual level of safety within a given region. In fact, our data shows a clear statistical correlation between regional crime rates and the fear of crime, both of which are more pronounced in the north of Germany than in the south, for instance. The inclusion of cybercrime in crime statistics, however, has meant that the former, higher crime rates and greater fear of crime often recordedin urban areas as opposed to rural regions are no longer as pronounced."
K14|How to Obtain a More Accurate Picture of Crime through Crime Statistics: Proposals and Methods|This report aims to show the distribution of crime in Germany. For this, police crime statistics (polizeiliche Kriminalstatistik – PKS) are treated so that they integrate dark figures (unreported crime) of crime types along with their specific grade of burden. The different treatments are based on own recent survey data. Two major trends are confirmed by both treatment methods: First, there is a northsouth divide, with the northern regions experiencing a far higher risk of crime. Second, rural/urban differences can be accounted for by the higher levels of everyday crime that affect citizens of towns and cities. These slight differences and changes are more evident and meaningful in state-to-state comparisons rather than looking at Germany as a whole.
K14|Gefährliche Nachbarschaft? Welches Bild von Kriminalität die deutsche lokale und regionale Tagespresse zeichnet: Ergebnisse einer standardisierten Inhaltsanalyse|Generally, crime cannot be perceived directly, but rather only indirectly through media coverage. In terms of the perceived threat, local and regional newspapers are of particular importance. Therefore, the focus of the present article is on how local and regional German newspapers report crime. To answer this question, a standardisedcontent analysis of 31 newspapers was conducted. The findings show that newspa- per articles about crime take up a small, yet clearly perceivable space relative to the total space allotted to local and regional coverage. Moreover, it is noteworthy that serious criminal offenses, such as acts of violence and homicides, are clearly overrepresented in comparison to the official statistics. Newspapers with urban and rural distribution areas diverge significantly when it comes to the frequency of coverage about specific offences. The findings of the study are discussed at the end of the paper. Kriminalität kann in der Regel nicht unmittelbar wahrgenommen werden, sondern nur mittelbar über die Medienberichterstattung. Im Hinblick auf die wahrgenommene Bedrohungslage kommt insbesondere den lokalen und regionalen Abonnementzeitungen eine hohe Bedeutung zu. Im Mittelpunkt des Beitrags steht deshalb die Frage,wie die deutsche lokale und regionale Tagespresse über Kriminalität berichtet. Um diese Frage zu beantworten, wurde eine standardisierte Inhaltsanalyse von 31 Abonnementzeitungen durchgeführt. Die Befunde zeigen, dass Artikel mit Kriminalitätsbezug im Vergleich zur gesamten Lokal- und Regionalberichterstattung zwar nur einen eher geringen, dennoch aber deutlich wahrnehmbaren Raum einnehmen. Bemerkenswert ist zudem, dass schwere Straftaten wie Rohheitsdelikte oder Straftatengegen das Leben im Vergleich zur offiziellen Statistik deutlich überrepräsentiert sind. Bezogen auf die Häufigkeit der Behandlung spezifischer Deliktsbereiche sind zum Teil merkliche Unterschiede zwischen den Zeitungsausgaben mit städtischem und ländlichem Verbreitungsgebiet erkennbar. Die Befunde werden abschließend diskutiert und eingeordnet.
K14|Regionale Kriminalitätsbelastung und Kriminalitätsfurcht: Befunde der WISIND-Studie|"Many people are afraid of falling prey to crime. The present report investigates the extent to which this fear is in line with the actual regional crime rates. This analysis is based on data from a comprehensive database on the fear of crime, combined with police crime statistics (specifically, adjusted crime statistics which factor in the ""dark figure"" of unreported crime). No evidence was found to support the (occasionally voiced) contention that the fear of falling prey to crime is irrational in many cases and not representative of the actual level of safety within a given region. In fact, our data shows a clear statistical correlation between regional crime rates and the fear of crime, both of which are more pronounced in the north of Germany than in the south, for instance. The inclusion of cybercrime in crime statistics, however, has meant that the former, higher crime rates and greater fear of crime often recordedin urban areas as opposed to rural regions are no longer as pronounced. Viele Bürger fürchten Opfer einer Straftat zu werden. Der Frage, inwieweit diese Furcht sich mit der regionalen Kriminalitätsbelastung deckt, versucht dieser Beitrag nachzugehen. Die Untersuchung basiert auf einer umfangreichen Datengrundlage zu Kriminalitätsfurcht und verbindet diese mit polizeilichen Daten zur Kriminalitätsbelastung (genauer: die um ihr Dunkelfeld korrigierte polizeiliche Kriminalstatistik). Die gelegentlich geäußerte Vermutung, die Furcht der Opferwerdung sei vielfach irrational und decke sich nicht mit der faktischen Sicherheit in einer Region lässt sich nicht bestätigen: In den Daten zeigt sich ein deutlicher statistischer Zusammenhang zwischen regionaler Kriminalitätsbelastung und Kriminalitätsfurcht. Beispielsweise sind beide im Norden Deutschlands höher als im Süden. Durch die Berücksichtigung von Delikten aus dem Bereich der Cyberkriminalität verschwindet jedoch tendenziell die früher oftmals dokumentierte höhere Kriminalitätsbelastung in städtischen gegenüber ländlichen Regionen."
K14|Analoge und digitale Unsicherheiten: eine neue Perspektive auf Kriminalitätsfurcht|Measuring and explaining the fear of crime in criminology and its related disciplines has been a controversial issue for decades. The present report proposes a method of examining and measuring the fear of crime with a broader empirical basis than has been possible with standard indicators to date. The extensive collection of information on concerns about andprobability of being the victim of a crime has made it possible to describe, for the very first time, a well-founded fear of cybercrime among the population. The empirical basis is a large-scale representative telephone survey with over 12,000 respondents conducted in the summer and fall of 2014. The findings of this approach, developed by the authors to measure fear of crime, show that factors such as age, income, gender, education level, and migration have a substantially more minor role in the fear of crime than is often assumed in surveys. The findings also suggest a north-south divide in the fear of crime and show that individuals living alone are less afraid of crime. Victims of threats in the last two and a half years, however, have the strongest fear of crime - although this form of crime was allocated a lower damage value in previous surveys conducted with experts and with the general population. Die Messung und Erklärung von Kriminalitätsfurcht ist ein seit Jahrzehnten umstrittenes Thema in der Kriminologie und ihren Nachbardisziplinen. Dieser Beitrag schlägt einen Weg vor, wie Kriminalitätsfurcht empirisch breiter als mit dem bisher üblichen Standardindikator untersucht und gemessen werden kann. Im Rahmen der umfangreichen Erhebung von Angaben zu Sorge und Wahrscheinlichkeit, Opfer von Kriminalität zu werden, kann erstmals auch die Sorge der Bevölkerung vor Internetkriminalität beschrieben werden. Die empirische Basis liegt in einer groß angelegten telefonischen Repräsentativbefragung mit gut 12 000 Befragten aus dem Sommer/Herbst 2014. Im Ergebnis zeigt der von den Autoren entwickelte Ansatz zur Messung von Kriminalitätsfurcht, dass die Faktoren Alter, Einkommen, Geschlecht, Bildungsniveau und Migrationshintergrund eine deutlich geringere Bedeutung für Kriminalitätsfurcht spielen, als dies oft in Erhebungen angenommen wurde. Zusätzlich legt der Ansatz ein Nord-Süd-Gefälle in der Kriminalitätsfurcht nahe und zeigt, dass alleinlebende Menschen weniger Angst vor Kriminalität haben. Menschen, die in den letzten zweieinhalb Jahren Opfer von Bedrohung wurden, weisen hingegen die stärkste Furcht vor Kriminalität auf – obwohl dieser Deliktform in vorhergehenden Bevölkerungs- und Expertenbefragungen ein niedriger Schadenswert beigemessen wurde.
K14|Lokale Kriminalitätsberichterstattung: Abbild oder Zerrspiegel von Kriminalität?|The present report analyzes crime reporting in newspapers and compares this to actual crime rates and fear of crime. One key finding is that crime-related issues play a comparativelyminor role in local editions of regional subscription newspapers. While this does not apply to the number of articles, it certainly does apply to the areas covered in these articles. It is often alleged that crime in the media is ubiquitous but this can only be confirmed to a limited degree in local reporting. A comparison of crime reporting with police crime statistics and the WISIND indicator on the fear of crime also shows a significant discrepancy, both geographically and in terms of specific offenses. First, there is clearly a disproportionately high focus in the print media on violent and sex offenses and, second, there is below-average reporting of more minor offenses. Consequently, cybercrime is relatively insignificant in the local media landscape even though it affects a broad cross-section of the population. The focus of crime reporting varies from one region to another and contradicts the official crime figures and fear of crime to some extent. Der vorliegende Bericht analysiert die Kriminalitätsberichterstattung in Zeitungen und vergleicht diese mit der tatsächlichen Kriminalitätsbelastung sowie der Furcht vor Kriminalität. Ein zentraler Befund ist, dass kriminalitätsbezogene Themen eine vergleichsweise geringe Rolle in den Lokalausgaben regionaler Abozeitungen spielen. Dies gilt zwar nicht in Bezug auf die Anzahl von Artikeln, aber sehr wohl für die Fläche, welche diese Artikel in der Gesamtberichterstattung einnehmen. Die häufig unterstellte Allgegenwart von Kriminalität in den Medien kann für die lokale Berichterstattung nur mit Einschränkungen bestätigt werden. Ein Abgleich von Kriminalitätsberichterstattung mit der Polizeilichen Kriminalstatistik und dem WISIND-Kriminalitätsfurchtindikator zeigt darüber hinaus eine erhebliche Diskrepanz sowohl in geographischer als auch deliktspezifischer Hinsicht: Deutlich wird einerseits eine in Printmedien auftretende überproportionale Fokussierung auf Gewalt-, Sexual- und Rohheitsdelikte und andererseits eine unterdurchschnittliche Berücksichtigung leichter Delikte. Die sich neu entwickelnde und die Bevölkerung in der großen Breite betreffende Internetkriminalität spielt in der lokalen Presselandschaft keine Rolle. Es lässt sich ein regional stark variierender Fokus auf Kriminalitätsberichterstattung belegen, der teilweise konträr zum offiziell bekannten Kriminalitätsgeschehen und zur Kriminalitätsfurcht steht.
K14|Aufbereitung der Kriminalstatistik zu einem aussagekräftigen Bedrohungsbild: Vorschläge der Berechnung|This report aims to show the distribution of crime in Germany. For this, police crime statistics (polizeiliche Kriminalstatistik - PKS) are treated so that they integrate dark figures (unreported crime) of crime types along with their specific grade of burden. The different treatments are based on own recent survey data. Two major trends are confirmed by both treatment methods: First, there is a north- south divide, with the northern regions experiencing a far higher risk of crime. Second, rural/urban differences can be accounted for by the higher levels of everyday crime that affect citizens of towns and cities. These slight differences and changes are more evident and meaningful in state-to-state comparisons rather than looking at Germany as a whole. Ziel des vorliegenden Beitrags ist die Darstellung der Verteilung von Kriminalität in Deutschland. Dazu wird die polizeiliche Kriminalstatistik so aufbereitet, dass sowohl das Dunkelfeld zentraler Deliktgruppen als auch deren Schweregrad Berücksichtigung finden. Die vorgeschlagenen Wege beruhen auf eigenen aktuellen Befragungsdaten. Die verschiedenen Berechnungsvarianten bestätigen zwei deutliche Trends in der Bedrohungslage: Zum einen existiert ein Nord-Süd-Gefälle, die nördlichen Regionen weisen ein deutlich höheres Bedrohungsniveau auf. Zum anderen beobachten wir Unterschiede zwischen Stadt und Land, da die städtische Bevölkerung deutlich stärker von alltäglichen direkt auf das Individuum einwirkenden Kriminalitätsformen betroffen ist. Kleinere Veränderungen werden jedoch durchaus sichtbar und wirken sich mit dem Fokus auf einzelne Bundesländer merklicher aus.
K14|Public law enforcers and political competition|In this paper, we analyze how political competition affects the designof public law enforcement policies. Assuming that the cost of enforcement is linear, criminals'type is uniformally distributed, and society's wealth is large enough, the article arrives at two main conclusions: 1) electoral competition entails no loss of efficiency at equilibrium for both minor and major offenses (e.g. minor offenses are not enforced, while major ones are fully deterred); 2) different distortions arises at equilibrium for the intermediate offenses: enforcement expenditures for small offenses are lower than the optimal level, such that the issue of under-deterrence is exacerbated; in contrast, for larger offenses, enforcement measures are higher, and there is more deterrence than what efficiency requires. We show that these results also holds under more general assumptions (convex costs of enforcement, a general cdf of illegal bene.ts, a lower society's wealth), excepted that full deterrence of major offenses is not achievable.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
K14|Overdeterrence of repeat offenders when penalties for first-time offenders are restricted|When penalties for first-time offenders are restricted, it is typically optimal for the lawmaker to overdeter repeat offenders. First-time offenders are then deterred not only by the (restricted) fine for a first offense, but also by the prospect of a large fine for a subsequent offense. Now suppose the restriction on penalties for first-time offenders is relaxed; i.e., larger fines for a first offense become enforceable. Should overdeterrence of repeat offenders now be reduced? We show that this is the case only if the original restriction was not very strong. Otherwise, overdeterrence of repeat offenders should actually be further amplified.
K14|A simple model of optimal deterrence and incapacitation|The deterrence of crime and its reduction through incapacitation are studied in a simple multiperiod model of crime and law enforcement. Optimal imprisonment sanctions and the optimal probability of sanctions are determined. A point of emphasis is that the incapacitation of individuals is often socially desirable even when they are potentially deterrable. The reason is that successful deterrence may require a relatively high probability of sanctions and thus a relatively high enforcement expense. In contrast, incapacitation may yield benefits no matter how low the probability of sanctions is—implying that incapacitation may be superior to deterrence.
K14|Wrongful convictions and the punishment of attempts|This article presents economic models of law enforcement where the punishment of attempts leads to an increased risk of wrongful convictions. Consideration of these risks weakens the case for punishing attempts. Specifically, attempts ought to be punished less frequently than suggested in previous literature, and even when the punishment of attempts is desirable, they typically ought to be punished less severely than accomplished crimes. Purely deterrence related rationales as well as rationales based on costs associated with wrongful convictions support this conclusion. The presence of wrongful conviction costs also implies that a degree of under-deterrence is optimal and that incomplete attempts ought to typically be punished less severely than complete attempts.
K14|Compensating acquitted pre-trial detainees|Western legal systems are far from having provided the same solution to the problem of whether acquitted pre-trial detainees should be compensated for the harm suffered as a result of detention on remand. Various arguments have been formulated in order to justify or criticize this compensation, but the possible incentive effects of this compensation on criminal behavior has not yet been considered. This paper analyzes these effects, focusing on the case where detention was lawfully and diligently carried out by State agents, and not having been caused by negligence on the part of the detainee. The paper shows that such compensation can either deter crime or encourage it, depending inter alia on the standard of evidence used to decide whether to compensate or not. Finally, the paper analyzes which standards of evidence maximize both deterrence and social welfare, and discusses some possible extensions.
K14|Deterrence and the optimality of rewarding prisoners for good behavior|In this article I examine the social desirability of rewarding prisoners for good behavior, either by reducing their sentences (granting “time off”), converting part of their sentences to a period of parole, or providing them with privileges in prison. Rewarding good behavior reduces the state's cost of operating prisons. But rewarding good behavior also tends to lower the deterrence of crime because such rewards diminish the disutility of imprisonment. I demonstrate that, despite this countervailing consideration, it is always socially desirable to reward good behavior with either time off or parole. In essence, this is because the reward can be chosen so that it just offsets the burden borne by prisoners to meet the standard of good behavior — resulting in good behavior essentially without a reduction in deterrence. While employing privileges to reward good behavior might be preferable to no reward, the use of privileges is inferior to time off and parole.
