K15|An Empirical and Qualitative Assessment of Terrorism Sentencing Decisions in Canada since 2001: Shifting Away from the Fundamental Principle and Towards Cognitive Biases|In this paper, we take a comprehensive and multidisciplinary look at terrorism sentencing decisions over a 17-year period, between September 2001 when the ATA was first conceived of and September 2018. In so doing, we first offer an empirical analysis of the sentences for all terrorism offenses to date, including the total number of sentences, conviction rates, charges, demographics associated with the accused and other factors. We then engage in a qualitative assessment of the sentencing decisions to date. We also investigate the role that section 718.2(a)(v) of the Criminal Code has had on terrorism sentences in Canada and whether it might help to explain the empirical and qualitative shifts we are seeing in terrorism sentencing decisions. Finally, we ask whether there is anything inherent to the legislative and judicial framing of terrorism as a crime, and therefore in its sentencing, that might explain the unique nature of terrorism sentences.
K15|Fiduciary Duty and the Market for Financial Advice|Recent regulatory debate in the financial advice industry has focused on expanding fiduciary duties to broker-dealers. Proponents of this reform argue that it would improve the advice given to clients and limit losses from agency problems, while detractors counter that such regulation would increase compliance costs without directly improving consumer outcomes. This paper evaluates these claims empirically, using a transactions-level dataset for annuity sales from a major financial services provider and exploiting state-level variation in common law fiduciary duty. We find that imposing fiduciary duty on broker-dealers shifts the set of products they sell to consumers, away from variable annuities and towards fixed indexed annuities. Within variable annuities, fiduciary duty induces a shift towards lower-fee, higher-return annuities with a wider array of investment options. We develop a model that leverages the distributional changes in products sold to test the mechanism by which fiduciary duty operates. We find evidence that fiduciary duty does not solely increase the cost of doing business but that it has the intended effect of directly impacting financial advice.
K15|Systemic usury and the European Consumer Credit Directive|Usury is a frequent occurrence in consumer credit markets and particularly affects low-income households. Systemic usury exploits poverty by shifting usury into additional products and leveraging usury gains by stringing together individual loan agreements. This paper reviews the economic rationale for usury legislation and on this basis evaluates the European Consumer Credit Directive 2008/48/EC. Systemic usury is a market failure. The most powerful explanations for such failure in consumer credit markets are monopoly power, where the consumer is locked in a bilateral credit relationship, discrimination through risk-based pricing, and negative externalities, where the least solvent borrowers are cross-subsidized by the more solvent ones. Incomplete information of consumers cannot explain systemic usury in credit markets, because even fully informed consumers would be discriminated and trapped into a situation of bilateral monopoly. However, the European Consumer Credit Directive is primarily based on the model of incomplete information, which it seeks to correct by informational duties. As a consequence, usurious practices and products are implicitly acknowledged as legal, which has eroded the national combat against usury. Therefore, this Directive is not effective and must be reformed.
K15|The Rationale for Motions in the Design of Adjudication|The conduct of adjudication is often influenced by motions––requests made by litigants to modify the course of adjudication. The question studied in this article is why adjudication is designed so as to permit the use of motions. The answer developed is that litigants will naturally know a great deal about their specific matter, whereas a court will ordinarily know little except to the degree that the court has already invested effort to appreciate it. By giving litigants the right to bring motions, the judicial system leads litigants to efficiently provide information to courts that is relevant to the adjudicative process.
K15|FinTech in Sub-Saharan Africa: What Has Worked Well, and What Hasn't|The FinTech sector has begun to grow rapidly in sub-Saharan Africa. I document far greater adoption of social media, digital currency, ride sharing, and other FinTech applications in countries with a common law legal heritage compared to those with a civil law system, suggesting that legal origin plays a critical role in setting the stage for growth through entrepreneurship in the developing world. The electrical, telecom, and Internet infrastructure required for FinTech has been built out more extensively in common law countries. Financial inclusion outcomes are also better in emerging markets that have a common law heritage.
K15|Revisiting the efficiency and institutions debate: The interaction of legal origins and ethnic heterogeneity|We analyse the interaction between legal origins and ethnic heterogeneity and their combined impact on national efficiency. We hypothesise that in the presence of high ethnic heterogeneity common-law system performs worse than civil-law one in terms of economic efficiency. Our empirical tests on the sample of African countries support our hypothesis.
K15|'A Case with Peculiarities': Mixed Same-Sex Marriages Before the Supreme Court|This article examines the judgment of the Italian Supreme Court (Corte di Cassazione) no 11696 of 14 May 2018 concerning the legal status of mixed same-sex married couples under Italian law. It explores the problems relating to the recognition and the civil status registration in Italy of couples of the same sex where one spouse is a foreigner and the other is Italian. Legge 20 May 2016 no 76 (registered partnerships law) and decreto legislativo 19 January 2017 no 7 established a regime under which Italian couples who married abroad are recognised and registered, hence downgraded, as civil partners, whereas foreign couples are recognised and registered as married. They say nothing, however, on mixed couples. During the parliamentary debate, however, the government affirmed that their main concern was to avoid Italians to circumvent the registered partnerships law by marrying abroad and then obtaining the recognition of their marriage in Italy. Based on this intent, the Supreme Court found that mixed couples are subject to the same antielusive logic – a construction that this article criticises under several viewpoints.
K15|Wenn ich zwanzig Ziegen will und Du mir keine geben magst - Ein Überblick über die Möglichkeiten und Methoden der Streitbeilegung|Der Beitrag zeigt die verschiedenen Möglichkeiten einer Streitbeilegung in Deutschland auf. Ein Konflikt kann grundsätzlich im Machtmodell, im Delegationsmodell oder im Konsensmodell gelöst werden. Die Möglichkeit zur nachhaltigsten Konfliktlösung bietet die Konfliktlösung im Konsensmodell, da die Parteien im Rahmen des Konsensmodells die Gelegenheit erhalten, sich über ihre wirklichen Interessen klar zu werden und gemeinsam und eigenverantwortlich eine Lösung zu suchen, die ihren Bedürfnissen und Interessen gerecht wird. Wenn die Parteien nicht bereit sind, freiwillig und auf Augenhöhe gemeinsam an einer Lösung des Konflikts zu arbeiten, dann bietet das Gerichtsverfahren mit seiner Bindung an das materielle Recht, seinen prozessualen Verfahrensgarantien und seinem unparteiischen Entscheider zumindest eine gewisse Sicherheit dafür, dass der Unerfahrene oder wirtschaftlich Unterlegene eine angemessene Konfliktlösung auf der Grundlage der bestehenden Gesetze erhält. Mit der Verabschiedung des Verbraucherstreitbeilegungsgesetzes im Jahr 2016 ist die Diskussion über die richtige Konfliktlösungsmethode in Gesellschaft und Politik erneut in den Fokus gerückt. Dieses Gesetz sieht für vertragliche Streitigkeiten zwischen Verbraucher und Unternehmern ein flächendeckendes Angebot einer Streitbeilegung mithilfe eines Schlichtungsverfahrens, also eines Konsensverfahrens vor. Der Erfolg dieses Verfahrens wird entscheidend davon abhängen, ob es den Verbraucherschlichtungsstellen gelingt, das Machtgefälle zwischen Unternehmen und Verbrauchern aufzuheben und beide Seiten von den Vorteilen einer einvernehmlichen Konfliktlösung zu überzeugen.
K15|Interplay between patents and standards in the information and communication technology (ICT) sector and its relevance to the implementation of the WTO Agreements|The interplay between patents and standards in the information and communication technology (ICT) sector has been intensively debated at international, regional and national levels over the past decades. In essence, the debate is firstly about the extent and impact of patent holdup and holdout in the ICT sector, and then about how to eliminate or reduce these practices. While standard setting organizations (SSOs), industry bodies, as well as judicial and administrative authorities have made great efforts to solve the issue of patent holdup and holdout, there is still an ongoing struggle among divergent stakeholders. Patent holdup and holdout directly impacts the innovation and dissemination of patented technology, the harmonization and implementation of standards, and international trade, which are promoted by the WTO Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS Agreement) and the Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade (TBT Agreement). This working paper provides an overview of the current debate on patent holdup and holdout in the ICT sector, analyses existing policy measures and their limitations, and then highlights the relevance of the WTO to this debate.
K15|Civil Asset Forfeiture, Crime, and Police Incentives: Evidence from the Comprehensive Crime Control Act of 1984|The 1984 federal Comprehensive Crime Control Act (CCCA) included a provision that permitted local law enforcement agencies to share up to 80 percent of the proceeds derived from civil asset forfeitures obtained in joint operations with federal authorities. This procedure became known as “equitable sharing.” In this paper we investigate how this rule governing forfeited assets influenced crime and police incentives by taking advantage of pre-existing differences in state level civil asset forfeiture law and the timing of the CCCA. We find that after the CCCA was enacted crime fell about 17 percent in places where the federal law allowed police to retain more of their seized assets than state law previously allowed. Equitable sharing also led police agencies to reallocate their effort toward the policing of drug crimes. We estimate that drug arrests increased by about 37 percent in the years after the enactment of the CCCA, indicating that it was profitable for police agencies to reallocate their efforts. Such a reallocation of effort, however, brought an unintended cost in the form of increased roadway fatalities, seemingly from reduced enforcement of traffic laws.
K15|Anti-aircraft Missiles and Gun Control|Gun control is a highly debatable topic both in the popular and scholarly media. But what about anti-aircraft missiles? Should they be banned? On the one hand, there are fewer of them around, so their challenge is more tractable. On the other hand, they can do far more damage than handguns. The present paper is an attempt to wrestle with this challenge.
K15|The Democratic Security Policy: Socioeconomic Effects in the Rural Areas, 2002-2006|This paper measures the impact of strengthening the security policy on the rural labour market in Colombia by exploiting the structural change in the number of rural seizures. The new policy produced dissimilar effects across gender, age-groups, and types of occupation. For adults, especially for women, there were important reductions in the labour participation, with simultaneous reductions in the income across the most representative types of workers, self-employees and day-laborers. For male youths and children there was an increase in the labor participation through the day-labor activities, while females seemed to participate less as self-employees. In general there was a socioeconomic loss in terms of reductions of adult’s labour supply and income, while for youths and children there is a differentiated effect by gender in the labour participation, and no significant connections were found with school enrollment.
K15|The Democratic Security Policy: Socioeconomic Effects in the Rural Areas, 2002-2006|This paper measures the impact of strengthening the security policy on the rural labour market in Colombia by exploiting the structural change in the number of rural seizures. The new policy produced dissimilar effects across gender, age-groups, and types of occupation. For adults, especially for women, there were important reductions in the labour participation, with simultaneous reductions in the income across the most representative types of workers, self-employees and day-laborers. For male youths and children there was an increase in the labor participation through the day-labor activities, while females seemed to participate less as self-employees. In general there was a socioeconomic loss in terms of reductions of adult´s labour supply and income, while for youths and children there is a differentiated effect by gender in the labour participation, and no significant connections were found with school enrollment.
