K19|When Women are the Criminals: Governing Violent Extremism in Malaysia via 'Hard' and 'Soft' Modalities|Objective - This paper seeks to examine the multiple roles of women in preventing and countering violent extremism (PVE/CVE) efforts and the existing legal ('hard') and non-legal ('soft') modalities governing such criminality. Methodology/Technique - This paper adopts a library-based research methodology through not only the conceptual analysis but also content analysis and doctrinal legal analysis. The secondary data consists of the primary sources, which includes the terrorism-related laws and the Penal Code. The secondary sources include books, law reports, journals, and online databases. Findings - The authors contend that despite the significance of women's role in preventing and countering violent extremism, the gender perspective is glaringly absent in the current Malaysian PVE/CVE initiatives. Novelty - There is a dearth of research on the involvement of women in violent extremism in Malaysia, and their role in PVE/CVE. This paper is very useful in contributing to the existing literature on the role of women in PVE/CVE efforts and beneficial for policy-makers and law enforcement agencies in curbing such criminality.
K19|Правомощия На Академичния Съвет - Традиции В Българското Висше Образование<BR>[Powers of the academic council – traditions in the bulgarian higher education]|В статията се изследват в сравнителноправен аспект правомощията на Академичния съвет, като един от основните органи за управление на висшите училища. Въз основа на анализа на предходното законодателство, касаещо правомощията на Академичния съвет, се изследват историческите традиции в правната уредба на този орган за управление на висшето училище. Авторът прави изводи и обобщения със значимост за съвременните законодателни решения в регламентацията на органа. The article examines in comparative-legal aspect the powers of the Academic Council, as one of the main bodies for management of the Higher Schools. Based on the analysis of the former legislation concerning the powers of the Academic Council, in the article are examined the historical traditions in the legal regulation of this management body of the Higher School. The author makes conclusions and summaries with importance for the contemporary legislative solutions in the regulation of this body.
K19|ASEAN Economic Development: Impacts and Adaptation for Thai Local Administrative Organizations|Economic development is influenced by domestic development and international obligations. Local administrative organizations may have to bear the effects of various aspects of economic development. Current fundamental problems concerning the role, power and duties of the Local administrative organizations result from the separation of governance to the central, the regional, and the local administrative organizations. Local administrative organizations are again divided into provincial administrative organizations, municipalities, and sub-district administrative organizations. The fundamental issues concerning Thai governance, especially in any specific province, is the separation of roles, powers, duties, budget, and personnel of organizations in a manner in which they are dispersed through the various governmental offices at the department level based on their missions and duties. Concurrently, the administration at local levels has overlapping jurisdiction between provincial administrative organizations and the municipality, and sub-district administrative organizations. The nature of these problematic issues is one that currently exists; however, another dimension is the state of global transformation which poses an additional challenge for the role, power, and duties of Local administrative organizations. This study aims at examining the impacts and adaptation for Thai local administrative organizations resulting from the economic development of ASEAN. The study is separated into three parts: 1) Thailand and economic development in ASEAN; 2) the impact of the local administrative organization toward economic development and 3) analysis and recommendations for Thai local administrative organizations.
K19|Constitutional Overperformance – An Empirical Study of De Facto Protection of Rights with No De Jure Equivalents|In this paper we aim to contribute to the debate on successful enforcement of constitutional rules and its determinants by extending the focus to the phenomenon of constitutional overperformance, which arises when countries that do not include certain de jure rights in their constitutions, nevertheless de facto observe them. Firstly, we provide evidence that constitutional overperformance is a common phenomenon around the globe. Secondly, we identify factors which contribute to it, classifying them into three groups: (1) characteristics of a given country’s constitution (such as its comprehensiveness or age); (2) characteristics of the country itself, pertaining to its institutions (such as its democratization level, degree of judicial independence or legal origins) and socio-economic conditions (e.g. economic development, or presence of political conflict); as well as (3) spatial effects (diffusion of rights protection between neighboring countries). We base the conclusions on an empirical study conducted for a global sample of more than 100 countries.
K19|The heterogeneous effect of affirmative action on performance|This paper experimentally investigates the effect of gender-based affirmative action (AA) on performance in the lab, focusing on a tournament environment. The tournament is based on GRE math questions commonly used in graduate school admission, and at which women are known to perform worse on average than men. We find heterogeneous effect of AA on female participants: AA lowers the performance of high-ability women and increases the performance of low-ability women. Our results are consistent with two possible mechanisms—one is that AA changes incentives differentially for low- and high-ability women, and the second is that AA triggers stereotype threat.
K19|Libel Bullies, Defamation Victims and Litigation Incentives|We analyse the relationship between a public figure's incentives to sue for defamation, and her incentives to do wrong in the first place and the media's incentives to expose this wrongdoing. If evidence on wrongdoing is noisy, a journalist's decision of whether to publish a story based on this evidence is largely driven by his anticipation of the public figure's litigation decision, rather than by the question of whether the evidence is actually correct. In a repeated setting, this induces a public figure to bring negative-value defamation suits in order to appear litigious to journalists in the future. As a consequence, the public figure's incentives to sue for defamation will not only depend on her own direct costs and benefits of doing so, but also on journalists' costs and benefits from litigation and publications. This result makes the case for also taking these latter factors into account in the debate on potential legal reform aiming at litigation incentives.
K19|The Institution of the Prefect According to the Romanian Administrative Code|A code can be defined as a legislative act that includes in a unitary system the rules of a branch of law. In this respect, the Administrative Code regulates the general framework for the organization and functioning of the public administration authorities and institutions, the status of the personnel within them, the administrative responsibility, the public services, as well as the specific rules regarding the public and private property of the state and of the administrative-territorial units. The paper has as main research objective to make a qualitative analysis of the main amendments made to the Prefect institution by adopting in the Romanian Parliament the first Administrative Code after 1989. In this regard, we will analyze the important steps regarding the adoption of the Administrative Code, as well as the changes brought about in terms of roles, powers and occupation of the prefect institution.
K19|The limits of judicial power in England and Germany: a comparative methodological and constitutional perspective|The principle of legal certainty, the rule of law and the constitutional separation of powers are affected to a significant degree when judges engage in judicial law-making, i.e. when they restrict or extend the scope of application of an enactment beyond or against the possible semantic meanings of the statutory language. This paper assesses how far English and German judges go when they interpret national legislation. It adopts a comparative methodological and constitutional perspective. The border between permissible judicial law-making and impermissible judicial amendment of legislation is governed by ?outer? methodological limits in judicial practice. This paper explores reasons that may explain the existing similarities and differences in these limits in England and Germany. By focusing on the methodological constraints of judicial law-making, the paper adds an underexplored aspect to the debate on converging / diverging statutory interpretation in civil law and common law jurisdictions. It also focuses on the often neglected relationship between statutory interpretation and constitutional law. The wider debate the paper feeds into is the debate about the proper degree and limits of judicial power in a legal system.This paper argues that opposing default positions exist in English and German judicial practice in relation to the permissibility of judicial law-making. This is not only due to different underlying constitutional settings but also due to historical factors and tradition that affect judicial attitudes. The paper thus rejects the thesis that statutory interpretation in both countries is fundamentally uniform.In the realms of rights-consistent judicial law-making and interpretation in conformity with an EU directive, this paper discerns contrasting trends in statutory interpretation in both jurisdictions. One effect of these trends is, however, a growing congruence not only in the general expression of outer interpretative limits but also in their application in individual cases in England and Germany. This convergence is based on judges? common understanding of their constitutional role vis-à-vis the legislature. Changes in the UK constitutional framework can partly, but not fully, justify this convergent development. Another reason for the high level of convergence is that English courts have exceeded their judicial powers. The paper therefore argues that scholars have rightly criticised highest English courts for undermining constitutional doctrine with adventurous re-interpretations of legislation. As regards German judicial practice, the paper will challenge scholarly claims that German courts have extended the limits of the judicial function.
K19|Comparative Analysis of Ethical Boundaries and Regulations for Lawyers in The United States, European Union and Russia/Legal Profession in a Comparative Context|This presentation is intended to expose participants to various types of regulation of lawyers in different parts of the world. It will comparatively examine the structure and ethical framework of the legal profession in the United States (mainly based on the ?Model Rules of Professional Conduct? issued by the American Bar Association), European Union (covered in the well-accepted cross-border legal practice regulation of lawyers-document titled the ?CCBE?), and in Russia (described in the ?Code of Professional Ethics for the Attorney?), as an example of a post-Soviet country, including the recourse that may be taken against attorneys for ethical misconduct and professional malpractice. Other topics to be covered will include a range of accompanying ethical and legal issues, such as the role of lawyers and judges, beginning and ending of the attorney-client relationship, globalization of the legal profession and the image and expectations of lawyers in parts of the world mentioned above. The presentation will also address various aspects of ethical law practice in selected countries described and analyze the reasons behind established traditions and practices in various legal systems.
K19|Public works procurement in the new code: a legal and economic assessment of the main measures|In the light of the economic literature, this paper provides an analysis of the main measures for public works, introduced by the new Public Contracts Code, in order to assess whether they could help to solve the problems of the Italian market, characterized by fragmented public demand and a high level of cost overruns and delays in the execution phase. The paper highlights both the progress made, also thanks to the recently approved corrective decree, and the remaining shortcomings, such as the inconsistencies in the definition of the contracting authorities’ qualification requirements and firms’ rating factors, as well as the uncertainties affecting the wider margins of autonomy and flexibility granted to the contracting authorities. Overcoming these problems will also depend on the ANAC as a regulatory body that supports the functioning of the system. Moreover, both before and after the execution phase of works, the legal framework still needs to be completed with the introduction of independent reviews of the projects’ ex-ante appraisals and the definition of a systematic process for ex-post evaluations of finished projects.
K19|Scope of Re-hypothecation Regulation (Report of Workshops (3))|"The margin requirements for non-cleared over-the-counter (""OTC"") derivatives transactions are introduced in 2016 (pursuant to an international agreement by the G20 to reduce systemic risk from OTC derivatives) and restrict the re-hypothecation of initial margin collateral. While this restriction is introduced in order to protect client assets, there has been a concern that such restriction may have a negative impact on market liquidity. The Report of the Workshops on ""Contemporary Financial Transactions and Their Regulatory Treatment"" (2016) (the ""Report"") analyzes the appropriate scope of regulation in relation to the re-hypothecation of initial margin collateral. Japan implements this regulation in a manner compatible with the international agreement, and introduces a new trust scheme concept, which allows for the segregated management of collateral assets. The Report also analyzes the potential for the trust scheme, which could provide room for the re-hypothecation of securities and hence, mitigate the unintended negative impact on market liquidity, while ensuring harmonization with the international agreement."
K19|Thinking Justice Outside the Docket: A Critical Assessment of the Reform of the EU's Court System|The 2015 reform of the EU’s court system will go down in history as the most radical transformation of the EU judicial architecture since the establishment of the General Court in 1989. It doubles the number of General Court judges but also dissolves the Civil Service Tribunal. This article offers a critical assessment of these two major, structural changes, addressing both the process by which they were adopted and their overall merits. After providing a detailed examination of the reform’s tortuous legislative history and highlighting its unique underlying procedural feature – with the Court itself initiating the process – this article identifies and systematizes its major shortcomings. It criticizes the underlying diagnosis and the cure administered. It concludes by presenting this reform process as a missed opportunity to address, in a more holistic manner, the pressing non-docket related challenges facing the EU judicial system, in particular, to reform a governance structure which is no longer fit for purpose considering the massive transformation of the EU judicial branch since 1951.
K19|The Open Government Partnership Beyond the Nation State: The Case of the European Union|The article outlines the options for collaboration between the European Union (EU) and the Open Government Partnership (OGP). The OGP accepts full participants (states), sub-national participants (pilot program), and observers. As of now, the OGP’s charter states that it only accepts “states” for full participant status. Three options are available to the OGP for accommodating the EU: 1. Full participant status for the EU: the OGP would have to amend its Articles of Governance to allow non-state entities such as the EU to be participants by removing any mention of “government” of states, and replacing it with any government at the sub-national, national or supranational levels; 2. Ad-hoc participation of the EU by creating a supra-national government program: the OGP would have to create a program tailored to the EU, which could be used as a model for allowing other supra-national bodies in the future. If option 2 is a success, the OGP could propose full participant status to the EU at that time; 3. ‘Observer status’ for non-state entities with the EU as an observer: the OGP maintains the status quo by enabling non-state actors to obtain observer status. The article also reviews the requirements for OGP membership, the competence of the EU to join, and the question of which EU institution would be responsible for negotiating OGP membership. The article concludes by analysing how the EU would formalise its commitment to the OGP through an Inter-Institutional Agreement.
K19|Legal Opinion on the Proposed Inter-Institutional Agreement for a Mandatory Transparency Register in the European Union|This paper discusses the legal implications deriving from the choice of an interinstitutional agreement to regulate interest representation activities in the European Union. In particular, it focuses on whether this instrument may validly allow the European Parliament to impose a set of requirements on its Members (in relation to their free and independent mandate), the political groups, the intergroups and other informal groupings of Members, and on the accredited parliamentary assistants (APAs). It concludes that, given its legal status, the proposed IIA operationalises rather than extending the existing transparency obligations stemming from the Treaty and its requirements are proportionate to the aims pursued. As such it does not affect the free and independent mandate of Members as it is defined in the Members’ Statute nor it conflicts with the prerogatives of other internal actors. The proposed IIA intends to develop and complement obligations of primary law, such as the duty of openness and transparency that already govern the Statute and its interpretation, without compromising the substantive rights and obligations provided by the former. These obligations of primary law already put limits on the freedom and the independence of the Members enshrined in Article 2 (1) of the Statute as well as that of other internal actors. Additionally, the proposed mandatory Transparency Register also allows Members to easily identify the identity of interest representatives they meet, thus enhancing the Member’s ability to inform themselves.
K19|Shining a Spotlight on EU Political Group Spending: Legal Guide on Access to Document Requests|The purpose of this legal memorandum is to provide advice to organisations and individuals interested in submitting a request for public access to documents under Regulation (EC) No 1049/01 (“Regulation 1049/01”) to the European Parliament for documents related to the spending of political groups covered by Budget Item 400 appropriations under Chapter 7. Requests for those documents may face rejection on grounds related to exceptions provided for in Regulation 1049/01, specifically those found in Articles 4(1)b, 4(2), and 4(3) pertaining to privacy and integrity of the individual, commercial interests, and institution’s decision-making process respectively. This legal memorandum addresses the applicability of those exceptions to the documents requested for potential use in a confirmatory request to be submitted to the European Parliament subsequent to the initial rejection in line with Article 7 of Regulation 1049/01. The memo also provides arguments for overcoming these exceptions in light of: 1) recent developments in the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union (“CJEU”) relating to the privacy exception; and 2) the strict legal requirements for triggering the commercial interests and institutional decision-making exceptions. The last section of the memo is structured to provide draft responses to the denial of requests for documents and should be tailored to the specific situation in question.
K19|Smart Contracts – How will Blockchain Technology Affect Contractual Practices?|Abstract Unlike conventional contracts established through speech, written words, or actions, smart contracts are algorithmic, self-executing and self-enforcing computer programs. In this article, we analyze smart contracts from the perspective of digital platforms and the Finnish contract law. We examine how well the formation mechanisms of the general principles of contract law can be applied to the new technological framework of smart contracts. In addition, the adoptability of smart contracts as a part of our current legislation is evaluated on the basis of this analysis. We find that instead of a clearly defined single use case, smart contracts can be applied in a multitude of different ways, with highly varying goals and circumstances. We conclude that at least in some cases, smart contracts can create legally binding rights and obligations to their parties. The mechanism best suited for describing the formation of a smart contract seems to be analogous to a vending machine where the declaration of intent is implicitly expressed by performing contractual obligations. Contracts have not been formerly percieved as a technical boundary resource in the sense that platform ecosystems could foster broader network effects by opening their technical contracting interfaces to third parties. Smart contracts are an example of the new kinds of technology-enabled contracting practices to which companies and public policy makers should start preparing well ahead of time. However, due to the relative immaturity of the smart contract technology, the number of current real-world applications is still very limited. The evolution of digital platforms requires an approach with a combination of technological, economic and legal perspectives.
K19|The Voting Rights of Ex-Felons and Election Outcomes in the United States|Approximately one in forty adult U.S. citizens has lost their right to vote, either temporarily or permanently, as a result of a felony conviction. Because laws restricting voting by felons and ex-felons disproportionately affect minorities, and minorities tend to vote for Democratic candidates, it has been hypothesized that felony disenfranchisement hurts Democratic candidates in elections, thus helping Republican candidates. We test this hypothesis using variation in felony disenfranchisement laws across U.S. states and over time. During the 2000s, a number of states restored the voting rights of ex-felons. Using difference-in-differences regressions, we estimate the effect of laws reenfranchising ex-felons on the vote shares of major party candidates in elections for seats to the U.S. House of Representatives. We argue that the regression estimates provide an upper bound for the true effect of restoring voting rights to ex-felons on the vote shares of major party candidates. Using this upper bound, no House majority would have been reversed in any year between 1998 and 2012, had all states allowed ex-felons to vote.
K19|Brief Considerations On Meal Vouchers, Holidays, Giftvouchers And Nurseries, During The Current Crisis|At the beginning of the sixth decade of the last century, in France, were created meal vouchers which have since spread to other European countries in order to encourage operators to contribute financially to better nutrition for employees in order to increase productivity and to improve the health of the population. Subsequently, the meal vouchers model was also taken by the public institutions, during which it was created the necessary legislative framework for issuing them, and later on, on the same criteria, have also been issued holiday vouchers, giftware and nursery vouchers. In our country, was first created the legislative framework for providing meal vouchers in 1998, gift vouchers and nurseries in 2006, and the legislation granting holiday vouchers was adopted in 2009.
K19|The Apparent Diversification Discount|Our model highlights the impact of bankruptcy on (true and apparent) firm value. We show that the pricing of diversified firms suffers from a survivorship bias, due to their lower mortality relative to focused ones. This difference in mortality is able to turn a true diversification premium, deriving from saved bankruptcy costs, into an apparent diversification discount. Such apparent discount is larger the larger is the true premium due to coinsurance across diversified units. We show how this insight contributes to explain value paradoxes in diversified companies such as multi-unit groups, multi-segment conglomerates, and parent companies.
K19|Der Elternunterhalt: Zwischen Solidarbeitrag und Sondersteuer|Wegen der zunehmenden Alterung bzw. steigenden Lebenserwartung der deutschen Bevölkerung nimmt die Zahl von Pflegebedürftigen ständig zu. Immer mehr Personen mit pflegebedürftigen Eltern werden von den Sozialämtern zum Unterhalt verpflichtet. Die finanzielle Belastung hängt davon ab, welcher von beiden Ehepartnern zufällig betroffen und wie das Einkommen der Ehepartner verteilt ist. Fragwürdig ist auch, dass höheres Einkommen unterhaltsmindernd wirkt, wenn Vermögen zum Elternunterhalt herangezogen wird. Karl-Heinz Tödter, Bundesbankdirektor a.D., diskutiert in dem Beitrag den Elternunterhalt aus ökonomischer und steuerlicher Perspektive und schlägt eine Reform vor, die durch eine Zusammenveranlagung von Ehepaaren bestehende Unsicherheiten beseitigen und Unterhaltsrisiken bündeln würde.
K19|The European Public Prosecutor’s Office — the fiasco of the European Union financial security vision?|Aim: The article is devoted to the problem of financial abuses and frauds that undermines the public finances of EU and public interest. Motivation: The problem is not new and it is known for several years. There is no doubt that investments funded by the EU are common. A huge amount of EU money is also a huge temptation and purpose of economic crimes. Over the years, the EU and the Member States already took some action to prevent from embezzlement of the EU budget. Until now, the main institution that coordinated the fight against these phenomena was the European Commission and its structure, especially the European Anti-Fraud Office. Fighting against economic crimes violating the interests of the EU is difficult for the procedural reasons. European investigators have no prosecuting power. Investigative role is limited to gathering evidence and transferring it to the national prosecuting authorities. After that European investigators lose the control over conducted case. The Treaty on the functioning of the European Union gives us another tool to fight the frauds. It seems that the solution is to establish the European Public Prosecutor Office (EPPO) with full procedural rights to prosecute violators. That’s why the general thesis is that EPPO should be established as soon as it is possible to help prevent EU citizens money in more effective way than it is today. However this could be a contribution for the next article concerning the economic analysis of the law and the impact of new regulations on security funds entrusted to the EU. Results: The idea of establishing an EPPO has almost 10 years and was initiated in the connection with the latest financial crisis. Unfortunately, despite declarations and attempts to start it in January 2015 it is still not known if and when it will actually work. The article also takes the issue of commitment and various visions of the Member States of achieving the EU budget safety and other problems on this ground.
K19|Inheritance Systems and the Dynamics of State Capacity in Medieval Europe|We analyse how two different inheritance systems might affect the creation of centralised and administratively capable states. We use a multi-country overlapping generations model in which country rulers want to expand the lands they control by military conquests. An administration is required to raise taxes upon which partially fund an army. The characteristics of inheritance rules allow to identify two mechanisms that affect the creation and development of the administrative apparatus: the probability that lands stay under the control of the ruling family, which stimulates investments in state capacity; and marriages between heirs. If rulers prefer theirs lands to belong to their family, inheritance systems that privilege men over women encourage a direct development of the administration. On the contrary, gender egalitarianism generates more marriages between heirs because both genders will be equally represented in the marriage market. Countries originating from a marriage between heirs can benefit from higher taxation income due to an scale effect. To assess the importance of each mechanism, we simulate an economy under each (exogenously given) system. According to our results, inheritance rules that privilege men favour investments in state capacity in the long run compared to rules that give the same probability of inheriting to men and women.
K19|What Role for Civil Society Coalitions in Supranational Governance?|Beyond Networks critically dissects and systematizes an insightful, well-researched and elegantly written account of the democratic potential carried out by coalitions of civil society actors. Once established a case for studying coalitions of civil society organization through the lens of Global Administrative Law, the book eventually unveils its underlying research question. This volume specifically attempts to explain how civil society networks – which are studied within the broader notion of Global Civil Society (GSC) – drive the development of principles of democratic value at the supranational level. It does so within the broader debate about new modes of global governance and in particular that of experimentalist governance. It proceeds to theorize an autonomous organization network model within GSC: the so-called 'interlocutory coalitions'. Those coalitions are typically made of diverse category of entities whose major – sometimes solely – common feature is the cross-border pursuit of a common cause. In order to build an original and valuable taxonomy of civil society networks, interlocutory coalitions must be contrasted to other forms of networks, including social networks, trans-governmental committees, think tanks, Parallel Summits and QUANGOs. After reconstructing their respective composition, membership, rules of governance and legal status, the book delves into interlocutory coalitions' decision-making. How do coalitions presenting high degree of variation when it comes to their mission, governance, funding and membership coalesce around one common cause? How do they come to existence and get along? How can such coalitions speak with one voice when representing and advocating their common position in front of the relevant international organizations? What kind of techniques and deliberative mechanisms are used to attain a common position and then convey it to the outside world? This book provides a rigorous, constructive and promising stepping stone to embark on such a challenging journey. Yet the case for a global participatory democracy remains to be made.
K19|The two sides of Magna Carta: How good government sometimes wins out over public choice|This article examines two rival interpretations of Magna Carta. It rejects the view that Magna Carta is largely a special interest deal between the King and the Barons, and defends the proposition that by and large it works as a public-regarding document that did much to cure the defects of the feudal and judicial systems that had evolved under King John. A clause-by-clause analysis of the document, dealing with such matters as tenurial succession, marriage, courts and judicial procedures, debtor and creditor arrangements, and property rights and liberties shows that Magna Carta exhibited a high degree of technical excellence. By constantly referring back to ancient customs, Magna Carta introduced sensible reforms, some of which were peculiar to the feudal system, but others of which carry over to similar problems today. The durability of the Magna Carta is justified by its political and legal achievements.
K19|The Human Rights Act should not be repealed|There is no reason to repeal the Human Rights Act and the government’s manifesto commitment to do so should be dropped. The objections to it are misconceived, the arguments against it being based either on inaccurate understandings of what it says or error-strewn assertions about the nature of its impact. The political motive for attacking the Act – to undermine the UK’s association with Europe – has been overtaken by the much greater European disengagement of BREXIT.
K19|The Bosman ruling and the presence of native football players in their home league: the Spanish case|Abstract This paper examines whether the Bosman ruling plays a role in the presence (participation and performance) of native football (soccer) players in their home league, focusing on the Spanish case. By abolishing transfer fees after the expiration of contracts, as well as liberalizing the migration of professional football players within the European Union, the Bosman ruling could negatively impact the participation of national players in their home league. To explore this issue, we use data from the First Division of the Spanish League for the seasons 1980/1981–2011/2012. The results suggest a decline in the number of native Spanish players as a consequence of the Bosman ruling, although the impact does not appear to be permanent. However, we find that the Bosman case has a negative and lasting impact on the performance of Spanish players in their home league. Our findings do not change when we use different subsamples or introduce controls for unobserved characteristics, or for observed characteristics that could drive the presence of Spanish players, such as participation in European competitions, the performance of the Spanish national team, and the success of teams’ youth academies, among others. This work also takes into account other changes in the nationality quota rules and the impact of other post-Bosman legislative changes, such as the Kolpak case and the Cotonou agreement.
K19|Culmination of the Powers of the State Audit Office of Hungary within the Scope of New Legislation on Public Funds|The regulatory framework serving the renewal of domestic public finances comprises the Fundamental Law and cardinal acts entering into effect following its adoption. Among cardinal acts, the first one to be adopted was the new SAO Act. In addition to its full consistency with international requirements, the act consolidated the SAO’s independence and audit powers and, by clearly declaring the publicity of reports, improved the transparency of audits. Among the SAO’s new powers, the power to sanction failure to fulfil the action planning and cooperation obligations, coupled together with general empowerment to issue administrative warnings has lent weight to the SAO’s interventions and transformed its operation. The new act also vested new roles and rights related to preparing studies and analyses in the institution, as well as performing advisory and consultative activities. The SAO is free to avail itself of these tools within regulatory provisions having as its only mandatory task to prepare analyses in support of the Fiscal Council’s work. By means of its new roles and leveraging publicity, the SAO has been effective in focusing its efforts on facilitating controlled behaviours to ensure the regular and efficient use of public funds.
K19|La Liberté Individuelle Sous La Menace Du Terrorisme|Les droits fondamentaux, nommés aussi la religion du 20ème siècle, connaissent une nouvelle évolution avec le début du 21ème siècle, sous la menace du terrorisme mondial. La question qui se pose c’est de choisir entre la sauvegarde de la démocratie et de la sécurité nationale en renonçant à un certain degré de notre liberté ou de garder la liberté telle qu’elle fut gagnée après de très longs efforts, même s’il faut mettre en question notre propre sécurité. Dans notre étude nous abordons ce dilemme en analysant la jurisprudence de la Cour constitutionnelle roumaine, ainsi que des autres instances européennes, y compris la Cour de Justice de l’Union Européenne.
K19|The Role Of The Cooperation And Verification Mechanism In Consolidating The European Values In The Romanian Territorial Collectivities|Understood as forms of democratic organization of the State in social, cultural, administrative and financial fields, the administrative decentralization and local autonomy should promote and articulate the relationship between state, society and economy. In this space of networking and concerted action among different stakeholders, citizen engagement, transparency, subsidiarity and other European values must converge. In light of these structural changes produced in the state that must meet new social demands, territorial collectivities face a series of new skills, roles and responsibilities. The aim of this article is to analyze the role of the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism (CVM) and the European values promoted by the state and reflected at the local public administration level. Some of these values could be identified as the following in the Romanian territorial collectivities: legality of administration, the principle of reliability, the guarantee of fundamental rights and freedoms and equality before the Law. The CVM is a tool to maintain the reform momentum in Romania and Bulgaria and prevent reversal of the rule of law reforms enacted during the EU accession negotiations. Every six months, the Council issues a CVM report for Bulgaria and Romania, evaluating progress on the established benchmarks and flagging the most pressing issues that should be addressed before the next report.
K19|Lex Situs Or The Law Of The Land In Early Feudalism|The current paper aims to analyze the judicial regulations known under the generic name of „Law of the land” which is specific to the time when the Romanian states were formed and became countries. The ancient origin of many regulations was determined by the factor which was the stability element in a society, the village community, which helped this system assume the legal custom and adapt it to the new factor which configured law, but in an unwritten, oral manner. The appearance of written legal regulations, the codes of law of the 17th century, made a clear distinction between written law and unwritten law, which will be called a „custom”.
K19|Critical Review of the Tools of Ijtihād Used in Islamic Finance|Sharī‘ah covers all aspects of human dealings, including Islamic financial law and its Fiqh nominated contracts, essentially the basis for all Islamic banking and finance transactions. These contracts are either readily found in the classic books of Islamic law or modified versions adopted to suit the modern financial needs. In some cases they are a combination of more than one contracts designed to serve a particular financing purpose, like the contract of Ijārah Muntahia Bittamlik (lease ending with transfer of ownership) where the transaction starts with lease and ends with sale. This paper attempts to discuss the most important Ijtihād instruments that can be used by the faqih (jurists) to evaluate and endorse products in Islamic finance. It then elaborates on the instruments that are in use in the modern Islamic finance, and which reflect a departure from Sharī‘ah rules and tools for Ijtihād (the process of deriving Sharī‘ah rules for the new incidents from the Sharī‘ah sources). The objective of this paper is to shed light on the cotemporary Ijtihād in Fiqh of finance in light of the guidelines provided by the Sharī‘ah in an attempt to draw the outlines of what constitutes a proper use of Ijtihād instruments in Islamic finance
K19|Der BREXIT und seine bildungsrechtlichen Auswirkungen|"Great Britain voted for the BREXIT. This situation affectsnearly all relevant areas of the economical and the juridical system. Also the higher educational law will be affected distinctly. Many changes will be the result, when the British higher education will get juridical „non-EU-education"". Privileges within the EUwon'tbevalid for British academic degrees."
K19|Reassessing the Economic Effects of Post-Socialist Constitutions Using the Synthetic Control Method|In response to the problems of endogeneity and causality in comparative studies with relatively small sample sizes, a new statistical approach has recently been developed, called the synthetic control method. In this paper we apply this method to reassess the effect of constitution-making in post-socialist countries of Europe and Asia on performance of these countries in the field of economic reforms during the post-1989 transition. We first verify the existence of such effects and evaluate their statistical significance. Then we search for the explanation of these effects and their magnitude focusing on the characteristics of these constitutions and the solutions that they envisage (structural provisions, bills of rights and enforcement mechanisms). Thanks to employing this approach we are able to avoid several technical caveats that have arisen in earlier studies and verify the validity of their conclusions. In addition, we obtain country-specific results for each individual post-socialist state, as well as formulate detailed insights regarding the actual mechanisms or channels of influence of the constitutional framework on economic reforms.
K19|Post-Socialist Constitutions: The De Jure - De Facto Gap, Its Effects and Determinants|In this paper we aim to contribute to the debate on constitutional rules and their economic effects by extending the focus to the de jure – de facto constitutional gap. Firstly, we provide evidence that the size of this gap matters as non-compliance lowers the effectiveness of the constitutional commitment mechanism. Secondly, we identify several explanans of this gap, in particular relating to the democratization process, political conflict, age and comprehensiveness of the constitution. We base the conclusions on an empirical study for the unique setting of the post-socialist countries of Europe and Asia, which all enacted new constitutional frameworks after 1989, and argue that the constitutions in these countries acted primarily as blueprints.
K19|De jure and de facto institutions – disentangling the interrelationships|In this paper we contribute to the debate on the nature of institutions and their economic effects by extending the focus to the de jure – de facto institutional distinction. Firstly, we define and conceptualize de facto institutions, as well as elaborate on their place in the broad institutional system and identification. Then we investigate the possible interrelationships between de facto and de jure institutions. Finally, we make a link between these interrelationships and economic outcomes. In this way the paper fills an underexploited niche in institutional research, which is a major background for law and economics.
K19|Sieben Jahre Zugelassener Wirtschaftsbeteiligter (AEO)|Der Zugelassene Wirtschaftsbeteiligte (AEO) wurde mit Wirkung vom 1. Januar 2008 geschaffen. Sieben Jahre sind vergangen, nach denen es nun erneut gilt, eine Zwischenbilanz zu ziehen – wurden die Erwartungen und Antragszahlen erreicht, was gibt es an Neuerungen und welche Tendenzen sind erkennbar? Neue rechtliche Rahmenbedingungen gelten bereits seit dem 1. Januar 2009 – die Kriterien für alle zollrechtlichen Bewilligungen von vereinfachten Anmeldeverfahren und Anschreibeverfahren (Einfuhr und Ausfuhr) werden grundsätzlich an einige AEO-Kriterien angepasst. Das BMF verschärfte alle Prüfungen für neue und bestehende Bewilligungen bei der Wareneinfuhr und Warenausfuhr. Erneut werden auch die Zahlen für Norwegen und die Schweiz dargestellt, obwohl die AEO-Zahlen in beiden Ländern bescheiden sind. Der Unions-Zollkodex (UZK) wurde veröffentlicht und gilt spätestens ab dem 1.5.2016. Der Beitritt Kroatiens zur EU-28 wurde berücksichtigt. 2014 wurden in Kroatien die ersten AEO-Zertifikate erteilt. Die AEO-Zertifikate in einigen Mitgliedstaaten stagnieren, in anderen dagegen steigt die Zahl weiter. Die Entwicklungen in dieser Spätphase der AEO-Zertifizierung sind dynamisch und teilweise überraschend.
K19|Der Unionszollkodex – Übersicht der Neuerungen und Zeitpunkte der Geltungen|Der Unionszollkodex (UZK) (VO [EU] Nr. 952/2013 des Europäischen Parlaments und des Rates vom 9.10.20132 wird mit Wirkung vom 1.5.2016 den bisher geltenden Zollkodex der Gemeinschaften (VO [EWG] Nr. 2913/92) vollständig ersetzen. Viele Vorschriften fallen weg oder werden vollständig neu gefasst. Kaum ein Stein bleibt auf dem anderen. Alle Anwender werden die Fundstellen und Artikel neu lernen müssen. Eine Umschlüsselungshilfe (Synopse) zwischen UZK und ZK zum Auffinden der Norminhalte wurde bereits veröffentlicht. Erste Einführungen in den UZK und kompakte Darstellungen liegen vor. Dieser kleine Beitrag beleuchtet die Frage, ob sofort alles anders wird oder was wann geändert wird – gibt es Übergangsregelungen? Wenn ja, welche? Beide UZK-DVOen wurden am 29.12.2015 im Amtsblatt der EU veröffentlicht und sind Grundlage dieses Beitrags. Ein weiterer Beitrag beleuchtet alle UZK-Übergangsvorschriften der UZK-DVOen (v. a. für Bewilligungen) im Detail. Dieser Beitrag legt sein Augenmerk auf die IT-Verfahren.
K19|Acht Jahre Zugelassener Wirtschaftsbeteiligter (AEO)|Der Zugelassene Wirtschaftsbeteiligte (AEO) wurde mit Wirkung vom 1. Januar 2008 geschaffen. Acht Jahre sind vergangen, nach denen es nun erneut gilt, eine Zwischenbilanz zu ziehen – wurden die Erwartungen und Antragszahlen erreicht, was gibt es an Neuerungen und welche Tendenzen sind erkennbar? Neue rechtliche Rahmenbedingungen gelten ab dem 1. Mai 2016 mit dem Unionszollkodex (UZK) welcher auch große Einflüsse auf die Nachfrage für den AEO haben dürfte. Geltende Bewilligungen müssen bis Ende April 2019 angepasst werden. Erneut werden auch die Zahlen für Norwegen und die Schweiz dargestellt, obwohl die AEO-Zahlen in beiden Ländern bescheiden sind. Die AEO-Zertifikate in einigen Mitgliedstaaten stagnieren, in anderen dagegen steigt die Zahl weiter. Die Entwicklungen in dieser Spätphase der AEO-Zertifizierung sind dynamisch und teilweise überraschend. Aber ist es wirklich die Spätphase? Oder steht uns wegen des UZK eine neue Antragswelle bevor?!
K19|Food Security and Sovereignty: Comparative Analysis of Seven Laws in Latin America| This is a comparative study of food security and/or sovereignty laws in seven countries of Latin America, which aim is to determine how the right to food is embodied in these legal instruments. An ex-post evaluation was used, based on five related enforcement criteria, which are: focus, institutional, social participation, evaluation, and financing. It was found that five of seven countries tend to focus on food sovereignty, even excluding this concept in its title. Moreover, a group of countries propose an Institutional instances derived based on the executive; and another group of countries opt for deconcentrate functions. Only three countries consider the inclusion of a social organization in the political agenda; and striking low or no private-enterprise participation of all the laws. Three countries make a concrete proposal to evaluate the state regarding the right to food; and all the countries addressed the financing superficially.
K19|Explaining the Patenting Propensity: A Regional Analysis Using EPO-OECD Data|The aim of this chapter is to conduct an empirical study of the patenting propensity at the European regional level using the OECD-REGPAT dataset.We use patent applications by inventor’s region as, in this case, linkage to the territory is stronger than using applicant’s region. Data analysis reveals the existence of a deep, uneven distribution of patent applications, R&D expenditure and human capital. Richer regions show higher levels of both private and public R&D expenditure as well as a consistent share of the total European patent applications. Starting from the analysis of these key variables, we proceed explaining the determinants of patenting propensity. The results substantially confirm the significant role of R&D expenditure on patenting activity: mainly the business enterprises, but also the government sector component. Human capital variables show similar positive effect, while average enterprise size seems not to play a determining role in patent applications.
K19|Language Rights - A Welfare-Economics Approach|Distributions of language rights in multilingual settings are analyzed from a normative viewpoint in this chapter. If the cost structure of providing rights is concave in the number of beneficiaries, then a critical-mass criterion for the determination of an optimal rights structure results. It is further shown that an efficiency analysis based on a ‘naive’ cost-benefit calculation has to be augmented in various ways if rights influence the status of a language, which in turn influences the preferences for language rights. Also the inter-generational transfer of language repertoires to the next generation leads to an endogeneity of preferences. The endogeneity of preferences in turn can make the cost-benefit analysis contradictory. In a welfare-maximizing approach, redistribution goals further modify the analysis.
K19|Nacini promjene Ustava Republike Hrvatske i Ustava Republike Slovenije - komparativni prikaz|Promjena najvažnijeg politickog i pravnog dokumenta odreðene države redovito predstavlja prvorazredno znanstveno, strucno i šire društveno pitanje. Jednako kao što se novi ustavi donose u „trenutku vremena“ tako je i njihova izmjena rezultat opæeg politickog, pravnog i društvenog razvoja. Nacini na koji se može intervenirati u ustavni tekst redovito predstavljaju ustavnu materiju što podrazumijeva ispunjenje strogih ustavnih zahtjeva u pogledu ovlaštenika na podnošenje prijedloga za pokretanje postupka promjene ustava, samog postupka promjene ustava kao i tehnika promjene ustava. Tema ovog rada je komparativni prikaz ustavnih rješenja u odnosu na nacin promjene Ustava Republike Hrvatske i Ustava Republike Slovenije te njihova usporedba u pogledu nomotehnicke i prakticne preciznosti.
K19|Načini promjene Ustava Republike Hrvatske i Ustava Republike Slovenije – komparativni prikaz|Promjena najvažnijeg političkog i pravnog dokumenta određene države redovito predstavlja prvorazredno znanstveno, stručno i šire društveno pitanje. Jednako kao što se novi ustavi donose u „trenutku vremena“ tako je i njihova izmjena rezultat općeg političkog, pravnog i društvenog razvoja. Načini na koji se može intervenirati u ustavni tekst redovito predstavljaju ustavnu materiju što podrazumijeva ispunjenje strogih ustavnih zahtjeva u pogledu ovlaštenika na podnošenje prijedloga za pokretanje postupka promjene ustava, samog postupka promjene ustava kao i tehnika promjene ustava. Tema ovog rada je komparativni prikaz ustavnih rješenja u odnosu na način promjene Ustava Republike Hrvatske i Ustava Republike Slovenije te njihova usporedba u pogledu nomotehničke i praktične preciznosti.
K19|Legislation on Intellectual Property in the Russian Federation: Novels Introduced in the Civil Code of R.F. By the Federal Law of March 12, 2014 ¹ 35 Fz|This paper is a short English version of my various articles on this topic published in Russian, in journals: «The business and the law» (Chozjaistvo i pravo) and «The patents and licenses» (Patenti i licenzii). As is known modern Russian revolution in the field of intellectual property legislation occurred January 1, 2008: on this day Russian intellectual property legislation was codified, included in the text of the Civil code of the Russian Federation as part fourth of the Civil Code (CC). Part fourth of the Russian CC (Federal law ¹230-FZ, 2006) entered into force on January 1, 2008. Second Revolution in this field took place during 2014: Federal law ¹35-FZ, 2014, substantially amending the Fourth part on the CC, entered into force on October the first 2014. The essence and evaluation of these amendments is the subject matter of this paper. Factually the Federal Law ¹35-FZ (2014) is the eleventh law amending the text of the part fourth of the CC. But all previous amendments were small and not substantional. As far as amendments introduced by the law ¹35-FZ (2014) are concerned, they are numerous and very, very substantional. I cannot say that the law ¹35-FZ (2014) represents a new Revolution in the field of intellectual property legislation of my country, but I convinced, that the law is a rather big step towards building a modern system of intellectual property legislation in Russia. Before entering into force of the law ¹35-FZ (2014) (thereafter - law 35-FZ), the Part fourth of the CC contained 328 articles. The law 35-FZ amends 169 articles of it and adds to it new seven articles
K19|Arbitral Tribunal Power to Disqualify Unethical Counsel|In specific matters of conflicts of interest ethical issues in connection with the parties' legal representatives could occur in the course of arbitration proceedings. The purpose of this paper is to identify and investigate the current status of the arbitral tribunals and arbitral institutions power to sanction counsel's misconduct in the event of conflicts of interest. Parties have a fundamental right to choose the counsel and in the same time the right to an independent and impartial tribunal, therefore the source of the arbitral tribunal power to disqualify a counsel is a hot topic. There are no express provisions granting arbitrators such power, only soft law instruments, but which have no binding effect as long as the parties do not agree on them. For these reasons, two renowned cases where international arbitral tribunals have dealt with the subject are examined. Different set of international and domestic rules have been applied by the arbitral tribunals and even if they held that arbitrators are empowered to sanction counsel's misconduct, different outcomes on the issue have been retained: one tribunal found that the counsel is excluded from the proceedings, while the other deny this request and stated that such power would be exercised only rarely and in the most compelling situations. Therefore, developing 'truly transnational' ethical rules and their implementation by the arbitral institutions might be a solution. Arbitral tribunals are establishing this issue on the basis of the undertaken and applied international soft law (professional guidelines) which gained credibility and popularity and also became accepted international standards in the arbitration field.
K19|Does altruism justify privileges?|This article discusses whether altruism justifies ad-hoc legislation with reference to three different contexts. One is defined by the libertarian notion of liberty, a second framework corresponds to the egalitarian vision, and a third one originates from social-contract theory. It is shown that current legislation is rather ambiguous and sometimes even contradictory. By and large, the common-law view tends to favour the libertarian approach, while the civil-law visions are closer to what one might expect from social-contract theory, where the letter of the law is often questioned by the academic community and by the judiciary, and decisions eventually follow the judges' discretionary power.
K19|Fiscal deficits in Egypt: is it a macroeconomic or politico-institutional problem?|This paper aims at finding and analyzing the key determinants of Egypt’s fiscal deficits for the period of 1985-2013. It hypothesizes that the political and institutional factors are more important than macroeconomic variables to explain the fiscal deficits of the country in question. In carrying out the research, the paper employs ARDL technique. Findings of the study include that the growth in interest payments, public wage, and subsidy bills are the key sources of fiscal deficits in Egypt. They separately outweigh most of the gains with tax revenues. The reason for this kind of results is found to be largely due to adverse political and institutional factors prevailing in the country. In order to estimate the individual influences of the factors, we use Variance Decomposition Method. Policy implications of the research suggest that to control the future risks of fiscal deficits in Egypt, it is necessary to restrict the growth of subsidy bill and interest payments. However, more efforts are needed to reform the entire tax revenue system and its collection procedures. In addition, policy makers should adopt massive and appropriate political and institutional reform measures.
K19|Combining Of Local Communities In Measures Of Decentralization In Ukraine|This article highlights the problems of communities united under decentralization in Ukraine. Decentralization is a key to effective territorial development and the path to democratization as well as real democracy. Therefore, Ukraine urgently needs to ensure communities to have the right credentials and be able to implement them in the transfer of responsibilities and resources to lower levels of public administration by the central government. In order to weaken the centralization of power through decentralization so it would not lead to growth of the arbitrariness of local officials and growing public dissatisfaction with the government. And so, the government should create a legal and financial framework that would assure the possibility of local governments united communities and so they can have their own funds and powers to effectively address local issues.
K19|Fundamentals And Features Embedded In The Concept Of Sovereignty|The notion of “sovereignty” cannot be assessed only in the concept of state organization because it is a term that cannot operate singular; he only fits in the concept of the three constituent elements: population, territory and political power of the state. As a phenomenon, political power is conceived as a global power exercised within a community, its defining purpose being to organize it, to maintain it and even to defend it. In a general sense of the literature, “power is the ability of an organized and sustainable social agent to impose others to meet or achieve the decisive objectives it proposes in personal or general interest”. The concept of “power” must be judged in terms of institutional; in this case, the people or positions of power identify power in various bodies to which powers are delegated. Seen in this context, institutionalized power takes the form of state power and is exercised by him as a whole, particularly by different bodies of public authority. Therefore, in this case, the state appears as the exclusive holder of force control and domination that routinely wear out.
K19|Democratic Freedoms Exercised By Ngos|"Democracy is a model of government based on popular sovereignty, the participation of citizens in public affairs as responsible members of the social body. The phenomenon of political participation is an integral and complex recruitment of citizens in politics. It includes a variety of overwhelming participatory forms - from simple ones to some upper elementary characteristic of political leaders. Ultimately, political participation is presented as ""output” (output function), the real effect of a particular pattern of behaviour, as a reflection and manifestation of the specific processes of political socialization, its effectiveness. An unbroken tradition of theories of democracy has given more attention to political participation of citizens, which is interpreted as a primary means to defend individual rights, the duty of citizen, as an indication of the welfare policy of the company and finally as a condition sine qua non of democracy. Institutional democratic reforms uninsured active involvement of citizens in the governance process proved to be formal and ineffective."
K19|Law versus Norms: The Impact of Human-Rights Treaties on National Bills of Rights|The constitutional incorporation of international human-rights law is often seen as one of the most powerful ways in which treaty norms can be enforced at the local level. This paper examines empirically if and how human-rights treaties alter rights commitments in national constitutions. Analyzing the adoption of 103 constitutional rights - only some of which are enshrined in treaties - in 188 countries over a sixty-one-year period, the paper finds that the impact of human-rights treaties on a country's menu of constitutional rights is limited. In some cases, treaty ratification even results in the adoption of fewer constitutional rights.
K19|Considerations Regarding The Government Emergency Ordinance No. 55/2014 For Regulating Certain Measures Concerning The Local Public Administration|The Government Emergency Ordinance no. 55/2014 suspended for 45 days the dispositions of art. art. 9 par. (2) letter h1) and art. 15 par. (2) letter g1) from the Law No. 393/2004 that sanction the migration between parties with termination of the mandate for elected local officials. Starting with the relation between politics, public administration and law, the study points out that regulations concerning migration of elected local officials, from one political party to another after election time, is a moral and politic issue, not necessarily a legal one. Some decisions of the Constitutional Court of Romania on the subject are analysed. The reasoning of the EOG refers to situations of „political separations”, reorganisation of political parties and political alliances, the need to surpass gridlocks in order to insure a good administration. The paper analyses different possible outcomes of such situations that are not regulated by law. Regarding the legal effects of the ordinance, the main questions concerns the legal situation of the councillors that have already gave course to its dispositions, in the case such an ordinance will be rejected or adopted by the Parliament, or in case it will be found unconstitutional.
K19|Türkiye’de Tüketici Haklarının Gelişimi Ve Hak Arama Yolu Olarak İnternet<BR>[Development of the Consumer Rights in Turkey and the Internet as a Way to Legal Remedies]|Sensitivity for the protection of consumers increase more and more every day and the subject becomes an agenda in the public opinion. Studies carried out under different names and legal arrangements in the pre-industrial societies, are accelerated by industrialization. The provisions regarding the Consumer Protection entered into the Turkish Legislation by the Constitution of 1982, have taken their last shape in the Act No. 6502 enacted in the year of 2013 and the relevant Regulations. The internet, which is an indispensable element in the globalized world, has become an important platform where the consumers voiced their complaints. The aim of this study is to analyze the complaints most shared over the internet and to examine the regulations made by the Act No. 6502 related to these complaints.
K19|بطاقات الائتمان: قضايا اقتصادية وشرعية معاصرة<BR>[Credit cards: contemporary economic and Shariah issues]|Islamic banks and financial institutions have started recently issuing Islamic credit cards as substitutes to the conventional credit cards, after the later were unanimously deemed unlawful by the Shariah scholars due to the Riba involved therein. However, the Islamic credit cards are not of the same structures; some have been constructed on the basis of Eina and Tawarruq sales despite the fact that these two sales were ruled as unlawful by the Fiqh academies. The most common structure of Islamic credit cards, however, is the Ijarah model where the card issuer is deemed a lessor of the services embedded in the credit card, in addition to some other additional services, but not the credit provided to the cardholder against fixed periodical fee. Although this structure seems acceptable from Shariah point of view, it involves some Shariah issues that need to be carefully addressed before attempting to judge their validity. The paper comes to elaborate on these important issues and analyze the different contractual relationship involved in these cards in an attempt to outline the prospectus of a genuinely Shariah compliant credit card.
K19|"Behördliche Erlaubnis im Sinne des § 284 I Strafgesetzbuch - Konzessionen nach dem Recht der DDR als ""deutsche Genehmigung""?"|"Der Wortlaut der Norm des § 284 I Strafgesetzbuch - ""ohne behördliche Erlaubnis"" - statuiert ein Genehmigungserfordernis für die Durchführung von öffentlichem Glücksspiel. Eine genauere Ausgestaltung dieses negativen Tatbestandsmerkmals beziehungsweise des Genehmigungserfordernisses ist allerdings seitens des Gesetzgebers unterblieben. Aufgrund der Wiedervereinigung der Bundesrepublik Deutschland mit der ehemaligen Deutschen Demokratischen Republik stellt sich die Frage, ob und in welchem Umfang Genehmigungen, welche auf der Grundlage und zur Zeit der Geltung der Rechtsordnung der ehemaligen Deutschen Demokratischen Republik erteilt wurden, anzuerkennen sind. Im Rahmen dieses Beitrages werden die zu den zuvor genannten Problemfeldern genannten Auffassungen dargestellt und es erfolgt eine argumentative Auseinandersetzung mit den jeweiligen Auffassungen."
K19|Elements of Performance Management and Audit in Public Organizations|The concept of performance is a new one, having in mind the fact that, in order to achieve functional progress, public organizations are themselves determined to measure the results of their activity over a definite period of time. Nevertheless, a new characteristic regarding the implementation of this concept refers to the approach used by managers for putting it into practice that is the identification of the answers to the question: „What should be measured/monitored in order to have a better control over activities and which will determine their improvement?” The current article presents notions and elements specific to performance management at the level of public organizations, with a brief emphasis on the indicators and standards related to this domain.
K19|The implementation of e-health programs and protection of data privacy: a comparative study between Indonesia|ABSTRACTThe implementation of e-health programs and protection of data privacy: a comparative study between Indonesia, Australia and MalaysiaDr. Sinta Dewi RosadiThe application of e-health program refers to tools and services using information and communication technologies (ICTs) that can improve prevention, diagnosis, treatment, monitoring and management. The e-health program can benefit the entire community by improving access to care and quality of care and by making the health sector more efficient includes information and data sharing between patients and health service providers, hospitals, health professionals and health information networks; electronic health records; telemedicine services; portable patient-monitoring devices, operating room scheduling software. The e-health goals is to improve citizens' health by making life-saving information available and increase healthcare quality and access by making e-health as part of health policy and to provide health services more effective, user-friendly and widely accepted by involving professionals and patients in strategy, design and application. As one of the archipelago country with the total population estimated 255 million Indonesia has encounter many challenges in providing better health services so that the e-health program is one alternatives to provide better health services. However in the implementation of e-health program will facing legal challenges since the patients personal data is a sensitive data and its collection, use and storage needs legal protection and if the health care services provider does not keep the patients health data in confidential there will be a real risk that people will stop sharing their medical history with healthcare provider if they don?t have confidence that the right privacy controls are in place. This article is the result of preliminary study that analyze the legal framework of protection of e-health program relating data privacy protection is available and compare with Australia and Malaysia
K19|In terms of Gender Equality Principles, the woman's last name in the Turkish Civil Law|Former Turkish Civil Code Article 153/1 was in the form: ?Wife, carries her husband's family name?. In this regard, according to the changes made in 1997 women last names, was granted the right to use her husband's surname with. Finally, in 2002, it entered into force, 4721 in New Turkish Civil Code Article 187. line within, It accepted that women use their maiden name with the surname of her husband. This provision, which respond to the needs, is treated in accordance with the principle of equality and are thought to end the discussion on this subject. However, the real debate should be initiated after the change of the legislator.
K19|The Contitutional Guarantee Of Amparo In Latin America|Amparo or jurisdictional protection of rights is a joint institution of the part of most of Latin American countries. Amparo in the Americas, unlike Europe, presents a constitutional procedural character, because it turns out to be a real alternative process about what ordinary. For this reason it can leave without having to expect the eventual conclusion of the ongoing processes to achieve the protection of the fundamental right or constitutional prejudice or violated.This analysis of Amparo in the countries of Latin America comes as result of a research work to compare with the constitutional legal system of the country.The most important question of this research is whether constitutional review of the Constitution of the Republic of Albania or not to touch chapter of constitutional guarantees with the modifications necessary for the protection of citizens by adding ex novo certain rights - guarantee (such as amparo) in the Constitution of our country.The study and analysis of deeper performed by us with the countries of Latin America leads us to conclude that the Constitution of the Republic of Albania must at all costs be adapted models contemporary constitutional empowerment of rights and constitutional guarantees in protecting absolute individual.
K19|Przyczyny ustanawiania i stabilność konstytucji państwa - perspektywa ekonomiczna|Artykuł ma na celu wskazanie najważniejszych wątków z powstałej na przestrzeni ostatnich lat literatury wyjaśniającej powody ustanawiania konstytucji, ich trwania i zmian oraz powiązanie tych rozważań z zagadnieniami dotyczącymi wpływu konstytucji na gospodarkę. Zaprezentowana dyskusja czerpie przede wszystkim z osiągnięć ekonomii konstytucyjnej, nowej ekonomii politycznej i ekonomicznej analizy prawa, sięgając m.in. do wytłumaczeń nawiązujących do teorii praw własności, teorii grup interesu, czy analiz rozkładu siły politycznej pomiędzy różne grupy w społeczeństwie. Przedstawione rozważania pozwalają zidentyfikować podstawowe czynniki kształtujące proces ustanawiania reguł konstytucyjnych oraz ich trwałość, naświetlając jednocześnie cztery kanały, poprzez które konstytucja może wpływać na gospodarkę. W tym kontekście, uwaga koncentruje się na (1) znaczeniu, jakie konstytucja ma dla wzmacniania wiarygodności obietnic składanych przez elity polityczne; (2) na roli jaką odgrywa ona przy zwiększaniu stabilności politycznej w państwie; (3) na działalności grup interesu czerpiących wymierne korzyści z konkretnych zapisów konstytucyjnych; oraz (4) na kosztach transakcyjnych, które różni aktorzy społeczni ponoszą, czy to z konieczności dostosowania się do obowiązujących reguł czy też z chęci ich obejścia. Sformułowane w artykule wnioski mogą stanowić podstawę do dalszych badań poświęconych, np. potencjalnej substytucyjności bądź komplementarności pomiędzy niektórymi regułami konstytucyjnymi, jak i tych koncentrujących się na problemie endogenizacji konstytucji.
K19|Arbitral Tribunal Power to Disqualify Unethical Counsel|In specific matters of conflicts of interest ethical issues in connection with the parties' legal representatives could occur in the course of arbitration proceedings. The purpose of this paper is to identify and investigate the current status of the arbitral tribunals and arbitral institutions power to sanction counsel’s misconduct in the event of conflicts of interest. Parties have a fundamental right to choose the counsel and in the same time the right to an independent and impartial tribunal, therefore the source of the arbitral tribunal power to disqualify a counsel is a hot topic. There are no express provisions granting arbitrators such power, only soft law instruments, but which have no binding effect as long as the parties do not agree on them. For these reasons, two renowned cases where international arbitral tribunals have dealt with the subject are examined. Developing “truly transnational” ethical rules and their implementation by the arbitral institutions might be a solution. Arbitral tribunals are establishing this issue on the basis of the undertaken and applied international soft law (professional guidelines) which gained credibility and popularity and also became accepted international standards in the arbitration field.
K19|Economic Effects of Post-Socialist Constitutions Revisited (nearly) 25 Years from the Outset of Transition|Post-socialist transition taking place since 1989 in countries of Central and Eastern Europe, as well as later in Central and Southwestern Asia, brought about simultaneous changes of their political and economic systems, requiring the establishment of new constitutional frameworks. In this paper we study the effects of post-socialist constitutional change on economic policy decisions of countries involved in this process. As nearly 25 years have passed from the outset of transition, the data allows to conduct an empirical study based on an econometric model confirming the relevance of several constitutional rules in this respect, e.g. regarding the model of government and constitutional judiciary. Based on the results, recommendations are made for countries, where the transition process has been slow and unsuccessful.
K19|Das Arbeitsprogramm UZK - Vorstellung der IT-Zollentwicklung nach Artikel 280 UZK|Der Unions-Zollkodex – die VO (EU) Nr. 952/2013 – (UZK) soll am 1. Mai 2016 vollständige Geltung erlangen. Viele vorgesehene IT-Systeme zur einheitlichen Abwicklung des Zollrechts in der EU sind jedoch zu diesem Zeitpunkt noch nicht verfügbar und funktionsfähig. Die Kommission ist mit Artikel 280 UZK im Rahmen eines „Arbeitsprogramms“ zum Unionszollkodex beauftragt worden, die weitere Entwicklung der IT-Systeme zur Zollabwicklung voranzutreiben und zeitnah abzuschließen. Dieser Beitrag stellt das Arbeitsprogramm vor und gibt einen Überblick über IT-Verfahren und Zeiträume der Umsetzung/Einführung.
K19|Umschlüsselungshilfe vom Zollkodex (ZK) zum Unionszollkodex (UZK) - Teil 1|Der Unionszollkodex (VO [EU] Nr. 952/2013) des Europäischen Parlaments und des Rates vom 9. Oktober 20131 wird mit Wirkung vom 1.5.2016 den bisher geltenden Zollkodex der Gemeinschaften (VO [EWG] Nr. 2913/922) vollständig ersetzen. Viele Vorschriften fallen weg oder werden vollständig neu gefasst. Kaum ein Stein bleibt auf dem anderen. Alle Anwender werden die Fundstellen und Artikel neu lernen müssen. Erste Einführungen in den UZK und kompakte Darstellungen liegen vor. Diese kleine Umschlüsselungshilfe (Synopse) will bei der Umstellung der wichtigsten Vorschriften helfen. Dem kritischen Leser sei der Hinweis gegeben, dass es sich um eine grobe, inoffizielle Umschüsselungstabelle handelt, die selbst erstellt worden ist und bei der praktischen Arbeit helfen soll. Der Modernisierte Zollkodex (VO [EG] Nr. 450/2008, MZK) hat nie vollständig Geltung erlangt und wurde mit dem Art. 286 I UZK noch vor der vollständigen Geltung aufgehoben und ersetzt. Offizielle Umschlüsselungstabellen sind vom ZK zum MZK und vom MZK zum UZK4 von der Kommission erstellt worden und im Amtsblatt der EU veröffentlicht worden. Diese offiziellen Umschlüsselungstabellen sind in der Praxis wenig hilfreich. Daher war eine praxisgerechte Umschlüsselungstabelle (Synopse) zwischen ZK und UZK sowie UZK und ZK vorzulegen, was hiermit geschehen ist. (Fortsetzung: http://hdl.handle.net/10419/142333)
K19|Umschlüsselungshilfe vom Zollkodex (ZK) zum Unionszollkodex (UZK) - Teil 2|Der Unionszollkodex (VO [EU] Nr. 952/2013) des Europäischen Parlaments und des Rates vom 9. Oktober 20131 wird mit Wirkung vom 1.5.2016 den bisher geltenden Zollkodex der Gemeinschaften (VO [EWG] Nr. 2913/922) vollständig ersetzen. Viele Vorschriften fallen weg oder werden vollständig neu gefasst. Kaum ein Stein bleibt auf dem anderen. Alle Anwender werden die Fundstellen und Artikel neu lernen müssen. Erste Einführungen in den UZK und kompakte Darstellungen liegen vor. Diese kleine Umschlüsselungshilfe (Synopse) will bei der Umstellung der wichtigsten Vorschriften helfen. Dem kritischen Leser sei der Hinweis gegeben, dass es sich um eine grobe, inoffizielle Umschüsselungstabelle handelt, die selbst erstellt worden ist und bei der praktischen Arbeit helfen soll. Der Modernisierte Zollkodex (VO [EG] Nr. 450/2008, MZK) hat nie vollständig Geltung erlangt und wurde mit dem Art. 286 I UZK noch vor der vollständigen Geltung aufgehoben und ersetzt. Offizielle Umschlüsselungstabellen sind vom ZK zum MZK und vom MZK zum UZK4 von der Kommission erstellt worden und im Amtsblatt der EU veröffentlicht worden. Diese offiziellen Umschlüsselungstabellen sind in der Praxis wenig hilfreich. Daher war eine praxisgerechte Umschlüsselungstabelle (Synopse) zwischen ZK und UZK sowie UZK und ZK vorzulegen, was hiermit geschehen ist. Fortsetzung des Beitrags aus BDZ-Fachteil 7-8/2015: http://hdl.handle.net/10419/142332
K19|Privacy and Big Data: The need for a multi-stakeholder approach for developing an appropriate privacy regulation in the age of Big Data|This paper presents a multi-stakeholder approach for developing an appropriate privacy regulation in the age of big data. We develop our argument in five steps, starting (1) with a review of the current academic debate on privacy regulation. We analyze a dysfunctional mutual excludability between the suggestions of the supporters of a regulation orchestrated by governments, and the supporters of internet self-regulation. (2) To over-come this conflict, we argue that the framework for developing an appropriate privacy regulation should not only focus on formal and procedural aspects (e.g., who might develop and implement it) but should also include some important substantial aspects to protect users and promote socially beneficial big data applications. (3) After examining substantive aspects of a functional privacy regulation, we examine how the process leading to an appropriate regulation might be organized. In addition, we discuss how an organization might be designed to conduct this process. In our argument, stakeholder dialogues and an independent “privacy organization” are relevant parameters. (4) We discuss the potential structure of a privacy organization that might conduct multi-stakeholder-dialogues as a preliminary step. This organization could then govern and monitor the implementation of a privacy regulation that was defined by the stakeholder dialogues. (5) Finally, we discuss our findings and suggestions.
K19|Sale Of Goods And Associated Guarantees In The Romanian And European Legislation|In a market economy there are needed certain rules for products, services and commercial practices in order to satisfy consumer's requirements, while ensuring the free movement of goods and services as well as fair competition. The seller is obliged to deliver to the consumer only products which are in accordance with the contract of sale. In case of non-conformity, the consumer is entitled to have the goods brought into conformity free of charge by repair or replacement, or an appropriate price reduction or rescission of the contract for those goods. Consumer policy in the European Union enables European citizens to shop safely in all Member States. Because the internal market must guarantee the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital, there was a need for a common set of minimum rules of consumer protection valid regardless of where the purchase of goods is made in the Community. When a customer has purchased a product, the Community legislation requires that the product he receives corresponds to what he, the buyer, expressly or implicitly agreed to buy, that is to what is provided in the contract between seller and consumer. Obviously, the product must be used in a normal way.
K19|Patents and the Global Diffusion of New Drugs|Analysis of the timing of launches of 642 new drugs in 76 countries during 1983-2002 shows that patent and price regulation regimes strongly affect how quickly new drugs become commercially available in different countries. Price regulation delays launch, while longer and more extensive patent rights accelerate it. Health policy institutions and economic and demographic factors that make markets more profitable also speed up diffusion. The estimated effects are generally robust to controlling for endogeneity of policy regimes with country fixed effects and instrumental variables. The results highlight the important role of policy choices in driving the diffusion of new innovations. (JEL I18, L11, L51, L65, O31, O33, O34)
K19|The National Bank Of Romania From State Body To Autonomus Authority|This article presents the evolution of the National Bank of Romania from the status of a central government body to the one of autonomous public institution, through laws that have governed it from its setting up (1880) to the present. As an autonomous administrative authority, central bank finds its first foundation, in legal terms, in the provisions of Romanian Constitution of 1991, revised in 2003, and, secondly, in the normative acts that make up the legislative framework necessary for carrying out banking activity, especially Law no. 312/2004 on the Status of the National Bank of Romania. The originality of this article lies in the fact that the analysis of the legal texts was done in correlation with the historical context in which they were adopted and with the evolution of the political regime and of the Romanian economy, from the capitalist economy, to the centralized economy and, finally, to the market economy.
K19|Criminal protection of trademarks related to the Olympic Games|Intellectual property rights, especially trademarks, played an important role in organization and promotion of the Olympic Games and commercial exploitation of sport. In fact, without granting intellectual property rights related to the Olympic Games there would be nothing to be exploited and nothing to commercialize as well as no income would be generated. If there were no financial returns the sport events would not look like this these days. As still growing part of economic value of sport is connected with intellectual property rights the protection of symbols and names related to the Olympic movement has become an important issue as it is essential for the proper functioning of the Olympic movement and efficient conducting of the next Olympic Games. One of the research issues is an attempt to answer the question if it was right to place by the Polish legislator the petty offence consisting in the unlawful use of the Olympic symbols in the act on sport, or if it should be placed in the Petty Offence Code or should only be protected within the regulation of the act on Industrial Property Right, acts on Suppression Unfair Competition or the act on Copyrights and Related rights. In Author’s opinion placing the discussed type of offence in the act on sport was the right solution. It seems so, due to the fact that the character of this offence corresponds to the specificity of the matter regulated by this act. Thus the criminal regulations of the act on sport form a consistent whole and they comprehensively regulate the given matter. Critical remarks can be made in relation to the quality of the discussed regulation. In the first place, a change in features of the infraction in question made as part of regulations of the act on sport, consisting of adding the phrase “for commercial purposes” should be assessed critically. In this scope de lege ferenda one should be in favour of coming back to the previous legal state, which did not differentiate the unlawful use of the Olympic symbols in respect of the purpose or form. In the article the following research methods were used: comparative method, the method of systemic analysis and the historical method. The research was based on prescriptive acts, comments and the Polish and foreign literature.
K19|The diffusion of constitutional rights|Constitutions are commonly regarded as uniquely national products, shaped by domestic ideals and politics. This paper develops and empirically investigates a novel hypothesis, which is that constitutions are also shaped by transnational influence, or “diffusion.” Constitutional rights can diffuse through four mechanisms: coercion, competition, learning and acculturation. To analyze diffusion in the constitutional realm, we traced the historical documents of all post-WWII constitutions and documented the presence of 108 constitutional rights. With this data, we first demonstrate and analyze the rapid global spread of constitutional rights over the past six decades. We then estimate a spatial lag model to explain their adoption. Our results show that the decision of countries to adopt a right is correlated with past adoption by their former colonizer, countries with the same legal origin, the same religion, the same former colonizer, and the same aid donor. These transnational correlations are strongest when a nation adopts its first constitution.
K19|Centralized institutions and cascades|Why do sudden and massive social, economic, and political changes occur when and where they do? Are there institutional preconditions that encourage such changes when present and discourage such changes when absent? I employ a general model which suggests that cascades which induce massive equilibrium changes are more likely to occur in regimes with centralized coercive power, defined as the ability to impose more than one type of sanction (economic, legal, political, social, or religious). Centralized authorities are better able to suppress subversive actions when external shocks are small, as citizens have little incentive to incur numerous types of sanctions. However, citizens are also more likely to lie about their internal preferences in such regimes (e.g., falsely declare loyalty to an oppressive government), entailing that larger shocks are more likely to trigger a cascade to a vastly different equilibrium. The model is applied to the severity of protests that followed austerity measures taken in developing nations since the 1970s.
K19|Optimal primaries|We analyze a model of US presidential primary elections for a given party. There are two candidates, one of whom is a higher quality candidate. Voters reside in m different states and receive noisy private information about the identity of the superior candidate. States vote in some order, and this order is chosen by a social planner. We provide conditions under which the ordering of the states that maximizes the probability that the higher quality candidate is elected is for states to vote in order from smallest to largest populations and most accurate private information to least accurate private information.
K19|"On the question of defining ""Legal liability"""|"The scientific article is devoted to the multidisciplinary study of the phenomenon of legal responsibility, in legal terms, as a manifestation of social responsibility. Responsibility as a phenomenon of social life rezmatra primarily from the standpoint of hermeneutics, and then illuminates the standpoint sematièkog pojimanja and substantive content of other humanitarian sciences. The study starts from the time of ancient Rome and sheds light on the genesis of conceptions of ""responsibility"" to the real legal understanding of the term today. Deep understanding of the contents of one of the most important features of socio-economic life (""odgovonrost"") is based on the semantic and historical, but also multicultural method, and provides a strong basis for the development of optimal models of legal regulation of social relations that underlie this understanding of the content ."
K19|Economic And Political Causes January,S Introduction Of Sixth Regime|. Beginning of the twentieth century brought great challenges, great sacrifices and great victories Serbian people. Political and economic conflict with the Austro - Hungarian empire , the wars with Turkey and Bulgaria, and finally the First World War brought a great victory and at the same time new challenges. The creation of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes was supposed to bring peace deadbeat Serbian people. That, however, did not think the new citizens, notably the Croats, but some minorities (Albanians, Hungarians, etc.). Though defeated in war, in peace they quickly turned against the Serbs, although their rights have been equal to or greater than those enjoyed Serbian people. In addition, one new group, the Communist Party of Yugoslavia, glorified the anti-Serbian and conducted many terrorist actions. Therefore, the period from the 1919th until in 1929. Age was infused with political conflicts and crises and parliamentary government. Beginning dictatorship was an attempt to calm this situation with a significant share of the King. There have also been forming unit’s administrations - duchies, which were supposed to mitigate inter-regional differences. While people in most, had a negative attitude towards these changes, after the death of King Alexander policies, integral Yugoslav abandoned.
K19|Rethinking the Economic Characteristics of the Major Contractual Damage Measures|We clarify the conventional claims concerning the most popular damage measures: expectation damages (ED), constant damages (CD), and reliance damages (RD). We strictly examine strategies versus outcomes in equilibrium and make several new investigations. In terms of equilibrium outcomes, we obtain results that contrast with the existing claims. The main results are: First, ED always results in overperformance. Second, CD, in general, does not guarantee efficient reliance. Third, overbreach need not be realized under RD. Overall, this paper also shows that simultaneity in contract games is more important than has been traditionally supposed in the literature.
K19|Why Do Countries Adopt Constitutional Review?|In recent decades, there has been a wide-ranging global movement towards constitutional review. This development poses important puzzles of political economy: Why would self-interested governments willingly constrain themselves by constitutional means? What explains the global shift toward judicial supremacy? Though different theories have been proposed, none have been systematically tested against each other using quantitative empirical methods. In this article, we utilize a unique new dataset on constitutional review for 204 countries for the period 1781–2011 to test various theories that explain the adoption of constitutional review. Using a fixed-effects spatial lag model, we find substantial evidence that the adoption of constitutional review is driven by domestic electoral politics. By contrast, we find no general evidence that constitutional review adoption results from ideational factors, federalism, or international norm diffusion. (JEL: K00, K19, K49)
K19|Toniolo e l'Istituto di diritto internazionale per la pace (Toniolo and the Institute of International Law for Peace)|This essay explores the little-known Toniolo proposal upon the establishment of an Institute of international law for peace. The project is historically contextualized both in the catholic social movement in the early twentieth century and in the wider historical context related to the position taken by the catholic Church during the I World War. After the examination of similar projects advanced in those same years, the study tests its cultural roots and occurs its actual relevance.
K19|IDEAS, POLITICO-JUDICIAL CONCEPTS IN THE XVIIIth AND EARLY XIXth CENTURY IN TRANSYLVANIA|Regardless of any particular historical timeframe, the usage of legal arguments has represented an efficient means of shaping a national consciousness and of tuning to the European trends within the Transylvanian School. The representatives of this current have succeeded in imposing themselves in the fight with the empire and the three “recognized nations”, using in their endeavor ideas and political and legal concepts
K19|Considérations Sur Les Initiatives Récentes De Révision De La Constitution Roumaine|Dans les dernieres années, la vie politique et institutionnelle roumaine a été marquée, entre autres, par une vive préoccupation de perfectionner le texte constitutionnel. Plusieurs initiatives, en partant du niveau présidentiel et jusqu’au activisme populaire, se sont manifestées, en témoignant chacune le fait que la derniere révision, de 2003, a été inachevée et que plusieurs aspects, tant la forme de régime politique, que les rapports entre les pouvoirs, voire l’organisation de la justice, demandent une nouvelle analyse profonde. La présente étude s’est proposée de passer en revue, d’une maniere critique, ces initiatives, en se rapportant aux considérants formulés par la Cour constitutionnelle roumaine.
K19|The “regulatory authority dixit” defence in European competition law enforcement|The European Commission (EC) and the European Courts have being reaffirming in the Deutsche Telekom and Telefónica cases that guide-prices established by sector regulators upon electronic communications incumbents cannot per se exclude that conducts with anticompetitive foreclosure effects, such as margin squeeze, undertaken within the boundaries of those pre-established prices, can be considered abusive under Article 102 TFEU. The paper aims at showing that the reasoning put forward by the EC and the Courts not only dismantles the defensive reasoning put forward by the incumbents before the EC and on appeal before the Courts but actually reaffirms the centrality of the enforcement activity of the EC. The paper examines the reasoning behind the “regulatory authority’s instructions defence” – the argument of the incumbents stating that their actions were justified because they had set their wholesale access prices and retail prices in line with the guidelines imposed by the sectorial regulators. Recalled in this context were also the principles of proportionality, subsidiarity and fair cooperation between the EC and individual Member States. The affirmation of the “heliocentric” doctrine that puts the EC at the hearth of competition law enforcement vis á vis national regulators and domestic legislation (provided decisions of the regulatory authorities can be considered secondary law sources) should take into consideration the important precedent of Consorzio Industrie Fiammiferi. The latter affirms that competition authorities can automatically put aside legislation that goes against Article 101 TFEU. However, they cannot impose pecuniary fines when certain behaviours are imposed by national legislation (while they can impose fines if those behaviours were suggested or facilitated by national legislation).
K19|The impact of the Bosman ruling on the market for native soccer players|This paper examines whether the Bosman ruling plays an important role in the market for native soccer players. Through the abolition of transfer fees after the expiration of contracts, as well as the liberalization of the migration of professional soccer players within the European Union, the Bosman ruling could negatively impact the number of national players participating in their national leagues. To explore this issue, we use data on the First Division of the Spanish League for the seasons 1980/1981 to 2011/2012. Results point to a decline in the number of native Spanish players after the Bosman ruling, although the impact does not appear to be permanent. This finding is consistent with the use of different subsamples, and to the introduction of controls for unobserved characteristics varying at the team level or over time, and to observed characteristics such as GDP per capita, population, the age of players, and potential TV revenues. This work also explores the impact of other, similar legislative changes, such as the Kolpak case and the Cotonou agreement, which appeared in the post-Bosman period. In addition, we incorporate empirical evidence of the potential impact that the Bosman ruling may have on the performance of the Spanish players. Our findings indicate that the Bosman case has had a negative impact on the number of minutes played and on the participation of national players in the first team, suggesting that an average Spanish player is less important to his team.
K19|Citizenship as a Bill of Attainder: the supreme Human Rights Violation|Current practices in municipal law, as orchestrated by UN conventions and doctrine in international law proclaim that nearly every person is born with citizenship. However, instead of serving as an individual claim of right, governments use the label of citizenship to extract labor, wealth, and compel obedience under threat of imprisonment or death. Because States define each natural-born citizen as a debtor at birth, said States declare these persons as subject to punishment for accidents of birth and geography. In effect, States attaint people with the obligations of citizenship and de jure slave status without due process ? a supreme human rights violation. This paper will detail the historical roots of the concept of citizenship and demonstrate the evolution of legal thought that supports slavery in the form of citizenship.
K19|Few aspects regarding the building of the rule of law|Delegating the sovereignty from the citizens to the Government is necessary, to a certain degree, in order to ensure the efficiency of the constitution and the separation of powers, as well as the process of lawmaking. However the complex structure that we now call a state and that already seems to have reached its limitations is often perceived as a cold, impersonal structure, in which citizens are becoming only an insignificant part, an interchangeable wheel in a grand design. Thus the decision tends to become more distant from the citizens, than it was in the Greek democracy for example. The new means of communication, especially the Internet, give the citizen the possibility to be closer to the decisions taken by the legislator. The building of a virtual agora in which citizens are asked to participate directly to their own governing seems an achievable dream. Main difficulties towards such an ambitious goal are no longer of a technological nature, but of transforming the traditional law making process, the somehow rigid essential characteristics that the rule of law must have, with the direct exercise of sovereignty, by the citizens, if not in all matters, at least at a local, administrative level.
K19|Fünf Jahre Zugelassener Wirtschaftsbeteiligter (AEO)|Der Zugelassene Wirtschaftsbeteiligte (AEO) wurde mit Wirkung vom 1. Januar 2008 geschaffen. Vier Jahre sind vergangen, nach denen es nun erneut gilt, eine Zwischenbilanz zu ziehen – wurden die Erwartungen und Antragszahlen erreicht, was gibt es an Neuerungen und welche Tendenzen sind erkennbar? Neue rechtliche Rahmenbedingungen gelten bereits seit dem 1. Januar 2009 – die Kriterien für alle zollrechtlichen Bewilligungen von vereinfachten Anmeldeverfahren und Anschreibeverfahren (Einfuhr und Ausfuhr) werden grundsätzlich an einige AEO-Kriterien angepasst. Das BMF verschärfte alle Prüfungen für neue und bestehende Bewilligungen bei der Wareneinfuhr und Warenausfuhr. Im Jahr 2012 wurde das 10.000-ste AEO-Zertifikat erteilt. Die Untersuchung ist erstmals so detailliert, dass für alle Mitgliedstaaten die Daten für AEO-F, AEO-C und AEO-S getrennt dargestellt werden. Erneut werden auch die Zahlen für Norwegen und die Schweiz dargestellt, obwohl die AEO-Zahlen in beiden Ländern bescheiden sind. 2012 brachte endlich die lange erwartete gegenseitige Anerkennung der Sicherheitsstandards des AEO-F und AEO-C mit dem C-TPAT. Der AEO-C ist allerdings im Warenverkehr mit den USA nicht bevorzugt. Nun stellt sich die Frage, ob die Aufstockung zum AEO-F nicht sinnvoll ist. Bereits absehbar ist: mittelfristig werden sich die Rahmenbedingungen für die unterschiedlichen AEO-Typen ändern, da für AEO-C weniger Vorteile gelten sollen, als für AEO-S und AEO-F. Insgesamt sollen für alle AEO-Typen mehr Vorteile gewährt werden.
K19|Sechs Jahre Zugelassener Wirtschaftsbeteiligter (AEO)|Der Zugelassene Wirtschaftsbeteiligte (AEO) wurde mit Wirkung vom 1. Januar 2008 geschaffen. Sechs Jahre sind vergangen, nach denen es nun erneut gilt, eine Zwischenbilanz zu ziehen – wurden die Erwartungen und Antragszahlen erreicht, was gibt es an Neuerungen und welche Tendenzen sind erkennbar? Neue rechtliche Rahmenbedingungen gelten bereits seit dem 1. Januar 2009 – die Kriterien für alle zollrechtlichen Bewilligungen von vereinfachten Anmeldeverfahren und Anschreibeverfahren (Einfuhr und Ausfuhr) werden grundsätzlich an einige AEO-Kriterien angepasst. Das BMF verschärfte alle Prüfungen für neue und bestehende Bewilligungen bei der Wareneinfuhr und Warenausfuhr. Die Untersuchung ist erstmals so detailliert, dass für alle Mitgliedstaaten die Daten für AEO-F, AEO-C und AEO-S getrennt dargestellt werden. Neu ist der Vergleich zu den Vorjahresdaten und die Berechnung des Zuwachses an AEO-Zertifikaten. Erneut werden auch die Zahlen für Norwegen und die Schweiz dargestellt, obwohl die AEO-Zahlen in beiden Ländern bescheiden sind. Der Unions-Zollkodex (UZK) wurde veröffentlicht und gilt spätestens ab dem 1.6.2016. Der Beitritt Kroatiens zur EU-28 wurde berücksichtigt. Die AEO-Zertifikate in einigen Mitgliedstaaten stagnieren, in anderen dagegen steigt die Zahl weiter.
K19|Do Social Rights Affect Social Outcomes?|While the United Nations and NGOs are pushing for global judicialization of economic, social, and cultural rights (ESCRs), little is known of their consequences. We provide evidence of the effects of introducing three types of ESCRs into the constitution: the rights to education, health, and social security. Employing a large panel covering annual data from 160 countries in the period 1960–2010, we find no robust evidence of positive effects of ESCRs. We do, however, document adverse medium‐term effects on education, inflation, and civil rights.
K19|Freedom of expression|"In this paper ""Freedom of expression"" I’ ve tried to explain the close relationship between freedom right and other constitutional freedoms, which have a direct impact on values consolidation in a democratic society and giving possibilities for the public to be active in the decision making process. The researches are based in three directions: the doctrine of international low, in Albanian literature; in native and foreign legislation and also in jurisprudence of Albanians courts and the European Court of Human Rights. The theme dedicates a wide space freedom of expression in the context of public debate, thereby guaranteeing the public's right to know. Many cases of interference in freedom of expression, has been given special importance in legal terms. This intervention must have a legitimate purpose to protect more than one of the public interests. All of this work focuses on sharing the idea that everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; this right includes freedom to hold opinions without interference, receive and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers."
K19|The associative forms in Romania following the new Civil Code, republished in 2011|During time, the association has evolved as a form of socio-economic organisation in order to perform non-professional or, by case, professional activities. The legislative sources have emphasized, in time, the variety of the ways of manifestation of the association among different law subjects – physical and/or legal persons. The new Civil Code (2009), republished in 2011, in force since the 1st October 2011, fundamented on the monist approach of regulation, as the common-law norm for all the domains that the letter and the spirit of its provisions refer to, regulates the contract of association, in chapter VII of the 5thBook; apart from the general norms applicable to all such contracts of association, the present code replaces the former civil society without legal personality with the present simple society and, also as a novelty element, transposes the regulation of the silent partnership from the former framework of the Commercial Code (1887, abrogated almost in totality) in the section 3 of the same chapter VII, the 5th Book of the code. The elements that are similar with the former regulation outline the continuity aspects in the conception of these juridical institutions in a modern approach that transposes aspects which were clarified by the jurisprudence or the legal doctrine.
K19|»Euro-Rettung« und Grundgesetz|Dietrich Murswiek, Universität Freiburg, analysiert in seinem Kommentar die Maßnahmen zur »Euro-Rettung« unter verfassungsrechtlichen Gesichtspunkten.
K19|Protección de datos en Colombia, avances y retos|Resumen El artículo presenta una reflexión sobre los avances y retos que en materia de protección de datos personales tiene Colombia como respuesta a la seguridad jurídica y el reconocimiento de los derechos fundamentales: habeas data, intimidad, honra y buen nombre, información y libertad informática en el ámbito de las nuevas tecnologías de la información y las comunicaciones y las exigencias internacionales. Así mismo, hace un acercamiento de la situación normativa en materia de protección de datos personales al concepto de Responsabilidad Social Empresarial, de acuerdo a los principios que regulan el uso de la información y las prácticas de buen gobierno corporativo.**** Abstract: The article presents a reflection on the progress and challenges regarding the protection of personal data in Colombia, in response to legal security and recognition of fundamental rights, -habeas data, privacy, honor and good name, information technology freedom- in the fields of new information technologies and communications. It also approaches the regulatory situation regarding protection of personal data to the concept of corporate social responsibility, according to the information regulatory principles and good corporate governance practices.
K19|La interminable lucha por la protección de los derechos humanos en Myanmar|Amnistía Internacional. (2012). Informe Anual 2012. El estado de los derechos humanos en el mundo. Myanmar. Recuperado el 19 de Abril de 2013, de Amnistía Internacional: http://www.amnesty.org/es/region/myanmar/report-2012 Anuario Asia-Pacífico. (2006). Principales conflictos activos en Asia-Pacífico durante 2006. Anuario AsiaPacífico, 253-273. Association of Southeast Asian Nations. (2012). About ASEAN. Recuperado el 2 de Mayo de 2013, de Association of Southeast Asian Nations: http://www.asean.org/asean/about-asean Davies, M. (2012). The Perils of Incoherence: ASEAN, Myanmar and the avoidable failures of Human Rights Socialization? Contemporary Southeast Asia , 1-22. Esse de Lang, N. (2012). The Establishment and Development of the Myanmar Human Rights Comission and its conformity with international standards. Asia-Pacific Journal on Human Rights and the Law., 1-41. Human Rights Watch. (26 de Marzo de 2013). Burma: Rohingya Muslims Face Humanitarian Crisis. Recuperado el 19 de Abril de 2013, de Human Rights Watch: http://www.hrw.org/news/2013/03/26/burma-rohingya-muslims-face-humanitarian-crisis International Comittee of the Red Cross. (2011). ICRC Annual Report: Myanmar. Recuperado el 19 de Abril de 2013, de International Comittee of the Red Cross: http://www.icrc.org/spa/assets/files/annualreport/current/icrc-annual-report-myanmar.pdf Karasulu, M., & Dodzin, S. (2012). De vuelta en el mapa. Finanzas & Desarrollo, 40-41. Oficina de Información Diplomática del Ministerio de Asuntos Exteriores y de Cooperación de España.(Julio de 2012). Ministerio de Asuntos Exteriores y de Cooperación de España. Recuperado el 30 de Juniode 2013, de Ficha País: República de la Unión de Myanmar: http://www.exteriores.gob.es/Documents/FichasPais/MYANMAR_FICHA%20PAIS.pdf Organización de las Naciones Unidas. (25 de Febrero de 1999). Naciones Unidas. Asamblea General. Resolución 53/162. Recuperado el 19 de Abril de 2013, de Naciones Unidas: http://www.un.org/spanish/aboutun/organs/ga/53/ares53162.pdf Organización de las Naciones Unidas. (s.f.). Naciones Unidas. Recuperado el 19 de Abril de 2013, de Organización de las Naciones Unidas: http://www.un.org/es/ Taylor, R. (2005). Pathways to the present. En Y. H. Kyaw, R. Taylor, & M. T. Tin, Myanmar Beyond Politics to Social Imperatives (págs. 1-29). Singapore: ISEAS Publications.
K19|Aristóteles y la justicia natural|"In his Nicomachean and Eudemian Ethics Aristotle says of natural justice that it is changeable and not the same everywhere. The implication seems to be that no action, not even murder, is always wrong. But, as is evident especially from his Magna Moralia, Aristotle distinguishes justice into the ""what"" (equality), the ""in what"" (proportion between persons and things), and the ""about what"" (what things are exchanged with which persons). He allows for variability only in the ""about what"". He allows for no variability in the ""what"" and the ""in what"". The fact is clear from adultery, which Aristotle says is always wrong. He says the same elsewhere of other acts, as abortion, euthanasia, and usury."
K19|Unpacking the Principle of Openness in EU Law: Transparency, Participation and Democracy|The purpose of this article is to shed some light on the emerging, yet largely undefined, principle of openness in EU law. After addressing the semantic confusion existing between openness and transparency, it attempts – through a textual and systemic interpretation of their respective legal basis – to identify the normative content of the EU turn to openness. It then moves to explore the principle’s potential for attaining its declared Treaty-sanctioned objectives: promoting good governance and ensuring the participation of civil society in the democratic life of the Union. It illustrates that, although openness largely maintains an instrumental rationale – aimed at enhancing the quality of the regulatory outcome rather than at promoting a more inclusive process –, the institutional, substantive and societal landscapes surrounding its operation have changed in recent times. It demonstrates that these alterations may help to shift the understanding of openness in the EU away from a specific, unidirectional, bottom-up right of access to information to a much broader, proactive and top-down duty of the EU administration to genuinely open its vault of information to the public and create new avenues of participation for civil societies and other organised interests. The changing nature of the openness rights accompanied by the growing demand for more active participation inherent to our times is set to reinvigorate civic life and, more importantly, to ensure political legitimacy grounded in democratic values.
K19|Open sourse: the Russian experience (legislation and practice)|The emergence of so-called “free” or “open source” software and the growth of its economic importance in various industries makes questions regarding the legal status of free/open source licenses especially important. In December 2010 new draft amendments to the Russia’s Civil Code were published, introducing new concepts in order to reflect the ideas pursued by these types of licenses. This article analyzes existing problems with the legal status of free/open source licenses, whether proposed amendments may solve them, and what risks they may create. Since Russia is among the first countries trying to include provisions on free/open source licenses in its legislation, such analysis may be of interest to foreign lawmakers since the concept of open source is universal all over the world
K19|Open Access, Social Norms & Publication Choice|The aim of this paper is to shed light on scholarly communication and its current trajectories by examining academics’ perception of Open Access, while also providing a reference case for studying social norm change. In this respect, the issue of publication choice and the role of Open Access journals casts light on the changes affecting the scientific community and its institutional arrangements for validating and circulating new research. The empirical investigation conducted also offers a useful vantage point for gauging the importance of localised social norms in guiding and constraining behaviour.
K19|Economics behind the law: why number of divorce cases grows when families become wealthier?|In this paper we study the effects of increasing family wealth on the number of divorce cases in a society. We assume that, when one party of a married couple seeks for divorce, the physical family wealth is equally divided between the homemaker and the breadwinner according to the Law. Through some simple mathematical analysis we discover that the number of divorce cases will increase when the amounts of family wealth increase. Our theoretical result is well-justified by the observation from the Chinese society after the Reforms. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2013
K19|Open access, social norms and publication choice|The aim of this paper is to shed light on scholarly communication and its current trajectories by examining academics’ perception of Open Access, while also providing a reference case for studying social norm change. In this respect, the issue of publication choice and the role of Open Access journals casts light on the changes affecting the scientific community and its institutional arrangements for validating and circulating new research. The empirical investigation conducted also offers a useful vantage point for gauging the importance of localised social norms in guiding and constraining behaviour. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2013
K19|Digital distribution and the prohibition of resale markets for information goods|Abstract An existing theoretical literature finds that frictionless resale markets cannot reduce profits of monopolist producers of perfectly durable goods. This paper starts by presenting logical arguments suggesting this finding does not hold for goods consumers tire of with use, implying the impact of resale is an empirical question. The empirical impact is then estimated in the market for video games, one of many markets in which producers may soon legally prevent resale by distributing their products digitally as downloads or streamed rentals. Estimation proceeds in two steps. First, demand parameters are estimated using a dynamic discrete choice model in a market with allowed resale, using data on new sales and used trade-ins. Then, using these parameter estimates, prices, profits, and consumer welfare are simulated under counterfactual environments. When resale is allowed, firms are unable to prevent their goods from selling for low prices in later periods. The ability to do so by restricting resale outright yields significant profit increases. Renting, however, does not raise profits as much due to a revenue extraction problem.
K19|Digital distribution and the prohibition of resale markets for information goods|An existing theoretical literature finds that frictionless resale markets cannot reduce profits of monopolist producers of perfectly durable goods. This paper starts by presenting logical arguments suggesting this finding does not hold for goods consumers tire of with use, implying the impact of resale is an empirical question. The empirical impact is then estimated in the market for video games, one of many markets in which producers may soon legally prevent resale by distributing their products digitally as downloads or streamed rentals. Estimation proceeds in two steps. First, demand parameters are estimated using a dynamic discrete choice model in a market with allowed resale, using data on new sales and used trade-ins. Then, using these parameter estimates, prices, profits, and consumer welfare are simulated under counterfactual environments. When resale is allowed, firms are unable to prevent their goods from selling for low prices in later periods. The ability to do so by restricting resale outright yields significant profit increases. Renting, however, does not raise profits as much due to a revenue extraction problem. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2013
K19|"Theoretical Approaches On The Economic Content Of The Category ""Intellectual Property"""|The phenomenon of the intellectual property is becoming more known, exceeding the dimensions of law and legal rules governing the protection of intellectual activity’s results. The approach to the category of intellectual property from the economic point of view is less studied, in comparison with its juridical aspects. In this article, the author examines the essence of the cathegory of intellectual property, especially within the framework of the economical science.
K19|Academic Ethics and Law Education|This work is dedicated to the moral-ethics basis of the relationships between the members of the academic community of the UNWE, related to the teaching of law disciplines. The first starting point of the study is the general term “academic ethics”. The content of this term has been outlined, its juridical basis is being analyzed and conclusions on the social existence of this phenomenon in the current reality have been made. With regard to this the most important characteristics of the Ethics code of the UNWE have been summarized. The second starting point of the study are the peculiarities of the classic legal professions – magistrate; lawyer; public prosecutor and their impact on the educational process. The two social phenomena outlined, along with their independent existence, closely interlace with each other in the everyday life of a Law faculty. This justifies the use of a classic inductive approach: on the basis of the examination of the typical own characteristics of both phenomena and the ascertaining of their crossing points and mutual impact, general conclusions and assumptions are drawn. In the light of the defined issues, the study analyzes the reflections of the characteristics of the law education on the contents of the academic ethics. A short survey of the general moral-ethics obligations of the subjects, participating in the complex process of the law high education and the consequences of their violations has been made.
K19|Why Do Plaintiffs Lose Appeals? Biased Trial Courts, Litigious Losers, or Low Trial Win Rates?| Multiple studies find that plaintiffs who lose at trial and subsequently appeal are less successful on appeal than are losing defendants who appeal. The studies attribute this to a perception by appellate judges that trial courts are biased in favor of plaintiffs. However, at least two alternative explanations exist. First, losing plaintiffs may appeal at higher rates independent of the potential merits. Second, if plaintiffs tend to pursue to trial lawsuits where they should win on the merits less than half the time, then potentially reversible outcomes at trial will be more likely to be adverse to defendants. This study revisits the analysis of the appellate process with a statistical model that ties together win rates at trial, appeals rates, and success rates on appeal. The model can distinguish the competing explanations for differential appellate success rates, and we estimate this model using matched data on Federal District Court trials and appeals to the U.S. Circuit Courts of Appeal. We find consistent evidence that the lower plaintiff success rate on appeal is due to plaintiffs' pursuing lawsuits where they should win on the merits (which we define to be an outcome that would not be reversed or remanded on appeal) less than half the time. We find no evidence that asymmetric success on appeal is attributable either to trial courts favoring plaintiffs or to higher rates of appeal by losing plaintiffs. Copyright 2013, Oxford University Press.
K19|The Restrictive Constitutional Regime Of Government Emergency Ordinances As Reflected In The Recent Case-Law Of The Constitutional Court Of Romania|Avant la révision de la Constitution datant de 1991, le nombre élevé d’ordonnances d’urgence du Gouvernement (presque 200 par an!) peut s’expliquer par la réglementation lapidaire du domaine de la délégation législative, qui établissait un régime permissif, attractif pour l’Exécutif. Apres la révision de la Constitution (qui a eu lieu en 2003), le nombre élevé (a peu pres le meme qu’avant) d’ordonnances d’urgence adoptées par le Gouvernement est plus difficile a expliquer et – surtout – tres difficile a accepter, compte tenu des nouvelles dispositions constitutionnelles plus strictes en la matiere de la délégation législative. La seule explication de cet abus est le besoin de l’Exécutif de légiférer de maniere tres rapide dans certains domaines a certaines périodes de l’année. Le Projet de loi sur la révision de la Constitution de la Roumanie (projet initié en 2011) ne prévoit pas de nouvelles dispositions normatives – sur la délégation législative – concernant le régime des ordonnances d’urgence ; par conséquent, a notre avis, l’analyse de la jurisprudence de la Cour Constitutionnelle en la matiere pourrait révéler des idées susceptibles de se concrétiser dans des propositions de lege ferenda qui pourraient mener a l’enrichissmenet et a l’amélioration du projet ci-dessus.
K19|Determinants of Spain's decision to leave the European Monetary Union|Spain is the Member State of the European Union whose public opinion is most in favour to exit the Eurozone. In this context, there is a growing social and political debate on this Number in this Member State. This paper analyses at a theoretical level the main economic and socio political determinants that Spain would face if it were considering to take a decision to leave the EMU.
K19|La costumbre no escrita en las comunidades guipuzcoanas durante la Edad Moderna|In this paper we explore the meaning and scope of unwritten customs in villages, hamlets and communities of Guipúzcoa that were under the jurisdiction of towns. The sources used in this research have primarily been judicial proceedings and notarial documents. A comparison of these sources has allowed us to observe various aspects of the management of villages and hamlets and, in particular, the meanings and connotations attributed to customs, which should be taken with some reservations. Moreover, we have focused on customs as localisms or privileges acquired by the community, along with their singularity and their attribution as dating back to time immemorial.
K19|The Transnational Origins of Constituions : Evidence From a New Global Data Set On Constitional Rights|Abstract Constitutions are commonly described as national products shaped by domestic politics. This paper develops and empirically tests a different hypothesis, which is that constitutions are also shaped by transnational influence, or “diffusion”. Constitutional rights can diffuse through four mechanisms: coercion, competition, learning and acculturation. To test diffusion, we traced the historical documents of all post-WWII constitutions and documented the presence of 108 constitutional rights. Using a sample of these rights in 180 countries between 1948 and 2001, we estimate a spatial lag model to explain their adoption. Our results show that countries follow the choices of their former colonizer, countries with the same legal origin, the same religion, the same former colonizer, and the same aid donor. We also find that diffusion explains only 3 percent of the variation in adoption. However, when a country adopts its first constitution, diffusion is much stronger and explains 46 percent of the variation.
K19|Open Access, Social Norms & Publication Choice|The aim of this paper is to shed light on scholarly communication and its current trajectories by examining academics’ perception of Open Access, while also providing a reference case for studying social norm change. In this respect, the issue of publication choice and the role of Open Access journals casts light on the changes affecting the scientific community and its institutional arrangements for validating and circulating new research. The empirical investigation conducted also offers a useful vantage point for gauging the importance of localised social norms in guiding and constraining behaviour
K19|Gegenseitige Anerkennung des AEO-Status – Stand der Dinge 2013|Der Status des Zugelassenen Wirtschaftsbeteiligten (Authoriszed Economic Operator, AEO) wurde mit der VO (EG) Nr. 648/2005, der sog. kleinen Zollkodex-Reform eingeführt, um die weltweite Lieferkette sicherer zu machen. Ein wesentlicher Bestandteil – die gegenseitige Anerkennung der AEO-Standards und -Zertifikate aus und in Drittländern war bislang nicht möglich. Seit Mitte 2009 gibt es erstmals die gegenseitige Anerkennung der Sicherheitsstandards mit der Schweiz, Liechtenstein und Norwegen. Weitere gegenseitige Anerkennungen bestehen mit Andorra, Japan, den USA und Kanada. Dieser Beitrag stellt die Hintergründe und die Zukunft der AEO-Anerkennung dar.
K19|Welcher Zollkodex gilt ab Juli 2013? – Eine Sachstandsanalyse zum Modernisierten Zollkodex und Unions-Zollkodex|Der Modernisierte Zollkodex (VO EG Nr. 450/20081) wird nach Art. 188 MZK ab dem 24.6.2013 Geltung erlangen. Damit würde der bisherige ZK (VO EWG Nr. 2913/92) außer Kraft treten. Doch die Sachlage ist längst nicht so einfach: Die MZK-DVO ist nicht fertig und aufgrund des EU-Vertrags in der Fassung des Vertrags von Lissabon hat die Kommission einen weiteren neuen Verordnungs-Vorschlag bekannt gemacht, den sog. Unions-Zollkodex (2012/0027 COD, COM (2012) 64 endg.). Dieser Beitrag gibt einen Überblick über den unübersichtlichen Sachstand und stellt die möglichen Szenarien dar, die ab dem 24.6.2013 zollrechtliche Realität in der EU sein werden.
K19|AEO-Programme weltweit – Stand 2013|Der Zugelassene Wirtschaftsbeteiligte (AEO) wurde mit Wirkung vom 1. Januar 2008 geschaffen. Um eine weltweit sichere Lieferkette zu schaffen, ist jedoch eine gegenseitige Anerkennung der Sicherheitsstandards zwischen den beteiligten Wirtschaftsregionen erforderlich. Ähnliche Sicherheitskonzepte bestehen in den USA, Kanada, China, Japan, Südkorea und Neuseeland sowie in vielen anderen Regionen. Im Rahmen des SAFE-Programms der Weltzollorganisation (WCO) haben bereits 166 Staaten bekräftigt, dass sie Sicherheits-Zertifizierungssysteme einführen werden. Wesentlicher Faktor für den Erfolg der Sicherheits-Zertifizierung und die sichere Lieferkette ist daher die gegenseitige Anerkennung der Sicherheitsstandards. Erste gemeinsame Abkommen liegen vor, die EU hat Abkommen mit der Schweiz und Norwegen, mit Andorra, Japan, den USA und Kanada abgeschlossen. Das Abkommen mit China ist in der Endphase der Verhandlungen. Mittel- und langfristig ist mit zahlreichen bilateralen Abkommen zur gegenseitigen AEO-Anerkennung von der EU zu rechnen, z. B. mit Indien, Israel, Jordanien, Neuseeland, Malaysia, Mexiko, Südkorea, Singapur und Hongkong.
K19|Potential Impacts of 2010 Dietary Guidelines for Americans|No abstract is available for this item.
K19|On price discrimination, parallel trade and the availability of patented drugs in developing countries|This paper examines the effect of product Patent Act and parallel trade on the availability of an essential drug in the developing countries. Price discrimination by a Multinational Corporation (MNC) alleviates the problem of non-availability of the drug in a developing country compared to uniform pricing strategy. Incorporating an upstream–downstream market structure we show that in the presence of parallel trade ‘a form of arbitrage’ by traders the MNC cannot successfully discriminate the prices for its product. The analysis however, indicate that if the market size of the developing nation is relatively large, then with Cournot competition among the traders, the manufacturer earns higher profit by allowing parallel trade than by perfectly discriminating the prices for its product. Under Bertrand competition, the strategy to allow parallel trade always dominates the strategy to restrain it.
K19|Rearranging the roles of the performer and the composer in the music industry – the potential significance of Fisher v Brooker|The composer has historically been at the top of the tree in the music industry; most royalties due to artists flow back to composers/songwriters rather than performers. Over the last few decades, the enactment of stronger performers’ rights has sought to redress this historical imbalance by providing performers with, amongst a number of economic and moral rights, the right to receive compensation for the exploitation of their performances. However, this article explores the fact that there may be cases where performers may be ‘authors’ for the purpose of copyright, as opposed to performers’ rights. Some original works of joint authorship – musical arrangements – may not have been traditionally recognised as such within the music industry. For instance, with regard to the making of arrangements by a group of musicians, it appears from recent UK case law that as long as a performing musician makes an original contribution to the creation of an arrangement, he or she will be a joint-author of the resulting work. As a result of this, the performing musician is deserving of a share of copyright in that arrangement, and by analogy, a share of licensing revenue from the exploitation of the arrangement. However, this conclusion appears to be slightly at odds with historical practices within the music industry. Furthermore, the law in this area raises further questions concerning whether it ought to be the case that performers are potentially seen as joint authors in return for their creative contributions. In order to assess these issues in detail, this article first outlines the concept of the musical work under the CDPA, including analysis of the distinction between the composition and the arrangement. The article also discusses the historical hierarchy of musicians in the music industry, exploring the reasons why the composer of the work has traditional received more royalties than the performer of the work. An assessment of the originality of compositions and arrangements is also detailed over the course of this article. Furthermore, in order to properly assess the issues, the important UK cases in this area are examined in this article, with a particular focus on the case of Fisher v Brooker, a case which clarifies to some degree the law on the making of musical arrangements, and which also deals with the complex licensing issues that can arise from finding that a band member is in fact a joint author of a recorded arrangement. Ultimately, this article argues that the law on authorship and joint authorship in this area is clear - any musician who adds sufficient creative originality to a musical work during the performance and recording process is a joint author of the resulting arrangement. However, although the law is clear, the music industry practices may not take account of this. For this reason, it is important that musicians in groups place their legal relationship to each other regarding the works which result, including the terms of the distribution of royalties, in writing before they begin the artistic process.
K19|Geographical indications outside the European Regulation on PGIs, and the rule of the free movement of goods: lessons from cases judged by the Court of Justice of the European Communities|Several recent cases judged by the Court of Justice of the European Communities (the Court) have raised interesting issues related to the possibility for operators of food chains to use national quality signs to indicate territory of origin, which are different from the regulatory European 'Protected Geographical Indications'. The various attempts by France (a list of quality signs), Germany ('Markenqualität aus deutschen Landen' sign) and Belgium ('Walloon' sign) have all been condemned as protectionist policies contradicting the free movement of goods in the European Market. These national quality signs can be seen as attempt to defend the viability of specific kinds of activities (involving small enterprises) in specific places (rural areas). These cases are a good illustration of the difficulties that a Member State of the European Communities (Member State) faces in trying to protect its traditional activities and/or rural areas in a way that is compatible with free markets. The paper analyses the recent court decisions underlining economic aspects such as information delivery and the cost of alternative protection mechanisms for these activities. We highlight in particular the collective trademarks and the kind of intellectual property right they form by the economic theory of clubs, and make some comparisons with protected geographical indications.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
K19|General Considerations On The Dissolution And Liquidation Of Romanian Companies|All stakeholders are interested in whether a firm has a good and stable financial situation, even though they all have different stakes in it. However, not all companies can succeed and operate profitably. The purpose of the study is to examine the peculiarities of dissolution and liquidation in Romania and the characteristics of liquidation of companies, according to their legal form. From examining the general causes of dissolution to specifics of different type of companies, all elements have a great importance in understanding how to avoid this procedure.
K19|Considerations On International Commercial Arbitration In Competition Matters In The European Union|Traditionally, the arbitrability of the competiton issues was subject of controversy in doctrine. Thus, in the opinion of majority, the confidentiality of the arbitration proceedings was considered inappropriate in what regards solving competition problems, given the fact that the economic policy aspects regarding competition are part of the public policy. Also, experts declared skeptical regarding the ability of arbitrators to resolve competition issues of the cases, due to their complexity. The situation has changed in the meantime and the experience of the recent years shows that arbitration in competition matters became a reality and what’s more a fundamental feature of the international commercial arbitration. The arbitrability of competition issues has not been challenged, the arbitral tribunals are solving competition issues more frequently and with professionalism. These recent developements are important, especially in the context of the modernization of the application of competition law, process which had among its objectives the increasing of the importance of private application of competition law. The paper at hand analyzes the arbitrability of the competitive aspects of the cases pending before the arbitral tribunals, how frequent is the arbitration in competition matters and the role of arbitrators in the application of the EU competition rules. The authors consider that in the current context, arbitration could become an important alternative to the private application of competition law in the European Union.
K19|About The Legal Nature And The Legal Effect Of The Censure Motion Within The Constitutional Law System In Romania|The parliamentary procedure of the censure motion has as a generator the legal document itself, known as such, which produces political effects (the vote of no-confidence leads to the demission of the Government) and also legal consequences (to the extent that a normative administrative act is the subject of the motion it is repealed by default or it requires the elaboration and issuance of a repealing act).
K19|Appeal At The Constitutional Court Of Romania On The President Of Romania’S Modaliy To Exercise The Powers Established By Law|In order to analyze the decisions of the Constitutional Court regarding constitutional legal disputes, two aspects need to be clarified: 1. what is meant by constitutional legal conflict and 2. who are the authorities between whom such conflicts can arise. In this article, the authors present a complex analyses to the role of the Constitutional Court of Romania regarding the procedure of exercise the Romanian head of state powers, starting to these two questions.
K19|Consent And Obvious Vulnerability|While the penal codes includes certain offences that one may regard as falling under the species of „crimen natural” (e.g. homicide or theft), human trafficking is conceivable as crime only in the framework of the Modern social order. In the same time, the criminalization itself, as it presents itself exemplary in the new Romanian penal code, shows the limits of the legal paradigm, that departs from the (extreme) vulnerability of the human individuals, forced by their own reason to submit themselves under an authority, whose exercise is legitimated by their own consent.
K19|The First Attempts Of Establishing A Judicial Review Of Constitutionality – The Case Of Great Britain|Early manifestations of judicial review of constitutionality should be sought in the British constitutional system, although it is true that it needed the intervention of the Supreme Court of the Union States of America (1803) to build a system of judicial review in what concerns the constitutionality of laws (judicial review – named in the Anglo-Saxon system). Thus, when the forms of political control were not enough anymore, the jurisdictional review turned up. It is exercised by courts (either by all of them or only by the Supreme Court) and the arguments in favor of the organization of such a review are varied and more than convincing.
K19|Rules Of Conduct Regarding The Constitution, Activity And Dismissal Of Activity For Limited Liability Companies|The subject at hand has attracted our attention in light of the extended scientific interest for Limited Liability Companies, as well as for the its novelty as this subject is not covered theoretically neither in national professional literature nor in the one from abroad. The studies on this subject that have come to our attention prior and during the research for this paper have not provided a exemplified enumeration regarding the presecribed behavior of the founding members of a Limited Liability Companies or the Limited Liability Companies as a legal subject, given the implicitly intuitive nature of such behavior. In as much as it is true, the subject of this paper, namely ‚rules of conduct regarding the consitution, activity and dismmissal of activity for limited liability companies’ represents a complex network of juridic norms and ideas, which require a certain degree of knowledge of terms such as “conduct” and “Limited Liability Companies”.
K19|Some Considerations Regarding The Legal Nature Of The Constitutional Court Of Romania|"According to Article 147 paragraph 1 of the revised Romanian Constitution, the provisions of law and of the ordinances in force as well as the provisions of the regulations determined as unconstitutional, shall cease their legal effects within 45 days of the publication of the Constitutional Court Decision, if within this time the Parliament or the Government, where appropriate, does not agree with the articles of the Constitution. These provisions found to be unconstitutional are suspended during those 45 days. This case of power subjugation of the two authorities is exceeded in content only by Article 147 paragraph 2 of the Constitution which requires the Parliament, in cases of unconstitutionality of laws before their promulgation, namely in the previous control procedure, to review the related provisions and to bring them into line with the Constitutional Court Decision. In an article published in the Review of Public Law no. 1/2004, professor Tudor Drãganu, concerned about the excessive powers conferred to the Constitutional Court through the Constitution revision, stated that ""nowhere in Europe such Courts (Tribunals) receive the power to issue such instructions to the Parliament in order to force the Parliament to legislate the way they dictate"" . In the light of these findings, the professor wondered, whether we could say that the Parliament is the supreme representative body of the people and the sole legislative authority of the country? Consequently, taking into account all the extraordinary powers entrusted to this Court, has this Court become, if not a superpower, at least the fourth power in state? This constitutional exaggeration must be settled by placing on the revision course the constitutional waters within their riverbeds, the respect and balance between the separations of the legitimate powers of the state."
K19|On the mathematic prediction of economic and social crises: toward a harmonic interpretation of the Kondratiev wave|In Part One of this paper we use the harmonic analogy of a musical octave to analyze mathematic ratios of U.S. real GNP. These ratios are generated by bringing together figures for U.S. real GNP over intervals of time – “spreads of years” – as numerator and denominator in a single fraction. Using a range of 7-year to 18-year “spreads,” we find that this approach provides strong evidence that American economic history is composed of four 14-year quarter-cycles within a 56 year circuit in the real GNP of the United States, 1869-2007. These periods correlate closely with analysis by Nickolai Kondratiev and provide a framework for predicting an annual steady state rate of growth for the United States falling between 3.4969% and 3.4995% per year. In Part Two of this paper we provide three postscripts including: (1) correlations / speculations on the political and social consequences of this model, (2) simplification / expansion of the geometries implied and (3) analysis / prediction based upon this approach, as concluded by a brief afterword. These post-script refinements narrow the steady state rate of growth predicted to between 3.4969% and 3.4973% per year correlating closely with the 3.4971% rate for annualized quarterly data calculated for Okun’s Law, 1947-2007. The size and interconnectedness of world economies, and the virtually exact correlations provided herein, suggest that the dates predicted for future crises will see changes which are unexpectedly global, dramatic and fierce.
K19|The inefficiency of decoupling|The scope of this paper is to demonstrate that only in case of unilateral accident a party will take efficient level of activity. In all cases of bilateral accidents there will be aòwaus a party that will take a too high level of activity. But the reason that I try to demonstrate in this work is not that one party does not consider the expected damage, but instead the also the party that has an interest to consider the expected damage will take a too high level of activity (i.e. even if the expected damage is part of her private costs). The reason why that happens is that, in case of strict liability for the injurer with a defence he will not take account of the precaution costs of the victim, and in any case of a regime of negligence the victim will not consider in her cost-benefit analysis the precaution costs of the injurer. The consequence of that is a level of activity which is inefficient for a different reason with respect to that well known: that is the fact that a party does not bear the expected damage. I accept this known solution but I underpin another problem. The conclusion is that also decoupling does not produce an efficient consequence and that the search of tort efficient rules is still more difficult.
K19|Money Talks: The Impact of Citizens United on State Elections|The U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that restrictions on independent political expenditures by corporations and labor unions are unconstitutional on First Amendment grounds (Citizens United v. FEC, 2010). In this paper, we test the hypothesis that the decision gave an electoral boost to Republicans, at the expense of Democrats. The 50 states provide an ideal testing ground for this hypothesis. The ruling only affected a subset of states since the majority of states already had no restrictions on independent expenditures, allowing us to obtain difference-in-differences estimates of the short term effects of the ruling on electoral advantage. We find that Citizens United had a positive and statistically significant effect of approximately seven percentage points on the probability of Republicans winning in state congressional elections.
K19|Matching Funds in Public Campaign Finance|Matching provisions in state clean elections acts have been ruled unconstitutional by the U.S. Supreme Court on First Amendment grounds (Arizona Free Enterprise Club’s Freedom Club PAC v. Bennett, 2011). By modeling political speech as a costly advertising activity in an electoral contest, we show that matching funds can indeed decrease speech by privately funded candidates. Moreover, the state can undo any restrictions on matching programs imposed by courts, and replicate the equilibria under a matching program, by adopting an appropriately chosen lumpsum funding scheme. We also evaluate the validity of two specific arguments made by the Supreme Court in its Arizona decision, finding that one is incorrect and one is correct within the context of our model. Lastly, we provide preliminary evidence that the Arizona ruling has in fact increased private spending and increased the number of candidates per election race.
K19|Human Rights Violations after 9/11 and the Role of Constitutional Constraints|After 9/11, the United States and its allies took measures to protect their citizens from future terrorist attacks. While these measures aim to increase security, they have often been criticized for violating human rights. But violating rights is difficult in a constitutional democracy with separated powers and checks and balances. This paper empirically investigates the effect of the post-9/11 terror threat on human rights. We find strong evidence of a systematic increase in rights violations in the United States and its ally countries after 9/11. When testing the importance of checks and balances, we find that this increase is significantly smaller in countries with independent judicial review (countermajoritarian checks) but did not depend on the presence of veto players in the legislative branch (majoritarian checks). These findings have important implications for constitutional debates on rights protection in times of emergency.
K19|Übersicht der Zollbefreiungen|Diese tabellarische Übersicht der Zollbefreiungen fasst den aktuellen Rechtsstand zusammen (Stand: 1. Januar 2012). Zum 19. Dezember 2011 sind neue Durchführungsverordnungen zur neu kodifizieten ZollbefreiungsVO (EG) Nr. 1186/2009 in Kraft getreten, welche durch die Kodifizierung der bisherigen Vorschriften umfangreiche Veränderungen der Artikelnummer ierungen nach sich zieht. Darüber hinaus ist das neue Truppenzollgesetz am 1. November 2009 in Kraft getreten, das ebenfalls in der Übersicht berücksichtigt worden ist. Die Abwicklung mit der schriftlichen Zollanmeldung (Einheitspapier und Zusatzerklärungen) wird ebenso wie die Einfuhrabwicklung unter ATLAS (Automatisiertes Tarif- und Lokales Zoll-Abwicklungs-System) dargestellt (Verfahrenscode und Zusatzverfahren). Für zahlreiche Befreiungstatbestände ist die mündliche oder Zollanmeldung durch Handlung (sog. „konkludente“ Zollanmeldung) möglich, für einige Befreiungstatbestände ist die schriftliche Zollanmeldung unter Verwendung von bestimmten Vordrucken oder des Einheitspapiers (EP) zwingend vorgeschrieben.
K19|Vier Jahre Zugelassener Wirtschaftsbeteiligter (AEO)|Der Zugelassene Wirtschaftsbeteiligte (AEO) wurde mit Wirkung vom 1. Januar 2008 geschaffen. Vier Jahre sind vergangen, nach denen es nun erneut gilt, eine Zwischenbilanz zu ziehen – wurden die Erwartungen und Antragszahlen erreicht, was gibt es an Neuerungen und welche Tendenzen sind erkennbar? Neue rechtliche Rahmenbedingungen gelten bereits seit dem 1. Januar 2009 – die Kriterien für alle zollrechtlichen Bewilligungen von vereinfachten Anmeldeverfahren und Anschreibeverfahren (Einfuhr und Ausfuhr) werden grundsätzlich an einige AEO-Kriterien angepasst. Das BMF verschärfte alle Prüfungen für neue und bestehende Bewilligungen bei der Wareneinfuhr und Warenausfuhr. Damit wurden viele AEO-Kriterien durch die Hintertür für zollrechtliche Bewilligungen eingeführt, ohne jedoch die Vorteile des AEO-Zertifikats nach Artikel 14b ZK-DVO den Bewilligungsinhabern zu gewähren - dieses führt zu einer Akzeptanzförderung des AEO-Status seit 2009. Die Zahlen für 2011 belegen erneut die deutlichen Steigerungen von erteilten AEO-Zertifikaten: eine Verdoppelung der erteilten AEO-Zertifikate im Vergleich zu 2010. Erstmals wird die Untersuchung auf Norwegen und die Schweiz ausgedehnt. Für 2012 ist ein gleichbleibend hohes Niveau der Antragsverfahren zu erwarten. Bereits absehbar ist: mittelfristig werden sich die Rahmenbedingungen für die unterschiedlichen AEO-Typen ändern, da für AEO-C weniger Vorteile gelten sollen, als für AEO-S und AEO-F. Insgesamt sollen für alle AEO-Typen mehr Vorteile gewährt werden.
K19|Studie zu Dispozinsen / Ratenkrediten - Forschungsvorhaben zur Bereitstellung wissenschaftlicher Entscheidungshilfe für das Bundesministerium für Ernährung, Landwirtschaft und Verbraucherschutz (BMELV)|Studie zu Dispozinsen / Ratenkrediten Aktenzeichen: 514-06.01-2810HS034 Laufzeit 8/2011 – 5/2012 - Zusammenfassung – In Deutschland verfügen etwa 80 Prozent der Haushalte über einen Dispositionskredit. Bei beträchtlicher Variation liegt der eingeräumte Kreditrahmen bei knapp dem 3-fachen des Nettoeinkommens. Arbeitslose, Alleinerziehende, Paare mit Kindern und Selbständige nutzen den Dispositionskredit häufiger. Einer Stichprobe unter Banken zufolge wurde bei 29 Prozent der Konten mit Dispositionsrahmen der Kredit zum Befragungstag in Anspruch genommen. Insgesamt werden die Zinssätze für Überziehungskredite von Experten der Verbraucherorganisationen als zu hoch angesehen. Die im Vergleich zu Ratenkrediten höheren Zinsen für Dispositionskredite erscheinen nicht durch höhere Ausfallquoten gerechtfertigt. Das Fortbestehen hoher Zinsen wird dadurch begünstigt, dass Konsumenten ihre Kontenwahl nur in geringem Maße von den Preisen der Dispokredite abhängig machen. Raten- und Abrufkredite sind nach Meinung von Experten der Verbraucherorganisationen und Schuldnerberatung selten als Alternative für einen kurzfristigen Liquiditätsausgleich geeignet. Anders sei dies bei dauerhafter Nutzung des Dispositionskredits als Ersatz für einen Ratenkredit zu beurteilen. Teilweise werden dadurch die Schutzvorschriften des Verzugs ausgehebelt. Die Studie diskutiert die Vor- und Nachteile verschiedener rechtlicher Regelungen, die darauf abzielen, die Höhe der Dispozinsen zu begrenzen und Fehlnutzungen zu vermeiden: hierzu gehören eine klare Wucher- bzw. Preisobergrenze und eine hervorgehobene Preisangabe in der Werbung, Hinweisschreiben bei exzessiver Nutzung, die Begrenzung preistreibender Faktoren und eine jährlichen Berichtspflicht. Erfahrungen im Ausland und in anderen Rechtsgebieten zeigen, dass solche Mittel wirkungsvoll sein können. Je nach Stärke des Eingriffs besteht für die Politik hierbei ein Zielkonflikt zwischen der Versorgung mit Dispositionskrediten und günstigen Konditionen. Es ist möglich, dass klare Wucher- bzw. Preisobergrenzen zu einer Kostenverlagerung führen; dies kann anhand dieser Studie jedoch nicht abschließend beurteilt werden. Ein Ende der Quersubventionierung der Kontoführung durch Dispozinsen kann aus Verteilungs- und Preisgerechtigkeitsgründen politisch gewollt sein. Es würde die betroffenen Haushalte entlasten und zu mehr Preisgerechtigkeit führen. Aktuelle Beispiele aus der Praxis zeigen, dass günstigere Konditionen auf dem Niveau von Konsumentenkrediten und ein fairer Umgang mit dem Verbraucher bei Überziehungskrediten grundsätzlich möglich sind.
K19|Reflexiones en torno a la autonomía tributaria de las entidades territoriales, en el contexto del Estado Social de Derecho|Uno de los cambios de mayor trascendencia que se consagró en la Constitución Política de 1991, fue el reconocimiento de ciertos niveles de autonomía en determinadas materias a las entidades territoriales, en procura de materializar el postulado de la descentralización administrativa como característica del modelo de Estado. Una de esas esferas, en las que el Constituyente quiso que las entidades territoriales gozaran de un margen de autonomía en el ámbito de su jurisdicción, fue en temas de talante tributario, resaltándose que para el efecto, este tipo de entidades están facultadas para decretar imposiciones tributarias, las cuales deben haber sido creadas o autorizadas previamente por el legislador en el ámbito nacional. El propósito palmario de este trabajo, es auscultar la naturaleza y alcance de la citada autonomía fiscal de las entidades territoriales, en el contexto del Estado Social de Derecho, como modelo jurídico político prohijado por el Constituyente y las repercusiones de esa relación simbiótica centro-periferia, en el devenir fiscal del Estado, frente al proceso de descentralización administrativa y la profundización de la democracia participativa, apelando para ello a la producción jurisprudencial generada en la materia.
K19|Problems of Database Protection in the Russian Federation|The sui generis database right was added to copyright protection of databases in the Russian legislation only in 2008. In December 2010, new draft amendments to the RF Civil Code were published, substantially developing this regulation. This article examines the position of the Russian Federation regarding regulation of databases in its historical development and compares it with the relevant regulation in the European Union. While the Russian Federation generally follows the European model, there are some important specific provisions in the Russian Federation that should be taken into account by database producers and database users.
K19|Measuring the Compactness of Political Districting Plans|We develop a measure of compactness based on the distance between voters within the same district relative to the minimum distance achievable, which we coin the relative proximity index. Any compactness measure that satisfies three desirable properties (anonymity of voters, efficient clustering, and invariance to scale, population density, and number of districts) ranks districting plans identically to our index. We then calculate the relative proximity index for the 106th Congress, which requires us to solve for each state's maximal compactness--a problem that is nondeterministic polynomial-time hard (NP hard). The correlations between our index and the commonly used measures of dispersion and perimeter are -.37 and -.29, respectively. We conclude by estimating seat-vote curves under maximally compact districts for several large states. The fraction of additional seats a party obtains when its average vote increases is significantly greater under maximally compact districting plans relative to the existing plans.
K19|Corporate Codes Of Conduct And Business Principles In Light Of The Goldman Sachs Lawsuit Settlement|The Securities and Exchange Commission recently settled a monumental lawsuit against the investment firm of Goldman Sachs, Inc. The settlement mandated that the Wall Street titan agree to strengthen its ethical policies and procedures. This paper will discuss Goldman Sachs as a complicated corporate entity and examine its relationship to its own Code of Conduct and Ethics in light of the lawsuit. It will present an historical perspective and a summary of the research and efficacy of Codes. This review postulates that business should implement their Codes and ethical programs by way of thorough and effective analysis of new investment products such as mortgage-backed securities. It explains how Goldman should have better utilized ethical mechanisms to examine these products. The paper condenses the more relevant recommendations of the Report of the Business Standards Committee of Goldman Sachs. Finally, this review evaluates the definition of waivers contained in Codes and concludes that businesses should eliminate this exception.
K19|A tale of two federalisms: Germany, the United States and the ubiquity of centralization|No abstract is available for this item.
K19|Toward an asymmetric Coase theorem|No abstract is available for this item.
K19|FUNCTIONING OF PARLIAMENTARY ASSEMBLIES OF INTERNATIONAL ORGANISATIONS (English version)|International organizations have developed as derived subjects of international law without substitute the role and the importance of the states as fundamental actors in adopting policies that go beyond national powers. Therewith, national governments tendency to impose the rules of procedure at universal level has been dimmed by a operation democratization and disposal of transparency deficit. In this way appeared parliamentary assemblies. They have no predefined structure, did not appear in the same period and similarly, have a typical structure. They may also work inside or outside the intergovernmental organization, in close functional connection. Over the work we realized an analysis of main key elements of international parliamentary institution experienced in international organizations.
K19|INTER – PARLIAMENTARY UNION, PARLIAMENTARY ORGANISATION WITH UNIVERSAL VOCATION (English version)|The article Inter – Parliamentary Union. Parliamentary organisation with universal vocation presents the sole institution that brings together parliamentarians from all states recognized as primary subjects of international law. Is shown how the organization was founded, its development, and the growth of attributions and numerical structure. Inter – Parliamentary Union consists of national groups, representatives of parliaments. National Group is created by decision of the parliament member, constituted under the laws of sovereign state. In each parliament may be created a sole national group. Are presented the main competences of the Inter – Parliamentary Union, internal organization, but also the way it relates with the United Nations Organizations and with other intergovernmental organizations, an important role being owned by the world conference of Parliaments presidents. We have shown that the Inter – Parliamentary Union Assembly is the main statutory body that expresses the vision of the Union on policy issues. It brings together parliamentarians who study international problems and make recommendations for future action. The Assembly meets twice a year in different countries each time, so that participants have the opportunity to see the various national realities.
K19|CONSIDERATIONS REGARDING THE REGULATION ON THE CITIZENS’ INITIATIVE (English version)|"The citizens' initiative idea is not a new one. Since 1988 the European Parliament has pleaded for the introduction of this kind of initiative. The issue was discussed in Amsterdam in 2002, when it was brought again on the agenda by the European Parliament. The ""Citizens’ Initiative"" is one of the major changes introduced by the Treaty of Lisbon. The establishment of this institution has pursued the democratization of the Union and the opportunity to directly involve the European citizens in the community policies. On the strength of this new initiative right, a million of citizens from several Member States may ask the Commission submit a legislative proposal in areas falling within the Union."
K19|Integrity, respect for others, and ethics – three essential leadership qualities|Ethics, respect for others and integrity (embracing respect for the law), should definitely be pre requisites for leadership. Unfortunately many so called leaders do not understand or practise these values. Some leaders who are held with high regard and esteem at the workplace are prepared to sacrifice a life time's achievement and reputation within seconds. What is even worse, these (appalling) role models comfortably reveal their weaknesses and lack of character publicly. If we cannot trust our leaders to exercise a reasonable degree of integrity – both with respect to observing and practising the law, who can we be responsible to or look up to? There is also the very critical and rather unfortunate issue where the environment encourages or even accepts such low ethical standards. Many leaders with low ethical values are therefore encouraged into believing they can escape certain practices (are beyond the law) – even where their targets are entitled to prevailing jurisdictional rights!!! Some leaders who serve as poor role models for their future generations are frequently associated with the shameful practice of bullying their younger successors. Whilst certain countries appreciate the roles which their future generations will assume in the future and prepare these for the future, other jurisdictions are content to watch selfishly and parasitically exploit their future leaders. In many organisations, workplaces, the input of future leaders (of tomorrow) is unbelievably low that one wonders how these future leaders will be able to assume their future responsibilities competentently and confidently. To educate is of vital importance. To re educate constitutes even a greater task – where certain perceptions are already permanently and firmly embedded in a mode of thinking.Where the development of a nation or organisation depends on the need and ability to change certain perceptions, then such re education becomes vitally important. Through a consideration of issues which include the need to respect the rights of others, the need for leadership qualities such as ethics and integrity, this paper not only presents „research which is capable of practical application within organisations“, but also reflects „evidence and considerations of how the research can benefit ethics within businesses and other organisations.“
K19|The Golden Mean, the Arab Spring and a 10-step analysis of American economic history|The Long-Wave theories of Nikolai Kondratiev and others claim to find mathematic waves in economic and other social data which are at present in dispute. Currently the theory is considered outside the scope of mainstream economics under several rationales. Despite the lack of mainstream acceptance, we make a strong case for the existence of long waves in the Real GNP of the United States with a 56 year cycle. Our analysis bypasses many of the issues cited by Long-Wave theory critics and in fact clarifies the mathematical structure of the theory.
K19|I rimedi nelle operazioni di concentrazione. Disciplina e prassi comunitaria. Cenni sulla disciplina e prassi italiana<BR>[Remedies in concentration operations. Discipline and practice at European level. Reference to the Italian discipline and practice]|The paper deals with the remedies that the EC Remedies notice 2008 discusses with respect to the vertical or horizontal operations of concentration. It deals both with the European practice and the Italian practice. The merger remedies are aimed at removing the competition concerns that mergers can determine.
K19|The Hungarian minority question in Slovakia and Romania|With the redrawing of European borders following the First World War, some 5 million ethnic Hungarians were assigned minority status in neighboring countries that acquired lands formerly part of Greater Hungary. Discourse analysis of national constitutions reveal that policies toward minorities in Slovakia and Romania were particularly oppressive during the Soviet era, becoming more accommodating as EU accession neared. In this paper, I argue that national determinism, nationalism fueled by legacy, and the EU as a strong external force do not, on their own, hold explanatory power, rather, all factors taken together account for the ongoing struggle for social inclusion.
K19|Do individual disclosure rules for parliamentarians improve government effectiveness?|No abstract is available for this item.
K19|Examining the Efficiency of the U.S. Courts of Appeals: Pathologies and Prescriptions|Until recently (e.g., Lindquist 2007), few studies have examined the factors that might affect aspects of judicial efficiency, including the time it takes a court to decide a case. In our analysis of a sample o f U.S. Courts of Appeals decisions from 1971-1996, we examine a variety of potential causes of inefficiency, or pathologies, before suggesting a series of prescriptions. 1 Both authors equally contributed to this manuscript. The authors would like to thank Reese Manceaux for his assistance in merging a variety of seemingly incompatible databases, as well as Nicole Arnold for her assistance in collecting data.
K19|WCO Framework of Standards: Authorized Economic Operator (AEO) in the World|The Authorized Economic Operator (AEO) status has been introduced by the World Customs Organization (WCO) and its Framework of Standards to Secure and Facilitate Global Trade (SAFE) in order to combat terrorism in trade. This article shows the distribution of the AEO programmes in the world.
K19|Incentivierung des Managements bei Unternehmenskäufen/Buy-Outs mit Private Equity Investoren - eine empirische Untersuchung|Since years, incentives for the management have become a standard upon acquisitions of companies by Private Equity Investors - so-called Buy-Outs. However, until this date there are no empirical studies available on the arrangements of management participations and potential conflicts of interest especially on occasion of sales from one Private Equity Investor to another - so-called Secondary Buy-Outs. This present study is based on a survey among Private Equity Investors and Management Teams in companies controlled by Private Equity Investors. It shows a high degree of sensibility of all parties concerned for the issue of incentives and the potential conflict of interest involved with it. It also showed that market standards for management incentives have developed in the meantime. In practice, the instrument to prevent conflicts is therefore the transparency of the transaction. The only way to prevent criminal and civil consequences (damages) for the managers involved, as well as obstructing or even frustrating the process as a whole, is an open and transparent communication about the selling process and possible concepts of incentives between all parties concerned, i.e. seller, buyer and the management involved. Despite the frequency of such transactions there are - until today - no market standards or guide lines for this necessary transparency. The present study intends to create initial groundwork for this.
K19|The Australian Firearms Buyback And Its Effect On Gun Deaths|The 1996‐1997 National Firearms Agreement (NFA) in Australia introduced strict gun laws, primarily as a reaction to the mass shooting in Port Arthur, Tasmania, in 1996, where 35 people were killed. Despite the fact that several researchers using the same data have examined the impact of the NFA on firearm deaths, a consensus does not appear to have been reached. In this paper, we reanalyze the same data on firearm deaths used in previous research, using tests for unknown structural breaks as a means to identifying impacts of the NFA. The results of these tests suggest that the NFA did not have any large effects on reducing firearm homicide or suicide rates. (JEL C22, K19)
K19|Formy vyvlastnenia investícií v doterajšej medzinárodnej aplikačnej praxi s osobitným zameraním na nepriame vyvlastnenie a štátne zásahy regulačného charakteru|V príspevku sa venujeme teoretickým aspektom vyvlastnenia medzinárodných investícií a jeho atribútom. Poukazujeme aj na trendy vývoja foriem vyvlastnenia v súčasnej medzinárodnej praxi a zamerali sme sa osobitne na rozlišovanie nepriameho vyvlastnenia a štátnych regulačných zásahov. S odkazom na početné rozhodnutia arbitrážnych súdov objasňujeme, že tenká hranica nepriameho vyvlastnenia a regulačných zásahov štátu je situovaná na troch pilieroch, ktorými sú kritérium stupňa a miery zásahu do vlastníckych práv; kritérium charakteru a povahy vládneho opatrenia (najmä so zreteľom na jeho vzťah k verejnému účelu) a kritérium zasahovania vo vzťahu k racionálnym očakávaniam investorov.
K19|Applications of Civil Responsibility in Case of “Nemo Auditur Propriam Turpitudinem Alegans“ Rule|"The “nemo auditur propriam turpitudiniem alegans” adage (nobody is being listened when he presents his own indecency), as an application of the civil criminal responsibility, has as origin the action called condictio by means of which the person who executed his obligation based on an immoral convention (condictio ab turpen causa) could ask the return of the services. But, when both the plaintiff and the defendant were guilty of immorality, the repetition action should have been rejected based on the ""in pari causa turpitudinis cessat repetitio"" adage that represents a primitive appearance of the “nemo auditur propriam turpitudiniem alegans” rule.The rule fundament results even from its wording that allows us to see its moral nature that represents actually a refuse to act for the ones who want to use their embarrassing actions in front of the justice.In other words, we must notice the fact that the doctrine did not have a unitary position regarding the application of the rule and the opinions are shared because some authors accept with no reserves the application of the rule, while others declare to be against its application.Regarding the jurisprudence, if it is unitary when it affirms that the liberality by means of which we follow the start, the continuation or the restart of a concubinage relation has a purpose against the social cohabitation rules, and the sanction of a juridical act with such a cause is the absolute nullity , and this is not unitary anymore regarding its position against the ending of such an approach. In most of the cases, the courts are happy to find that the respective obligation has an illicit cause according to art. 968 of Civil Code without specifying if it is immoral or not, in order to make possible the application of the rule in the eventuality of promoting a returning action of the party who had received the liberality with such a cause. But, if we consider we are in the presence of an immoral convention, and the nemo auditor propriam turpitudiniem alegans rule becomes applicable, the return of the services is not possible anymore. Regarding this rule application, we must notice that its application is actually a civil sanction that consists in non-accepting the access to justice, by means of the returning action of the parties that are guilty of the immorality of their convention, that are thus lacked of the protection offered by the law, just because of the insecurity that could be produced by the non-acceptance of such a protection.Most of the cases where the nemo auditur propriam turpitudiniem alegans rule exists are circumscribed to the obligations that are born from a contract, and regard the repetition action or the returning one. Such a way of resolving conflicts between two parties is also a mediation, which takes the form of a contract that confirms the willingness of parties to prevent and extinguish the conflict."
K19|Some Considerations on the Classification of Civil Liability Depending on the Certainty of Completion|The study “Some considerations on the classification of civil liability depending on the certainty of completion” is dedicated to analysis of theoretical and practical aspects regarding doctrinaire opinion about classification of liabilities in defined or benefit liabilities and liabilities of means or care and diligence. The idea of the study has been generated both by the relative high frequent of using this classification in doctrine and practice on the one hand and lack of legal regulations that could support this division of liabilities on the other hand. The study shows that there are no differences of legal treatment between the two categories of liabilities and usefulness of the distinction between benefit liabilities and liabilities of means has no cover in legal practice but only in theory by simplifying the character of analyzing some legal relations based on liabilities.
K19|Los Derechos Humanos y el siglo XXI|Human rights are powers or facilities granted or recognized as inherent to individuals and human groups, so they can claim from other individuals or groups, and at the extreme from public authorities (local, regional, national or international), specific actions and services necessary to a life with dignity. Some of the benefits of recognising human rights are improving welfare, dignity and quality of life of all human beings, as well as greater economic and social equality. This is specially important for meeting the needs of the most vulnerable individuals and groups, while simultaneusly respecting cultural diversity. In this context, satisfaying basic human needs such as food, drinking water, housing, health or education, is paramount.
K19|Empowering young inventors: an experimental course on IP and patent application drafting at Auburn University|No abstract is available for this item.
K19|EVOLUTIA DREPTULUI MEDIEVAL ROMANESC SPRE PRIMELE MANIFESTARI ALE DREPTULUI MODERN - EPOCA FANARIOTA - THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE ROMANIAN MEDIEVAL LAW TOWARDS THE FIRST SIGNS OF MODERN LAW- THE PHANARIOT AGE (Romanian version)|Latest collections of law with broad implications of canon law were the two projects in the general code prepared by Michael Fotino inTara Romanesca in 1765 and 1766. Legal Imports continued but with the older Byzantine source of inspiration, new ones are emerging, the western origin, the main source of Calimachi Code in 1817 was the Austrian Civil Code of the lawyer 1811.Realized by Chr.Flechtenmacher Brasov, Store code however, had as sources of inspiration the land custom, law and the right Byzantine reign. But for a profound shift towards a new era was needed to produce a profound change in the type of medieval property, improper conditioning her character exchange economy that requires a full ownership property. How old was found by turning right dominium directum the substance and value of jus abutendi dominum a useful part in a free timeshare, and second the possibility of capitalizing on the basis of jus prisoaselor fruendi, that in Roman law.
K19|ROLUL JUDECATORULUI IN IDENTIFICAREA LACUNELOR LEGISLATIVE - JUDGE’S ROLE IN IDENTIFICATION LEGAL GAPS (Romanian version)|Human evolution, everything that defines diachronic social, proved that, very often, gaps are revealed after the regulation took place.When the law is imperfect or when it is silent, when it meets the new requirements resulting from changes in society, it is backward, even unjust, is it possible that the judge, through interpretation to recover or adapt, even create the rule? In other words, can we provide case law, within certain limits, the possibility to be one of the sources of law? It is legitimate the law creation made by a body of magistrates whose power is not based on universal suffrage ? The question is to know who is right and who is required to cover these gaps in the law to prevent future cracks in the legal system. It is therefore inevitable that the laws have gaps. The first question placed to the judge is to decide when we are in the presence of a legistativ gap system. This requires defining the notion of gaps, decide which are the causes of poor writing or customary law and which are the solutions.
K19|ACORDUL DE VOINTA AL STATELOR – FUNDAMENTUL DREPTULUI INTERNATIONAL - THE STATE AGREEMENT WILL - THE FOUNDATION OF INTERNATIONAL LAW (Romanian version)|The legal basis of the international law is given by the agreement will of the sovereign states composing the international society at a given time. In the absence of some public authorities having international legislative, administrative and juridical attributions, through which some of the legal rules could be adopted and imposed, the international law is built on the state agreement will. The purpose of the current work is to highlight this aspect.
K19|POLITICI DE PREVENIRE SI RESOCIALIZARE A MINORILOR DELICVENTI IN DOCUMENTE INTERNATIONALE - POLICIES OF PREVENTION AND RESOCIALIZATION OF JUVENILE OFFENDERS IN INTERNATIONAL DOCUMENTS (Romanian version)|The issue of criminal liability of the juvenile offender as well as the prevention and combating of juvenile delinquency have been and continue to represent an actuality in the criminal policy in modern states. It is presumed that the child needs special treatment in terms of criminal liability since he does not possess the correct representation of what his procedural rights and obligations provided by law are.At present the principles which govern the global process of reform in the field of juvenile delinquency are?absolute priority of prevention, the necessity of the involvement of the community in criminal liability, and the proportionality of penalty with the status of minor and the seriousness of the crime committed. The penalties applicable to minors although different in nature, limits and method of implementation, appear to be less suitable for achieving the purpose of criminal law in relation to juvenile offenders. Moreover, the sentence in a prison may affect the fragile psyche of the child due to harsh prison regime and the negative influence of other convicted. Prisons and places of detention in general are known as real “ universities of crime”. Such a measure, which avoids placing juveniles in the prison environment and allows them to receive services in the community, enables children to maintain positive ties with their families, school and community, thus increasing the chances of re-socialization and reducing possible trauma resulting from the execution of the sentence in a closed environment. Reintegration is the established purpose of juvenile justice in general. In conclusion we may say that juvenile offenders cannot be isolated from society, in order to prepare them for the realities of social life.
K19|Restrictive Antonymicity in the French Legal Language|From the point of view of the lexicographic tradition, antonymy designates opposite terms. The attempts to treat antonyms from the perspective of the logical opposition failed to bring around the expected results in the strict delimitation of the lexical antonymy from the other types of opposite notions, because those characteristics that need to be considered as contrary have not been established yet. The linguistic criterion is contrary to this point of view as it takes into consideration the lexical distribution and the contextual manifestation of the antonyms in their syntagmatic use of speech: in antonymic contexts of a certain type, with a certain syntactic structure having identical combinatory possibilities. The research of the development of antonymy relations through the derivative links of the opposable terms is an essential aspect of the study of the relations of antonymy in terminologies. The analysis of various examples from the French legal vocabulary proves the fact that antonymy is a pertinent linguistic phenomenon, especially for the terms with a strong qualifying value. The adjectival terms and the nouns formed by adding prefixes act like antonyms under the conditions of changing the contradiction in contrariety.
K19|Justifiable Economic Risk|This paper attempts to examine an interesting, but unfortunately with insignificant practical application so far, penal law institute, such as the justified economic risk. With a view to more complete clarification of the justified economic risk, some other law institutes, such as the normal production-economic risk and the exceptional need are indicated comparatively and in short, also a connection with the administrative and penal liability is made. The judicial practice on the specified problem is extremely inadequate which, on its part, provides a good opportunity for the doctrine to state its opinion in this connection.
K19|Dilemmas in the Banking Laws|Although they have gained important experience in the 20 years following the passage to a market economy, banks remain vulnerable to criminal attacks and are defeated by judiciary errors. On the other had, life shows the impressive number of facets of a bank manager’s responsibility. In addition to all these issues, banks also face numerous dilemmas in the juridical relationships they establish.
K19|Contentious Constitutional And Contentious Administrative|The requirements of the State based on the rule of law, enshrined by Article 1 paragraph (3) first sentence of the Constitution, concern the major goals of state activity, foreshadowed in what is commonly called as being the rule of law, expression that implies subordination of the State to the law, ensuring those means that would allow the law to censor political actions and, within this framework, to ponder possible abusive, discretionary tendencies, of State structures. The rule of law ensures the supremacy of the Constitution, correlation of laws and of all legislative acts with the Constitution, the assurance of the regime of separation of public powers, which must act within the law, meaning within the limits of a law expressing the general will. The State based on the rule of law becomes so, the State that aims to ensure the supremacy of the Constitution and the rule of law. Supremacy of the Constitution and compliance of the laws with the Basic Law is ensured through the jurisdictional review of the constitutionality of laws, by a separate authority, independent of all others, and which is regulated by the Basic Law. This authority is the contentious constitutional court, which contributes to the strengthening of the rule of law materialized in the decisions rendered within the review of constitutionality of laws before promulgation, as well as in those rendered within the a posterior review, on certain provisions contained also in laws on contentious administrative. The Contentious Administrative, being one of the fundamental institutions of public law, over time, has had different regulations regarding both formal matters (authorities called to solve disputes of this type) and material matters (categories of disputes covered by this contentious), being several times subject to constitutional review. Thus, the Contentious Administrative has a scope clearly defined by law. This legal regulation is subject to the will of the legislator and to the review of constitutionality, in both its modalities of expression. In this way, the competent judicial authorities and the Constitutional Court have competences in ensuring the rule of law, the functioning of democracy and in guaranteeing the exercise of human rights.
K19|Le Traite De Lisbonne (2007) Modifiant Le Traite Sur L’Union Europeenne Et Le Traite Instituant La Communaute Europeenne: Son Integration Dans Les Orders Juridiques Nationaux|"Are well-known Declaration on the Future of Europe (Annex to the Treaty of Nice) and the Declaration of Laeken (Belgium, 2001), which have created the Convention on the Future of Europe, under the patronage of former President of France and European Movement (Brussels), namely Mr. Valery Giscard d'Estaing. And it all culminated with the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe submitted to the European Council on June 20, 2003 (Thessaloniki, Greece). A draft Constitutional Treaty, inspired by ""the will of citizens and States of Europe to build a common future"", which entitles Member States to achieve common goals. The following step was the Treaty of Lisbon, a Treaty that includes the idea of Europe of ""two or more speeds”."
K19|Copyright and Open Access for Academic Works|In a recent paper, Prof. Steven Shavell (see Shavell, 2009) has argued strongly in favor of eliminating copyright from academic works. Based upon solid economic arguments, Shavell analyses the pros and cons of removal of copyright and in its place to have a pure open access system, in which authors (or more likely their employers) would provide the funds that keep journals in business. In this paper we explore some of the arguments in Shavell’s paper, above all the way in which the distribution of the sources of journal revenue would be altered, and the feasible effects upon the quality of journal content. We propose a slight modification to a pure open access system which may provide for the best of both the copyright and open access worlds.
K19|Türkiye’de Mala Karşı Suçların Sosyoekonomik Belirleyicileri Üzerine Bir Deneme: Sınır Testi Yaklaşımı (1970–2007)|In this article, the effects of the socio-economic factors on the property crimes in Turkey between 1970 and 2007 are analyzed. The econometric model employed for the analysis utilizes inflation rate, unemployment rate and real per capita income as economic variables and the schooling ratio of secondary education as a social variable. The crime model is estimated for Turkey by using Bounds Testing Approach unlike the preceding studies for the first time. The results designate a long term relation (cointegration) between socio-economic factors and property crimes. Short term and long term estimates are in line with each other. It is also found that property crimes in Turkey are affected positively by inflation, unemployment and schooling ratio of secondary education and negatively affected by real per capita income. The most important factor that affects the property crimes is found out as real per capita income in short term as well as long term. Hence, it is concluded that the policies implemented to increase the real per capita income (economic growth) are expected to decrease the property crimes.
K19|Children and the Commission for Reception, Truth and Reconciliation in Timor-Leste|This paper discusses children's participation and protection in the work of the Commission for Reception, Truth and Reconciliation (CAVR) in Timor-Leste. It presents an overview of CAVR's efforts to ensure children's safe participation in CAVR activities, documenting violations against children and communicating CAVR's message to children. The paper assesses the strengths and weaknesses of the CAVR and analyzes underlying causes for the results. Through elaboration of lessons learned from the CAVR experience, the paper provides recommendations for truth commissions' engagement with children in the future. The paper concludes that despite the absence of a legal requirement in the mandate, the CAVR made a commendable effort to research and document children's experiences of the conflict. However, a lack of policy on child participation and child protection contributed to the failure to engage with children both during and after the CAVR. It is suggested that a holistic approach to the CAVR's activities could have helped avoid this missed opportunity for Timor-Leste's young generation to engage in the country's nation building and carry forward the CAVR's recommendations.
K19|Children and Reparation: Past lessons and new directions|This paper is among the first to analyse children's experiences of reparations programmes, taking into consideration programmes from Africa, Asia and Latin America. The violence, abuse and hardship that girls and boys suffer during armed conflict and political violence under authoritarian and dictatorial regimes continues to severely affect their development long after the end of war or demise of the violent regime. They experience violations of their civil, political, social, economic and cultural rights, including the rights to life, freedom of movement and association, education, health and family, which embraces the right to knowing and being cared for by their parents. Their rights to development and to a safe and healthy environment are also violated. It is not possible to fully repair children who have experienced such harms. Nonetheless, girls and boys have a right to remedy and reparation under international law – to benefit from reparation in material, symbolic, individual and collective forms. This working paper draws from reparation as conceived in the United Nations Resolution on Basic Principles and Guidelines on the Right to a Remedy and Reparation for Victims of Gross Violations of International Human Rights Law and Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law (2005). It offers a concise overview of trends in reparation programmes set up to address situations of armed conflict and under authoritarian and dictatorial regimes where children are subjected to systematic forms of grave violence. The authors demonstrate the failure to name and address grave rights violations against children in www.unicef-irc.org.past reparations programmes and efforts, much to the detriment of surviving children. The authors argue that at the heart of much of the violence against children in situations of armed conflict is the terrible damage done to relationships and social fabric among individuals, communities, societies and cultures. Recognizing the need to address the healing of relationships and reweaving of social fabric, in part through reparation, the paper offers suggestions for reparation approaches that could lead to better informing and shaping reparation responses for child victims.
K19|Children and Security Sector Reform in Post-conflict Peace-building|The restoration of justice and security is a priority of post-conflict peace-building, but children and youth - two groups especially affected by armed conflict - rarely receive consideration in this process. This paper considers how reform of the security sector can contribute to making security provision more relevant to the concerns of young people and more reflective of their needs and aspirations. Security sector reform and transitional justice have been recognized as central elements of post-conflict peace-building, and engaging children constructively in these processes will assist in successfully establishing long-term stability. The central role of civil society receives particular attention. The paper concludes with policy recommendations aimed at assisting decision-makers to integrate the security concerns and expectations of children into programme responses.
K19|Children, Education and Reconciliation|This paper examines truth and reconciliation commissions that have made reference to a longer-term role for education in coming to terms with the past and contributing towards future reconciliation. The countries reviewed are Guatemala, Liberia, Peru, Sierra Leone, South Africa and Timor-Leste. Some have developed strategies for children's participation and made recommendations for inclusion in the formal school curriculum. However, recommendations regarding a role for education have usually been very general in nature, with little specification of what is expected of educators in practical terms and little follow-through by education authorities. The paper therefore identifies a number of challenges if education is to have a role in truth and reconciliation. It also identifies potential areas for educational development and recommendations for future actions.
K19|Child Victims of Torture and Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment|This paper addresses the legal framework and medical and psychological impacts of torture on children. While children must be protected from all forms of violence and abuse, it is important not to lose sight of the distinction between the different forms of violence - especially torture and child abuse - because these distinctions have significant implications for prevention, treatment of victims and law enforcement. Although children can be both victims and perpetrators of torture, ill-treatment and abuse, we focus exclusively on their role as victims.
K19|Genetic Tracing, Disappeared Children and Justice|The last several decades have witnessed a dramatic change in the methods of warfare. Civilians are now increasingly targets of violence, not just mere victims of collateral damage. Among civilians targeted, children and youth are subject to acts of violence, including enforced disappearances and enforced conscription. Children have been forcibly disappeared and forcibly conscripted in many countries including Argentina, El Salvador and northern Uganda. This paper focuses on the use or potential use of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) or genetic testing to identify disappeared children (otherwise referred to as genetic tracing) in Argentina, El Salvador and northern Uganda and on how this evidence may be used to achieve justice. Identification of the disappeared, family reunification, support for the disappeared and redress for families of the disappeared have been identified as crucial to achieving justice in the wake of mass atrocities.
K19|Prosecuting International Crimes against Children: The legal framework|States in post-conflict situations are faced with extremely difficult choices as they try to find the right balance between judicial and non-judicial means to improve accountability for crimes committed during the conflict and to contribute to national reconciliation. These choices are made on the basis of the specific circumstances of each state. Nevertheless, due consideration should be given to the duties imposed on states by international law. This paper presents a short overview of the obligations of states under international law to prosecute persons accused of genocide, war crimes, crimes against humanity, torture and enforced disappearances, specifically focusing on crimes against children. It also reviews international norms regarding children who may be accused of having participated in the commission of such crimes themselves - for example, as child soldiers - and identifies some outstanding questions regarding their criminal responsibility for such acts.
K19|Psychosocial Support for Children: Protecting the rights of child victims and witnesses in transitional justice processes|The paper first looks at psychosocial factors that affect children's participation in transitional justice mechanisms. These factors largely determine children's need for protection and support and can reflect children's responses to their involvement in transitional justice processes. A distinction has to be made between psychosocial factors related to the child and his or her experiences during the conflict on the one side, and factors determined by the type of transitional mechanism on the other. Children's participation in transitional justice processes is influenced significantly by their personal experiences during the conflict; cognitive, social and emotional development; coping skills and social support. These factors influence children's capacity to give an accurate statement, cope with the stress of testifying, be confronted with the accused and deal with cross-examination. These have important implications for the choice of support strategies.
K19|Restorative Justice after Mass Violence: Opportunities and risks for children and youth|There is growing interest in the role that restorative justice can play in addressing mass atrocities. This paper describes the associated principles and practices within juvenile justice systems and in societies emerging from mass violence. It also examines the meaning, opportunities and limitations of restorative justice in transitional societies, particularly in relation to the needs of young victims and offenders. We argue that procedural forms of restorative justice, involving redress by offenders, face considerable challenges because communities and governments often lack the coercive capacity or will to hold offenders accountable. In contexts where accountability is lacking we argue that pressuring victims to meet with, and forgive, those who harmed them may be inappropriate. Such encounters should only occur where victims see them as necessary to their own healing. Despite the procedural limitations of restorative justice, this perspective (ontology) helps us analyse the route to reconciliation in different conflict contexts and reveals opportunities and challenges for justice and reconciliation in each case. This ontology reveals that intra-communal and inter-communal (ethnic/religious) conflicts have dramatically different justice and reconciliation challenges. In an intra-communal conflict, such as in Sierra Leone, offenders need to reintegrate into communities that they or their factions harmed. The desire to reintegrate into communities that condemn their crimes while accepting them provides opportunities for young offenders to address their crimes. In ethnically divided societies, offenders are often seen as heroes in their communities and may not have to address their crimes until the communities themselves condemn them. This makes restorative justice and reconciliation much more difficult, as communities do not take on the role of promoting accountability for their own members. In such cases, restorative justice efforts must promote social trust between groups. In both intra-communal and inter-communal conflicts, victims are often marginalized by their own communities and receive inadequate assistance. Restorative justice shows us that much can be done to help young victims, and this should become an explicit part of the justice picture. Finally, we argue that traditional justice is not synonymous with restorative justice. While traditional justice is community based and often meaningful to people, many of its forms are retributive; deny a voice to children, youth and other disadvantaged groups; or place community reconciliation above individual justice. Therefore, traditional justice practices should be assessed case by case if they are to be claimed as restorative justice equivalents.
K19|Transitional Justice and the Situation of Children in Colombia and Peru|This working paper provides an overview of the transitional process in Colombia and Peru, focusing on the situation of children. The adoption of judicial and administrative measures to deal with human rights violations from the past (Peru) and the present (Colombia) is a tool towards the consolidation of democratic institutions. While individual initiatives have been undertaken in both countries, addressing the situation of children in an integrated, comprehensive way is a persistent challenge, as is the exploration of legal tools as a means to demand responsibility.
K19|Transitional Justice and Youth Formerly Associated with Armed Forces and Armed Groups: Acceptance, marginalization and psychosocial adjustment|To support true healing of war-affected populations, including children formerly associated with armed forces and armed groups, transitional justice efforts must attend to the often lasting psychosocial consequences of war in the post-conflict environment. We use key informant and focus group interviews (2002, 2004) to examine the war and post-war experiences of youth, with particular attention to the reintegration experiences of former child soldiers. We found that war-affected youth continued to struggle with a number of issues that thwart their desires and efforts to fulfil their life ambitions, including limited school access, economic instability, social isolation and stigma. Young people were better able to navigate daily stressors when endowed with individual agency and perseverance and surrounded by robust family and community supports. Our findings support the need to adopt a broader view of transitional justice to meet the needs of war-affected children and families, particularly former child soldiers. A developmental view of the impact of war experiences on children is needed that includes advocacy for investments in social services to monitor and support healthy family and community reintegration over time.
K19|Children and Accountability for International Crimes: The contribution of international criminal courts|This paper analyses the extent to which international and ‘mixed’ or ‘hybrid’ criminal courts, in particular the International Criminal Court (ICC), have focused on crimes against children and dealt with children as victims, witnesses and potential offenders. The paper underlines the major role played recently by international courts, notably the Special Court for Sierra Leone, followed by the ICC, in criminalizing as war crimes the conscription or enlistment of children and their use to participate actively in hostilities. The Special Court was the first to hand down convictions for these crimes. The first cases before the ICC also concern the unlawful recruitment of children for their use in hostilities, bringing these crimes to the fore.
K19|The Recruitment And Selection Of Police Officers-Comparative Analysis Of Similar Policy In European States|Recruitment and selection are some of the most important activities in the human resources management. Since socio-economic conditions are not the same in all states, then the recruitment and selection policies reveals common types of conditions to become a policeman, on the one hand, and categories of conditions that customizes each system and each country, on the other hand. The influence they exert on the entire organization is very important because it can make big gains if performed by professional criteria, but big losses when it does not apply to a very important principle, that of the appropriate person in the right place.
K19|Zwei Jahre Zugelassener Wirtschaftsbeteiligter (AEO)|Der Zugelassene Wirtschaftsbeteiligte (AEO) wurde mit Wirkung vom 1. Januar 2008 geschaffen. Zwei Jahre sind vergangen, nach denen es nun erneut gilt, eine Zwischenbilanz zu ziehen – wurden die Erwartungen und Antragszahlen erreicht, was gibt es an Neuerungen und welche Tendenzen sind erkennbar? Neue rechtliche Rahmenbedingungen gelten ab dem 1. Januar 2009 – die Kriterien für alle zollrechtlichen Bewilligungen von vereinfachten Anmeldeverfahren und Anschreibeverfahren (Einfuhr und Ausfuhr) werden grundsätzlich an einige AEO-Kriterien angepasst. Das BMF verschärft alle Prüfungen für neue und bestehende Bewilligungen bei der Wareneinfuhr und Warenausfuhr. Damit werden viele AEO-Kriterien durch die Hintertür für zollrechtliche Bewilligungen eingeführt, ohne jedoch die Vorteile des AEO-Zertifikats nach Artikel 14b ZK-DVO den Bewilligungsinhabern zu gewähren – dieses führt zu einer Akzeptanzförderung des AEO-Status seit 2009. Für 2010 ist ein weiterer Anstieg der Antragsverfahren zu erwarten. Die Bearbeitungszeit der AEO-Zertifizierung verkürzt sich ab 2010 auf maximal 180 Tage.
K19|Gegenseitige Anerkennung des AEO-Status|Der Status des Zugelassenen Wirtschaftsbeteiligten (Authoriszed Economic Operator) wurde mit der VO (EG) Nr. 648/2005, der sog. kleinen Zollkodex-Reform eingeführt, um die weltweite Lieferkette sicherer zu machen. Ein wesentlicher Bestandteil – die gegenseitige Anerkennung der AEO-Standards und –Zertifikate aus und in Drittländern war bislang nicht möglich. Seit Mitte 2009 gibt es nun erstmals die gegenseitige Anerkennung der Sicherheitsstandards mit der Schweiz, Liechtenstein und Norwegen. Dieser Beitrag stellt die Hintergründe und die Zukunft der AEO-Anerkennung dar.
K19|AEO-C: Einfacher Antrag = AE O light?!|Der Zugelassene Wirtschaftsbeteiligte (AEO) wurde mit Wirkung vom 1. Januar 2008 geschaffen. Neue rechtliche Rahmenbedingungen gelten seit dem 1. Januar 2009 – die Kriterien für alle zollrechtlichen Bewilligungen von vereinfachten Anmeldeverfahren und Anschreibeverfahren (Einfuhr, Ausfuhr) werden grundsätzlich an einige AEO-Kriterien angepasst. Damit werden einige AEO-Kriterien durch die Hintertür für alle zollrechtlichen Bewilligungen eingeführt, ohne jedoch die Vorteile des AEO-Zertifikats nach Artikel 14b ZK-DVO den Bewilligungsinhabern zu gewähren - dieses führt zu einer Akzeptanzförderung des AEO-Status ab 2009. Der AEO-C (Zugelassener Wirtschaftsbeteiligter Zoll) ist der am einfachsten zu erhaltene Status, der sofort Vorteile für den Wirtschaftsbeteiligten bringt. Die Fragen sind ab sofort ohnehin für alle Bewilligungsinhaber zu beantworten. Jetzt lohnt sich die Antragstellung auf AEO-C, den AEO-light…
K19|M&A im Bereich Erneuerbarer Energien|Several top deals already closed, a still highly fragmented industry and strong pressure for further consolidation following the financial crisis - renewable energy certainly has become a red-hot topic in M&A. Surveying 220 companies in the solar photovoltaic, utility and financial sector as well as major technology corporations, which are identified as the key industries in the sector-specific takeover market, this working paper proves the common knowledge for the example of photovoltaics. With more than 93% of the respondents, a vast majority expects the M&A environment to further ameliorate and deals to increase. As for the fundamental market drivers, the survey suggests a shift from factors linked to the financial crises towards an increasing impact of general industry-related influences. In contrast, neither the industry sector nor other corporate characteristics are of significant importance. With respect to prevailing takeover strategies, the survey reveals a strong influence of general acquisition motives. However, an empirically significant connection can be determined between the industry sector of potential buyers and the most relevant motivation factors, which allows for the assumption of business-affected takeover strategies that are elaborated on more closely within the working paper. Examining an acquisition focus in terms of the targets' position in the photovoltaic value chain, no statistically valid connection can be observed with either the acquisition motivation or the industry sector of the potential buyer, leaving room for further research.
K19|The Role of Non-Juridical Regulations in Society|Habits in a word, are a large category of social rules. They are as old as man and are the first regulations of conformist behaviour in human communities. Habits are spontaneously formed and occur due to the repeated and extended application of a conduct. A habit becomes a rule entered in the life and tradition of the community that people comply with as usage or practice.
K19|The New Civil Code and its Legislative Solutions|The future civil code promotes a Monist conception of regulating private law relations, incorporating all the regulations regarding persons, family relations and commercial relations, considering private international law provisions.
K19|Main Problems of Human Resources Management in Romanian’s Public Administration|The main resources at hand for the administrative structures are: personnel resource, financial resources, material resources and informational resources interacting with the purpose of ensuring some public services of a certain qualitative level. The human resource is the main factor bringing performance in public sector. Ensuring a high level of public services can be realised, mainly, by increasing the performance of public agent’s activities, without minimising the importance of the other resources of the administrative system.
K19|Replacing Neo-Classical Maximization in the Realm of Human Action|The aim of this paper is to propose an original articulation of neoclassical and Austrian understanding of human behaviours into one logical sequence of “human process of decision”. We claim the methodological debate among economists on the representation of human action is due to a wrong interpretation of both neoclassical and Austrian economics: these two methodologies do not study the same step of human action. Far from being opposed, neoclassical and Austrian concepts of rationality and maximization can be articulated in a logical understanding of why and how do people act, and gathered into a global frame within neoclassical maximization is the conclusion, the final step, of the Austrian decision process. From this economic frame, we deduce a normative definition of economic efficiency and draw severe critics of neoclassical concepts of efficiency and redistributive justice as potential normative goals of economics. Besides, this conclusion leads to the definition of a new role for the economist in Law & Economics analysis: neoclassical economics should be used carefully and in very specific situation to enhance existing legal rules based upon non-economic goals, but never as a way to design laws according to their economic efficiency.
K19|Patent laws and innovation in China|This paper explores whether the patent laws and intellectual property rights (IPR) system in China have resulted in innovation during the reform period. Subject to criticism on account of imperfect enforcement, the patent law system has produced a stock of patents which has grown rapidly alongside economic growth. The success rate of patent applications is similar across the country despite the considerable regional disparities in income and in the level of innovation. This paper presents a simple model of patent production in China derived from the patent law system that also considers the relevant contextual factors that could influence innovation. The main innovation input of R&D personnel is found to be a significant determinant of patents. While per capita GDP increases the propensity to innovate across all regions, notable heterogeneity exists whereby the coastal, central and interior areas are associated with different factors that produce innovation and influence the innovation process. The paper concludes that China's imperfect IPR system is nevertheless generating innovation as the country develops and hinges on the key factor of researchers.
K19|El Proceso de Bolonia en el Derecho Público Español. Autonomía universitaria, distribución de competencias y empleo público|The acquits of inter-governmental agreements, being signed by forty-six States in the Bologna Process context, as a starting point promoted by the European Union States, regions and universities to promote an area for academic integration (European Higher Education Area), is applied to three aspects which need to be identified in order to a better understanding of their benefits and to resolve their most problematic aspects. These three areas are: (a) The constitutional dimension, which is of particular significance in the following subjects: the constitutional rights, the institutional guarantee of university autonomy and the distribution of powers between the State, the Autonomous Communities and the Universities, (b) The supranational level, with a certification system based on the recognition of qualifications, and (c) The public employment and academic careers of university professors. Moreover, this triple definition must be compatible with the legal characterization of the university as a public service.
K19|Constitutions and economic reforms in transition: an empirical study|No abstract is available for this item.
K19|Internal Organization And Administrative Activity Of The Constitutional Court Of Romania|As guarantor of the supremacy of the Romanian Constitution, the Constitutional Court is given, by the fundamental law of the State, a set of both jurisdictional and administrative attributes. A proper functioning of the Constitutional Court would not be possible in the lack of an internal structural organization, on the one hand, and the internal regulation of general procedural rules for running activities, on the other hand. Thus, the internal organization of the Court resides in: the President of the Court, having very important role and responsibilities, related both to jurisdictional and administrative aspects, elected out of the Constitutional Judges, the plenary sessions of the Constitutional Court, as current means of developing activities, and a working body formed of the assistant magistrates, run by the President of the Court and the General Secretariat led by a Secretary General. The jurisdictional and administrative activity is performed pursuant to the general structural procedures stipulated by the Romanian Constitution, the Law of organization and functioning of the Constitutional Court no. 47/1992 and by the Organization and Functioning Standing Orders of the Constitutional Court.
K19|Latvian State And Religious Organizations –From Soviet Reality To A Nowadays|21 year has passed since on 8 April 1989 the Latvian Creative Unions newspaper Literatura un Maksla has published the Declaration Vienna meetings. Human and National Rights in Latvia. of Latvian Soviet Socialistic Republic Creative Unions Joint Plenum. At that time the document via telegram was forwarded to all European Security and Cooperation Council states. It was also sent to the Soviet government, and namely Michail Gorbachov. Telegram senders were the Culture Council of Creative Unions of Latvia which expressed in the announcement a strong attitude that all positions of the document shall be implemented and shall function. Amongst other rights craved for by the soviet intellectuals the requests for freedom of religion was also included in the declaration: ’’True freedom of conscience and rights to go in for religion, rights to freely promulgate religious opinions, as well as atheism shall be ensured. Churches and religious organizations shall become subjects of property law. By respecting rights of parents, a moral and religious bringing up of children based on their confidence shall be ensured, allowing the religious organizations to open educational establishments. (Clause 11 of the Declaration)’’
K19|Order Security – National Security Administration. National Security Defense As Special Administration|National security administration is the special executivedisposal activity of the national security agencies, the section of the state administration that helps the governmental work by reconnoitering and preventing with secret-servicing methods of the risks that shall harm or endanger the national security’s interests. The main operational principles of national security governing are the followings among others: - controlling the operation of national security organization belongs to the executive authority’s exclusive competence - building up of national security agencies by military organization - the national security administration is an autonomous special section of state administration - separation of political and professional activities - definition of the professional requirements of national security in public law
K19|Development of Direct Democracy in Swiss Cantons between 1997 and 2003|This paper describes institutions of direct democracy between 1997 and 2003 in 26 Swiss cantons (states), specifically the statutory initiative and referendum, the constitutional initiative, and the fiscal referendum. In particular, it discusses their applications, but also the legal requirements for making use of them, including the signature requirements, the time available for their collection, and the financial thresholds. Optional and mandatory forms of these direct-legislative institutions are distinguished. This paper also provides calculations of the index and sub-indices of direct democracy for the additional years 1997 to 2003, in continuation of Stutzer (1999), using the identical methodology. Extending Trechsel and Serdült (1999) and Stutzer (1999) this paper includes the political institutions of the so-called Landsgemeinde cantons. Description of these institutions is based on the author’s reading of 26 cantonal constitutions in their versions between 1997 and 2003.
K19|The Future of the European Constitutional Evolution|Europe and the world have changed. The 21st century brings new challenges and new opportunities. The interaction of economies and peoples worldwide – whether by communication, trade, migration, shared security, concerns or cultural exchange – is in constant evolution. European Union needs a unitary and coherent action in many fields (energy security, foreign policy, fight against terrorism and drugs, climate change, etc). The Treaty of Lisbon must fulfill these goals. In the last two years, much less attention has been given to the practical implementation of new institutional proposals included in the Treaty of Lisbon. Even a cursory examination indicates that the implementation of some of these proposals is likely to be uneasy, and in some cases could be a source of future problems or difficulties. Many voices said that there are only cosmetic differences between the former European Constitution and the Treaty of Lisbon. The European political context has changed after the recent elections for the European Parliament. The Treaty of Lisbon’s failure will have negative effects for the future of European continent. The aim of this paper is to highlight, and to clarify potential problems.
K19|Analyse économique du Droit versus Institutionnalisme. Une comparaison « en situation »1|Cet article propose de comparer deux lectures d’économie du droit portant sur un même objet empirique, l’épargne salariée états-unienne, mais menées respectivement dans le cadre de la Law & Economics néoclassique et dans le cadre de la Théorie de la régulation. Ces deux approches divergent quant à leur prise en compte du politique entendu au sens de la dimension conflictuelle des rapport sociaux. L’approche néoclassique permet de faire l’économie d’un traitement explicite du politique au niveau individuel du cas particulier. L’habitus institutionnaliste produit au contraire une construction d’emblée politique de son objet d’analyse. Cette comparaison « en situation » met en évidence une meilleure capacité de généralisation de la démarche institutionnaliste du fait même de sa dépendance au politique.
K19|The Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Sale of Children, Child Prostitution and Child Pornography and the Jurisprudence of the Committee on the Rights of the Child|This paper highlights the main issues covered in the text of the Optional Protocol. These include: definition and criminalization of the offence; jurisdiction, extradition and further matters of criminal procedure; prevention; protection of victims and their rehabilitation; and the importance of international cooperation in the fight against sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography. The paper then more closely examines the Concluding Observations of the Committee on States Parties’ reports. Comparing the content of the Protocol with the observations of the Committee enables the identification of gaps between what is required and what has been done. At the same time, such a comparison allows for a discussion of some successful attempts at compliance. The paper concludes that the Committee’s jurisprudence has indeed provided useful guidance to the complex issues of the Protocol and helped in filling some of the gaps it contains. Concurrently, however, it is found that many challenges remain with respect to the implementation of the Protocol’s provisions at national level.
K19|The Right of Children to be Heard: Children's rights to have their views taken into account and to participate in legal and administrative proceedings|This paper addresses the right of children to be heard in any judicial or administrative proceeding affecting them. It introduces the subject based on examples from the laws and practices of 52 countries around the world. This paper is addressed primarily to child rights advocates, researchers, legal practitioners and other professionals working in the area of children and the law. Further research is needed to document good practices and to complement this introductory, global overview with studies focusing in more detail on different regions or legal traditions and specific types of proceedings.
K19|Children's and Adolescents' Participation and Protection from Sexual Abuse and Exploitation|This paper presents an overview of government commitments to strengthen participation by children and adolescents to protect them from sexual abuse and exploitation. It also considers concrete recommendations for strengthening young people’s involvement in their own protection, based on their recommendations about what is needed to realize the Stockholm Declaration and Agenda for Action. Other useful inputs include case studies that offer new perspectives on children’s and adolescents’ participation to combat sexual exploitation and abuse. The paper provides recommendations for further research, policy development and programming intended to support advocacy and practice developments with and by children and adolescents. The paper calls for governments, UN agencies and NGOs to promote children’s civil rights and recognize their agency and the diversity of childhood experiences. It highlights the importance of strengthening child protection systems, developing and strengthening child-led groups and networks, and creating processes and mechanisms for children to access information, express their views, participate in practice and policy matters concerning them and gain feedback.
K19|Ein Jahr Zugelassener Wirtschaftsbeteiligter (AEO)|Der Zugelassene Wirtschaftsbeteiligte (AEO) wurde mit Wirkung vom 1. Januar 2008 geschaffen. Ein Jahr ist vergangen, nach dem es nun gilt, eine Zwischenbilanz zu ziehen – wurden die Erwartungen und Antragszahlen erreicht, was gibt es an Neuerungen und welche Tendenzen sind erkennbar? Neue rechtliche Rahmenbedingungen gelten ab dem 1. Januar 2009 – die Kriterien für alle zollrechtlichen Bewilligungen von vereinfachten Anmeldeverfahren und Anschreibeverfahren (Einfuhr, Ausfuhr, Zollverfahren mit wirtschaftlicher Bedeutung) werden grundsätzlich an einige AEO-Kriterien angepasst. Damit werden einige AEO-Kriterien durch die Hintertür für alle zollrechtlichen Bewilligungen eingeführt, ohne jedoch die Vorteile des AEO-Zertifikats nach Artikel 14b ZK-DVO den Bewilligungsinhabern zu gewähren – dieses führt zu einer Akzeptanzförderung des AEO-Status ab 2009.
K19|Transaktionen und Servicing in der Finanzkrise: Berichte und Referate des Frankfurt School NPL Forums 2008|The report describes the current developments of the German market for Non Performing Loans/Distressed Debt as it is influenced by the financial crisis/credit crunch. Furthermore the sale of (small and medium sized) real estate portfolios since summer 2007 is analysed in more detail.
