K22|Embedded supervision: how to build regulation into blockchain finance|The spread of distributed ledger technology (DLT) in finance could help to improve the efficiency and quality of supervision. This paper makes the case for embedded supervision, ie a regulatory framework that provides for compliance in tokenised markets to be automatically monitored by reading the market's ledger, thus reducing the need for firms to actively collect, verify and deliver data. After sketching out a design for such schemes, the paper explores the conditions under which distributed ledger data might be used to monitor compliance. To this end, a decentralised market is modelled that replaces today's intermediary-based verification of legal data with blockchain-enabled data credibility based on economic consensus. The key results set out the conditions under which the market's economic consensus would be strong enough to guarantee that transactions are economically final, so that supervisors can trust the distributed ledger's data. The paper concludes with a discussion of the legislative and operational requirements that would promote low-cost supervision and a level playing field for small and large firms.
K22|Legal Responsibility in Investment Decisions Using Algorithms and AI|This article provides an overview of the report released by a study group on legal issues regarding financial investments using algorithms/artificial intelligence (AI). The report focuses on legal issues regarding the automated or black-boxed financial investment decisions by using algorithms/AI. Specifically, the report discusses the points for consideration in applying laws regarding (1) regulations and civil liability issues surrounding business operators for investment management or investment advisory activities, and (2) regulations on market misconduct. The report shows that the application of some existing laws requires the presence of a certain mental state (such as purpose and intent), which is unlikely to be given in the case of investment decisions using algorithms/AI. To deal with this problem, the report considers the necessity of introducing new legislation.
K22|Shareholder Activism in Germany|Shareholder activism by hedge funds has taken hold in Germany in spite of large ownership concentration. This essay uses the example of Stada Arzneimittel AG to highlight features of activism, German style. It goes on to discuss the legal issues raised by activist campaigns at the two stages of acquiring a shareholding in the target company and, subsequently, of interacting with its management and pressuring for strategic or corporate governance changes. In light of the theory and evidence on the short-term and long-term effects of shareholder activism, the essay concludes that German and European law has rightly refrained from intervening in this most recent corporate governance development. The law lacks a reliable filter to sort desirable from undesirable forms of activism. The essay is forthcoming in Holger Fleischer, Hideki Kanda, Kon Sik Kim, and Peter O. Mülbert (eds.), German and East Asian Perspectives on Corporate and Capital Market Law: Investors versus Companies.
K22|Disclosure Regulation and Corporate Acquisitions|This paper examines the effect of disclosure regulation on the market for corporate control. We study the implementation of a recent European regulation imposing tighter disclosure requirements regarding the financial and ownership information provided by public firms. We find a substantial drop in the number of control acquisitions after the implementation of the regulation, a decrease that is concentrated in countries with more dynamic takeover markets. Consistent with the idea that the disclosure requirements increased acquisition costs, we also observe that, under the new disclosure regime, target (acquirer) stock returns around the acquisition announcement are higher (lower), and toeholds are substantially smaller. Overall, our evidence suggests that tighter disclosure requirements can impose significant acquisition costs on bidders and thus slow down the market for corporate control.
K22|Equity Finance: Matching Liability to Power|There is widespread concern that the bonus culture for senior managers in limited liability companies is having adverse effects, e.g. on risk-taking, leverage and lower longer-term investment. The moral hazard of limited liability was appreciated in the 19th century, when unlimited or multiple liability, especially for bankers, was widely adopted. Whereas outside, notably retail, investors still need the protection of limited liability, we advocate moving towards a two-tier equity system, primarily for banks, with insiders, senior managers and others with influence over corporate decisions, becoming subject to multiple liability. But the transition costs of doing so suddenly would be great, so our proposal is to start by applying this initially just to Systemically Important Financial Intermediaries.
K22|The Politics of CEOs|CEOs of public companies have influence over the political spending of their firms, which has been attracting significant attention since the Supreme Court decision in Citizens United. Furthermore, the policy views expressed by CEOs receive substantial consideration from policymakers and the public. The political preferences of CEOs, we argue, are therefore important for a full understanding of U.S. policymaking and politics. To contribute to this understanding, we provide empirical evidence on the partisan leanings of public-company CEOs. We use Federal Election Commission (FEC) records to put together a comprehensive database of the political contributions made by over 3,500 individuals who served as CEOs of S&P 1500 companies during the period 2000-2017. We find that these political contributions display substantial partisan preferences in support of Republican candidates. We identify how this pattern is related to the company’s industry, geographical region, and CEO gender. To highlight the significance of CEO’s partisan preferences for some corporate decisions, we show that public companies led by Republican CEOs tend to be less transparent to investors with respect to their political spending. We conclude by discussing the potential policy implications of our analysis.
K22|Equity finance: matching liability to power|There is widespread concern that the bonus culture for senior managers in limited liability companies is having adverse effects, e.g. on risk-taking, leverage and lower longer-term investment. The moral hazard of limited liability was appreciated in the 19th century, when unlimited or multiple liability, especially for bankers, was widely adopted. Whereas outside, notably retail, investors still need the protection of limited liability, we advocate moving towards a two-tier equity system, primarily for banks, with insiders, senior managers and others with influence over corporate decisions, becoming subject to multiple liability. But the transition costs of doing so suddenly would be great, so our proposal is to start by applying this initially just to Systemically Important Financial Intermediaries.
K22|The Human-Centred Business Model and Hybrid Business Forms: A Primer and a Roadmap|The paper was written as part of the preliminary research for the Human Centred Business Model Project, a project developed within the Global Forum on Law, Justice and Development and now supported by the OECD Development Centre. In a preliminary fashion, the paper skims the surface of â€˜socialâ€™ businesses, in the broadest sense, around the world, identifying some general trends and commonalities and some differences. The paper covers jurisdictions from North and South America, Europe, Asia and Australia and describes the organisations that can be used to carry out social business.
K22|Lawyers as Meddlers in the Mediation Process - A Malaysian Perspective|"Objective - The scope of a lawyer's role is common knowledge and is often construed as one who advises on the application of the law, especially in the area of litigation or conveyancing. Nevertheless, it is pertinent to consider the role of a lawyer in mediation and the link between lawyer and mediation. Methodology/Technique - Mediation as a form of dispute resolution is arguably still at its infancy in Malaysia. Judges in Malaysia do encourage people to use mediation to settle disputes, instead of settling disputes through the court. As such, lawyers play a significant role in mediation, especially when the society regards mediation to be one effective mechanism of Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR), compared to litigation. Findings - As such, the term 'mediation' refers to a process that generates structure negotiation, whereby a mediator (a neutral impartial third party that is acceptable to and independent of the parties) serves to facilitate agreement between the parties involved to resolve their disputes in a systematic manner by isolating the dispute issues, developing alternatives, and reaching a viable and acceptable resolution that satisfy the involved parties. Since the mediator plays the role in the mediation process, how does a lawyer play his role in the mediation process? Does he serve as a meddler in the mediation process? Novelty - A mediator claimed, ""…involvement of solicitors is significant. They comprehend the dynamics of positive engagement, apart from having the ability and being prepared for a constructive negotiation so as to look for resolutions, rather than reinforcing litigation. They possess the ability to offer advice and provide guidance to their clients as they seize the opportunity to bring matter to an end. This is an exceptional instance of professionalism at its best."" This statement has become, at present time, 'how does a lawyer apply his present skills in mediation settlement?"
K22|How do judges judge? Evidence of local effect on French bankruptcy judgments|"Law and Economics literature recently gazed upon the ""failure of judges"" showing the various biases, psychological but also political, they can display. One of the seminal criticisms against bankruptcy judges focused on their attempt to go beyond the strict applications of law in their decisions. The main drawback is their lack of business-related expertise. The French bankruptcy system was created four centuries ago with this last problem in mind and remains unique today. The bankruptcy judges are elected among local businessmen and top executives. They rule without any professional judge along them, like in mixed courts in Belgium. They are given a key role in the decision as in the U.S.. This chapter shows how judges display a home bias when the area suffers from economic turmoil. They attempt to favor the reorganization of bankrupt firms when the local unemployment rate is high. The analysis is based on an original dataset of all filings for restructuring (Redressement Judiciaire) from 2006 to 2013. This is shown to hold robust despite several tests using survival analysis in a competing risk setting. This effect is found to reduce the time of negotiation between the firm and its creditors with no effect on the survival of the firm after the reorganization plan was agreed upon. We infer that judges cram-down decisions faster in these contexts and let creditors bear the costs of these reorganisations. It underlines how Courts wish to implement decisions that exceed solely debt-collection with a concern for the local area at the risk of hurting the firm's creditors. JEL-Classification: G33, H73, K22"
K22|Flexible Production and Entry: Institutional, Technological, and Organizational Determinants|Academics, the media, and policymakers have all raised concerns about the implications of human workers being replaced by machines or software. Few have discussed the implications of the reverse: firms’ ability to replace capital with workers. We show that this flexibility can help new firms overcome uncertainty and increase entrepreneurial entry. We develop a simple real options model where permissive labor regulations allow firms to take advantage of capital-labor substitutability by replacing ‘rigid’ capital with ‘flexible’ labor. The model highlights institutional, technological, and organizational preconditions to using this flexibility. Using a large and comprehensive dataset on entry by standalone firms and group affiliates, we provide evidence in support of the model.
K22|The Politics of CEOs|CEOs of public companies have influence over the political spending of their firms, which has been attracting significant attention since the Supreme Court decision in Citizens United. Furthermore, the policy views expressed by CEOs receive substantial consideration from policymakers and the public. The political preferences of CEOs, we argue, are therefore important for a full understanding of U.S. policymaking and politics. To contribute to this understanding, we provide empirical evidence on the partisan leanings of public-company CEOs. We use Federal Election Commission (FEC) records to put together a comprehensive database of the political contributions made by over 3,500 individuals who served as CEOs of S&P 1500 companies during the period 2000-2017. We find that these political contributions display substantial partisan preferences in support of Republican candidates. We identify how this pattern is related to the company's industry, geographical region, and CEO gender. To highlight the significance of CEO's partisan preferences, we show that public companies led by Republican CEOs tend to be less transparent to investors with respect to their political spending. We conclude by discussing the policy implications of our analysis.
K22|The Specter of the Giant Three|This paper examines the large, steady, and continuing growth of the Big Three index fund managers—BlackRock, Vanguard, and State Street Global Advisors. We show that there is a real prospect that index funds will continue to grow, and that voting in most significant public companies will come to be dominated by the future “Giant Three.” We begin by analyzing the drivers of the rise of the Big Three, including the structural factors that are leading to the heavy concentration of the index funds sector. We then provide empirical evidence about the past growth and current status of the Big Three, and their likely growth into the Giant Three. Among other things, we document that the Big Three have almost quadrupled their collective ownership stake in S&P 500 companies over the past two decades; that they have captured the overwhelming majority of the inflows into the asset management industry over the past decade; that each of them now manages 5% or more of the shares in a vast number of public companies; and that they collectively cast an average of about 25% of the votes at S&P 500 companies. We then extrapolate from past trends to estimate the future growth of the Big Three. We estimate that the Big Three could well cast as much as 40% of the votes in S&P 500 companies within two decades. Policymakers and others must recognize—and must take seriously—the prospect of a Giant Three scenario. The plausibility of this scenario makes it important to understand the incentives of index fund managers, a topic that we study in other work.
K22|Consumer-Lending Discrimination in the FinTech Era|Discrimination in lending can occur either in face-to-face decisions or in algorithmic scoring. We provide a workable interpretation of the courts’ legitimate-business-necessity defense of statistical discrimination. We then estimate the extent of racial/ethnic discrimination in the largest consumer-lending market using an identification afforded by the pricing of mortgage credit risk by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. We find that lenders charge Latinx/African-American borrowers 7.9 and 3.6 basis points more for purchase and refinance mortgages respectively, costing them $765M in aggregate per year in extra interest. FinTech algorithms also discriminate, but 40% less than face-to-face lenders. These results are consistent with both FinTech and non-FinTech lenders extracting monopoly rents in weaker competitive environments or profiling borrowers on low-shopping behavior. Such strategic pricing is not illegal per se, but under the law, it cannot result in discrimination. The lower levels of price discrimination by algorithms suggests that removing face-to-face interactions can reduce discrimination. Further silver linings emerge in the FinTech era: (1) Discrimination is declining; algorithmic lending may have increased competition or encouraged more shopping with the ease of platform applications. (2) We find that 0.74-1.3 million minority applications were rejected between 2009 and 2015 due to discrimination; however, FinTechs do not discriminate in loan approval.
K22|Adoption of CSR and Sustainability Reporting Standards: Economic Analysis and Review|This study provides an economic analysis of the determinants and consequences of corporate social responsibility (CSR) and sustainability reporting. To frame our analysis, we consider a widespread mandatory adoption of CSR reporting standards in the United States. The study focuses on the economic effects of standards for disclosure and reporting, not on the effects of CSR activities and policies themselves. It draws on an extensive review of the relevant academic (CSR and non-CSR) literatures in accounting, economics, finance, and management. Based on a discussion of the fundamental economic forces at play and the key features and determinants of (voluntary) CSR reporting, we derive and evaluate possible economic consequences, including capital-market effects for select stakeholders as well as potential firm responses and real effects in firm behavior. We also highlight issues related to the implementation and enforcement of CSR reporting standards. Our analysis yields a number of insights that are relevant to the current debate on CSR and sustainability reporting and provides scholars with avenues for future research.
K22|Dancing With Activists|An important milestone often reached in the life of an activist engagement is entering into a “settlement” agreement between the activist and the target’s board. Using a comprehensive hand-collected data set, we analyze the drivers, nature, and consequences of such settlement agreements. Settlements are more likely when the activist has a credible threat to win board seats in a proxy fight and when incumbents’ reputation concerns are stronger. Consistent with incomplete contracting, face-saving benefits and private information considerations, settlements commonly do not contract directly on operational or leadership changes sought by the activist but rather on board composition changes. Settlements are accompanied by positive stock price reactions, and they are subsequently followed by changes of the type sought by activists, including CEO turnover, higher shareholder payouts, and improved operating performance. We find no evidence to support concerns that settlements enable activists to extract rents at the expense of other investors. Our analysis provides a look into the “black box” of activist engagements and contributes to understanding how activism brings about changes in target companies.
K22|Mandated Financial Reporting and Corporate Innovation|We investigate the impact of reporting regulation on corporate innovation activity. Exploiting thresholds in Europe’s regulation and a major enforcement reform in Germany, we find that forcing a greater share of firms to publicly disclose their financial statements reduces firms’ innovative activities at the industry level. At the same time, it increases firms’ reliance on patenting to protect their innovations, to the extent they continue innovating. Our evidence is consistent with reporting mandates having significant real effects by imposing proprietary costs on innovative firms, which diminishes their incentives to engage in innovative activities. Importantly, we examine and find that this decline in innovative activity is not fully compensated by positive information spillovers (e.g., to competitors, suppliers, and customers) within industries. Thus, our evidence implies that proprietary costs induced by reporting mandates are important consideration for regulators and policy makers.
K22|Takeovers, Shareholder Litigation, and the Free-riding Problem|When shareholders of a target firm expect a value improving takeover to be successful, they are individually better off not tendering their shares to the buyer and the takeover potentially fails. Squeeze-out procedures can overcome this free-riding dilemma by allowing a buyer to enforce a payout of minority shareholders and seize complete control of the target firm. However, it is often argued that shareholder protection laws and litigation restore or intensify the free-riding dilemma. Applying a game theoretic setting, we demonstrate that it is not shareholder litigation that brings back the free-riding dilemma, but rather the strategic gambling of buyers for lower prices and flaws in the design and application of squeeze-out laws. We find, for example, that lawmakers should refrain from setting separate legal thresholds for corporate control and squeeze-outs. We also analyze a favorable change in jurisdiction of the German Federal Court and provide implications for legal policy.
K22|Financialization made in Germany: A review|This article examines the spread of financialization in Germany before the financial crisis. It provides an up-to date overview on the literature on financialization and reviews which of the phenomena typically associated with financialization have emerged in Germany. In particular, the article aims to clarify how the prevailing institutional structure and its changes had contributed to or had countervailed the spread of financialization and how it had shaped the specific German variant of financialization. For this end, it combines the rich literature on Germany's institutional structure with the more macroeconomic oriented literature on financializaton. With the combination of those different perspectives the article sheds light on the reasons for the spread of financialization and the specific forms it has taken in Germany.
K22|Systemic usury and the European Consumer Credit Directive|Usury is a frequent occurrence in consumer credit markets and particularly affects low-income households. Systemic usury exploits poverty by shifting usury into additional products and leveraging usury gains by stringing together individual loan agreements. This paper reviews the economic rationale for usury legislation and on this basis evaluates the European Consumer Credit Directive 2008/48/EC. Systemic usury is a market failure. The most powerful explanations for such failure in consumer credit markets are monopoly power, where the consumer is locked in a bilateral credit relationship, discrimination through risk-based pricing, and negative externalities, where the least solvent borrowers are cross-subsidized by the more solvent ones. Incomplete information of consumers cannot explain systemic usury in credit markets, because even fully informed consumers would be discriminated and trapped into a situation of bilateral monopoly. However, the European Consumer Credit Directive is primarily based on the model of incomplete information, which it seeks to correct by informational duties. As a consequence, usurious practices and products are implicitly acknowledged as legal, which has eroded the national combat against usury. Therefore, this Directive is not effective and must be reformed.
K22|Optimal leniency programe for cartel abuses - an US and European perspective|Leniency is a program which gives immunity from fines or reduction of fines in cartel cases for those companies which decide to cooperate with antitrust agencies. The leniency program significantly reduces the difficulties, time and administrative costs of evidence of cartel violations, as the antitrust bodies receives assistance through leniency applications and further cooperation of cartel participant during the administrative procedure. Thanks to this, the antitrust bodies can detect and punish more cartels focusing on other abuses.Recently leniency programs are being misused because the same companies apply for leniency many times without being punished. Therefore, the program needs changes. The paper analyses US and European leniency programs and tries to find optimal solution for elimination of misuse of leniency.
K22|The Death of a Regulator: Strict Supervision, Bank Lending and Business Activity|An important question in banking is how strict supervision affects bank lending and in turn local business activity. Forcing banks to recognize losses could choke off lending and amplify local economic woes. But stricter supervision could also change how banks assess and manage loans. Estimating such effects is challenging. We exploit the extinction of the thrift regulator (OTS) — a large change in prudential supervision — to analyze economic links between strict supervision, bank lending and business activity. We first show that the OTS replacement indeed resulted in stricter supervision of former OTS banks. Next, we analyze the ensuing lending effects. We show that former OTS banks increase small business lending by roughly 10 percent. This increase is not entirely accounted by a reallocation of mortgage lending and stems primarily from well-capitalized banks and those more affected by the new regime. These findings suggest that stricter supervision operates not only through capital but can also overcome frictions in bank management, leading to more lending and a reallocation of loans. Consistent with the latter, we find increases in business entry and exit in counties with greater expose to OTS banks.
K22|Evidence-based policymaking: promise, challenges and opportunities for accounting and financial markets research| The use of evidence and economic analysis in policymaking is on the rise, and accounting standard setting and financial regulation are no exception. This article discusses the promise of evidence-based policymaking in accounting and financial markets as well as the challenges and opportunities for research supporting this endeavour. In principle, using sound theory and robust empirical evidence should lead to better policies and regulations. But despite its obvious appeal and substantial promise, evidence-based policymaking is easier demanded than done. It faces many challenges related to the difficulty of providing relevant causal evidence, lack of data, the reliability of published research and the transmission of research findings. Overcoming these challenges requires substantial infrastructure investments for generating and disseminating relevant research. To illustrate this point, I draw parallels to the rise of evidence-based medicine. The article provides several concrete suggestions for the research process and the aggregation of research findings if scientific evidence is to inform policymaking. I discuss how policymakers can foster and support policy-relevant research, chiefly by providing and generating data. The article also points to potential pitfalls when research becomes increasingly policy-oriented.
K22|Sovereign Defaults in Court|For centuries, defaulting governments were immune from legal action by foreign creditors. This paper shows that this is no longer the case. Building a dataset covering four decades, we find that creditor lawsuits have become an increasingly common feature of sovereign debt markets. The legal developments have strengthened the hands of creditors and raised the cost of default for debtors. We show that legal disputes in the US and the UK disrupt government access to international capital markets, as foreign courts can impose a financial embargo on sovereigns. The findings are consistent with theoretical models with creditor sanctions and suggest that sovereign debt is becoming more enforceable. We discuss how the threat of litigation affects debt management, government willingness to pay, and the resolution of debt crises.
K22|Foreign-law bonds: Can they reduce sovereign borrowing costs?|Governments often issue bonds in foreign jurisdictions, which can provide additional legal protection vis-à-vis domestic bonds. This paper studies the effect of this jurisdiction choice on bond prices. We test whether foreign-law bonds trade at a premium compared to domestic-law bonds. We use the euro area 2006–2013 as a unique testing ground, controlling for currency risk, liquidity risk, and term structure. Foreign-law bonds indeed carry significantly lower yields in distress periods, and this effect rises as the risk of a sovereign default increases. These results indicate that, in times of crisis, governments can borrow at lower rates under foreign law.
K22|Germany's reluctance to regulate related party transactions: An industrial organization perspective|"Germany Inc. was an idiosyncratic form of industrial organization that put financial institutions at the center. This paper argues that the consumption of private benefits in related party transactions by these key agents can be understood as a compensation for their coordinating and monitoring function in Germany Inc. As a consequence, legal tools apt to curb tunneling remained weak in Germany from the perspective of outside shareholders. While banks were in a position to use their firm-level knowledge and influence to limit rent-seeking by other related parties, their own behavior was not subject to meaningful controls. With the dismantling of Germany Inc. banks seized their monitoring function and left an unprecedented void with regard to related party transactions. Hence, a ""traditionalist"" stance which opposes law reform for related party transactions in Germany negatively affects capital market development, growth opportunities and ultimately social welfare."
K22|Dealing with corporate crises in a timely way. Notes on the optimal design of an «Early warning and composition system»|Since the 2005 Bankruptcy Law reform, policymakers have set the goal to detect and manage corporate crises at an early stage, in order to both improve the chances of a company restoring its economic-financial equilibrium and of limiting the dispersion of its values. However, the tools developed over the years have not fully achieved the desired outcomes. We start by surveying the economic benefits stemming from timely action. Then, by using a law and economics approach, we map the disincentives to taking action that affect debtors and creditors, looking separately at the phases of detection and management. On the basis of our findings, the paper discusses the characteristics of effective regulatory strategies, taking into account recent changes in the law. We argue in favour of both strengthening the governance of distressed companies and fine-tuning the existing restructuring and liquidation tools. These objectives are also pursued, to some extent, by the Enabling Bill for the Bankruptcy Law. We highlight the critical issues related to the new «early warning and composition proceedings», especially where they commence automatically if some economic and financial thresholds are breached.
K22|Permissible collateral and access to finance: evidence from a quasi-natural experiment|By allowing large classes of movable asstes to be used as collateral, the Property Law reform transformed the secured transactions in China. Difference-in-differences test show fi rms operating with ex-ante more movable assets expand access to bank credit and prolong debt maturity. However, the reform does not seem to improve the effi ciency of credit allocation, as debt capacity of ex-ante low quality fi rms expands the most following the reform. Credit expansion also does not lead to better fi rm performance. These findings are not driven by confounding factors such as improvements in creditor and property rights protection. Our results also cannot be explained by other important reforms which were introduced around the same time as the introduction of the Property Law. These include anti-tunneling and split-share reforms and amendments to the corporate tax structure in China. We conduct explicit robustness tests for these other reforms and hence contribute to the empirical literature on the reform process in China with new findings.
K22|The Securities Settlement System and Distributed Ledger Technology|Distributed ledger technology (DLT) is attracting wide attention because of the benefits it provides such as fault tolerance and cost reductions. When introducing DLT in securities transactions, its relationship with the Act on Book-Entry Transfer of Corporate Bonds and Shares, which regulates the transfer of paperless securities, should be examined to ensure the stability of securities settlement. The Bank of Japan's Institute for Monetary and Economic Studies commissioned a series of workshops on the use of DLT in securities settlement and released a report on the findings in 2017 (available in Japanese only). The report presents possible interpretations of current law, which stipulates a multi-layered settlement structure, considering the fault tolerance characteristics of DLT, which enables network participants to share information. Furthermore, the report considers the future shape of the securities settlement system with DLT if legal reforms are taken into account.
K22|The effect of horizontal mergers, when firms compete in prices and investments|It has been suggested that mergers, by increasing concentration, raise incentives to invest and hence are pro-competitive. To study the effects of mergers, we rewrite a game with simultaneous price and cost-reducing investment choices as one where firms only choose prices, and make use of aggregative game theory. We find no support for that claim: absent efficiency gains, the merger lowers total investments and consumer surplus. Only if it entails sufficient efficiency gains, will it be pro-competitive. We also show there exist classes of models for which the results obtained with cost-reducing investments are equivalent to those with quality-enhancing investments.
K22|Unexpected Corporate Outcomes from Hedge Find Activism in Japan|Hedge fund activism has been identified in the USA as a driver of enduring corporate governance change and market perception. We investigate this claim in an empirical study to see whether activism produced similar results in Japan in four representative areas: management effectiveness, managerial decisions, labour management, and market perception. Experience from the USA would predict positive changes at Japanese target companies in these four areas. However, analysis of financial data shows that no enduring changes were apparent in the first three areas, and that market perception was consistently unfavourable. Our findings demonstrate that the same pressures need not produce the same results in different markets. Moreover, while the effects of the global financial crisis should not be ignored, we conclude that the country-level differences in corporate governance identified in the varieties of capitalism literature are robust, at least in the short term.
K22|Will Robots Automate Your Job Away? Full Employment, Basic Income, and Economic Democracy|Will the internet, robotics and artificial intelligence mean a 'jobless future'? A recent narrative says tomorrow's technology will fundamentally differ from cotton mills, steam engines, or washing machines. Automation will be less like post-WW2 demobilisation for soldiers, and more like the car for horses. Driverless vehicles will oust truckers and taxi drivers. Hyper-intelligent clouds will oust financial advisers, doctors, and journalists. We face more 'natural' or 'technological' unemployment than ever. Government, it is said, must enact a basic income, because so many jobs will vanish. Also, maybe robots should become 'electronic persons', the subjects of rights and duties, so they can be taxed. This narrative is endorsed by prominent tech-billionaires, but it is flawed. Everything depends on social policy. Instead of mass unemployment and a basic income, the law can achieve full employment and fair incomes. This article explains three views of the causes of unemployment: as 'natural', as stemming from irrationality or technology, or as caused by laws that let people restrict the supply of capital to the job market. Only the third view has any credible evidence to support it. After WW2, 42% of UK jobs were redundant (actually, not hypothetically) but social policy maintained full employment, and it can be done again. Unemployment is driven by inequality of wealth and of votes in the economy. Democratic governments should reprogramme the law: for full employment and universal fair incomes. The owners of the robots will not automate your job away, if we defend economic democracy.
K22|Investigating New Types of 'Decoupling': Minority Shareholder Protection in the Law & Corporate Practice|The study of decoupling – i.e. the discrepancies between formal policies and actual practices and outcomes – has seen a remarkable revival. Importantly, a distinction between policy-practice and means-ends decoupling has become widely-used. We argue that the decoupling literature still neglects a key feature of decoupling, namely that it is inherently a multi-level concept. Distinguishing explicitly the macro- (country) and the micro- (organisation) levels, we develop a more fine-grained typology of policy–practice and means–ends decoupling. We hypothesise that differences in the macro-environment may influence the type and extent of decoupling that prevails in a given country. We test our hypotheses in the context of the adoption of legal minority shareholder protection in four European countries. We go beyond previous studies that have investigated policy–practice and means-end decoupling in the same context by using a unique dataset for firm-level corporate governance practices that allows us to investigate the multi-level nature of decoupling more directly. Our findings suggest that that decoupling is context specific and the extent to which policy-practice decoupling occurs may depend on a country's legal style.
K22|Shareholder protection, stock markets and cross-border mergers|This paper is the first one that uses a panel data of different types of shareholder protection in order to examine (i) the effect of such laws on stock market development and (ii) the convergence of shareholder protection laws through cross-border mergers and acquisitions. We find significant results for enabling laws but less so for paternalistic ones.
K22|Creditor Rights, Technology Adoption, and Productivity: Plant-Level Evidence|I analyze the impact of stronger creditor rights on productivity using plant-level data from the U.S. Census Bureau. Following the adoption of anti-recharacterization laws that give lenders greater access to the collateral of firms in financial distress, total factor productivity of treated plants increases by 2.6 percent. This effect is mainly observed among plants belonging to financially constrained firms. Furthermore, treated plants invest in capital of younger vintage and newer technology, and become more capital-intensive. My results suggest that stronger creditor rights relax borrowing constraints and help firms adopt more efficient production technologies.
K22|The Effect of Minority Veto Rights on Controller Tunneling|"A central challenge in the regulation of controlled firms is curbing controller tunneling. As independent directors and fiduciary duties are widely seen as not up to the task, a number of jurisdictions have given minority shareholders veto rights over these transactions. To assess these rights' efficacy, we exploit a 2011 regulatory reform in Israel that gave the minority the ability to veto pay packages of controllers and their relatives (""controller executives""). We find that the reform curbed the pay of controller executives and led some controller executives to quit their jobs, or work for free, in circumstances suggesting their pay would not have received approval. These findings suggest that minority veto rights can help curb controller tunneling."
K22|Sovereign defaults in court|For centuries, defaulting governments were immune from legal action by foreign creditors. This paper shows that this is no longer the case. Building a dataset covering four decades, we find that creditor lawsuits have become an increasingly common feature of sovereign debt markets. The legal developments have strengthened the hands of creditors and raised the cost of default for debtors. We show that legal disputes in the US and the UK disrupt government access to international capital markets, as foreign courts can impose a financial embargo on sovereigns. The findings are consistent with theoretical models with creditor sanctions and suggest that sovereign debt is becoming more enforceable. We discuss how the threat of litigation affects debt management, government willingness to pay, and the resolution of debt crises. JEL Classification: F34, G15, H63, K22
K22|Loyalty Shares with Tenure Voting - a Coasian bargain? Evidence from the Loi Florange Experiment|French listed companies can issue shares that confer two votes per share after a holding period of at least two years (loyalty shares with tenure voting rights). In 2014 the default rule changed from one-share-one-vote to loyalty shares. The Coase theorem predicts that ceteris paribus shareholders rewrite the corporate charter to preserve the pre-reform structure. The theorem also predicts that the proportion of loyalty shares in initial public offerings is unchanged. The paper shows that most one-share-one-vote companies reverted to the prereform contract. The exception were firms with a stake held by the French state. In initial public offerings, the new default rule had an impact; the proportion of loyalty share statutes increased from about forty to fifty percent after the passage of the law. Companies that kept the same statutes have a significantly higher market to book ratio than companies forced into a different regime. The evidence is broadly consistent with the predictions of the Coase theorem, but only in the absence of conflicted parties with veto power.
K22|The Impact of the French Doctrine of Significant Imbalance on International Business Transactions|This article examines the concept of “significant imbalance” (SI) under French law and its impact on international business transactions. “Significant imbalance” is a legal standard meant to assess whether a contractual clause is unfair (abusive). Although initially restricted to consumer law, it has been extended to general contract law with the implementation of a reform entered into force on 1st October 2016. Previously, the Commercial Court of Paris in the ruling Ministry of Economy et al. v. Expedia, Inc. et al. (2015) had qualified SI as an “overriding mandatory provision” (loi de police) under EU Regulation No. 593/2008 on the applicable law to contractual obligations (Rome I). As a consequence, SI became operative in respect of international contracts despite an express choice of a foreign governing law made by the parties to the transaction. This article argues that, as a result of Expedia and the 2016 reform, French courts can interfere with international business transactions by striking down contractual terms that they deem unfair according to the SI standard. The analysis focuses on two key issues. On the one hand, notwithstanding recent judicial precedents, SI still fails to provide a reliable test for predicting which clauses or contracts are at risk of being deemed unfair. On the other hand, the legal arsenal supporting French legislator’s disapproval of SI allocates great power to French courts and the French government to pursue tort lawsuits against foreign companies allegedly oppressing their commercial partners with SI clauses. Empirical evidence shows that these actions are highly successful compared to those commenced by private actors. The article concludes that all these aspects, together with SI’s turbulent case-law throughout the years, will sprout uncertainty in international business transactions and may eventually disparage France in the global competition in such a field.
K22|Loyalty Shares with Tenure Voting - a Coasian bargain? Evidence from the Loi Florange Experiment|French listed companies can issue shares that confer two votes per share after a holding period of at least two years (loyalty shares with tenure voting rights). In 2014 the default rule changed from one-share-one-vote to loyalty shares. The Coase theorem predicts that ceteris paribus shareholders rewrite the corporate charter to preserve the pre-reform structure. The theorem also predicts that the proportion of loyalty shares in initial public offerings is unchanged. The paper shows that most one-share-one-vote companies reverted to the pre-reform contract. The exception were firms with a stake held by the French state. In initial public offerings, the new default rule had an impact; the proportion of loyalty share statutes increased from about forty to fifty percent after the passage of the law. Companies that kept the same statutes have a significantly higher market to book ratio than companies forced into a different regime. The evidence is broadly consistent with the predictions of the Coase theorem, but only in the absence of conflicted parties with veto power.
K22|Eclipse of the Public Corporation or Eclipse of the Public Markets?|Since reaching a peak in 1997, the number of listed firms in the U.S. has fallen in every year but one. During this same period, public firms have been net purchasers of $3.6 trillion of equity (in 2015 dollars) rather than net issuers. The propensity to be listed is lower across all firm size groups, but more so among firms with less than 5,000 employees. Relative to other countries, the U.S. now has abnormally few listed firms. Because markets have become unattractive to small firms, existing listed firms are larger and older. We argue that the importance of intangible investment has grown but that public markets are not well-suited for young, R&D-intensive companies. Since there is abundant capital available to such firms without going public, they have little incentive to do so until they reach the point in their lifecycle where they focus more on payouts than on raising capital.
K22|Information Production, Misconduct Effort, and the Duration of Financial Misrepresentation|We examine the link between information produced by auditors and analysts and fraud duration. Using a hazard model, we analyze misstatement periods related to SEC accounting and auditing enforcement releases (AAERs) between 1982 and 2012. Results suggest that misconduct is more likely to end just after firms announce an auditor switch or issue audited financial statements, particularly when the audit report contains explanatory language. Analyst following increases the fraud termination hazard. However, increases (decreases) in analyst coverage have a negative (positive) marginal impact on the termination hazard, suggesting that analysts signal whistleblowers with their choice to add or drop coverage. Finally, our results suggest that misconduct lasts longer when it is well planned, more complex, or involves more accrual manipulation. Taken together, our findings are consistent with auditors and analysts playing a key informational role in fraud detection, while managerial effort to conceal misconduct significantly extends its duration.
K22|Combining Forces to Combat Elder Financial Victimization How Consumers Can Avoid the Financial Pitfalls of Cognitive Aging and What They Should Be Asking Their Financial Institutions|Medical research has linked financial vulnerability to accelerated cognitive aging — the process by which cognitive abilities decline with age. Consumers who understand the risks of cognitive aging and what their financial institutions are doing to detect and deter financial crimes are better positioned to safeguard their retirement savings. In this paper, we examine how consumers and financial institutions can prepare for the financial pitfalls of aging. We present seven important steps that consumers aged 50 or older can take to protect themselves. We also provide consumers with a list of six questions to determine how well their financial institutions are prepared to detect signs of diminished financial capacity, elder fraud, and financial abuse, and to prevent financial losses from occurring.
K22|Creditor rights and bank capital decisions: Conventional vs. Islamic banking|Using a sample of banks operating in 24 countries, we provide robust evidence that stronger creditor rights are associated with higher capital adequacy ratios for conventional banks but not for Islamic banks. Such results suggest that, under stronger creditor protection, only the managers of conventional banks increase equity, presumably as a means of signalling better monitoring efforts and of avoiding loss of control. A possible reason for the finding that Islamic banks do not generally increase equity is that, under the profit loss sharing (PLS) principle, depositors share profits and losses with the bank. The role of creditor protection is hence irrelevant in an Islamic banking context. However, we show that in predominantly non-Muslim countries with less competitive markets, Islamic banks show a similar association between creditor rights and capital ratios as conventional banks.
K22|Corporate insolvency procedures in England: The uneasy case for liquidations|Our paper investigates a comprehensive sample of 574 English corporate insolvency cases, including direct liquidation cases. In contrast to other insolvency procedures, liquidations perform poorly on average and fail to produce satisfactory repayments to creditors. We run multinomial Logit regressions to explain the choice between liquidation and reorganization. We obtain three main results. First, we confirm that size matters: distressed firms owning low assets have higher chances of being liquidated immediately. Second, the presence of secured creditors decreases the risk of direct liquidation. This provides a clue that in England, the most-informed creditors adapt their strategies and turn away from the less-performing procedures. Third, we find that the likelihood of administration—which appears nowadays as the main alternative to direct liquidation—significantly depends on the proportion of fixed/current assets owned by the firms.
K22|Eclipse of the Public Corporation or Eclipse of the Public Markets?|Since reaching a peak in 1997, the number of listed firms in the U.S. has fallen in every year but one. During this same period, public firms have been net purchasers of $3.6 trillion of equity (in 2015 dollars) rather than net issuers. The propensity to be listed is lower across all firm size groups, but more so among firms with less than 5,000 employees. Relative to other countries, the U.S. now has abnormally few listed firms. Because markets have become unattractive to small firms, existing listed firms are larger and older. We argue that the importance of intangible investment has grown but that public markets are not well-suited for young, R&D-intensive companies. Since there is abundant capital available to such firms without going public, they have little incentive to do so until they reach the point in their lifecycle where they focus more on payouts than on raising capital.
K22|Initial Coin Offerings: Financing Growth with Cryptocurrency Token Sales|Initial coin offerings (ICOs) have emerged as a new mechanism for entrepreneurial finance, with parallels to initial public offerings, venture capital, and pre-sale crowdfunding. In a sample of more than 1,500 ICOs that collectively raise $12.9 billion, we examine which issuer and ICO characteristics predict successful real outcomes (increasing issuer employment and avoiding enterprise failure). Success is associated with disclosure, credible commitment to the project, and quality signals. An instrumental variables analysis finds that ICO token exchange listing causes higher future employment, indicating that access to token liquidity has important real consequences for the enterprise.
K22|Recent developments in investment fraud and scams: Contracts for Difference (‘CFD’) spread betting and binary options and foreign exchange (‘Forex’) sometimes collectively known as ‘forbin’ – the UK experience|This paper discusses investor trading schemes for CFDs, spread betting, binary options and forex, what are effectively financial derivatives, designed for investors to speculate on market movements. It is argued that it is not possible for investors to consistently ‘beat the market’ unless they have inside information and frequent trading will result in losses. It is also shown how these derivatives are used in scams and frauds designed to dupe naïve investors. The final section of the paper examines how the UK regulators, principally the Financial Services Authority (later the Financial Conduct Authority) have attempted to combat fraud and abuse and their prosecuting and preventative efforts.
K22|Differential Voting Right Shares in India - Legal and Valuation Perspective|In India, a company can only issue DVR, a.k.a. Differential Voting Rights, shares that offer fewer voting rights than ordinary shares of the same company. The holders of the equity shares with differential rights enjoy all other rights such as bonus shares, rights shares etc., which the holders of ordinary equity shares are entitled to Ideally, the movement in the two shares, i.e. ordinary share and DVR share, should mirror each other. However in India, on an average, only 63.83% of the returns of DVR shares is explained by returns of the ordinary shares. The legal environment is the key factor in explaining differences across countries and the voting premium is smaller in countries with better legal protection for minority and non-voting stockholders and larger for countries without such protection. Considering the strict corporate governance requirements for Companies to list dual-class shares in India and the various laws protecting the rights of DVR shareholders against hostility, it can be argued that the discount of 35-45% for DVR shares is a bit excessive.
K22|Crypto Currency and its Susceptibility to Speculative Bubbles Manipulation Scams and Fraud|It is argued here that because a cryptocurrency has no intrinsic value problems relating to day to day valuation and pricing arise It is shown how these lead to the reversal of the conventional relationship between supply and demand and the susceptibility of the cryptocurrency markets to irrationality and speculative bubbles arising from the herding instinct Also as the cryptocurrency markets are largely free of regulation and the desire for privacy by founders owners and developers is so great accountability and disclosure requirements are either minimal or non existent leading to the manipulation of cryptocurrency prices volume and market capitalisation information Another consequence of their freedom from regulation particularly surprising given the importance placed on their security through the use of blockchain is the magnitude of thefts of cryptocurrency both in terms of frequency and size levels of which would neither be expected nor tolerated in regulated financial markets
K22|Earnings management and annual report readability|We explore how the readability of annual reports varies with earnings management. Using the Fog Index to measure readability (Li, 2008), and focusing on the management discussion and analysis section of the annual report (MD&A), we predict and find that firms most likely to have managed earnings to beat the prior year's earnings have MD&As that are more complex. This disruption of the overall pattern of readability increasing with the level of earnings found in Li (2008) challenges the ontological explanation that good news is inherently easier to communicate, and shows that obfuscation contributes to making disclosures more complex.
K22|Do Delaware CEOs get fired?|Critics have charged that state competition in corporate law, which Delaware dominates, leads to a “race to the bottom” making management unaccountable. We argue that Delaware corporate law attracts firms with particular financial and governance characteristics. We find that Delaware attracts growth firms in industries with more takeover activity. Delaware firms have smaller boards, and their directors are paid more and serve on more boards. In addition, Delaware firms attract greater institutional ownership. We also provide a bottom-line test of the race-to-the-bottom hypothesis by examining forced CEO turnover. After controlling for differences in firm characteristics, we find that firms incorporated in Delaware are more likely to terminate CEOs. We also find that that termination decision is less sensitive to poor performance. Overall, we see no clear pattern supporting the “race to the bottom” hypothesis.
K22|Do staggered boards harm shareholders?|We examine the Cohen and Wang (2013) conclusion that a staggered board lowers firm value based on the stock price reaction to two 2010 Delaware court rulings in the Airgas, Inc. case. The first ruling weakened the potency of a staggered board and the second restored it. We find that the Cohen and Wang results, for their sample, become insignificant after excluding a few penny stocks, stocks with value below $10 million, or over-the-counter (non-exchange) stocks. The effects of the rulings are also insignificant for an alternative sample.
K22|Inside directors, risk aversion, and firm performance|Prior literature provides mixed evidence on managerial risk aversion. Using a sample of 1737 large US firms from 1996 to 2005, we find a negative association between the insider ratio and firm risk. Upon further analysis, we show that firms with a greater insider ratio are also likely to have more conservative CEO compensation and investment policies. Analysis of CEO compensation policies indicates that firms with a greater insider ratio offer lower equity based compensation, lower vega and lower total compensation to their CEOs. Also, firms with a greater insider ratio tend to invest more in tangible assets such as plant and equipment and have lower intangible investments. Consistent with these boards instituting conservative policies, we find that firms with a greater insider ratio perform better when they operate in highly volatile environments. Overall, this study suggests that high-insider boards are more conservative in policy initiation and that such boards are valuable in firms with greater operating uncertainties.
K22|How does managerial opportunism affect the cost of debt financing?|Using managerial entrenchment and earnings management activities to proxy for managers’ opportunism, this paper explores the effect of the managers’ behaviour on the cost of debt financing. The study shows that low levels of managerial opportunism result in firms enjoying lower corporate bond costs and higher credit ratings. Moreover, the findings suggest that higher bond costs and lower credit ratings are generally associated with income-increasing earnings management activities.
K22|Determinants of capital structure in emerging markets: Evidence from Vietnam|Capital structure decision is an important corporate behavior which draws strong interest from different stakeholders. It is more important in emerging markets due to their unique legal, cultural and institutional characteristics. This paper sheds further light on the question of whether capital structure determinants are different in emerging markets. We utilize a new and unique data set containing firm specific attributes over the period from 2006 to 2015. Employing GMM estimator to control for endogeneity, the results indicate that the determinants of capital structure are different for long-term and short-term indicators.
K22|Resaleable debt and systemic risk|Many debt claims, such as bonds, are resaleable, whereas others, such as repos, are not. There was a fivefold increase in repo borrowing before the 2008 crisis. Why? Did banks’ dependence on non-resaleable debt precipitate the crisis? In this paper, we develop a model of bank lending with credit frictions. The key feature of the model is that debt claims are heterogeneous in their resaleability. We find that decreasing credit market frictions leads to an increase in borrowing via non-resaleable debt. Borrowing via non-resaleable debt has a dark side: it causes credit chains to form, since if a bank makes a loan via non-resaleable debt and needs liquidity, it cannot sell the loan but must borrow via a new contract. These credit chains are a source of systemic risk, since one bank’s default harms not only its creditors but also its creditors’ creditors. Overall, our model suggests that reducing credit market frictions may have an adverse effect on the financial system and may even lead to the failures of financial institutions.
K22|Prospect theory and the effects of bankruptcy laws on entrepreneurial aspirations|Abstract We apply prospect theory to explain how personal and corporate bankruptcy laws affect risk perceptions of entrepreneurs at time of entry and therefore their growth ambitions. Previous theories have reached ambiguous conclusions as to whether countries with more debtor-friendly bankruptcy laws (i.e. laws that are more forgiving towards debtors in bankruptcy proceedings) are likely to have more entrepreneurs, or whether, creditor-friendly regimes have positive effects on new ventures via enhanced incentives for the supply of credit to entrepreneurs. Responding to this ambiguity, we apply prospect theory to propose that entrepreneurs do not attach the same significance to different elements of bankruptcy codes—and to explain which aspects of debtor-friendly bankruptcy laws matter more to entrepreneurs. Based on this, we derive and confirm hypotheses about the impact of aspects of bankruptcy codes on entrepreneurial activity using the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor combined with data on both personal and corporate bankruptcy regulations for 15 developed OECD countries. We use multilevel random coefficient logistic regressions to take account of the hierarchical nature of the data (country and individual levels). Because entrepreneurs and creditors are sensitive to different elements of the codes, there is scope for optimisation of the legal design of bankruptcy law to achieve both an adequate supply of credit and to encourage high-ambition entrepreneurship.
K22|Contingent judicial deference: theory and application to usury laws|Legislation is less likely to be enforced when courts disagree with it. Building on this premise, we propose a model of Bayesian adjudicators that use their own prior knowledge to evaluate the appropriateness of legislation. The model yields a non-monotonic relation between written rules and effectively enforced rules. Hence the enactment of legislation prohibiting something raises the probability that courts will allow related things not expressly forbidden. Moreover, legal uncertainty is greater with legislation that commands little deference from courts than with legislation that commands none. We discuss examples of effects of legislated prohibitions (and, in particular, usury laws) that are consistent with the model.
K22|Contingent Judicial Deference: theory and application to usury laws|Legislation is less likely to be enforced when courts disagree with it. Building on this premise, we propose a model of Bayesian adjudicators that use their own prior knowledge to evaluate the appropriateness of legislation. The model yields a non-monotonic relation between written rules and effectively enforced rules. Hence the enactment of legislation prohibiting something raises the probability that courts will allow related things not expressly forbidden. Moreover, legal uncertainty is greater with legislation that commands little deference from courts than with legislation that commands none. We discuss examples of effects of legislated prohibitions (and, in particular, usury laws) that are consistent with the model.
K22|Does dividend tax impede competition for corporate charters?|We develop a model of jurisdictional competition for corporate charters among the states in which a firm’s agency cost depends on the federal dividend income tax rate and the takeover regulations of its domicile state. When firms are mobile across states, the federal dividend income tax rate affects both the intensity of competition among the states and the equilibrium level of state takeover regulations. Our model shows that increasing dividend tax rate weakens the competition for corporate charters under a condition: dividend-paying and the market for corporate control are complementary corporate governance mechanisms. This condition holds empirically, suggesting that dividend tax not only discourages firms from paying dividends but also weakens their corporate governance by disincentivizing states to improve their corporate laws.
K22|Coordination Frictions in Venture Capital Syndicates|An extensive literature on venture capital has studied asymmetric information and agency problems between investors and entrepreneurs, examining how separating entrepreneurs from the investor can create frictions that might inhibit the funding of good projects. It has largely abstracted away from the fact that a startup typically does not have just one investor, but several VCs that come together in a syndicate to finance a venture. In this chapter, we therefore argue for an expansion of the standard perspective to also include frictions within VC syndicates. Put differently, what are the frictions that arise from the fact that there is not just one investor for each venture, but several investors with different incentives, objectives and cash flow rights, who nevertheless need to collaborate to help make the venture a success? We outline the ways in which these coordination frictions manifest themselves, describe the underlying drivers and document several contractual solutions used by VCs to mitigate their effects. We believe that this broader perspective provides several promising avenues for future research.
K22|What matters in Design of Corporate Law|For the corporate business model to be successful, it is important to align the interests of those who control and finance the firm. Corporate law has here an important task to fulfill. It offers a legal framework that can facilitate for parties to conclude mutually preferable agreements at low transaction costs. The purpose of the paper is to show how to design corporate law to fulfill this task. A two-dimension model that simultaneously considers both regulation intensity and the level of default of the corporate law is presented. Earlier literature treats these dimensions separately. By adding a transaction cost perspective to our model, we assess different regulatory techniques and examine how legislation can help corporations by offering a standard contract that lowers transaction costs of contracting. This can be achieved through a legislation that covers most contingencies and take the heterogeneity of firms into consideration. Furthermore, default rules or standards of opt-out character should be combined with other regulatory techniques with lower transaction costs such as opt-in alternatives and menus.
K22|Inside or outside control of banks? Evidence from the composition of supervisory boards|Abstract This paper examines the composition of supervisory boards of 41 large German banks in 1999–2010. We find that the supervisory board structure reflects both outside control by major shareholders and inside control by other stakeholders. The largest group among non-employee board members is made up of bank managers. The high proportion of former executives and German board representation indicates significant inside control. The chairpersons of banks controlled by banks are less likely to be former executives of the same bank than are the chairpersons of banks controlled by non-banks. Over time, representation of industrial and insurance companies on banks’ supervisory boards has decreased and the representation of banks and foreign shareholders has increased.
K22|The relationship between corporate governance characteristics and credit risk exposure in banks: implications for financial regulation|Abstract This article analyses board structures in listed Danish banks in the years prior to the financial crisis by exploring the relationship between corporate governance characteristics and credit risk exposure. The article presents a novel approach as it relies on a newly developed risk metric entitled the “Supervision Diamond” introduced by the Danish FSA, which “external” board directors must address. It contains five thresholds for measuring a bank’s exposure to credit risks i.e. the proportion of large customers, lending growth, the ratio of lending/deposits, liquidity buffer and the proportion of real estate loans. By employing quantitative governance variables the article finds that increased executive director remuneration is associated with increased credit risk posed by the bank’s borrowers. On the other hand, increasing the number of executive/“inside” directors is associated with a lower credit risk exposure. It is argued that more “inside” directors on the executive board constitutes a stronger “checks and balance” system. The article also documents that the probability of obtaining state capital from the Danish credit bailout package is negatively related to larger boards as well as higher executive director remuneration. The policy implication is that financial authorities should be increasingly aware of insufficient corporate governance characteristics in order to prevent excessive credit risk exposure. Moreover, the article provides important insights on which corporate governance variables have a significant impact on a bank’s credit risk exposure. This knowledge is valuable for financial authorities/policy makers considering future regulatory initiatives and how they should administer bank monitoring.
K22|Corporate Culture: Evidence from the Field|Does corporate culture matter? Can differences in corporate culture explain why similar firms diverge with one succeeding and the other failing? To answer these questions, we use a novel survey and interview-based analysis of 1,348 North American firms. Over half of senior executives believe that corporate culture is a top-three driver of firm value and 92% believe that improving their culture would increase their firm's value. Surprisingly, only 16% believe their culture is where it should be. Executives link culture to ethical choices (compliance, short-termism), innovation (creativity, taking appropriate risk), and value creation (productivity, acquisition premia). We assess these links within a framework that implies cultural effectiveness depends on interactions between cultural values, norms, and formal institutions. Our evidence suggests that cultural norms are as important as stated values in achieving success.
K22|Governance and Stakeholders|Economic models routinely assume firms maximize shareholder wealth; however common law legal systems only require that officers and directors pursue the interests of the corporation, leaving this ill-defined. Economic arguments for shareholder wealth maximization derived from shareholders’ status as residual claimants are vulnerable on several fronts. Share valuations fluctuate as sentiment shifts. Introductory finance casts firms as maximizing expected net present values, which are quasirents, expected earnings beyond expected costs of capital from investors, to which shareholders have no obvious claim. Other stakeholders – entrepreneurial founders or CEOs, employees, employees, customers, suppliers, communities or governments, having made firm-specific investments, may exert stronger claims than atomistic public shareholders have to shares of their firms’ quasirents. Consistent with this, their contractual claims are often augmented by residual claims and liabilities. Still, shareholder value maximization constitutes something of a bright line; whereas stakeholder welfare maximization is an ill-defined charge to assign boards that gives self-interested insiders broader scope for private benefits extraction. The common law concept of “the interests of the corporation” captures this ambiguity.
K22|Regulation of Charlatans in High-Skill Professions|We study a market for a skill that is in short supply and high demand, where the presence of charlatans (professionals who sell a service that they do not deliver on) is an equilibrium outcome. We use this model to evaluate the belief that reducing the number of charlatans through regulation increases consumer surplus. We show that this belief is false: both information disclosure as well as setting standards reduces consumer surplus. Although both standards and disclosure drive charlatans out of the market, consumers are worse off because of the resulting reduction in competition amongst producers. Producers, on the other hand, strictly benefit from the regulation, implying that the regulation we observe in these markets likely derives from producer interests. The model provides insights into the parameters that drive the cross-sectional variation in charlatans across professions. Professions with weak trade groups, skills in larger supply, shorter training periods and less informative signals regarding the professional's skill, are more likely to feature charlatans. We conclude that the number of charlatans in equilibrium is positively related to the value added of that profession to consumers.
K22|Changes in Corporate Governance and Top Executive Turnover: The Evidence from Japan|We examine the turnover of top executives in Japanese firms throughout the period from 1990 to 2013. During this time, the presence of a main bank has been weakened, the ownership of institutional investors has dramatically increased, and independent outside directors have been introduced in many firms. We find that top executive turnover sensitivity to corporate performance has not changed, although return on equity (ROE) and stock returns displace return on assets (ROA) as performance indicators that turnover is most sensitive to. The evidence also indicates that instead of the main bank, foreign institutional investors have begun to play an important governance role in Japan. However, the main bank does not abandon its governance role. While the scope of the main bank’s authority may have substantially contracted, main banks continue to perform a certain role in disciplining management.
K22|On the Economics of Audit Partner Tenure and Rotation: Evidence from PCAOB Data|This paper provides the first partner tenure and rotation analysis for a large cross-section of U.S. publicly listed firms over an extended period. We analyze the effects on audit quality as well as economic tradeoffs related to partner tenure and rotation with respect to audit hours and fees. On average, we find no evidence for audit quality declines over the tenure cycle and little support for fresh-look benefits after rotations. Nevertheless, partner rotations have significant economic consequences. We find increases in audit fees and decreases in audit hours over the tenure cycle, which differ by partner experience, client size, and competitiveness of the local audit market. More generally, our findings are consistent with efforts by the audit firms to minimize disruptions and audit failures around mandatory rotations. We also analyze special circumstances, such as audit firm switches and early partner rotations, and show that they are more disruptive than mandatory rotations, and also more likely to exhibit audit quality effects.
K22|Who Falls Prey to the Wolf of Wall Street? Investor Participation in Market Manipulation|Manipulative communications touting stocks are common in capital markets around the world. Although the price distortions created by so-called “pump-and-dump” schemes are well known, little is known about the investors in these frauds. By examining 421 “pump-and-dump” schemes between 2002 and 2015 and a proprietary set of trading records for over 110,000 individual investors from a major German bank, we provide evidence on the participation rate, magnitude of the investments, losses, and the characteristics of the individuals who invest in such schemes. Our evidence suggests that participation is quite common and involves sizable losses, with nearly 6% of active investors participating in at least one “pump-and-dump” and an average loss of nearly 30%. Moreover, we identify several distinct types of investors, some of which should not be viewed as falling prey to these frauds. We also show that portfolio composition and past trading behavior can better explain participation in touted stocks than demographics. Our analysis offers insights into the challenges associated with designing effective investor protection against market manipulation.
K22|Determinants of Bank Capital in Dual Banking Systems|We report new evidence on the bank and country-level determinants of Islamic bank capital ratios in 28 countries between 1999 and 2013. Overall, we find that smaller, more profitable, and highly liquid Islamic banks are more highly capitalized. Additionally, improvements in the economic and financial environments and market discipline within a country correspond with higher Islamic bank capitalization. The results shed light on the impact that Sharia’a law restrictions have on Islamic banking capitalization. Our findings are most robust to banks that choose to hold capital well in excess of that required by regulators, consistent with traditional capital structure theory. Our results highlight the role that stable economic and political systems play in improving bank capitalization and reducing financial sector risk. By reducing political instability and corruption, improving legal systems, and encouraging access to capital markets, policymakers may incentivize mangers to make financing decisions that increase the capitalization of the Islamic banking industry in developing countries.
K22|The Ephemeral Concept of Parasitic Commercial Practices in the EU|Research background: It has been one decade since the transposition deadline regarding the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive. The EU´s growth strategy, Europe 2020, and all EU member states are committed to smart, sustainable, and inclusive growth, to the single internal market and to R&D leading to innovations. These positive priorities, however, often conflict with one another. The EU crossed the Rubicon and decided to harmonize the protection against parasitic commercial practices hurting intellectual property and consumers. Is this appropriate, effective and efficient? Purpose of the article: The primary purpose of this article is to assess the appropriateness, effectiveness and efficiency of the EU harmonization of the ephemeral concept of parasitic commercial practices. The secondary purpose is to assess approach(es) of the EU and EU member states to this overlap of the competition and intellectual property regimes. The third purpose is to assess the feasibility of the integrative harmonization in this arena. Methodology/methods: The multi-disciplinary nature of this article, and its three purposes, leads to the employment of Meta-Analysis, of the critical comparison of laws and the impact of their application, to the holistic perception of historical and national contexts, and to case studies. The primary sources (field search) and secondary sources (literature) are explored and the yield knowledge and data are confronted with the explored cases. The dominating qualitative research and data are complemented by the quantitative research and data. Findings & Value added: The Unfair Commercial Practices Directive harmonizes the protection of various issues, including the ephemeral concept of parasitic commercial practices. The set trio of purposes leads to a conclusion that this overlap of competition and intellectual property protection is highly sensitive and nationally particular. EU integration in this sphere is needed, but the undertaken harmonization is not fully effective and efficient, and perhaps even not appropriate.
K22|A New Perspective On Insolvency –The Procedure Applicable To The Debtor Who Is A Natural Person (I)|Previously to the entrance into force in Romania of Law no.151/2015 on the insolvency of individuals, the present study aims as main objective to research the regulatory framework in the matter of the insolvency of individuals comprised in Law 151/2015 and to analyse the regulatory solutions preferred by the national lawmaker. The methods used in this study are data analysis, document analysis and comparative research. Taking into consideration the fact that at national level we find ourselves close to having enforced a system of protection of the natural person undergoing insolvency, it is particularly necessary to unveil the rules applicable in the matter and the doctrine, that design a unitary and coherent system, to which the present study aims to contribute together with the studies that will follow on this subject.
K22|Corporate Voting|I introduce a model of corporate voting. I characterize the shareholder majority rule as the unique corporate voting rule that satisfies four axioms: anonymity, neutrality, share monotonicity, and merger, a property that requires consistency in election outcomes following stock-for-stock mergers.
K22|Religi, budaya dan ekonomi kreatif: Prospek dan pengembangan pariwisata halal di Cirebon<BR>[Religion, culture and creative economy: Prospect and development of halal tourism in Cirebon]|This article confirms that tourism activities including religious, cultural and creative centers in Cirebon are developing separately from local government policy and program implementation, but tourism development activities are getting more advanced in the city and district of Cirebon. With a trend-analysis approach, this article is based on data collected through interviews, exploration of events, news, and information from print media and electronic media, as well as documents from tourism organizers in Cirebon. This paper concludes that Cirebon positioned itself as one of the destinations for the development of halal tourism that became the centre of the tourism industry in the future.
K22|Institutional Ownership and Private Equity Placements: Evidence from Chinese Listed Firms|This paper examines the impact of institutional ownership on the performance of private equity placements (PEPs) for listed firms in China. We find that the presence of institutional investors can alleviate the information asymmetries between listed firms and the market. The market reaction to PEP announcements is significantly smaller if there is a higher portion of institutional shareholdings. Long‐term firm operational performance after PEPs is positively correlated with institutional shareholdings. Moreover, we find that the relationship between institutional shareholdings and PEP performance is mainly driven by nonlisted corporate investors and mutual funds. Finally, the relationship between PEP performance and institutional shareholdings is stronger in smaller PEP issuers.
K22|Tax Amnesty For Social Contribution In Romanian Legal Framework|When the state representatives realise that the fiscal liabilities are too hard to comply with and the taxpayers are very temped to avoid the payments, alternative solutions might be used. In order to move on with their daily activities, the taxpayers need to ease tax burden and a solution to rebalance the general budgetary collect/spend mechanism is to consider an amnesty regulation. Some legally stated fiscal liabilities are to be cancelled, in order to facilitate the continuity of the activity of the taxpayers and to insure further payments to the budget, despite the present diminish of the budgetary incomes. The recent Romanian fiscal amnesty is analyzed, starting with its motivations, the applicable procedures and the possible misinterpretations. The fiscal authority role and actions are presented, in comparison with the action of the beneficiaries of the law. Also, the results amnesty generated and the influence on the taxpayers? activity are analyzed, through the relevant case law already generated on the topic. The negative influence of the tax amnesty is pointed out as a result of the research.
K22|A Legal Effect of European Union's Business Law Policy: Single Member Companies in Turkish Law|The concept of single-member company has been studied in the doctrine by lawyers and economists for more than hundred years. Single-member companies have become widespread by virtue of the European Union?s legal instructions and mostly subsequent acceleration of states? legislation efforts in order to allow foundation of single-member companies pursuant to their national laws. The dangers which single-member companies may generate are matters of discussion as well as the possible benefits of single-member companies to the national and international markets. Authorization of a single-member company foundation is one of the most important changes that were brought by Turkish Commercial Code with its entry into force in 1 July 2012. It is understandable from analysis of company foundation statistics provided by official authorities that incorporation of a company by a single member is widely embraced by market players. Presently, the European Union labours with a directive proposal which aims formation of new and more practical single-member company type. The outcome of these economic policy borne legal efforts will have significant effects on Turkey as a current member of the European Customs Union and a candidate country for the European Union, and foreign investors who plan to invest in Turkey.
K22|Economic Crimes in the Shortage Economy|Rational agents react on the incentives in the market economy as well as in the centrally planned economy. Economic laws are persistent regardless the economic system. Legislative system changes the outcome of the game between economic agents and managers. Base on the original survey among former managers as well as on the legislative sources from the 1970?s and 1980?s the taxonomy of economic reactions on the shortage economy was made. We distinguish plan manipulation in order to ensure payment bonuses; bribery in order to gain the short-supplied inputs and reserves? creation for the purpose of the fulfilling the plan. It was shown, that if the rational agent wanted to obey the higher law, he was forced to ignore lower legislation.
K22|Contemporary Challenges in the Business Law|This volume contains the scientific papers presented at the Sixth International Conference „Perspectives of Business Law in the Third Millennium” that was held on 25-26 November 2016 at Bucharest University of Economic Studies, Romania. The scientific studies included in this volume are grouped into two chapters: Contemporary challenges in the regulation of international business law; Contemporary challenges in the regulation of national business law. The present volume is addressed to practitioners, researchers, students and PhD candidates in juridical sciences, who are interested in recent developments and prospects for development in the field of business law at international and national level.
K22|A drop in an empty pond: Canadian public policy towards venture capital|Abstract This paper presents evidence about the shortfall of venture capital in Canada relative to comparable regions in the United States, despite massive government spending on governmental venture capital programs in Canada. The Government of Canada committed $500 million towards venture capital in 2013 through the Venture Capital Action Plan. The Government of Ontario committed $29 million to the Investment Accelerator Fund in 2007, $105 million to the Ontario Venture Capital Fund in 2008, and up to $50 million per year through the Ontario Emerging Technologies Fund in 2009. We present data that shows Ontario’s expenditures would have to be higher by $4.4 billion per year to achieve levels of VC/GDP that are comparable to Massachusetts. Similarly, federal expenditures would have to be higher by $1.6 billion per year higher to achieve levels of VC/GDP that are comparable to the US. We attribute the shortfall in Canadian venture capital to two major policy failures. First, there is a persistent government venture capital support program that crowds out private investment. Second, other government programs favor established businesses. In Ontario in 2012, $4.1 billion in expenditures were allocated towards businesses, and the vast majority of these expenses are targeted towards the largest and oldest companies and the companies with the greatest revenues. We discuss the impact of such policies on the venture capital ecosystem in Canada.
K22|Go before the whistle blows: an empirical analysis of director turnover and financial fraud|Abstract This study investigates whether outside directors are aware of financial fraud. Our analysis focuses on the abnormal turnover of these directors during the fraud committing period, before fraud is discovered and before lawsuits are filed. Our empirical analysis shows that, during the fraud committing period, outside directors in fraud firms exhibit an abnormal level of turnover. Examining the characteristics of outside directors and boards at these fraud firms, we find strong evidence that female directors, directors who have greater stock ownership in the firm, and directors with multiple directorships at other firms are more likely to depart fraud firms. We also find some evidence that board size, number of meetings, and fraction of financial experts are related to abnormal turnover in fraud firms during the fraud committing period. We show that abnormal director turnover is significantly higher for fraud that is considered more egregious (i.e., involving fictitious transactions and disclosure problems). Lastly, directors are more likely to depart fraud firms with more serious fraud, as proxied by higher ex-post settlement amounts and longer fraud duration.
K22|Determinants of Corporate Voting – Evidence from a Large Survey of German Retail Investors|Abstract Although corporate voting is a vital instrument of corporate governance, research on the determinants of voting turnout at an individual level is still scarce. This paper sheds first light on corporate voting from the individual investors’ perspective by analyzing a large and unique data set collected from a survey among almost 425,000 German retail investors of a German blue-chip company. The results of this case study provide unprecedented insights into potential factors influencing private shareholders’ decision to cast their votes in corporate elections. Drawing on the traditional rational choice model and the resource model of political voting, my findings indicate that particularly investors with better resources, i. e., particularly well-educated or rather sophisticated and more experienced retail investors, are more likely to use their corporate voting right. Overall, the results may offer new implications for explaining the voting turnout in German publicly listed companies.
K22|The Inner Workings of the Board: Evidence from Emerging Markets|We survey non-executive directors in emerging markets to obtain detailed information about the inner workings of corporate boards across a variety of institutional settings. We document substantial variation in the structure and conduct of boards as well as in directors' perceptions about the local legal environment. Further analysis indicates that directors who feel adequately empowered by local legislation are less likely to actively vote against board proposals. They also form boards that play a stronger role in the company's strategic decision-making. This suggests that a supportive legal environment allows directors to focus more on their advisory, as opposed to their monitoring, role.
K22|The effect of horizontal mergers, when firms compete in prices and investments|It has been suggested that mergers, by increasing concentration, raise incentives to invest and hence are pro-competitive. To study the effects of mergers, we rewrite a game with simultaneous price and cost-reducing investment choices as one where firms only choose prices, and make use of aggregative game theory. We find no support for that claim: absent effciency gains, the merger lowers total investments and consumer surplus.Only if it entails suffcient effciency gains, will it be pro-competitive. We also show there exist classes of models for which the results obtained with cost-reducing investments are equivalent to those with quality-enhancing investments.
K22|Property Rights in Sequential Exchange|We analyze the “sequential exchange” problem in which traders have imperfect information on earlier contracts. We show that under sequential exchange, it is in general not possible to simultaneously implement two key features of markets—specialization between asset ownership and control, and impersonal trade. In particular, we show that in contrast with the conventional wisdom in economics, strong property rights—enforceable against subsequent buyers—may be detrimental to impersonal trade because they expose asset buyers to the risk of collusive relationships between owners and sellers. Finally, we provide conditions under which a mechanism that overcomes the trade-off between specialization and impersonal trade exists. We characterize and discuss such mechanism. Our results provide an efficiency rationale for how property rights are enforced in business, company and real estate transactions, and for the ubiquitousness of “formalization” institutions that the literature has narrowly seen as entry barriers. (JEL D23, D83, K11, K22)
K22|Legal possibilities concerning restructuring of companies in business difficulties|Since difficulties during business are an integral part of entrepreneurship, the Croatian legislative offers several restructuring models for companies who have business issues. The pre-bankruptcy agreement is available in cases when the debtor is threatened by insolvency and during this procedure, the business of the company is still managed by the existing management board. However, it is necessary that the pre-bankruptcy procedure is finished within a short deadline. The bankruptcy procedure is commenced on grounds of over-indebtedness and when in a state of incapacity to make payments, Future business is managed by the insolvency practitioner. The extraordinary administration procedure in companies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia is initiated in cases where large enterprises are faced with bankruptcy or pre-bankruptcy reasons. During this procedure, the business of the parent-company is conducted by the extraordinary trustee. Each of the aforementioned procedures (models) has its specifications and legal consequences for all stakeholders involved (debtor, management board and creditors). This paper will use the comparative legal research methodology to analyze the differences between them: the grounds for commencing the procedures, continuing company’s business operations, deadlines and the aftermaths for the creditors and shareholders of the company. The focus of the paper will be to demonstrate that each procedure can preserve financially positive business of the companies in problems. Several legal models should enable timely restructuring of companies, which can secure the safety of sustainable businesses and help create and maintain employment, while also can reduce the risk in the finance sector connected with converting loans to poor credits. However, the success of the negotiations with relevant stakeholders, namely creditors, and the percentage of creditor’s payment returns largely depend on early detection of business problems and prompt opening of appropriate proceedings.
K22|Too Complex to Work: A Critical Assessment of the Bail-in Tool under the European Bank Recovery and Resolution Regime|This article analyses the bail-in tool under the European Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive (BRRD) and predicts that it will not reach its policy objective. To make this argument, this article first describes the policy rationale that calls for mandatory private sector involvement (PSI). From this analysis the key features for an effective bail-in tool can be derived. These insights serve as the background to make the case that the European resolution framework is likely ineffective in establishing adequate market discipline through risk-reflecting prices for bank capital. The main reason for this lies in the avoidable embeddedness of the BRRD’s bail-in tool in the much broader resolution process which entails ample discretion of the authorities also in forcing PSI. Moreover, the idea that nearly all positions on the liability side of a bank’s balance sheet should be subjected to bail-in is misguided. Instead, a concentration of PSI in instruments that fall under the minimum requirements for own funds and eligible liabilities (MREL) is preferable. Finally, this article synthesizes the prior analysis by putting forward an alternative regulatory approach that seeks to disentangle PSI as a precondition for effective bank-resolution as much as possible from the resolution process as such.
K22|Why MREL won't help much|The bail-in tool as implemented in the European bank resolution framework suffers from severe shortcomings. To some extent, the regulatory framework can remedy the impediments to the desirable incentive effect of private sector involvement (PSI) that emanate from a lack of predictability of outcomes, if it compels banks to issue a sufficiently sized minimum of high-quality, easy to bail-in (subordinated) liabilities. Yet, even the limited improvements any prescription of bail-in capital can offer for PSI's operational effectiveness seem compromised in important respects. The main problem, echoing the general concerns voiced against the European bail-in regime, is that the specifications for minimum requirements for own funds and eligible liabilities (MREL) are also highly detailed and discretionary and thus alleviate the predicament of investors in bail-in debt, at best, only insufficiently. Quite importantly, given the character of typical MREL instruments as non-runnable long-term debt, even if investors are able to gauge the relevant risk of PSI in a bank's failure correctly at the time of purchase, subsequent adjustment of MREL-prescriptions by competent or resolution authorities potentially change the risk profile of the pertinent instruments. Therefore, original pricing decisions may prove inadequate and so may market discipline that follows from them. The pending European legislation aims at an implementation of the already complex specifications of the Financial Stability Board (FSB) for Total Loss Absorbing Capacity (TLAC) by very detailed and case specific amendments to both the regulatory capital and the resolution regime with an exorbitant emphasis on proportionality and technical fine-tuning. What gets lost in this approach, however, is the key policy objective of enhanced market discipline through predictable PSI: it is hardly conceivable that the pricing of MREL-instruments reflects an accurate risk-assessment of investors because of the many discretionary choices a multitude of agencies are supposed to make and revisit in the administration of the new regime. To prove this conclusion, this chapter looks in more detail at the regulatory objectives of the BRRD's prescriptions for MREL and their implementation in the prospectively amended European supervisory and resolution framework.
K22|Five years after the Liikanen Report: What have we learned?|The publication of the Liikanen Group's final report in October 2012 was surrounded by high expectations regarding the implementation of the reform plans through the proposed measures that reacted to the financial and sovereign debt crises. The recommendations mainly focused on introducing a mild version of banking separation and the creation of the preconditions for bail-in measures. In this article, we present an overview of the regulatory reforms, to which the financial sector has been subject over the past years in accordance with the concepts laid out in the Liikanen Report. It becomes clear from our assessment that more specific steps have yet to be taken before the agenda is accomplished. In particular, bail-in rules must be implemented more consistently. Beyond the question of the required minimum, the authors develop the notion of a maximum amount of liabilities subject to bail-in. The combination of both components leads to a three-layer structure of bank capital: a bail-in tranche, a deposit-insured bailout tranche, and an intermediate run-endangered mezzanine tranche. The size and treatment of the latter must be put to a political debate that weighs the costs and benefits of a further increase in financial stability beyond that achieved through loss-bearing of the bail-in tranche.
K22|Why MREL won't help much: Minimum requirements for bail-in capital as insufficient remedy for defunct private sector involvement under the European bank resolution framework|The bail-in tool as implemented in the European bank resolution framework suffers from severe shortcomings. To some extent, the regulatory framework can remedy the impediments to the desirable incentive effect of private sector involvement (PSI) that emanate from a lack of predictability of outcomes, if it compels banks to issue a sufficiently sized minimum of high-quality, easy to bail-in (subordinated) liabilities. Yet, even the limited improvements any prescription of bail-in capital can offer for PSI's operational effectiveness seem compromised in important respects. The main problem, echoing the general concerns voiced against the European bail-in regime, is that the specifications for minimum requirements for own funds and eligible liabilities (MREL) are also highly detailed and discretionary and thus alleviate the predicament of investors in bail-in debt, at best, only insufficiently. Quite importantly, given the character of typical MREL instruments as non-runnable long-term debt, even if investors are able to gauge the relevant risk of PSI in a bank's failure correctly at the time of purchase, subsequent adjustment of MREL-prescriptions by competent or resolution authorities potentially change the risk profile of the pertinent instruments. Therefore, original pricing decisions may prove inadequate and so may market discipline that follows from them. The pending European legislation aims at an implementation of the already complex specifications of the Financial Stability Board (FSB) for Total Loss Absorbing Capacity (TLAC) by very detailed and case specific amendments to both the regulatory capital and the resolution regime with an exorbitant emphasis on proportionality and technical fine-tuning. What gets lost in this approach, however, is the key policy objective of enhanced market discipline through predictable PSI: it is hardly conceivable that the pricing of MREL-instruments reflects an accurate risk-assessment of investors because of the many discretionary choices a multitude of agencies are supposed to make and revisit in the administration of the new regime. To prove this conclusion, this chapter looks in more detail at the regulatory objectives of the BRRD's prescriptions for MREL and their implementation in the prospectively amended European supervisory and resolution framework.
K22|Remarks on the German Regulation of Crowdfunding|Crowdfunding is a buzzword that signifies a sub-set in the new forms of finance facilitated by advances in information technology usually categorized as fintech. Concerns for financial stability, investor and consumer protection, or the prevention of money laundering or funding of terrorism hinge incrementally on including the new techniques to initiate financing relationships adequately in the regulatory framework. This paper analyzes the German regulation of crowdinvesting and finds that it does not fully live up to the regulatory challenges posed by this novel form of digitized matching of supply and demand on capital markets. It should better reflect the key importance of crowdinvesting platforms, which may become critical providers of market infrastructure in the not too distant future. Moreover, platforms can play an important role in investor protection that cannot be performed by traditional disclosure regimes geared towards more seasoned issuers. Against this background, the creation of an exemption from the traditional prospectus regime seems to be a plausible policy choice. However, it needs to be complemented by an adequate regulatory stimulation of platforms' role as gatekeepers.
K22|Regulation of crowdfunding in Germany|This paper is the national report for Germany prepared for the to the 20th General Congress of the International Academy of Comparative Law 2018 and gives an overview of the regulation of crowdfunding in Germany and the typical design of crowdfunding campaigns under this legal framework. After a brief survey of market data, it delineates the classification of crowdfunding transactions in German contract law and their treatment under the applicable conflict of laws regime. It then turns to the relevant rules in prudential banking regulation and capital market law. It highlights disclosure requirements that flow from both contractual obligations of the initiators of campaigns vis-à-vis contributors and securities regulation (prospectus regime). After sketching the most important duties of the parties involved in crowdfunding, the report also looks at the key features of the respective transactions' tax treatment.
K22|Disentangling Crowdfunding from Fraudfunding|Using Kickstarter and Indiegogo, the two largest crowdfunding platforms, we conduct an exhaustive search of all fraud cases from 2010 through 2015. We present evidence that fraudsters in crowdfunding markets have specific characteristics: they are less likely to have engaged in prior crowdfunding activities, they are less likely to have a social media presence, and they are more likely to provide poorly worded and confusing campaign pitches.
K22|Debtor-in-possession financing and credit priority: the effects of the preferential status granted by law in a composition with creditors|The work evaluates from a legal and economic perspective a number of provisions designed to promote debtor-in-possession financing to firms involved in a composition with creditors (concordato preventivo). Since 2010, several reforms have progressively extended the scope of preferential status for such credits. The research focuses on loans granted by professional lenders to firms whose composition plans were approved by the courts between 2006 and 2014. The econometric analysis shows that the measures have reduced the credit restriction (by 2 percentage points) and lowered its cost (with interest rates falling on average by 40 basis points). This outcome is mostly due to the liquidity provided by lenders that were not previously exposed to the distressed firm. However, some legal obstacles – such as, for instance, the possibility of the preferential status being reversed if a bankruptcy proceeding is initiated – could prevent further funds from being provided.
K22|Scope of Maximum Interest Rate Regulations (Report of Workshops (1))|"Statutory provisions regulating maximum interest rates (referred to generally hereafter as ""maximum interest rate regulations"") employ words that are interpreted to include various payments to creditors such as ""fees"" in addition to ""interest in substance"" (i.e. ""compensation for the use of principal""). Although this is considered effective in preventing evasion of regulation, it may have the effect of including payments made by parties to financial transactions without any intention to evade these regulations. The Report of the Workshops on ""Contemporary Financial Transactions and Their Regulatory Treatment"" (2016) (the ""Report"") explores this issue with regard to the interpretation of relevant laws and legislative actions. The Report refers to economics discourses related to maximum interest rate regulations and clarifies the intent and purpose of such regulations."
K22|Scope of Re-hypothecation Regulation (Report of Workshops (3))|"The margin requirements for non-cleared over-the-counter (""OTC"") derivatives transactions are introduced in 2016 (pursuant to an international agreement by the G20 to reduce systemic risk from OTC derivatives) and restrict the re-hypothecation of initial margin collateral. While this restriction is introduced in order to protect client assets, there has been a concern that such restriction may have a negative impact on market liquidity. The Report of the Workshops on ""Contemporary Financial Transactions and Their Regulatory Treatment"" (2016) (the ""Report"") analyzes the appropriate scope of regulation in relation to the re-hypothecation of initial margin collateral. Japan implements this regulation in a manner compatible with the international agreement, and introduces a new trust scheme concept, which allows for the segregated management of collateral assets. The Report also analyzes the potential for the trust scheme, which could provide room for the re-hypothecation of securities and hence, mitigate the unintended negative impact on market liquidity, while ensuring harmonization with the international agreement."
K22|Structure of P2P lending and investor protection: Analyses based on an international comparison of legal arrangements|P2P lending is direct lending between lenders and borrowers online without using traditional financial intermediaries such as banks. There has been a rapid increase in the amount of outstanding loans in P2P lending in recent years, mainly in the UK, the US, and China, since a major P2P lending platform in the UK was launched in 2005. In this paper, the structure of P2P lending and its characteristics are analysed using banks as a reference point. This paper also highlights the fact that the legal arrangements in P2P lending vary from country to country and those differences could affect the degree of investor protection. Samitsu (2017) explains that under the current legal arrangement in Japan, investors assume the credit risk of P2P lending platforms, and proposes utilising schemes such as specific purpose companies and specific trust companies to strengthen investor protection.
K22|Why Agents Need Discretion: The Business Judgment Rule as Optimal Standard of Care|Should managers be liable for ill-conceived business decisions? One answer is given by U.S. courts, which almost never hold managers liable for their mistakes. In this paper, we address the question in a theoretical model of delegated decision making. We find that courts should indeed be lenient as long as contracts are restricted to be linear. With more general compensation schemes, the answer depends on the precision of the court’s signal. If courts make many mistakes in evaluating decisions, they should not impose liability for poor business judgment.
K22|Votes at Work in Britain: Shareholder Monopolisation and the 'Single Channel'|Why do shareholders monopolise voting rights in UK companies, and are trade unions the only way to get meaningful workplace representation? In 1967 a Labour Party policy document first coined the phrase that collective bargaining was – and should be – the 'single channel' of representation. Since then, it has been said the labour movement embraced an 'adversarial' rather than a 'constitutional' conception of corporations, neglecting legal rights to worker voice in enterprise governance. This article shows that matters were not so simple. It explains the substantial history of legal rights to vote in British workplaces, and the competition from the rival constitutional conception: employee share schemes. The UK has the oldest corporations – namely universities – which have consistently embedded worker participation rights in law. Britain has among the world's most sophisticated 'second channel' participation rights in pension board governance. Developing with collective bargaining, it had the world's first private corporations with legal participation rights. Although major plans in the 1920s for codetermination in rail and coal fell through, it maintained a 'third channel' of worker representatives on boards during the 20th century in numerous sectors, including ports, gas, post, steel, and buses. At different points every major political party had general proposals for votes at work. The narrative of the 'single channel' of workplace representation, and an 'adversarial' conception of the company contains some truth, but there has never been one size of regulation for all forms of enterprise.
K22|Tony Lawson's Theory of the Corporation: Towards a Social Ontology of Law|In his account of the corporation as a 'community', Tony Lawson advances a materialist theory of social reality to argue for the existence of emergent social structures based on collective practices and behaviours, distinguishing his position from John Searle's theory of social reality as consisting of declarative speech acts. Lawson's and Searle's accounts are examined for what they imply about the relationship between social structures and legal concepts. It is argued that legal concepts are themselves a feature of social reality and that a consequence of the law's recognition of the 'reality' of the corporation is to open up the activities of business firm to a distinct form of normative ordering.
K22|Is There a Relationship Between Shareholder Protection and Stock Market Development?|The paper uses recently created datasets measuring legal change over time in a sample of 28 developed and emerging economies to test whether the strengthening of shareholder rights in the course of the mid-1990s and 2000s promoted stock market development in those countries. It finds only weak and equivocal evidence of a positive effect of shareholder protection on market capitalisation, the value of stock trading, and the turnover ratio, and a negative impact on the number of listed companies. There is stronger evidence of reverse causality, in the sense of stock market development at country level generating changes in shareholder protection law. We conclude, firstly, that legal reforms were at least in part an endogenous response to stock market development and not simply a reaction to the generation of global standards; but, secondly, that the laws passed in response to the demand for shareholder empowerment did not consistently have the expected impact on financial markets, and may have had some negative and perverse results.
K22|Creditor Rights, Technology Adoption, and Productivity: Plant-Level Evidence|I analyze the impact of strengthening of creditor rights on productivity using plant-level data from the U.S. Census Bureau. Following the adoption of anti-recharacterization laws that improve the ability of lenders to access the collateral of the firm, total factor productivity of treated plants increases by 2.6 percent. This effect is mainly observed among plants belonging to financially constrained firms. Furthermore, treated plants invest in capital of younger vintage and newer technology, and become more capital-intensive. My results suggest that strengthening of creditor rights leads to a relaxation in borrowing constraints, and helps firms adopt a more efficient production technology.
K22|Praxiserfahrungen mit den Befreiungsvorschriften des Kleinanlegerschutzgesetzes|Dieser Forschungsbericht untersucht die Auswirkungen der im Sommer 2015 eingeführten Befreiungsvorschriften des Kleinanlegerschutzgesetzes. Durch eine stärkere Regulierung soll das Kleinanlegerschutzgesetz für mehr Transparenz für Anlegerinnen und Anleger auf dem grauen Kapitalmarkt sorgen. Das Gesetz beinhaltet jedoch auch Ausnahmeregelungen. Diese entbinden sowohl Unternehmen, die sich über Crowdinvesting-Plattform finanzieren, als auch soziale, gemeinnützige und kirchliche Projekte von der Pflicht einer Prospekterstellung bei dem Angebot von Vermögensanlagen. Grundlage der Untersuchung dieser Ausnahmeregelungen ist die Crowdinvesting-Datenbank, eine Befragung unter sozialen und gemeinnützigen Organisation sowie Expertengespräche. Zusammenfassend lassen sich rund ein Jahr nach Einführung des Kleinanlegerschutzgesetzes keine starken Effekte für den Markt für Schwarmfinanzierungen in Deutschland erkennen. Die von uns analysierten Daten zeigen auch, dass sich das Anlageverhalten durch die neu eingeführte Pflicht zur Selbstauskunft über das Einkommen und Vermögen der Investierenden nicht verändert hat. Allerdings haben sich die bei Schwarmfinanzierungen verwendeten Vermögensanlagen in den letzten Jahren weg von stillen Beteiligungen und hin zu partiarischen Darlehen und Nachrangdarlehen entwickelt. Im Bereich sozialer und gemeinnütziger Projekte finden die geschaffenen Ausnahmeregelungen so gut wie keine Anwendung, da andere Regelungen eine wesentlich einfachere Entbindung von der Prospektpflicht ermöglichen.
K22|Die Befreiungsvorschriften des Kleinanlegerschutzgesetzes|Der Beitrag untersucht die Auswirkungen der im Sommer 2015 eingeführten Befreiungsvorschriften des Kleinanlegerschutzgesetzes. Durch eine stärkere Regulierung soll das Kleinanlegerschutzgesetz für mehr Transparenz für Anleger auf dem grauen Kapitalmarkt sorgen. Das Gesetz beinhaltet jedoch auch Ausnahmeregelungen. Diese entbinden sowohl Unternehmen, die sich über eine Crowd­investing-Plattform finanzieren, als auch soziale, gemeinnützige und kirchliche Projekte von der Pflicht einer Prospekterstellung bei der Finanzierung über Vermögensanlagen. Grundlage der Untersuchung dieser Ausnahmeregelungen ist die Crowdinvesting-Datenbank, eine Befragung unter sozialen und gemeinnützigen Organisation sowie Expertengespräche. Zusammenfassend lassen sich rund ein Jahr nach Einführung des Kleinanlegerschutzgesetzes keine starken Effekte für den Markt für Schwarmfinanzierungen in Deutschland erkennen. Die analysierten Daten zeigen auch, dass sich das Anlageverhalten durch die neu eingeführte Pflicht zur Selbstauskunft über das Einkommen und Vermögen der Investierenden nicht verändert hat.
K22|Contingent judicial deference: theory and application to usury laws|Legislation that seems unreasonable to courts is less likely to be followed. Building on this premise, we propose a model and obtain two main results. First, the enactment of legislation prohibiting something raises the probability that courts will allow related things not expressly forbidden. In particular, the imposition of an interest rate ceiling can make it more likely that courts will validate contracts with interest rates below the legislated cap. Second, legal uncertainty is greater with legislation that commands little deference from courts than with legislation that commands none. We discuss examples of e§ects of legislated prohibitions (and, in particular, usury laws) that are consistent with the model.
K22|Elementos para alcanzar el mercado de capitales que Colombia necesita: hoja de ruta y desafíos estructurales|Aunque no se puede desconocer la transformación que ha atravesado el mercado de capitales colombiano en las últimas dos décadas, su desarrollo futuro requiere superar una serie de retos estructurales. De lo contrario, existe el riesgo de que éste se estanque (como ha ocurrido en los últimos cinco años) o, incluso, que se marchite, dejando de cumplir adecuadamente el rol que le corresponde dentro de la economía. Este documento propone seis ejes de trabajo, que deberían servir como punto de partida para establecer una hoja de ruta para promover el desarrollo de este mercado: (1) definición de una visión de largo plazo; (2) estímulo al mercado de capitales como complemento al sector bancario tradicional; (3) estructura competitiva y de propiedad del sistema financiero; (4) competencia global; (5) competitividad tributaria; y (6) integración regional.
K22|Choices in Equity Finance A Global Perspective|Equity issues can be structured as cash or rights offers and depending on the country's legislation firms can allow or restrict tradability of the rights. We study these choices using a worldwide sample of equity issues announced in 127 countries. We consider whether these choices as well as the short and long-term stock returns can be explained by a number of hypotheses proposed in the literature. The empirical findings confirm that the issuing method is driven by adverse selection and financial distress concerns, while the tradability decision reflects execution risk as well as transactions costs.
K22|Companies Should Maximize Shareholder Welfare Not Market Value|What is the appropriate objective function for a firm? We analyze this question for the case where shareholders are prosocial and externalities are not perfectly separable from production decisions. We argue that maximization of shareholder welfare is not the same as maximization of market value. We propose that company and asset managers should pursue policies consistent with the preferences of their investors. Voting by shareholders on corporate policy is one way to achieve this.
K22|The Inner Working of the Board : Evidence from the Emerging Markets|We survey non-executive directors in emerging markets to obtain detailed information about the inner workings of corporate boards across a variety of institutional settings. We document substantial variation in the structure and conduct of boards as well as in directors’ perceptions about the local legal environment. Further analysis indicates that directors who feel adequately empowered by local legislation are less likely to actively vote against board proposals. They also form boards that play a stronger role in the company’s strategic decision-making. This suggests that a supportive legal environment allows directors to focus more on their advisory, as opposed to their monitoring, role.
K22|Regulation of Charlatans in High-Skill Professions|We model a market for a skill that is in short supply and high demand, where the presence of charlatans (professionals who sell a service that they do not deliver on) is an equilibrium outcome. We use this model to evaluate the standards and disclosure requirements that exist in these markets. We show that reducing the number of charlatans through regulation decreases consumer surplus. Although both standards and disclosure drive charlatans out of the market, consumers are worse off because of the resulting reduction in competition amongst producers. Producers, on the other hand, strictly benefit from the regulation, implying that the regulation we observe in these markets likely derives from producer interests. Using these insights, we study the factors that drive the cross-sectional variation in charlatans across professions. Professions with weak trade groups, skills in larger supply, shorter training periods and less informative signals regarding the professional's skill, are more likely to feature charlatans.
K22|A Skeptical View of Financialized Corporate Governance|"Managerial compensation typically relies on financial yardsticks, such as profits, stock prices, and return on equity, to achieve alignment between the interests of managers and shareholders. But financialized governance may not actually work well for most shareholders, and even when it does, significant tradeoffs and inefficiencies can arise from the conflict between maximizing financialized measures and society's broader interests. Effective governance requires that those in control are accountable for actions they take. However, those who control and benefit most from corporations' success are often able to avoid accountability. The history of corporate governance includes a parade of scandals and crises that have caused significant harm. After each, most key individuals tend to minimize their own culpability. Common claims from executives, boards of directors, auditors, rating agencies, politicians, and regulators include ""we just didn't know,"" ""we couldn't have predicted,"" or ""it was just a few bad apples."" Economists, as well, may react to corporate scandals and crises with their own version of ""we just didn't know,"" as their models had ruled out certain possibilities. Effective governance of institutions in the private and public sectors should make it much more difficult for individuals in these institutions to get away with claiming that harm was out of their control when in reality they had encouraged or enabled harmful misconduct, and ought to have taken action to prevent it."
K22|Takeover law to protect shareholders: Increasing efficiency or merely redistributing gains?|We construct a dynamic takeover law index using hand-collected data on legal provisions and empirically examine the effect of takeover regulation to protect shareholders on shareholder wealth for bidders and targets in a multi-country setting. We find that a stricter takeover law increases the wealth gains to the shareholders of the combined bidder and target firm, which suggests that stronger shareholder protection in the takeover bid process increases the efficiency of the takeover market. In contrast to our hypothesis, results show that stricter takeover law does not hurt bidders. Its effect on target announcement returns is significantly positive and economically large. Our findings on individual provisions suggest that the mandatory bid rule and ownership disclosure increase overall synergistic gains in takeovers, while the fair-price rule and squeeze-out rights may reduce them. Further results show that stricter takeover regulation increases competition in the market for corporate control and reduces the time to successful completion of a takeover bid, which explains increased combined wealth gains under stricter takeover regulation.
K22|The effect of corporate governance on firm value and profitability: Time-series evidence from Turkey|We study the corporate governance practices of Turkish public firms from 2006 to 2012, relying on hand-collected data covering the vast majority of listed firms. We build a Turkey Corporate Governance Index, TCGI, composed of subindices for board structure, board procedure, disclosure, ownership, and shareholder rights. TCGI predicts higher market value (with firm fixed effects) and higher firm-level profitability with firm random effects. The principal subindex which predicts higher market value and profitability, and drives the results for TCGI as a whole, is disclosure subindex. We also study the determinants of firms' governance and find that most firm-specific factors have little effect on firms' governance choices.
K22|When secured and unsecured creditors recover the same: The emblematic case of the Tunisian corporate bankruptcies|Bankruptcy is an essential screening mechanism for developing economies. This paper focuses on the way bankruptcy is managed in Tunisia, a country characterized by the importance of its banking sector. We collected data on a set of bankrupt firms (1995–2009). We address several questions. Do the Tunisian bankruptcy procedures generate substantial overall recoveries? Are the secured creditors (mostly banks) well-enough protected under bankruptcy, and do they influence the courts' decisions? To which extent the creditors compete together? The highest recoveries are found mostly under reorganization procedures. Yet, despite a high level of competition between the classes of claimholders, the secured creditors' recovery rate remains similar to one of the unsecured creditors. Last, the court's decision to liquidate/reorganize the debtor seems not influenced by the structure of claims. The likely consequences on development are twofold: higher risks of capital misallocation/credit rationing, and stronger incentives for the banks to prioritize informal workouts.
K22|The Doing Business Project: How It Started: Correspondence|No abstract is available for this item.
K22|Insider Trading Law and Illegal Insider Trading in South Africa's Equity Market: Lessons from Corporate Takeovers|This study investigates whether JSE-listed takeover target companies earn abnormal returns in the run-up to public announcements of planned takeovers. We compute the average cumulative abnormal returns (ACAR) over 21 days preceding the announcement of a takeover for 57 takeovers occurring between January 2005 and June 2014 and then conduct interviews to offer insight into the causes of abnormal returns preceding each takeover announcement. Results indicate that shares in takeover target companies accumulate a significant ACAR (9.03%) during the 21 trading days prior to the first public announcement. Findings also suggest plausible legal explanations for abnormal returns, potentially contradicting suggestions in a strand of the literature that ACAR constitutes prima facie evidence of illegal insider trading. Yet, the high ACAR suggests evidence of information leaks prior to announcement, which casts doubt on the effectiveness of South African insider trading law.
K22|Political Connections and Insider Trading|This paper investigates whether political connections affect individuals' propensity to engage in illegal activities in financial markets. We use the 2007 French presidential election as marker of change in the value of political connections, in a difference-in-differences research design. We examine the behavior of directors of publicly listed companies who are connected to the future president through campaign donations or direct friendships, relative to that of other non-connected directors, before and after the election. We uncover indirect evidence that connected directors do more illegal insider trading after the election. More precisely, we find that purchases by connected directors trigger larger abnormal returns, and that connected directors are more likely not to comply with trading disclosure requirements and to trade closer to major corporate events.
K22|CSR in Poland: Institutional Context, Legal Framework and Voluntary Initiatives|The paper explores the level of CSR development in Poland and focuses on the roles of stakeholders actively involved in fostering the CSR concept in the country. The stakeholders include: (1) regulators (Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economy, the Warsaw Stock Exchange and Polish Accounting Standards Committee); (2) NGOs (Responsible Business Forum and CSR Info); (3) media (Gazeta Prawna, Forbes, Manager magazine and Polityka journals); (4) business organizations (mainly subsidiaries of multinational companies and large enterprises partially state-owned) and (5) the Big 4 audit firms (Deloitte, KPMG, PwC). In order to delineate their efforts as regards promotion of CSR activities we use institutional-stakeholder approach. In the paper we characterize the social and political legacy of Poland – the country that has been changing its socioeconomic system for the last 25 years. We also scrutinize Polish accounting regulations and guidelines, which have built a legal framework for CSR disclosures. Our study also draws attention to the role of the Stock Exchange, the Ministry of Economy, and the Polish Agency of Entrepreneurship Development in promoting CSR-related actions. In order to explain media involvement we analyze the criteria of CSR rankings and awards and results of the companies. Finally, we outline the activities undertaken by NGOs in Poland and summarize research projects conducted by audit firms. The results of our study suggest that Polish business organizations still face many challenges in terms of CSR implementation. The main problems derive from misperception of CSR concept and unclear impacts of CSR adoption on business. A notable finding which emerged is that CSR evolution in Poland is in progress which calls for a need for further educational and promotional initiatives directed particularly at SMEs.
K22|Corporate Social Responsibility and Regulatory Initiatives in Turkey: Good Implementation Examples|Generally speaking, the integration of stakeholder theory with CSR is fairly well understood. We see that these concepts have, not unlike the development of CSR under the literature, followed a similar vain in Turkey and the current agenda values strong engagement with all stakeholders and advancement of business growth. Especially, within the last decade CSR legislation and requirements have been the topic of extensive discussion. Turkey has seen an influx of activity and increasing pressure to further the CSR agenda and has gathered the backing of various events and organizations. In light of these developments, we attempt to explore the current social and economic environment within the country in regards to CSR practices. In this study, we offer detailed descriptions of the relevant CSR national laws and regulations on e.g. labour practices, human rights and environment and explore the current CSR reporting practices while offering descriptive evidence on the trend and future direction for CSR reporting statistics in Turkey.
K22|Credit Default Swaps: Past, Present, and Future|Credit default swaps (CDS) have grown to be a multi-trillion-dollar, globally important market. The academic literature on CDS has developed in parallel with the market practices, public debates, and regulatory initiatives in this market. We selectively review the extant literature, identify remaining gaps, and suggest directions for future research. We present a narrative including the following four aspects. First, we discuss the benefits and costs of CDS, emphasizing the need for more research in order to better understand the welfare implications. Second, we provide an overview of the postcrisis market structure and the new regulatory framework for CDS. Third, we place CDS in the intersection of law and finance, focusing on agency conflicts and financial intermediation. Last, we examine the role of CDS in international finance, especially during and after the recent sovereign credit crises.
K22|Aspects concerning the lengths of the excluded shareholder’s liability towards third parties in the case of limited liability companies in Romania|In the current context of reinventing the trading company law, at the end of a lengthy and extremely difficult economic crisis, when every participant in the economic life tried to find their own way to adapt and make their activity survive the new social and commercial realities, not few were the cases when some of the Shareholders were excluded and their liability was drawn onto the legal person itself. Nevertheless, there is a type of legal liability of the former Shareholders, excluded from the Company, that still is quite deficiently regulated and, despite the sound argumentation and comprehensive regulation of Law no. 31/1990, it fails to provide a clear and detailed explanation of the consequences, namely, of the consequences the exclusion of a Shareholder has over the Third Parties of good-faith that the legal person (the Company) had or continues to have legal relations with. This paper thus aims at analysing one of the main effects of excluding Shareholders from the company, namely the extent of their liability towards the Third Parties, and it is structured in five parts, as follows: 1) Introduction, 2) About the Shareholders’ exclusion, 3) The effects of excluding a Shareholder from the Limited Liability Company, 4) The excluded Shareholder’s liability towards the Third Parties and 5) Conclusions.
K22|La notion de bail professionnel en droit OHADA et ses implications sur la théorie générale du fonds de commerce|"The last reform of the Uniform Act on General Commercial Law OHADA reconsidered several pieces of commercial law. The concept of leasing has not been spared. She, who was accompanied by the ""commercial"" substantive, has been transformed into ""commercial lease"". Question of style or simple semantics? Certainly not, because the legislature in 1997, had not previously dared revise the designation commercial lease that no longer fit with the extension of the beneficiaries he had devoted himself. With the reform of December 2010, the institution of the lease has just renamed. Parliament also confirmed the extension of the scope of economic actors involved in the protection of the lease. The regime of former Uniform Act was therefore not fully extended, particularly since we noted another significant change in the new text. Contrary to former Article 69 which devoted two cumulative criteria necessary for the implementation of the lease of the regime, including the situation in a populated city of more than 5,000 people and membership of local under lease to a designated class, the new text retains a single criterion, that of belonging to a local specific category. This mutation disrupts some basics of goodwill theory. Indeed, with the increasing scope of lessees, there is a sliding protection to professional trader. This causes result in a substitution of the lease of the foundation that passes from customer to the profession. The loss of the privileged place of business customers coupled with doctrinal and jurisprudential developments in the theory of civil customers, argue for an assimilation of the different customer categories."
K22|The fiduciary guarantee in the Romanian and European legal context|The importance of the fiduciary guarantee has not reached its full potential in the Romanian market, nor in the European area. The ongoing “dispute” between the fiduciary operations (familiar to the continental law) and the trust (with its common -law heritage) seems to be won by the latter. However, considering the express provisions on the fiduciary operations in the Romanian Civil Code entered into force in 2011, similar to the introduction of the same legal instrument in the French Civil Code in 2007, could give a boost to this ancient tool, present from the Roman era. Even if the European legal framework do not provide many rules on this institution, however, the Financial Collateral Directive raised many questions on how the fiduciary guarantees can be used in practice, and contributed to the change that followed in this area.
K22|Good faith in corporate law – an independent fiduciary duty or an element of the duty of loyalty?|Taking the duty of loyalty as a starting point, which we consider to be the director’s core fiduciary duty, this paper aims at identifying the contours of good faith in corporate law and the interpretations of this institution in corporate governance. The objective of the paper is to demonstrate the autonomy of good faith, along with the duty of care and the duty of loyalty. The paper displays the traditional legal approaches of this institution, both in continental civil law and in common law literature and jurisprudence and exhaustively describes the obligations that compose or even define this concept. Due to its amplitude, the duty of good faith enabled courts to articulate subsidiary fiduciary duties that meet social changes and transformation within business law. By means of cited case law, the conclusion will show that due to the nature, content and effects of situations where specific obligations are met, these may not be incorporated as elements of the traditional duty of care or duty of loyalty.
K22|Corporate governance in state-owned companies in Hungary|At the development and to the comprehension of the regulation it is necessary to ascertain that in our view, the subject of the regulation is the operation of the company. The regulation regulates the problems arising specifically during the course of the operation of the company, as an „ex ante” tool and by the avoidance of that upon the cessation of the public company, any unjustified or inconcievable costs (social costs) should rise. As an example, there are the infamous earlier corporate scandals (Enron, Parmalat, Vivendi Universal), the infringements of which drew critical social (budget) costs, as they left behind unsettled creditors’ claims, plenty of workplaces got terminated, etc. To prevent this, one of the techniques is corporate governance, as it focuses on such mechanisms during the course of the operation of the company as direction and control. With this, the cessation of the company can presumably be avoided, as it is publicly acknowledged that the majority of corporate scandals descend from the faults of leadership, direction and control. Based on the above, we may ascertain that in our perception, under ’corporate governance’ it’s the legal facts or interests relevant in the course of the operation of the company what become regulated in terms of corporate law.
K22|Business and human rights: from soft law to hard law?|Over the last decades the international community turned its attention towards the impact that businesses have on human rights, and the role they can play in furt hering human rights protection, in light of the lead role they play in globalization, and the increasingly vocal allegations of human rights violations directed against some multinationals. These developments triggered some action at the United Nations, and at the European Union level, and led to the development of international soft law in this area, moving slowly towards binding instruments. This paper explores the evolution of business and human rights, presents the current international non-binding instruments, as well as some states’ binding initiatives in this area, and highlights the tendency to move from soft law to hard law, to leave the realm of voluntary corporate responsibility for the one of pure accountability. In this context, several solutions are debated by scholars: from a binding treaty, or a series of narrower treaties focused on specific areas, to a Model Law which could be used by states to enact laws imposing obligations on businesses within their jurisdictions, or even adding human rights in the international investment agreements and making use of the international arbitration as an enforcement mechanism.
K22|The balance between the parties in Law N° 2015/018 of December 21, 2015 governing the commercial activity in Cameroon|"On the 21st of December 2015, the Cameroonian legislature adopted Law N° 2015/018 with the aim of modernizing the mechanisms put in place for the supervision of the commercial activity in this State. This modernization results in the establishment of tools aimed at eliminating situations which are detrimental to the contractual balance. The idea behind these provisions is to reinforce the clarity and integrity of consent when concluding the contract, while at the same time eliminating the abuses that have endured during the conclusion. However, the assessment of these measures reveals a diminished efficiency. These shortcomings are due to two reasons: the discrimination against the protection of victims of the imbalance according to the ""consumer / professional"" distinction made and the lack of instruments to restore the balance in the contractual relationship of the parties."
K22|The distribution contracts: an Iberian approach|The contracts of commercial distribution are indispensable legal instruments to the development of the economic activity. The distribution, since the industrial revolution, acquired autonomy, given the necessity of specialized intermediation to distribute good and products. In this process, the structural organization of the distribution process suffered mutations, starting to assume a set of activities aiming at adjusting demand to supply, including, among others, clients canvassing, after-sales services, financing and assumption of risks, advisory services, promotion and advertising. The insufficiency of traditional contracts of purchase and sales and commission to satisfy the distributive needs caused by the industrial revolution will justify the development of new contractual schemes, such us agency contract, commercial concession and franchising. The obligation of the distributer to ensure the interests of the producer and to promote the distribution of the goods and services of the producer, in the context of a lasting relation of cooperation between the parts, through which the distributer is incorporated, with greater or minor intensity, in the producer distribution network, allowed us to sustain, as affirmed in the Portuguese and European literature, that distribution contracts could be framed in the same legal category. These contracts, as contracts that were shaped by praxis, do not have, with excepti on of agency contract, a legal framework in Portugal and Spain. It has been discussed in literature if agency contract legal framework can be applied, by analogy, to the contracts that fit in the legal category of distribution contracts. This paper aims at analyzing the legal framework of contracts of distribution in these legal systems, with the purpose to discuss the analogical application of the agency contract to these contracts.
K22|From great expectations to an even greater failure - the case of Montenegrin regulatory framework on shareholder derivative suits as an incentive for rethinking the concept itself|The author utilizes a case study of Montenegrin regulatory concept of shareholder derivative suits in order to demonstrate, by comparing its features with such concepts in other legal systems and features marked as favorable factors in legal theory, that its failure, as well as the failure of derivative suits in other countries cannot be a priori considered as result of inadequate approach of the legislator. Along with some other important legal systems, shareholder derivative litigation in United States is also analyzed, since its track record shows that it is virtually the single at least relatively successful system of derivative suits so far. This analysis is made so as to distinguish the particular and in many ways unique features of the shareholder derivative litigation concept in United States that enabled the relative success of it. As result of the research conducted and analyses made, the author argues that there is an inherent flaw in the very foundation of the concept of shareholder derivative suits, which generally hinders the use of this legal mechanism. Finally, the author finds that this flaw is deeply rooted in what is known today in theory of company law as the first agency problem.
K22|The issue of the liquidation process of social enterprises during privatization process in Kosovo|"The privatization process in Kosovo with all its difficulties, permanent dilemmas entered into the final phase. Despite a considerable number of SOEs privatized until now there has not been any study done by any governmental or non-governmental body that will reflect more comprehensively the performance and its effects in economy. This process until now had several complex problems, changes and political, social, legal interests. In retrospective the privatization process in Kosovo evaluated by academics and media is considered to be one of the most specific and complicated phenomenon for the transformation of social assets in individuals or private enterprises. Its complexity has derived from what is meant by ""social ownership"" and who has been in fact its official in the past and which the rights are given to working class in possess management and governance. On these bases the Kosovo Trust Agency (KTA) founded by UNMIK in 2002 and later the Privatization Agency of Kosovo (PAK) founded in 2008 by the institutions of Kosovo after the declaration of independence (2007) have continued with the privatization 15 years later after the dilemmas and institutional transformation and we can say that economy in Kosovo is in collapse. PAK with all its successes admits that the difficulties of this process never stop. At the moment PAK is not recognized by the Special Chamber of Supreme Court of Kosovo and also there are problems and gaps in the law on the liquidation of social enterprises assets. The legal basis of OVGJS and the execution of the law for the reorganization of specific enterprises and their assets by shortening and simplifying the deadlines because they are causing serious bottlenecks and unwanted delays of proceedings."
K22|Juridical perspectives on the increase of share capital of companies regulated by Law no. 31 of 1990; the entries registered within the trade registry regarding the increase of foreign participation in the share capital|The present study shall analyze the means and procedures employed for the increase of the share capital of the companies regulated by Law 31 of 1990. The analysis will reflect the means of capital increase and the nature of the potential financing sources of the company in relation to each of these means. Since foreign investments are some of the most eloquent engines of economic dynamics of the host state, the study intends to relate the increase of share capital to the foreign investment in the share capital. From this perspective, the study is to analyze the segment of entries concerning the increase of share capital registered in the trade registry following the foreign investment in the capital, as per number as well as per amount, revealing the monthly number and value between 2011-2015, revealing the number of entries as well as their amount, respectively the amount by which the share capital was increased, viewed on a monthly basis but also per each of the years analyzed. The study alos seeks to analyze the same segment of entries, but this time at the level of county Cluj, similarly to the criteria of analysis used for the national level. Thus, there were brought under analyze the level of entries on capital increase registered in the trade registry following foreign investments in share capital, at national level but also particularly for Cluj county. This analysis will enable to draw conclusions regarding the correlations between the two segments, from the point of view of the dynamics of foreign participation to the capital increase.
K22|International standardization of arbitration as an alternate dispute resolution forum and its acceptance in India|With trade and commerce increasing rapidly between nations, there has been a significant rise in disputes, leading to an urgent need for an effective and unified dispute resolution system which can sufficiently settle disagreements/issues among parties in dispute and which has to be arrived at keeping in mind the differences in laws of every nation, hence, immensely increasing the scope of private international law, or conflict of laws as called by different nations. Such urgency led to many conventions, one of most important being The New York Convention of 1958 (Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards) and the UNCITRAL Model Law promulgated in 1985 and amended as recently as 2006 which has been the source for International Arbitration, the most widely used dispute resolution method for international commercial trade and transactions and many countries like India have also based their legislations on the rules of the UNCITRAL Model Law. Most European countries as well as India have ratified the New York Convention of 1958 (Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards) for the purposes of International trade and commercial transactions therefore opening the gateway for international commercial transactions to take place among such convention countries easier. Further, the judiciary of concerned countries has also affirmed such ratification and the applicability of the Model Law laid down.
K22|Theoretical and Methodological Aspects of Formation of Corporate Control System in Ukraine|This article suggests theoretical and methodological approach to corporate control system formation in Eastern Europe (case study of Ukraine). It considers historical and controversial aspects of corporate control implementation and suggests the systematization of subjects and objects in terms of corrective actions and outlines of corporate relations. Existing types of corporate control in Ukraine have been investigated on the basis of legal and regulatory framework and corporate practice. The article suggests measures in respect of management of the corporate control system development, based on the improvement of certain components of corporate control implementation and structural peculiarities.
K22|Las reformas de la Ley Concursal durante la Gran Recesión|Traditionally, bankruptcy procedures in Spain have been lengthy and costly processes that have nearly always (95%) resulted in the liquidation of the insolvent firm. These dysfunctions became apparent with the large increase in bankruptcy filings during the crisis that started in 2008 and the ensuing congestion of the courts. In order to resolve these and other problems, the Bankruptcy Law has been reformed several times. The goal of this research is to analyse the impact of these reforms on two facets: the length of bankruptcy procedures and the probability of achieving a successful reorganisation, hence avoiding the firm’s liquidation. Our findings show that two of the four reforms analysed increased the percentage of reorganisations and decreased bankruptcy duration through improving the quality of insolvency administrators and by fostering out-of-court workouts for large corporations.
K22|The Management of Non-Performing Loans: A Survey among the Main Italian Banks|This study presents the results of a survey carried out by the Bank of Italy in 2015 on the efficiency of credit recovery procedures undertaken by the main Italian banking groups. The recovery rate for liquidations in the years 2011-2014 was slightly above 40 per cent, and the largest share of the recovery was obtained within the first five years from the start of the procedure. Four years after the debt restructurings began, almost two thirds are still underway. The average age of liquidations at the end of 2014 was twice that of debt restructurings and eight percentage points more of loans being restructured are collateralized than those being liquidated. In 2014 the management of non-performing loans absorbed 2.8 per cent of banks' operating costs, a larger share than in previous years. The study found differences in the systems adopted by the banks for managing non-performing loans and in the amount of information available on the topics covered by the survey.
K22|Collateral in Italy: a legal and economic analysis of privileges, pledges and mortgages|The work presents a legal and economic analysis of how collateral works in Italy. Specific attention is focused on privileges, pledges and mortgages, because of the prominent role they play in banking relationships. The paper highlights the critical issues in the current legislative framework and discusses some recent regulatory changes. It argues in favour of a simplification of privileges, reserving them for involuntary or unsophisticated creditors. At the same time, it analyses the rationale of the recent modernization of pledges, which, among other things, allows debtors to retain control over an asset and to use it within the production process. The new repossession mechanisms are an important alternative to judicial foreclosure for liquidating collateral. However, fine-tuning them, along with creating appropriate safeguards tailored for debtors in difficulty, would make them more effective.
K22|How Rome enabled impersonal markets|Impersonal exchange increases trade and specialization opportunities, encouraging economic growth. However, it requires the support of sophisticated public institutions. This paper explains how Classical Rome provided such support in the main areas of economic activity by relying on public possession as a titling device, enacting rules to protect innocent acquirers in agency contexts, enabling the extended family to act as a contractual entity, and diluting the enforcement of personal obligations which might collide with impersonal exchange. Focusing on the institutions of impersonal exchange, it reaches a clear positive conclusion on the market-facilitating role of the Roman state because such institutions have unambiguously positive effects on markets. Moreover, being impersonal, these beneficial effects are also widely distributed across society instead of accruing disproportionately to better-connected individuals.
K22|Banks as corporate monitors: Evidence from CEO turnovers in China|​This paper examines the governance role of banks in replacement of underperforming CEOs in firms listed on Chinese stock exchanges. Under most circumstances, the findings suggest that the presence of outstanding loans does not increase the probability that a poorly performing CEO will be forced out and replaced. However, there is a positive and significant effect if the under-performing firm relies heavily on secured and short-term bank lending. Bank loans increase the likelihood of a forced CEO turnover in private firms, especially where joint-equity banks serve as the main lenders to the firm. There is no similar increase in the probability of a CEO turnover for state-owned firms or firms that borrow mainly from state-owned banks. Thus, where state ownership of banks and listed firms implies inefficiency or reluctance on monitoring borrower performance, there is an opportunity to improve loan contract arrangements to improve the mon-itoring role of lending banks.
K22|Some Considerations On The Work Of The Authorized Natural Person|In the current socioeconomic situation in Romania, the best way of efficient functioning of a small business is the authorized natural person. The authorized natural person is a natural person who meets the conditions provided by law to carry out any form of economic activity permitted by law, using mainly its workforce. The economic activities provided by an authorized natural person may be carried out in all areas, trades, occupations or professions that law does not expressly prohibit for free initiative. The authorized natural person may conduct its activity according to the purpose for which it was established or may employ, as an employer, third parties with an individual employment contract concluded under the law. A person can cumulate the status of authorized natural person with that of employee of a third party that works both in the same field, and in another area of economic activity than that for which it is authorized. The authorized natural person shall not be considered an employee of third parties with whom they collaborate, even if collaboration is exclusive.
K22|Law, Trust & Institutional Change in China: Evidence from Qualitative Fieldwork|China’s rapid growth in the absence of autonomous legal institutions of the kind found in the west appears to pose a problem for theories which stress the importance of law for economic development. In this paper we draw on interviews with lawyers, entrepreneurs and financial market actors to illustrate the complexity of attitudes to law and economic growth in contemporary China. In the case of product markets, business relations are increasingly characterised by a mix of trust-based transacting and legal formality which is not fundamentally different from practice in the west. Financial markets are less like their western counterparts, thanks to the preponderant role of government in asset allocation, and a lack of transparency in market pricing. However, in both sets of markets we find evidence of a transition from inter-personal trust (guanxi) to impersonal transacting, and of growing demands from business and legal groups for the impartial application of legal rules and market regulations. China’s experience does not suggest that law is irrelevant or unrelated to growth, but that legal and economic institutions coevolve in the transition from central planning to a market economy.
K22|Takeover Rules: In Support of the Longer Minimum Bid Period|No abstract is available for this item.
K22|Creditor Rights and Entrepreneurship: Evidence from Fraudulent Transfer Law|We examine entrepreneurial activity following the adoption of fraudulent transfer laws in the U.S. These laws strengthen creditor rights by removing the burden of proof from creditors attempting to claw back funds that were transferred out of failing businesses. These laws are particularly important for entrepreneurs whose personal assets are often commingled with those of the venture. Using establishment-level data from the U.S. Census Bureau, we find significant declines in start-up entry, churning among new entrants, and closures of existing ventures after the passage of these laws. Our findings suggest that strengthening creditor rights can, in some circumstances, impede entrepreneurial activity and slow down the process of creative destruction.
K22|Debt Recovery in Firm Liquidations: Do Liquidation Trustees Matter?|Insolvency systems play a crucial role in protection of creditor rights, yet micro-level empirical evidence on the functioning of insolvency regimes worldwide is sparse. We investigate whether creditors’ recovery of outstanding claims, a measure of ex-post efficiency of an insolvency regime, depends on the characteristics of the trustee delegated the administration of the liquidation proceedings. To this end, we draw on a novel dataset of firm liquidations from Slovenia and exploit courts’ de facto random assignment of firm liquidation cases to licensed liquidation trustees. Using a wide range of specifications and controls, we find that a subset of trustee characteristics indeed matters for debt recovery. Thus, ex-post efficiency of an insolvency regime depends not only on its formal rules and procedures, but also on who implements them in practice.
K22|Estimating the Compliance Costs of Securities Regulation: A Bunching Analysis of Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404(b)|An extensive literature has analyzed the Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) legislation enacted in 2002, but its social welfare consequences remain controversial. One of the most significant provisions of SOX – auditor attestation of internal controls under Section 404(b) – has been applied only to firms that have a public float (i.e. the market value of shares held by non-insiders) of at least $75 million. Public float is not reported in standard databases; this paper “scrapes” public float data from 10-K filings, resulting in about 161,000 observations at the firm-year level for the universe of reporting entities for fiscal years 1993-2015. The analysis compares the number of public float observations immediately below the $75 million threshold to a smooth counterfactual density estimated using a flexible polynomial fitted to the observed density away from the threshold. In the pre-SOX period, there is no detectable divergence between the actual and counterfactual density around $75 million. Since the enactment of SOX, there is substantial and statistically significant “bunching” below the threshold, exhibiting a bimodal pattern. The magnitude of bunching implies that firms around the threshold reduce their public float by about $1.7 million. This estimate is consistent with SOX 404(b) imposing a net compliance cost of about $4-$6 million (in present value terms) on firms in the region of the threshold. The results are robust to considering various alternative explanations for bunching, including the possibility that firms’ insiders avoid crossing the threshold in order to continue extracting private benefits of control. The paper also explores potential financial and economic consequences of bunching, in particular on the debt financing and investment choices of firms close to threshold.
K22|The impact of mandated corporate social responsibility: Evidence from India’s Companies Act of 2013|Firms’ Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activity has become the subject of a large literature in recent years. This paper analyzes CSR activity using quasi-experimental variation created by Section 135 of India’s Companies Act of 2013, which requires (on a “comply-or-explain” basis) that firms satisfying specific size or profit thresholds spend a minimum of 2% of their net profit on CSR. We examine effects on CSR spending and related outcomes, as well as exploring broader theoretical implications. Our analysis uses financial statement data on Indian firms from the Prowess database, along with hand-collected data from firms’ disclosures of CSR activity. Using a difference-in-difference approach, we find significant increases in CSR activity among firms affected by Section 135, especially along the extensive margin (i.e. in the fraction of firms engaging in CSR spending). The fraction of firms subject to Section 135 that engage in advertising expenditures declines, consistent with substitution between advertising and CSR. For a subset of large firms, we hand-collect comprehensive CSR data and find that while firms initially spending less than 2% increased their CSR activity, large firms initially spending more than 2% reduced their CSR expenditures after Section 135 came into effect. We explore various explanations for this presumably unintended consequence of Section 135, and also seek to derive some wider implications of this analysis for understanding the role of CSR.
K22|The Rise and Fall of the German Stock Market, 1870-1938|The prior literature has advanced differing views on whether Germany during the late 19th and early 20th centuries was an economy supported by an equity-based as well as a bank-oriented financial system. Primarily by deploying a new IPO dataset for the Berlin Stock Exchange encompassing 1870 to 1938, we show German equity markets were well-developed as the 19th century drew to a close and remained so through the 1920s. Our analysis indicates regulation helped to foster development before 1913 but had a deleterious impact during the 1930s and suggests that there was a fruitful coexistence between large banks and markets until the Nazi era.
K22|Using probate data to determine historical male occupational structures|Leigh Shaw-Taylor and Sir E.A. Wrigley recently published new estimates for the male occupational structure of England and Wales. Their pre-census figures are based on parish register data, but before Rose's Act of 1812, parish registers offer occupational information only in a sample of parishes, and are virtually silent about employments before 1690. This paper examines how the gaps in the parish register data can be filled using a data source which offer more universal coverage and goes back much further in time: probate records. It demonstrates how an, at first sight, critical deficiency of probate data, namely their severe bias towards capital-intensive and/or relatively well-paying occupations, can be overcome by using parish register data for calibration.
K22|The Emergence of the Corporate Form|We describe how, during the 17th century, the business corporation gradually emerged in response to the need to lock in long-term capital to profit from trade opportunities with Asia. Since contractual commitments to lock in capital were not fully enforceable in partnerships, this evolution required a legal innovation, essentially granting the corporation a property right over capital. Locked-in capital exposed investors to a significant loss of control, and could only emerge where and when political institutions limited the risk of expropriation. The Dutch East India Company (VOC, chartered in 1602) benefited from the restrained executive power of the Dutch Republic and was the first business corporation with permanent capital. The English East India Company (EIC, chartered in 1600) kept the traditional cycle of liquidation and refinancing until, in 1657, the English Civil War put the crown under strong parliamentary control. We show how the time advantage in the organizational form had a profound effect on the ability of the two companies to make long-term investments and consequently on their relative performance, ensuring a Dutch head start in Asian trade that persisted for two centuries. We also show how other features of the corporate form emerged progressively once the capital became permanent. (JEL: G30, K22, N24).
K22|Los mercados alternativos bursátiles: una perspectiva regulatoria|El debate sobre la adecuada regulación de los mercados financieros, y en especial sobre los mercados alternativos bursátiles dirigidos a las pequeñas y medianas empresas (PYME), es un tema de candente actualidad. Este trabajo realiza una revisión de los trabajos de investigación internacionales que, por un lado, analizan los mercados alternativos desde una perspectiva económico-regulatoria y, por otro lado, analizan los mecanismos de control que se han identificado como claves para superar las limitaciones de una regulación light y que ayudan al correcto funcionamiento de estos mercados. Entre ellos destacan el gobierno de la empresa, los asesores registrados y los auditores. Los resultados muestran que una legislación más dura no es la panacea para solucionar los problemas y limitaciones que está presentando el desarrollo de estos mercados alternativos bursátiles y sugieren que el equilibrio y permanente ajuste de los agentes participantes y los mecanismos de control proporcionan resultados satisfactorios.
K22|Offshore operations and bank loan contracting: Evidence from firms that set up subsidiaries in offshore financial centers|We examine the effects of a multinational firm's subsidiary operations in offshore financial centers (OFCs) on bank loan contracting terms. Using a propensity score matched cross-country sample of firms with and without OFC subsidiaries, we find that firms with OFC subsidiaries receive less favorable loan terms than firms without OFC subsidiaries. The results from a difference-in-differences analysis and an analysis of a firm's mutation from a non-OFC firm to an OFC firm support the causal effect of offshore operations on the unfavorable loan terms. Furthermore, focusing on firms with OFC subsidiaries, we find that the intensity of offshore operations affects loan terms unfavorably. We also find that the unfavorable effect is more pronounced for more opaque firms and for firms that are headquartered in countries or jurisdictions with weaker legal enforcement. Our findings indicate that banks view offshore operations of borrowers as a credit risk-increasing factor.
K22|Corporate governance and the profitability of insider trading|This paper examines the influence of corporate governance systems on insiders' ability to profit from their information advantage and the ways through which corporate governance systems influence such ability. We find that corporate governance significantly reduces the profitability of insider sales but not that of insider purchases. Given that sales involve greater legal risk than purchases, the results suggest that well-governed firms restrict informed insider trading mainly to reduce legal risk. We also find that better-governed firms reduce the profitability of insider sales by increasing the likelihood of adopting ex-ante preventive measures (e.g., voluntary insider trading restriction policies), implementing such measures more effectively, and taking ex-post disciplinary actions more actively. These results highlight how better-governed firms are able to restrict insiders from exploiting private information.
K22|Severance agreements and the cost of debt|Upon examining the language used in recent SEC filings, we find that severance agreements are often paid whether or not the CEO leaves the firm due to a change in control. We hypothesize that since severance agreements compensate CEOs in the event of termination, CEOs with these agreements will have an incentive to increase firm risk and decrease effort. Consistent with this hypothesis, we document a significant positive relation between the use of severance agreements and the cost of debt (10% higher yield spreads for firms with severance agreements). The results hold after controlling for the probability of takeover, the probability of CEO turnover, and whether the firm has investment or non-investment grade debt. These results can be explained by an increase in firm risk and a higher likelihood of CEO turnover associated with severance agreements. Overall, the evidence suggests that the effects of severance agreements extend beyond takeovers, and that these additional implications are primarily negative for the firm and for debt holders in particular.
K22|Trust and the regulation of corporate self-dealing|The economic impact of corporate self-dealing and the regulation against such activity both vary across countries. In this work, we examine the influence of trust on shareholder protection. We hypothesize that anonymous trust can affect self-dealing through two channels. First, trust may complement existing formal regulation. Alternatively, trust and formal regulation can act as substitutes. To test these hypotheses, we examine the association between a country's anti-self-dealing index and anonymous trust. We find that anonymous trust inversely relates to formal self-dealing regulation. We further find that anonymous trust positively relates to financial market development. Collectively, this evidence suggests that trust substitutes for formal self-dealing regulation, providing an alternative mechanism for shareholder protection.
K22|Private equity exits in emerging markets|Using deal level data from 2733 private equity (PE) deals from 35 emerging markets, we find that PE fund managers have a higher probability of successful exits in countries with better business and legal environments. We also find that they are able to mitigate the potential costs associated with inefficient and corrupt business environments to increase the probability of exits by IPOs in countries with higher levels of corruption. Moreover, we find that market shocks in the developed markets result in a negative ripple effect as the probability of successful exits, especially by way of IPOs, decreases in emerging markets.
K22|Informed short selling, fails-to-deliver, and abnormal returns|We find that stocks with fails-to-deliver (FTDs) experience negative abnormal returns that are proportional to their FTD levels. These findings come from both an event study and a portfolio returns analysis using Fama-French factors. Using proprietary data on stock borrow costs, we also show that short sellers of low and high FTD stocks obtain positive estimated profits. Our findings support the hypothesis that FTDs reflect nonbinding short sale constraints which do not restrict informed short selling.
K22|Finance methodology of Free Cash Flow|Free Cash Flow (FCF) was adopted in the late 1980s as a financial tool to evaluate the firm and its individual projects. We question the procedure of calculating the FCF where a significant portion of Current Liabilities is offset against Current Assets, thereby creating the hybrid asset Net Working Capital (NWC). Borrowed from accounting methodology, that procedure distorts the FCF size, composition, volatility, and estimated value. Our empirical analysis shows that the nature and extent of those distortions can misinform the firm's stockholders, lenders and borrowers, and investors at large. We propose a revised FCF that would avoid those distortions.
K22|Reforming private securities litigation in China: The stock market has already cast its vote|This paper employs a natural experiment research design to analyze the differences in the effects of the 2002 notice concerning private securities litigation issued by the Supreme People's Court on stock price performance in A/B-share markets. Using a sample of 162 twin A/B-shares issued by 81 listed firms, we find that the portfolio of B-shares, which are treated and held in large volumes, obtains a significant positive treatment effect of 2.08% relative to that of A-shares over a 3-day event window. The treatment effect indicates that the collective action problem undermines the compensatory function of the private enforcement system, which is the primary goal it was designed to achieve. In addition, we look into the determinants of the abnormal return between A/B-shares issued by the same firm and find that the efficiency of the regional court system is positively correlated with the magnitude of the abnormal return. Rational investors expect that the compensation from private litigation is determined by the costs of using the judiciary system.
K22|The role of governments in hostile takeovers – Evidence from regulation, anti-takeover provisions and government interventions|This paper addresses the role of governments in hostile takeovers by analysing 263 hostile takeover bids in Europe and North America during 2000–2014. Our results suggest that governments may influence the openness of the domestic hostile takeover market through takeover regulation, potentially implementing protectionism. The corresponding features of the regulatory regime may in turn stimulate the deployment of anti-takeover provisions by entrenched target managers. Rather than increasing takeover premiums, anti-takeover provisions are associated with lower success rates of hostile bids, and may thus harm corporate governance. Governments’ direct intervention in hostile takeovers is more likely in case of a foreign bidder, large transactions, high unemployment and high GDP growth rates, pointing to both protectionist and populist motives. The hostile bid failed in all cases of government intervention identified in our sample. Direct government intervention may thus serve as ultimo ratio in order to block unwanted transactions.
K22|Securities fraud and corporate board turnover: New evidence from lawsuit outcomes|We examine the relationship between outcomes of securities fraud class action lawsuits (SFCAs) and corporate board turnover rates. Our results indicate that turnover rates for board members are higher when a firm settles a lawsuit than when a suit is dismissed. Outside director turnover is most sensitive to SFCA outcomes, perhaps reflecting reputational effects. Results demonstrate that involvement in securities fraud is costly for corporate board members.
K22|Tax claims, government priority, absolute priority and the resolution of financial distress|We present a model of an insolvent firm that may take advantage of a ‘soft-touch’ government creditor in order to buy time before filing for reorganization, behaviour we refer to as ‘claims substitution.’ Parameters in the model reflect the enforcement of absolute priority and government priority in bankruptcy. We show that deviations from absolute priority reduce the incentive for claims substitution. We also show that strict government priority is economically efficient. We discuss the implications of our findings for bankruptcy law reform, especially with respect to the priority of tax claims in bankruptcy and the enforcement of absolute priority.
K22|Qualified residential mortgages and default risk|The Dodd–Frank Act tasks regulators with defining a Qualified Residential Mortgage (QRM) as an exemption from risk retention for residential mortgage-backed securities. Congress instructs regulators to consider factors that result in lower levels of historic default in defining a QRM. We analyze non-agency loans and find credit scores and loan-to-value ratios are among the most significant predictors of default, even when controlling for risky loan products and loose underwriting standards. Importantly, credit scores and loan-to-value ratios better tradeoff the benefit of reduced default risk with the cost of limiting access to capital than most factors, yet are absent from the final QRM definition. Our results have important implications for current and future policy on residential mortgage securitization, risk retention, and disclosure.
K22|Corporate governance following mass privatization|Using vouchers to privatize state-owned firms was an innovative but controversial aspect of transition. In the Czech Republic, voucher privatization created a large group of minority shareholders who coexisted with large shareholder–managers who controlled firms. Critics allege that the structure of shareholdings and regulatory failures allowed pervasive theft of corporate assets, much of it financed by irresponsible bank lending, and led to a financial crisis and an economic downturn. I argue that neither anecdotal evidence of managerial malfeasance nor the theories of tunneling and looting provide strong evidence for this view of corporate governance in the Czech Republic. A lack of small shareholder protection seems to have imposed small costs on the economy, and it may have facilitated rather than hampered the restructuring of firms.
K22|Wage-setting institutions and corporate governance|We present a model in which wage-setting structures explain cross-country variation in corporate governance. The model predicts a nonmonotonic relationship between the level of centralization in wage-bargaining institutions and the levels of firm ownership concentration and investor protection legislation. Low and high degrees of centralization yield less concentrated ownership and more investor protection than intermediate degrees. Like recent research, this paper highlights labor as a key constituent in shaping corporate governance. However, our theory can resolve an important puzzle this research confronts, namely, why Scandinavian countries with higher than average labor strength also have higher than average investor protection legislation.
K22|No free shop: Why target companies sometimes choose not to buy ‘go-shop’ options|We study the decisions by targets in private equity and MBO transactions whether to actively “shop” executed merger agreements prior to shareholder approval. Targets can negotiate for a ‘go-shop' clause, which permits the solicitation of offers from other would-be acquirors during the “go-shop” window and may lower the termination fee paid by the target in the event of a competing bid. The decision to retain the option to shop is predicted by various firm attributes, including larger size and more fragmented ownership. Go-shops are not a free option. We exploit the impact of various characteristics of the firm’s legal advisory team and procedures on the probability of inclusion of a go-shop provision to establish a negative relationship between go-shop provisions and initial acquisition premia. Importantly, that loss to shareholder value is not offset by gains associated with new competing offers. We conclude that the increased-use of go-shops reflects excessive concerns about litigation risks, possibly resulting from lawyers’ conflicts of interest in advising targets.
K22|Spare tire? Stock markets, banking crises, and economic recoveries|Do stock markets act as a spare tire during banking crises, providing an alternative corporate financing channel and mitigating the economic severity of these crises? Using firm-level data in 36 countries from 1990 through 2011, we find that the adverse consequences of banking crises on equity issuances, firm profitability, employment, and investment efficiency are smaller in countries with stronger shareholder protection laws. These findings are not explained by the development of stock markets or financial institutions prior to the crises, the severity of the banking crisis, or overall economic, legal, and institutional development.
K22|Bankruptcy law and bank financing|Exploiting the timing of the 2005–2006 Italian bankruptcy law reforms, we disentangle the effects of reorganization and liquidation in bankruptcy on bank financing and firm investment. A 2005 reform introduces reorganization procedures facilitating loan renegotiation. The 2006 reform subsequently strengthens creditor rights in liquidation. The first reform increases interest rates and reduces investment. The second reform reduces interest rates and spurs investment. Our results highlight the importance of identifying the distinct effects of liquidation and reorganization, as these procedures differently address the tension in bankruptcy law between the continuation of viable businesses and the preservation of repayment incentives.
K22|The commitment problem of secured lending|The paper presents a new theory of trade credit in which firms buy inputs on credit from suppliers to restore the benefits of secured bank financing impaired by contract incompleteness. In a setting where investment is endogenous and unobservable to financiers, we show that a bank-secured credit contract is time-inconsistent. Upon being granted credit, the entrepreneur has an incentive to alter the original input combination, jeopardizing the bank’s revenues. Anticipating the entrepreneur’s opportunism, the bank offers an unsecured credit contract, reducing the surplus from the venture. One way for the entrepreneur to commit to the contract terms is to purchase inputs on credit from the supplier. The supplier observes the input investment and acts as a guarantor that inputs will be purchased as contracted, thus facilitating access to secured bank financing. The commitment role of trade credit still holds in a multi-period extension that investigates the impact of bank relationship lending on secured debt and trade credit. Our model provides novel testable predictions on optimal financial contracts in both one-period and repeated lending relationships.
K22|Playing it safe? Managerial preferences, risk, and agency conflicts|This article examines managers’ incentive to play it safe. We find that, after managers are insulated by the adoption of an antitakeover law, they take value-destroying actions that reduce their firms’ stock volatility and risk of distress. To illustrate one such action, we show that managers undertake diversifying acquisitions that target firms likely to reduce risk, have negative announcement returns, and are concentrated among firms with managers who gain the most from reducing risk. Our findings suggest that instruments typically used to motivate managers, such as greater financial leverage and larger ownership stakes, exacerbate risk-related agency challenges.
K22|Socially responsible firms|In the corporate finance tradition, starting with Berle and Means (1932), corporations should generally be run to maximize shareholder value. The agency view of corporate social responsibility (CSR) considers CSR an agency problem and a waste of corporate resources. Given our identification strategy by means of an instrumental variable approach, we find that well-governed firms that suffer less from agency concerns (less cash abundance, positive pay-for-performance, small control wedge, strong minority protection) engage more in CSR. We also find that a positive relation exists between CSR and value and that CSR attenuates the negative relation between managerial entrenchment and value.
K22|Corporate opportunities law and the non-executive director|This article considers the current state of the fiduciary duty to avoid conflicts of interest as it applies to non-executive directors (NEDs) of UK companies, particularly in the context of corporate opportunities discovered by them in an outside capacity. The article charts the current law through the no-conflict and no-profit rules developed by the common law, and argues that the Companies Act 2006 leaves significant real-world uncertainties for the modern non-executive with outside business interests. Empirical data gathered from the largest listed companies in the UK are used to show that companies do attempt to legislate for this problem, but in a way that is only partially satisfactory. Finally, the article argues that the courts can and should develop the law in a way that accords with these real-world contractual solutions and the commercial expectations of NEDs, and suggests how the courts should approach cases of this type.
K22|Ties that bind: how business connections affect mutual fund activism|We investigate whether business ties with portfolio firms influence mutual funds’ proxy voting using a comprehensive data set spanning 2003 to 2011. In contrast to prior literature, we find that business ties significantly influence pro-management voting at the level of individual pairs of fund families and firms after controlling for ISS recommendations and holdings. The association is significant only for shareholder-sponsored proposals and stronger for those that pass or fail by relatively narrow margins. Our findings are consistent with a demand-driven model of biased voting in which company managers use existing business ties with funds to influence how they vote.
K22|The governance of blockchain financial networks|Since the emergence of the virtual currency Bitcoin in 2009, a new, Internet-based way of recording entitlements and enforcing rights has increasingly captured the interest of businesses and governments. The technology is commonly called ‘blockchain’ and is often associated with a closely related phenomenon, the ‘smart contract’. The market is now exploring ways of using these concepts for financial assets, such as securities, legal tender and derivative contracts. This article develops a conceptual framework for the governance of blockchain-based networks in financial markets. It constructs a vision of how financial regulation and private law should set the boundaries of this new technology in order to protect market participants and societies at large, while at the same time allowing for the necessary room for innovation.
K22|Alcune considerazioni economiche e di governance sulla recente riforma delle BCC|"Questo lavoro analizza brevemente, alla luce di alcune considerazioni teoriche sulla governance delle imprese cooperative, con particolare riferimento alle banche, le caratteristiche principali del decreto-legge 14 febbraio 2016 n. 18, recentemente convertito in legge dal Parlamento, che riordina il settore delle Banche di Credito Cooperativo. Le nuove norme non sembrano introdurre dispositivi in grado di porre rimedio ad alcuni problemi annosi che caratterizzano il credito cooperativo: i fenomeni di ""cattura"" del consenso della base sociale da parte del gruppo dirigente e l’insufficienza di incentivi ad un ricambio efficiente del gruppo dirigente"
K22|Information Production, Misconduct Effort, and the Duration of Corporate Fraud|We develop and test a model linking the duration of financial fraud to information produced by auditors and analysts and efforts by managers to conceal the fraud. Our empirical results suggest fraud termination is more likely in the quarter following the release of audited financial statements, especially when reports contain explanatory language, indicating auditors’ observable signals reduce fraud duration. Analyst attention increases the likelihood of fraud termination, but the marginal effect beyond the first analyst is negative, possibly due to free riding and herding behavior impairing analysts’ ability to illuminate misconduct. Finally, evidence suggests managerial concealment significantly increases fraud duration.
K22|Data Breach Notification Laws|Richard J. Sullivan and Jesse Leigh Maniff study individual provisions within states' data breach notification laws to evaluate their effects on identity theft.
K22|Political Connections and Insider Trading|This paper investigates whether political connections affect individuals’ propensity to engage in illegal activities in financial markets. We use the 2007 French presidential election as marker of change in the value of political connections, in a difference-in-differences research design. We examine the behavior of directors of publicly listed companies who are connected to the future president through campaign donations or direct friendships, relative to that of other non-connected directors, before and after the election. We uncover indirect evidence that connected directors do more illegal insider trading after the election. More precisely, we find that purchases by connected directors trigger larger abnormal returns, and that connected directors are more likely not to comply with trading disclosure requirements and to trade closer to major corporate events.
K22|How Does Corporate Governance Structure Affect Risk-Taking Activities In Japanese Firms?|This paper examines whether changes in corporate governance structure affect risk-taking activities in Japanese firms. New corporate governance systems have been imported into Japanese firms from the US since the late 1990s. However, Japanese firms have not necessarily been able to improve their financial performance. We analyze the effects of reforms of boards of directors on risk-taking activities because Japanese firms are too risk averse and this may lead to lower firm performance. Firstly, we analyze whether outside directors and nonexecutive directors affect risk-taking activities in Japanese firms. The results show that firms with more outside or non-executive directors promote risk-taking activities more aggressively. Secondly, we examine the differences in the effects on risk-taking activities between firms with outside directors and those with more than one outside director. The result shows that firms with more than one outside director invest in long-term capital more actively, while those with one outside director invest in more passively. Thirdly, we focus on two situations in which firms need to undertake riskier projects. The first is firms with business opportunities and the second is older firms. The result shows that firms with higher potential for growth and more than one outside director promote risk-taking activities, but that firms with higher potential for growth and only one outside director do not. Then, focusing on firm age, the result shows that older firms with one outside director undertake relatively less risky activities. Finally, we calculate the trends of sales and operating income after investment. The results show that firms with more than one outside director have a higher sales growth ratio than those with no outside directors or only one outside director. The facts suggest that risk-taking activities have economic effects on firms.
K22|Self-fulfilling Distortion and Ownership Structure: Market Discipline and Owner fs Dominance at the Dawn of the Japanese Capitalism|Does the ownership structure affect firms' performance? We first theoretically show that in an inefficient market, investors motivate managers to pursue a higher return on equity, the short-term performance indicator instead of a higher return on asset, the long-term indicator and encourage managers to distort the financial leverage. This self-fulfilling distortion implies that, in an inefficient market, a higher concentration of ownership improves long-term performance through containing the distortion. To test the prediction, we build a new dataset of Japanese firms from 1878 to 1910. Then, we show that the Japanese market then was inefficient, that the bond flotation was distorted among low and mediocre performing firms, and that a higher concentration of ownership at the president improved the return on asset. These results are consistent with the tendency in contemporary non-US advanced economies. A higher concentration of ownership offsets the adverse effects of a less efficient capital market.
K22|Independence and focus of Luxembourg UCITS fund boards|Investment funds are potentially plagued by principal-agent problems between investors and fund management companies, in particular with respect to fees. Market forces play a role in mitigating these problems, but based on existing empirical studies, there can be doubts about whether these forces are sufficient for protecting investor interests. When market forces fail, there is room for fund boards to add value for investors. U.S. funds have mandatory independent directors who are empowered to be the watchdogs for the fund investors, negotiating fees with the fund management company on their behalf. This is not the case for Luxembourg funds that are established in accordance with the EU Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities (UCITS) Directive. This study uses a sample of Luxembourg UCITS funds and shows that, although there is no regulatory requirement, approximately half of the sample funds have appointed at least one independent board member. A survey among board members of the sample funds showed that, in the absence of the requirement to negotiate fees with the fund management company, Luxembourg boards give relatively low priority to costs, which they see as primarily the responsibility of the promoter, leaving the monitoring to market forces. This finding is irrespective of whether or not the board has (semi-) independent board members. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2016
K22|The Effectiveness of Public Enforcement: Evidence from the Resolution of Tunneling in China|Abstract This paper examines the effectiveness of public enforcement by studying the effects of regulatory intervention to curb tunneling through intercorporate loans in China. Specifically, we explore whether public enforcement efforts in 2006 (blacklisting and sanctions) resulted in less tunneling, and ultimately in increased performance for tunneling firms. We show that tunneling is among the dominant factors increasing the likelihood of becoming blacklisted. We also find that firms’ tunneling mechanisms decreased significantly after the regulatory shock, and that their performance increased significantly compared to non-tunneling firms after the regulatory shock. Finally, we find a positive market reaction to the public announcement of tunneling both for firms that have been blacklisted and other tunneling firms that are not blacklisted. Collectively, these results suggest that public enforcement in the presence of a credible threat succeeds in deterring the effect on tunneling behavior in China.
K22|Regulatory Sanctions on Independent Directors and Their Consequences to the Director Labor Market: Evidence from China|Abstract We investigate the regulatory sanctions imposed on independent directors for their firms’ financial frauds in China. These regulatory sanctions are prima-facie evidence of significant lapses in business ethics. During the period 2003–2010, 302-person-time independent directors were penalized by the regulator (the China Securities Regulatory Commission—the CSRC), and the two stock exchanges. We find that the independent directors with accounting experiences are more likely to be penalized by the CSRC, though they do not suffer more severe penalties than do the other sanctioned independent directors. We also find that independent directors suffer less severe penalties than do the insider directors. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that the sanctions on independent directors are tied to their assumed ethical and legal responsibilities. Following a regulatory sanction, penalized independent directors experience a significant decline in the number of other board seats held. However, they can gain board seats in better quality firms. We find that interlocked firms that share penalized independent directors with the fraud firm do not suffer from a valuation decline. Overall, our results suggest that regulatory sanctions have not triggered further sanctions on the penalized directors in the labor market but they have, instead, created a disincentive for these directors to serve on the company boards of high-risk firms.
K22|A theory of underwriters’ risk management in a firm-commitment initial public offering|A cynosure of the academic literature relating to initial public offerings (IPOs) is the question of why they are “mispriced” so frequently. The large and growing literature addressing this question is evidence as to its intractability. This paper develops a theory of underwriters’ behavior suggesting that they will exploit their private information to minimize the bilateral risks to themselves of firm-commitment IPOs. That minimization may cause them to knowingly underprice the issue. The main result in this paper is based, in part, on the premise that the random character of the investors’ demand for shares in the secondary market, given the spread, is governed by an estimable conditional probability distribution. The underwriters exploit their private knowledge of that probability distribution to influence the number of shares in the offering in such a way as to minimize their expected loss function. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2016
K22|On The (Political) Origin Of ‘Corporate Governance’ Species|"Although economies, business practices, and living standards have converged since WWII, corporate structures continue to differ among the advanced economies of the world. Looking at the diversity of corporate structures of large-sized firms around the world (and over time) would fascinate Charles Darwin. This work develops a critical review of the literature on political determinants of corporate governance through the Darwinian theory (including some Lamarckian aspects). As Darwin, in his work ""On the Origin of Species"", explicates the diversity of species of tortoises, finches, and iguanas of the Galapagos Islands, so Darwinism may contribute in understanding the origin and the persistence of corporate diversity. In particular, this article takes into account politics-driven variations, their inheritances, and the subsequent selection of advantageous ""corporate"" attributes.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
K22|How Rigged Are Stock Markets?: Evidence From Microsecond Timestamps|We use new timestamp data from the two Securities Information Processors (SIPs) to examine SIP reporting latencies for quote and trade reports. Reporting latencies average 1.13 milliseconds for quotes and 22.84 milliseconds for trades. Despite these latencies, liquidity-taking orders gain on average $0.0002 per share when priced at the SIP-reported national best bid or offer (NBBO) rather than the NBBO calculated using exchanges’ direct data feeds. Trading surrounding SIP-priced trades shows little evidence that fast traders initiate these liquidity-taking orders to pick-off stale quotes. These findings contradict claims that fast traders systematically exploit traders who transact at the SIP NBBO.
K22|Executive Lawyers: Gatekeepers or Strategic Officers?|Lawyers now serve as executives in 44% of corporations. Although endowed with gatekeeping responsibilities, executive lawyers face increasing pressure to use time on strategic efforts. In a lawyer fixed effects model, we quantify that lawyers are half as important as CEOs in explaining variances in compliance, monitoring, and business development. In a difference-in-differences model, we find that hiring lawyers into executive positions associates with 50% reduction in compliance breaches and 32% reduction in monitoring breaches. We then ask whether firms’ optimal contracting of lawyers into strategic activities implies less lawyer gatekeeping effort. Using a design comparing executive lawyers hired from law firms to lawyers poached from corporations, we find that lawyers hired with high compensation delta (indicative of the importance of strategic goals in compensation contracts) do less monitoring, preventing 25% fewer breaches than are typically mitigated by having an executive gatekeeper. Reassuringly, lawyers do not compromise compliance.
K22|The Wolf at the Door: The Impact of Hedge Fund Activism on Corporate Governance|Hedge fund activism has increased almost hyperbolically. Although some view this trend optimistically as a means for bridging the separation of ownership and control, we review the evidence and find it far more mixed. In particular, engagements by activist hedge funds appear to be producing a significant externality: severe cut-backs in long-term investment (and particularly a reduction in investment in research and development) by both the targeted firms and other firms not targeted but still deterred from making such investments. We begin by surveying the regulatory and institutional developments that have reduced the costs and increased the expected payoff from activism for activist investors. We give particular attention to new tactics (including the formation of â€œwolf packsâ€ â€”loose associations of activist funds that do not constitute a â€œgroupâ€ under the Williams Act) and new institutional structures (such as the alliance between an activist hedge fund and a strategic bidder struck in the recent Allergan takeover battle). Then, we survey the empirical evidence on how the investment horizons of firms are changing. Next, we review prior studies on the impact of activism, looking successively at (1) who are the targets of activism?; (2) does hedge fund activism create real value?; (3) what are the sources of gains from activism?; and (4) do the targets of activism experience post-intervention changes in real variables? We find the evidence decidedly mixed on most questions. Finally, we examine the policy levers that could encourage or curb hedge fund activism and consider the feasibility of reforms (including with respect to the law on insider trading). In particular, we consider possible private ordering responses, including new defensive tactics. Our policy preference is to find the least restrictive alternative.
K22|Venture Capital 2.0: From Venturing to Partnering|"Against the backdrop of an ever-changing financial landscape sometimes characterized by an abundance of funding and start-up opportunities, but usually characterized by down rounds and decreasing valuations (leading to funding, investment and liquidity gaps), ""venture capital"" has taken on a new uncertainty and complexity. In this review, we suggest that venture capital should not exclusively — or even primarily — be defined in terms of providing risk capital (and advise) to founder-entrepreneurs. Such an approach to venture capital, which is often described in terms of a ""venture capital cycle"", seems to represent the conventional wisdom in most recent discussion. According to this perspective, the solution to the funding, investment, and liquidity gaps is for new sources of capital — be they government, corporate or crowd — to step in and provide founder-entrepreneurs with money, capacities and connections that allows them to start, scale, and grow their businesses."
K22|Regulatory Competition in Global Financial Markets — The Case for a Special Resolution Regime|Regulatory arbitrage in financial markets refers to a number of strategies that market participants use to avoid the reach of regulation, in particular by virtue of moving trading abroad or relocating activities or operations of financial institutions to other jurisdictions. Where this happens, such arbitrage can trigger regulatory competition between jurisdictions that may respond to the relocation of financial services (or threats to relocate) by moderating their regulatory standards.
K22|The Costs and Benefits of Mandatory Securities Regulation: Evidence from Market Reactions to the JOBS Act of 2012|The effect of mandatory securities regulation on firm value has been a long-standing concern across law, economics, finance, and accounting. The Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act relaxed disclosure and compliance obligations under US securities law for a new category of firms known as â€œemerging growth companiesâ€ (EGCs). EGCs were defined retroactively to include firms that conducted initial public offerings (IPOs) between December 8, 2011, and the enactment of the Act on April 5, 2012. We analyze market reactions for EGCs around key legislative events in March 2012, relative to a control group of otherwise similar firms that conducted IPOs in the months preceding the cutoff date. We find positive and statistically significant abnormal returns of between 3% and 4% for EGCs around the most important of these dates. This suggests that the value to investors of the disclosure and compliance obligations relaxed under the JOBS Act is outweighed by the associated compliance costs.
K22|The Effect of Governance Reforms on Financial Reporting Fraud|In response to financial reporting scandals, Congress and the securities exchanges mandated increases in board and audit committee independence and banned most non-audit services. We exploit these exogenous shocks to examine whether these governance reforms reduced financial reporting fraud. Comparing firms forced to comply with the reforms to firms already in compliance, we find that mandated increases in overall board independence significantly reduced the rate of fraud, while mandating a fully independent audit committee had a weaker effect. Further, banning non-audit services did not reduce the incidence of fraud.
K22|Capital-Market Effects of Securities Regulation: Prior Conditions, Implementation, and Enforcement|We examine the capital-market effects of changes in securities regulation in the European Union aimed at reducing market abuse and increasing transparency. To estimate causal effects for the population of E.U. firms, we exploit that for plausibly exogenous reasons, such as national legislative procedures, E.U. countries adopted these directives at different times. We find significant increases in market liquidity, but the effects are stronger in countries with stricter implementation and traditionally more stringent securities regulation. The findings suggest that countries with initially weaker regulation do not catch up with stronger countries, and that countries diverge more upon harmonizing regulation.Received August 3, 2015; accepted April 25, 2016, by Editor Andrew Karolyi.
K22|Does Mandatory Shareholder Voting Prevent Bad Acquisitions?|Shareholder voting on corporate acquisitions is controversial. In most countries, acquisition decisions are delegated to boards, and shareholder approval is discretionary, which makes existing empirical studies inconclusive. We study the U.K. setting in which shareholder approval is imposed exogenously via a threshold test that provides strong identification. U.K. shareholders gain 8 cents per dollar at announcement with mandatory voting, or $\$13.6$ billion over 1992â€“2010 in aggregate; without voting, U.K. shareholders lost $\$3$ billion. Multidimensional regression discontinuity analysis supports a causal interpretation. The evidence suggests that mandatory voting imposes a binding constraint on acquirer chief executive officers.Received October 22, 2015; accepted May 11, 2016, by Editor David Denis.
K22|Debt Recovery in Firm Liquidations: Do Liquidation Trustees Matter?|Insolvency systems play a crucial role in protection of creditor rights, yet micro-level empirical evidence on the functioning of insolvency regimes worldwide is sparse. We investigate whether creditors' recovery of outstanding claims, a measure of ex-post efficiency of an insolvency regime, depends on the characteristics of the trustee delegated the administration of the liquidation proceedings. To this end, we draw on a novel dataset of firm liquidations from Slovenia and exploit courts' de facto random assignment of firm liquidation cases to licensed liquidation trustees. Using a wide range of specifications and controls, we find that a subset of trustee characteristics indeed matters for debt recovery. Thus, ex-post efficiency of an insolvency regime depends not only on its formal rules and procedures, but also on who implements them in practice.
K22|The Metamorphosis Of The Associate'S Limited Liability For The Obligations Of The Company Undergoing Dissolution|The present article seeks to analyze the metamorphosis of the extent of the associate's liability for the obligations of the limited liability company, namely that liability which modifies its extent – from liability limited to the associate's contribution to the share capital it develops into unlimited liability to this contribution. The metamorphosis occurs in well-determined cases, namely when, in the fraud of the creditors, the associate abuses of the limited character of its liability and of the distinct legal personality of the company, this happening in the stage of dissolution which precedes liquidation. The analysis of the consequences of metamorphosis of the extent of the associate's liability having in view the benefit it should have brought to the amelioration of the business environment, is not a favourable one, because of its limited applicability, seen from double perspective: only to the associate in the limited liability company and only to the companies from this category undergoing dissolution which precedes liquidation.
