K25|Evidence and Actions on Mortgage Market Disparities: Research, Fair Lending Enforcement and Consumer Protection|In this article, we present overviews of the research on discrimination in mortgage underwriting and pricing, the experiences of minority borrowers prior to and during the financial crisis and federal efforts to mitigate foreclosures during the crisis. We next discuss the history of legal cases alleging disparate treatment of minority borrowers, and recent cases alleging disparate impact in the wake of the Supreme Court’s “Inclusive Communities” decision. Using these discussions as a background, we discuss and examine mortgage regulations issued by the Consumer Finance Protection Bureau following the financial crisis, describe recent developments in the FinTech industry discussing their implications for fair lending policy and minority borrowers more generally, and finally draw conclusions and make recommendations for improving the mortgage market outcomes of minority borrowers and increasing minority borrowers’ access to credit.
K25|Evolving Practice in Land Demarcation|This paper analyzes social choice with respect to the demarcation of land boundaries, distinguishing between physical and legal demarcation. In contrast with the influential “land administration” literature and the World Bank’s policy guidelines, the analysis supports voluntary—instead of mandatory—demarcation as well as non-integrated services for land administration. Consistent with these theoretical arguments, the paper empirically verifies that demarcation conflicts play a lesser role in title-, land- and property-related litigation, which seems to increase in all these areas after physical demarcation is made mandatory. Relying on World Bank data, it also observes that linking and merging cadastres and land registries does not correlate with lower transaction costs.
K25|Evolving practice in land demarcation|This paper analyzes social choice with respect to the demarcation of land boundaries, distinguishing between physical and legal demarcation. In contrast with the influential “land administration” literature and the World Bank’s policy guidelines, the analysis supports voluntary—instead of mandatory—demarcation as well as non-integrated services for land administration. Consistent with these theoretical arguments, the paper empirically verifies that demarcation conflicts play a lesser role in title-, land- and property-related litigation, which seems to increase in all these areas after physical demarcation is made mandatory. Relying on World Bank data, it also observes that linking and merging cadastres and land registries does not correlate with lower transaction costs.
K25|Mito y realidad del alquiler vacacional en las Islas Baleares. Análisis y recomendaciones de política turística|Las consecuencias negativas del alquiler vacacional (y de Airbnb en particular) han sido exageradas. Tomar decisiones basadas en un diagnóstico incorrecto puede tener graves consecuencias para el bienestar de la sociedad balear. En este breve informe se documenta que el alquiler vacacional tiene un impacto muy limitado sobre la supuesta saturación y sostenibilidad turística, los precios de venta y alquiler de la vivienda, y la oferta de vivienda en alquiler de larga temporada. Asimismo, se argumenta que el turismo vacacional estaría contribuyendo a aportar recursos a las familias que mayoritariamente no viven profesionalmente del turismo y, obtienen así unos ingresos extra, repartiendo sus ganancias de una manera más justa socialmente y más equilibrada territorialmente que el modelo tradicional basado en la explotación de hoteles y otros establecimientos de alojamiento. Prohibir o restringir esta modalidad de alquiler supone desaprovechar una gran oportunidad de luchar contra los grandes males de la economía balear: su baja productividad, la estacionalidad y la alta dependencia del turismo de sol y playa. Ordenar el sector exige: i) neutralidad ante los diferentes modos de negocio turístico sin favorecer a los ya establecidos y permitiendo que nuevas empresas y nuevas tecnologías puedan disfrutar de las mismas oportunidades que los agentes que ya están establecidos en el mercado; ii) corregir las externalidades negativas que genera esta actividad, y iii) exigir el pago de impuestos. Una sociedad que regula restrictivamente la entrada de nuevas empresas y tecnologías está condenada a empobrecerse.
K25|Collective Action, White Flight, and the Origins of Formal Segregation Laws|This paper develops and tests a simple model to explain the origins of municipal segregation ordinances. Passed by cities between 1909 and 1917, these ordinances prohibited members of the majority racial group on a given city block from selling or renting property to members of another racial group. Our results suggest that prior to these laws cities had created and sustained residential segregation through private norms and vigilante activity. Only when these private arrangements began to break down during the early 1900s did whites start lobbying municipal governments for segregation ordinances.
K25|Informal Homeownership Issues: Tracking Contract for Deed Sales in the Southeast|Since the Great Recession, homeownership rates have dropped and the wealth divide has widened for low-income and racial and ethnic minority households. Homeownership is a significant contributor to household balance sheets and generator of household wealth, particularly for these populations. {{p}} A contract for deed is a seller-financed real estate contract consisting of installment payments. For households that desire the financial and physical security of owning a home, contracts for deed may provide an inexpensive option. However, risks may exist. Unlike the recipient of a mortgage, the purchaser of a home under the terms of a contract for deed does not hold title or build equity on the property, despite being responsible for all expenses. In addition, corporate sellers of contracts for deed have been shown to include many undesirable elements, such as high interest rates and inflated purchase prices. {{p}} Based on our analysis, corporate contract for deed sales increased from 2008 to 2013 and have plateaued or declined since that time in four major southeastern cities. These properties tended to be located in majority-African-American neighborhoods with less access to financial services. However, a much larger yet unknown number of contracts for deed involve a small-scale seller, such as a private individual or local firm. The terms of these contracts vary, with roughly equal numbers of seemingly low-risk contracts and contracts with extremely high interest rates and unfair forfeiture clauses.
K25|Developing Inclusive Communities: Challenges and Opportunities for Mixed-Income Housing|"Over the past decade, housing costs have risen faster than incomes. The need for affordable rental housing has well outpaced the number of available units as well as funding allocations at the federal level. Local regulation and land use policies that increase the cost of subsidized, mixed-income housing construction and preservation have contributed to the affordability problem. {{p}} To meet the affordable housing needs in U.S. communities, innovation, creativity, and ""out of the box"" thinking may be required, particularly as it relates to reducing the rapidly increasing costs of development. Another consideration is pursuing mixed-income development, as it is more financially sustainable than low-income housing. Mixed-income neighborhoods are also desirable as they can lead to substantially better outcomes for families because the higher disposable incomes of a broader economic mix of families attract additional private investment, amenities, and opportunities. {{p}} This discussion paper explores new ideas about how affordable housing in an economically integrated, mixed-income community setting could be developed and operated in an environment of declining government subsidies. Based on interviews with housing stakeholders in Atlanta, Georgia, Jacksonville, Florida, and Nashville, Tennessee, we have compiled ideas that could be scalable and replicable and could result in substantial cost savings without compromising mission, integrity, performance, or accountability. Specific suggestions include standardizing qualifying income targets and other standards imposed by funders and reducing building and permitting barriers to development, such as limited zoning for multifamily housing and regulations limiting wood frame construction. More generally, participants thought existing stakeholders could better address the underlying political environment by creating a unified constituency to advocate for more mixed-income communities. These ideas and lessons learned from the mixed-use, mixed-income revitalization experience may inform and assist cities in rebuilding or enhancing their urban core."
