K30|Charitable Constributions by Businesses: A Tax Policy Perspective|Empirical evidence suggests that charitable contributions to public goods by businesses may be driven not only by the familiar warm-glow of giving motive but also as a means for businesses to signal high product quality. Building on this finding, we present an analytical framework that demonstrates that the optimal degree of subsidization should decrease with the extent to which the signal is informative, and may even turn into a tax when the signal is sufficiently strong. Finally, we compare the current practice in the US, a charitable contribution deduction provided by Section 170 of the US Tax Code, with the design suggested by our normative analysis.
K30|How to Counter Fake News? A Taxonomy of Anti-Fake News Approaches|Fake news is a symptom of deeper structural problems in our societies and media environments. To counter it, policymakers need to take into account the underlying, self-reinforcing mechanisms that make this old phenomenon so pervasive today. Only by taking a step back can we examine the vulnerabilities these fake news narratives exploit. This article provides a first taxonomy of anti-fake news approaches. It argues that proposed anti-fake news laws focus on the trees rather than the forest. As such, they will not only remain irrelevant but also aggravate the root causes fueling the fake news phenomenon.
K30|Is the EU Disinformation Review Compliant with EU Law? Complaint to the European Ombudsman About the EU Anti-Fake News Initiative|The EU’s approach to fake news, as epitomised by the European External Action (EEAS) Service East Stratcom Disinformation Review, violates the rights to freedom of expression and due process of those accused of distributing disinformation. The EU Disinformation Review is a publication of the European External Action Service (the European Union’s diplomatic service) to target fake news and online disinformation. Following our request for access to documents, EEAS conceded that the EU Disinformation Review uses an “ad hoc” methodology for conducting its fact-checks, which makes it an outlier in the international fact-checking community led by the International Fact-Checking Network (IFCN). Despite being a well-intentioned initiative to respond to the challenges posed by pro-Kremlin disinformation, the EU should ensure the respect of fundamental rights when engaging in fact-checking. The EU Disinformation Review seeks to control the right to freedom of expression by labelling publishers as “disinforming outlets” and their content as “disinformation,” creating a chilling effect on the work of journalists that is central to democracy. The right to freedom of expression is expressed in Article 11.1 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union (2000/C 364/01) and Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The labelling of publishers as “disinformation outlets” is contrary to principle of the freedom of press established by the European Court of Human Rights: “[a] general requirement for journalists systematically and formally to distance themselves from the content of a quotation that might insult or provoke others or damage their reputation is not reconcilable with the press’ role of providing information on current events, opinion and ideas.” In addition, the methodology used by EEAS in the EU Disinformation Review is “ad hoc,” which constitutes a violation of the fundamental right to good administration in Article 41 of the European Charter of Fundamental Rights. Specifically, the ad hoc design and operation of the EU Disinformation Review fails to ensure the review acts “impartially, fairly and within a reasonable time.” First, publications are not provided with the right to be heard or proper notice. The EU Disinformation Review’s homepage offers an opportunity to contact the Task Force report a suspected mistake in a fact-check but the page is only available in English, in violation of the principle of multilingualism, and no notice if given to outlets accused of being “disinforming outlets” before or after fact-checks of their content are published. Second, the EEAS does not fulfil its duty to motivate. EEAS is given a broad margin of discretion to identify disinformation, but fails to do so according to a consistent methodology. Therefore, EEAS cannot justify, on the basis of objective criteria, its choice of which content to review and how to determine its truth or falsehood. To comply with EU law and ensure the respect of fundamental rights, the EEAS should develop and make public (1) a methodology for selecting partnerships and reviewing fact-checks in line with international standards and (2) a notice and response mechanism for journalists, publishers and citizens whose content is being reviewed. If EEAS is unable to comply with the above, the EU Disinformation Review should be shut down.
K30|Better Regulation: Holding the European Commission Accountable?|This article examines what difference – if any – the renewed EU Better Regulation Agenda has made for the EU Commission in terms of its own accountability and policy outcomes. Emboldened by the Spitzenkandidaten process – which established for the first time a link between the outcome of the EU elections and the presidency of the EU Commission –, the Juncker Commission emerged as the most political yet. To shrug off the label of technocratic institution – historically insulated from citizens’ preferences –, the new Commission asked EU citizens to judge its operation by its ability ‘to deliver solutions to the big issues that cannot be addressed by the Member States alone’. By embracing such a panem et circenses approach to EU democracy – as such not too dissimilar from the Santer’s and Barroso’s previous administrations – the Juncker Commission raised new expectations. This is true not only in terms of output legitimacy – which was meant to become the privileged benchmark against which to measure the Commission’s success –, but also in terms of its own democratic and political accountability vis-à-vis EU citizens. Indeed, although unintelligible to the many, the Spitzenkandidaten logic entails that EU citizens contributed for the first time with their vote to shape the political orientation of this Commission and – as a result – could hold it accountable. While the very notion of political accountability is foreign to the EU constitutional setting – as citizens don’t have the possibility to replace the Commission if this does not meet their hopes –, the Juncker Commission has strived to frame its mandate as if such an oversight existed. This article concludes that at the very same time the Juncker Commission has been striving to develop its own, autonomous democratic credentials, its choice to embrace a set of well-defined institutional mechanisms that reward expert judgment over political adjudication appears at odds with its newly-acquired political nature.
K30|Privacy as a Key Factor of Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) Development in Health Care|"The transfer of a large part of activities to the cyberspace has made the society heavily depended on ICT. Internet of Things has been created due to the appearance of smart devices. IoT generates a new dimension of the network. Its use has ceased to be the domain of man. Communication only between devices has become possible, posing new challenges, directly related to security threats and a lot of new opportunities for unauthorised data. While there is a common awareness of the potential risks in using computers or networks, the use of intelligent things is wrongly seen as making life easier and paradoxically more secure.It is extremely important to notice seemingly unimportant behaviour, but likely to cause harm. In a world with ""smart? things, there are threats such as permanent surveillance, incessant and uncontrolled data leaks or identity theft. The challenge is to set up and formulate norms and enabling legislative processes to keep pace with the technology advancement.The use of ICT, especially in science and industry, changes everyday life already today. Society aging and increase in health care expenditure makes it imperative to expand the use of ICT in health care, where a revolution is expected with the use of intelligent diagnostic support systems, current health state monitoring and specialised technologies enabling remote medical procedures adaptation. But there are dangers associated with IoT use in health care requiring clearly defined criteria. Patients must be able to expect privacy and medical data safety.Even seemingly indispensable necessity to ensure the safety of medical data is not obvious.. Utilising ICT in the health sector will ensure change in approach towards patients and increased productivity. The need for privacy should be considered at the stage of technology design and implementation. Ensuring medical data security is paramount. Otherwise, social resistance and costs resulting from i.e. leakage of medical data and use of such data in an unlawful or even threatening manner will be very high."
K30|What Crisis? Taking Stock of Management Researchers' Experiences with and Views of Scholarly Misconduct|This research presents the results of a survey regarding scientific misconduct elicited from a sample of 1,215 management researchers. We find that misconduct (research that was either fabricated or falsified) is not encountered often by reviewers nor editors. Yet, there is a strong prevalence of misrepresentations (method inadequacy, omission or withholding of contradictory results, dropping of unsupported hypotheses). Despite these findings, respondents put a fair deal of trust in the replicability and robustness of findings being published. A sizeable majority of editors and authors eschew open data policies but sees value in replication studies to ensure credibility in empirical research.
K30|The Problem of Unpaid Internships: Legal Guide to Complaints Under the European Social Charter|Young people entering the job market are in a precarious economic position. Across Europe, and in Belgium in particular, those who wish to enter into the professional world are faced with the de facto mandate that in order to gain experience and build the connections that will enable them to find paid professional work in the future, they must complete several internships. Yet many of these internships are unpaid or underpaid, forcing some young people to rely on their savings or their parents and shutting others out of the process entirely. The European Committee of Social Rights (the “Committee”) accepts collective complaints lodged by non-governmental organisations alleging violations of the European Social Charter (the “Charter”). The EU Public Interest Clinic prepared this draft Complaint for the non-profit organization European Youth Forum, alleging that unpaid internships in Belgium violate the Charter. Specifically, the provisions in Belgian law that enable unpaid internships, and the lack of enforcement of provisions that aim to curtail them, violate Articles 4, 7, and 10 of the Charter, which provide for fair remuneration, the protection of young people, and financial assistance for vocational training, respectively.
K30|Access to credit and financial health: evaluating the impact of debt collection|Despite the prevalence of debt collection and the intense regulatory activity surrounding this industry, little is known about how these practices impact consumers. This paper conducts an empirical analysis of the effect of debt collection on consumer credit and on indicators of financial health, employing individual credit record data and a difference-in-differences research design that compares outcomes for consumers in states that increased the restrictiveness of legislation with those for consumers in the remaining states. We find consistent evidence that restricting collection activities leads to a decrease in access to credit and a deterioration in indicators of financial health. Moreover, our estimated treatment varies considerably with the borrower's age and baseline credit score, with effects concentrated primarily among borrowers with the lowest credit scores.
K30|Religious Issues in Russian Schools: Legal View|In different countries of the world the place of religion in education differs. In most of the European countries teaching of religion in public (or state-funded) school exists in one form or another. In Russia religious education can be received by the student at his or her own discretion or at discretion of the parents in the religious educational establishment. Education in public (state and municipal) organizations engaged in educational activity has a strictly secular nature. This principle is implemented in the Russian legislation and practice is most visible in disputes arising at the crossroad of religion and education as resolved by Russian courts. The most disputed issues concern the regulation of school uniform and the teaching of subjects ‘Fundamentals of Religious cultures and secular ethics’ and ‘Fundamentals of spiritual and moral culture of Russian nations’ as a compulsory subject in public schools. The court practice on the issue keeps developing, but it's analysis shows that the secular nature of education in Russia is not so undoubted as it may seem
K30|Judicial Choice among Cases for Certiorari|How does the Supreme Court choose among cases to grant cert? In the context of a model that considers a strategic Supreme Court, a continuum of rule-following lower courts, a set of cases available for revision, and a distribution of future lower court cases, we show that the Court grants cert to the case that will most significantly shape future lower court case outcomes in the direction that the Court prefers. That is, the Court grants cert to the case with maximum salience. If the Court is rather liberal (conservative) then the most salient case is the one that moves the discretionary range of the legal standard as far left (right) as possible. But if the Court is moderate, then the most salient case will be a function of the skewedness of the distribution of ideologies of the lower courts and the likelihood that future cases will fall within the part of the discretionary range that is adjusted if the case is granted cert. Variations take place when the ideology of the Court is moderately liberal, moderately conservative or fully moderate. Extensions of the model allow us to identify the sensitivity of the results to the number of petitions for revision; the variety of legal topics covered by the petitions; and anticipation of whether the Court will confirm or reverse.
K30|Explaining Difference in the Quantity of Supreme Court Revisions: A Model for Judicial Uniformity|While civil law supreme courts (e.g., Italy, France, Chile) hear up to 90% of the petitions for revisions, common law supreme courts (e.g., U.S., U.K, Canada) hear as low as 1% of the same type of cases. In this study we postulate that these different commitments towards revisions are each consistent with different approaches by which the legal system provides judicial uniformity. We formulate a theoretical model that shows that a given level of uniformity in lower (or appeal) court decisions can be achieved either by fixing a given probability of judicial revision or a given monetary/non-monetary disutility associated with a reversal. Hence, despite the fact that common law legal systems are characterized by a lower probability of case revision, we cannot state a priori that judicial uniformity is greater in civil law systems, as this will depend upon the magnitude of the disutility associated with a reversed decision. Indeed, with the exception of the impact upon career concerns (which net effect is not clear) in terms of ideology, reputation and legal standards, reversal disutility seems to be much higher in common law systems than in civil law systems. In addition, we demonstrate that in an efficient legal system the optimal number of revisions increases with the size of the reversal disutility, but decreases with the probability that the supreme court makes erroneous decisions; the total number of cases soliciting revision and the intrinsic utility obtained by a lower court which enforces its desired rule. We also show that in an efficient legal system it is the judicial law-making role of a common law supreme court that explains why that Court revises fewer cases than a civil law supreme court.
K30|Convincing early adopters: Price signals and Information transmission|We study the optimal pricing strategy for a new product when consumers learn from both prices and early adopters’ purchase decisions. In our model, a long-lived monopolist faces a representative consumer each period. The monopolist is privately informed about his type, the probability of producing good-quality products. First-period consumers are early adopters, who learn quality before purchasing the product. Second-period consumers learn about product quality only after observing the public history, namely past price and early adopters’ purchase decisions. In this context, prices play a dual role, acting as signals of the firm’s type but also facilitating or impeding information transmission between early adopters and second-period consumers. Our main result is that separation might occur through either high or low prices (with respect to the full-information monopoly price), depending on the elasticity of demand. When demand for good-quality products is less elastic, high prices are less costly for high-type firms due to both a static (through demand) and dynamic (through information transmission) effects. On the one hand, high-type firms are marginally less affected by high prices, since they lose fewer consumers. On the other hand, early sales at higher prices carry good news about quality to second-period consumers, since such sales are more likely to come from a good than from a bad-quality product. The opposite happens occurs when demand for good-quality products is more elastic. We provide two market examples for each case and show that in the case of disruptive (incremental) innovations high (low) prices can be used as signals of quality. We finally discuss consumer welfare under the two resulting alternative equilibria, and show that the observability of early adopters’ purchase decisions improves consumer welfare when separation occurs through high prices.
K30|The Political Economy of Development: A Critical Assessment of Balochistan, Pakistan|This study aims at examining the political economy of the province of Balochistan, Pakistan and the underlying causes of social and economic under-development of the province. After presenting a brief and critical account on the historical development of the people of Balochistan, the paper argues that the province of Balochistan notwithstanding having a huge and resourceful land has failed to keep the pace of socio-economic development and modernity with other fellow provinces in the federation of Pakistan. After the independence of Pakistan and the formation of Balochistan as a province of, the people of Balochistan because of their political disorganization and segregation and economic backwardness failed to exert them within the political economy realm of Pakistan in order to grab their due resource share. The saga of economic and social backwardness of Balochistan province is a multifaceted puzzle. A section of the Balochistan political elite and scholars believe that the centralist nature of Pakistani federation is such that small nationalities like the Baloch and Pashtoon would find it hard to get their due share within the federation. That is because, the resource distribution and representation to both elected bodies and state institutions are based upon population, and Balochistan in spite of having 44% of Pakistan territory accommodates only 5% of country’s total population, whereas, another section is in the view that the nature of geo-economics and historical perspective of the province hinder the pace of economic development. The paper also touches the geostrategic importance of Balochistan and underlines its economic difficulty in terms of the dearth of human resources, physical infrastructure, economic autonomy, and productivity among others.
K30|The Solution Of The Sea Disagreement|In order to reach fair conclusions, I had to set out some definitions given by the International Conventions. This area is relatively new and unobtrusively studied by academics, military, Albanian lawmakers, who have been unequally confronted with the Greeks in this agreement because they have human capacities at the world's best levels, institutes and institutions of the sea. The method used to relate this study is that of comparison and deduction. To reach the goal, the study was conducted around the answers to these questions:1.How do legal regimes operate in sea?2.How are resolved marine disagreements? 3.Does the Albania-Greece deal matter??4.How was it done in similar cases?5.Is this agreement in accordance with the UN Conventions?6.What is lacking in this agreement?Only after the above answers, the relevant conclusions and recommendations have been reached.
K30|Interplay between patents and standards in the information and communication technology (ICT) sector and its relevance to the implementation of the WTO Agreements|The interplay between patents and standards in the information and communication technology (ICT) sector has been intensively debated at international, regional and national levels over the past decades. In essence, the debate is firstly about the extent and impact of patent holdup and holdout in the ICT sector, and then about how to eliminate or reduce these practices. While standard setting organizations (SSOs), industry bodies, as well as judicial and administrative authorities have made great efforts to solve the issue of patent holdup and holdout, there is still an ongoing struggle among divergent stakeholders. Patent holdup and holdout directly impacts the innovation and dissemination of patented technology, the harmonization and implementation of standards, and international trade, which are promoted by the WTO Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS Agreement) and the Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade (TBT Agreement). This working paper provides an overview of the current debate on patent holdup and holdout in the ICT sector, analyses existing policy measures and their limitations, and then highlights the relevance of the WTO to this debate.
K30|International arbitration and its exclusion from the Brussels regime|The Brussels regime, which regulates the matters of transnational litigation excludes arbitration from its scope. Upon formation of the Brussels regime the existing instruments concerning arbitration - the United Nations Convention on Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards and the 1961 European Convention on International Commercial Arbitration - were believed to be sufficient. The original Brussels Convention 1968 on recognition and enforcement of judgments delivered in the courts of the EU Member States expressly provided for the exclusion of arbitration. The following Brussels I Regulation followed the trend and reinforced the exclusion of arbitration from their material scopes. The rationale for doing so was primarily the prevention of parallel proceedings and irreconcilable judgments. The arbitration exclusion from the Brussels regime has caused a fair amount of confusion, especially regarding the extent and limits of the exclusion. That is, whether the arbitration agreement, the arbitral award and its consequences are covered by the exclusion or they may fall under the scope of the Brussels regulation if they constitute only an incidental question to the main cause of action? The confusion was illustrated in the ECJ judgment West Tankers, which generated negative feedback from the arbitration community and indicated the need for reform. The recently adopted Recast Regulation took it upon itself to clarify the relationship between arbitration and the EU regime of transnational litigation. The exclusion is reinforced yet again and its boundaries are specified in the Preamble. However, whether or not the concerns about the extent and objectives of arbitration exclusion have been at present eliminated, remains to be seen.
K30|Does Bankruptcy Law Affect Business Turnover? Evidence From New And Existing Business|" type=""main"" xml:id=""ecin12230-abs-0001""> This study examines how differences in state bankruptcy laws, specifically the homestead exemption, affect business turnover by studying both new and existing businesses. We focus on areas just near state boundaries to control for unobserved local attributes to better isolate the effect of more wealth protection. We find that an increase in the homestead exemption attracts new businesses but also has a positive impact on existing businesses, suggesting that asset protection through bankruptcy law encourages successful entrepreneurs to incur the risks. Our results indicate that the personal bankruptcy law is an important policy tool that governments can use to encourage business growth without causing business turnover. (JEL K30, K36, R11, R1)"
K30|The Signaling Role of Charitable Contributions by Businesses: A Tax Policy Perspective|Empirical evidence suggests that charitable contributions to public goods may be driven not only by the familiar warm-glow of giving motive but also as a means for businesses to signal high product quality. Building on this finding, we present an analytical framework that characterizes the optimal government policy, assuming that the government may either directly provide the public good or subsidize its private provision. We show that in the optimal solution the government should subsidize the private provision of the public good and refrain from direct provision. We further demonstrate that the optimal degree of subsidization should decrease with the extent to which the signal is informative, and may even turn into a tax when the signal is sufficiently strong. Finally, we compare the current practice in the US, a charitable contribution deduction provided by Section 170 of the US Tax Code, with the optimal design suggested by our normative analysis and offer changes that would bring the Section closer to the social optimum.
K30|Institutionelle Grundlagen zum Asylrecht und zur Integration von Flüchtlingen in Deutschland|Der Beitrag gibt einen Überblick über die Regulierungen zum Asyl und über die Wege der Integration anhand zweier Fragen: Wer hat in Deutschland Anspruch auf Asyl, und wie werden die Flüchtlinge in die Gesellschaft integriert?
K30|Auswirkungen der Energieeinsparverordnung auf die Baukosten im Wohnungsneubau|Die in den Jahren 2009 und 2014 in Kraft getretenen Energieeinsparverordnungen (EnEV), die jeweils erhebliche Verschärfungen der baulichen Anforderungen beinhalteten, hat den Baukosten im Wohnungsneubau einen Schub gegeben. Die Effekte verteilten sich allerdings jeweils auf mehrere Jahre und wurden von anderen Entwicklungen überlagert. Einzelne Branchen des Verarbeitenden Gewerbes sowie des Baugewerbes dürften von den neuen Energieauflagen profitiert haben. Der Wohnungsneubau dürfte dadurch jedoch insgesamt etwas gedämpft worden sein.
K30|Data Breach Notification Laws|Richard J. Sullivan and Jesse Leigh Maniff study individual provisions within states' data breach notification laws to evaluate their effects on identity theft.
K30|Can selective immigration policies reduce migrants' quality?|Destination countries can adopt selective immigration policies to improve migrants' quality. Screening potential migrants on the basis of observable characteristics also influences their self-selection on unobservables. We propose a model that analyzes the effects of selective immigration policies on migrants' quality, measured by their wages at destination. We show that the prevailing pattern of selection on unobservables influences the effect of an increase in selectivity, which can reduce migrants' quality when migrants are positively self-selected on unobservables. We also demonstrate that, in this case, the quality-maximizing share of educated migrants declines with the scale of migration.
K30|The Property Economics and the Benchmark Culture of Common Sense: On Markets for Ideas, Ideals, and Ideologies|The very word “culture”, as well as its twin, “civilization”, is one of the richest with respect to both significations and assorted definitions. Common in defining culture is to observe both its immaterial and material dimensions, meaning both the sharing and bonding values and ideas, on one hand, and the artefacts embodying them and resources involved in their making, on the other. There is a multiple relation between the world of ideas, which is disciplined by logical soundness, and the world of things, which is disciplined by property rights. And the interplay of ideas / ideals / ideologies and property rights is a critical one. The capacity of a culture to deliver peace and prosperity heavily depends on the measure in which public space is impregnated with the logic of private property, the mark of common sense. A condensed view of the Romanian realities will round up the principled argument.
K30|The Challenges Of The Recent Financial Crisis: An Analytical Approach Of Poland Experience|When looking back to the global financial crisis which has been over for a few years now, we can see both, European Union Member states which were profoundly affected by it and others which were relatively unscathed. The core of the last scenario is represented by Poland that unlike the majority of European countries has actually faired very well in the face of this recession. A lot of literature discusses its success, emphasizing the internal strength of the economy, and partly the impact of several external factors which helped Poland to deal with the global crisis. Although, from an outsider perspective, Poland appears to have had a certain level of immunity to financial crisis, in reality the crisis has had an impact on its economy and public administration structures. Taking into account that, the biggest challenges may still lie ahead, and the fact that certain member states of the European Union still try to recover from global crisis, this paper aims to look closer to Poland, and to evaluate its responses to the global financial crisis for identifying some mechanisms or public policies and institutions which can be considered as benchmarking or good practice for other countries. The main concern is outlining various measures were taken or are currently being taken to stem any further effects of the crisis. The unit analysis consists on reforms of public administration and economic policies of Polish Government and European Union strategies. As research methodology, the study adopts a case-oriented approach to advance its arguments using both quantitative and qualitative data, published by European and national institutions.
K30|Delimiting The Outer Space|Though science fiction authors have dreamed of permanent space colonies for decades, humans have not walked the surface of another celestial body since Apollo 17 left the moon in December, 1972. Today, however, the possibility of leaving Earth?s orbit for long duration missions is looking brighter. With newcomers like China and India, established spacefarers like the United States and Russia, and a host of private corporations contemplating establishing habitats on the moon or Mars, it is important to consider the extent to which such celestial bodies may be used. In this paper, I examine the fine line between long-term use of outer space and appropriation. First, I consider the concept of ?appropriation? as it has been interpreted by scholars and commentators. Second, I argue that the geosynchronous orbit (?GSO?) provides an analogy for thinking about permissible occupancy and use of man-made structures on the surface of the moon or other celestial bodies, both with respect to the custom that has developed over the use of orbital slots and as a possible regulatory scheme for allocating real property in outer space. Third, I apply this analogy of the GSO to delimit the extent of allowed uses of such areas, both temporally and spatially.
K30|The Minority Shareholder Rights In The Jo?Nt Stock Companies According To Turkish Commercial Code|Minority shareholder rights are given to protect certain shareholders against majority shareholders. Majority rule prevails in the joint stock companies. Therefore, majority groups influence making decisions in these companies in Turkey. In this case, shareholders who constitute a majority at general assembly bring about violating minority shareholders? rights. Because minority rights are intended to balance between majority and minority groups. Neither majority stakeholders nor minority stakeholders can be only executive of the joint stock companies. Minority shareholder rights are guaranteed by legal regulations. Minority rights are also regulated in the Turkish Commercial Code. According to Turkish Commercial Code, 10 percent of capital stock in the non-public incorporated companies and 5 percent of paid stock in the public joint stock company companies are minority.Minority rights are separated as positive and negative minority rights in the Turkish Commercial law. Turkish Commercial Code contains eight positive and two negative minority rights.The aim of this article is to examine ?The Minority Shareholder Rights In The Joint Stock Companies According To Turkish Commercial Code?.
K30|Dimensions Of Expert Report Complexity In Intellectual/Industrial Property. Case Study|The growing number of complex processes with the specific intellectual / industrial property demonstrated the need for highly qualified experts called in solving technical problems in the court files. The expertise in such field obliges to detailed knowledge of domestic and international law. However, those processes have as conjugate subjects: counterfeiting inventions, trademarks, industrial design; unfair competition; calculating damage that leads to highlighting the economic benefits, the latter requiring economic assessment of an intangible asset using in formula,in addition to economic data, micro - and macro-economic risk factors. Conflicts arise in a specific space. It is therefore necessary detailed knowledge of company law, competition law, that relating to interest, insolvency and bankruptcy in their developments. It should be considered domestic and European legal practice, as well as the rapid evolution of the meaning of legal terms and concepts. Experts have to understand solutions given in the prior complaints for correct interpretation of the provisions of the agreements, laws and regulations derived. The paper refersto one of the most complex expertise reports, which forced expert to integrated legislation acquaintances on patents, on insolvency and interest - in their evolution. But fundamentally, the expert had to understand the phenomenon of engineering and how to measure economic efficiency in the case of a divided invention.
K30|Islamic conscious capitalism: a ‘Third Way’ in light of classical scripture|"The economic paradigm and framework advocated for in Islam is one that entails a unique combination of various socio–economic philosophies. This article advances the notion that Islam promotes a capitalistic economic model wrapped in its own garment of understanding—fashioned with threads of equity and stitched in patterns of benevolence and justice. This article examines the Islamic theological framework relating to the profit incentive and its spiritually–conscious methodology of capital procurement. The Qur’an contains around 370 references in regard to commerce, from which much of Islamic law relating to lending, banking and trading originates (Heck in Muhammad and the Arab roots of capitalism (Studien zur Geschichte und Kultur des Islamichen Orients)—Band 18. Walter de Gruyter, Berlin, p 5, 85, 2006 ). This article intends to explore the potential that these teachings have for an Islamic ‘Third Way’ (i.e. an Islamic contribution to economic philosophy and discourse that is in-between of, or an alternative to, both the purely individualistic primary concerns on prices, profits, and private property inherent in ""pure"" capitalism, and the purely communal command economics of communism, which often negates or discourages the promotion of self-interests). Part I of this paper intends to introduce the reader to the various sources of Islamic ‘law’ and its scope. In doing so, the philosophical nature and objectives of the Shariah will become evident, through the exploration of specific theological economic teachings. Part II intends to study Islam’s theological attitude toward entrepreneurship and the profit incentive, as well as the concept of the potential for salvation through ethical profits. Part III explores, in light of classical Islamic scripture, the various prohibitions within the Islamic concept of the economy. In doing so, the paper shall explore how values and theories found in classical Islamic scripture have found contemporary application within the growing modern Islamic finance industry, for example, through Shariah ‘screens’ applied on market indicies, such as the Dow Jones Islamic Market Index. Part III shall also explore Islamic edicts with regards to business practices, as well as environmental ethics. In doing so, Part IV concludes that there can indeed be such an Islamic ‘Third Way’, drawn along similar shared values found amongst other world religions. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2016"
K30|Property, Possession and Knowledge|As Hodgson has nicely pointed out, capitalism can be only understood if we accept that, unlike possession, property is a social construction and a relation among individuals. Unlike possession, property does not require a material thing on which it should be applied. Property rights can create fictitious commodities on intangible assets symbolizing the relationships among persons. The commoditization of knowledge and the emergence of contemporary intellectual monopoly capitalism must be understood in this framework. Knowledge is a non-rival good and its possession by others is not incompatible. Since we can all possess the same piece of knowledge, the so-called knowledge economy is often seen as place where capitalist relations should weaken. However this view confuses property with possession. In modern societies, intellectual property is becoming the most important part of capital. In spite of the non-rival possession of knowledge, intellectual property rights can be defined as the exclusive right to a piece of knowledge involving the corresponding restriction of others' liberties to use it. Modern intellectual monopoly capitalism is built on sophisticated property rights that should be not confused with any sort of primitive possession
K30|Crecer no es Suficiente para Reducir la Informalidad|En este documento se estudia la relación de la informalidad laboral y el crecimiento económico en el Perú a nivel regional. Se utiliza la tasa de desempleo urbano y al consumo de electricidad por regiones y provincias como indicadores de la actividad económica en el contexto de un modelo de elección discreta de informalidad a nivel de trabajadores. Se encuentra que la elasticidad informalidad-crecimiento es estadísticamente significativa y pequeña, con lo cual, la contribución de la mayor actividad económica en la reducción de la informalidad laboral es también pequeña. Se sugiere que el crecimiento económico repercute en la informalidad mediante la creación neta de empleos mayormente formales y de mayor productividad respecto a los empleos informales. Además, se muestra que los empleos formales tienen un retorno mayor en términos de salario respecto al sector informal, aunque esta brecha se estaría reduciendo desde inicios de la década del 2010; lo cual estaría debilitando los incentivos hacia la formalización de los empleos.
K30|The role of law as an instrument of communication within legal positivism|This article tackles some aspects concerning the role of law as an instrument of communication from the perspective of legal positivism. The paper presents considerations regarding law communication in relation to legal positivism and scientific positivism. At the same time, the article examines the correlations between the legal communication models and the various inclinations developed under legal positivism. Both within legal positivism and the scientific positivism, the role of law as a communication tool is essential. The concept of legal communication should be considered as the idea of understanding the legal norm by the recipients of law, namely by persons and also acceptance of these rules in order to respect them. Also, clarity and transparency in law communication are very important elements that contribute to the way in which legal standards are received. The analysis of legal communication from the perspective of legal positivism presents a special scientific interest, given the very essence of positivism, namely that the laws are commands of the human being. Thus, it is important to analyze communication patterns that can be applied in the positivist orientation to consistently appreciate the ways in which legal communication can be improved.
K30|The Fundamental Right To Protection Of Health|The insurance of the right to protection of health is regulated as obligation of the signatory states in the main international and European documents related to fundamental rights, in the constitutions of these states and in their infra-constitutional laws. In Romania, the right to protection of health is regulated at article 34 of the Fundamental Law, its standards of protection, stipulated in the international and the European acts that our country is part to, obliging the Romanian state, through the constitutional dispositions of article 20 and article 148 paragraph 2, as well. In application of article 34 of the Constitution, there were adopted at national level Law no.95-2006 concerning the reform in the field of health and other normative acts referring to subdomains of public health. A specific form to guarantee the right to protection of health, for each country, is the one realized by criminal law stipulations.
K30|Prevention And Control Of The Tax Evasion Impact On Romanian Economy|"Time of occurrence of tax evasion is closely linked even to social developments, this social phenomenon has emerged and evolved at the same time with the company. Since tax evasion is a phenomenon particularly harmful and despicable paradoxically, it has unfortunately been a negative and unintended consequence, with directions of development and different incidents in any country, regardless of size, level of development or form power organization. In Romania, the underground economy is strong because it is determined by the size of the phenomenon of crime in the economic and financial (dirty money), a phenomenon characterized by a very high level of ""financial engineering"" made in the privatization, investment, financial institutions - banks and the use of public funds. Thus, effective tools are triggered by conversion and diversion of capital flows in order to remove it from licit financial circuit."
K30|The Happiness And The Right To Health|The right to happiness implies also the fact that the right to protection of health should be assured, as being a fundamental right stipulated in both the Romanian Constitution and the main international and European acts that Romania is part of. A form to guarantee this right at the level of each country is the one realized through the means of the criminal law. In this purpose, the analysis of the particularities of the infringements against life and of the ones against health is more than important. Having as a reference point the right to happiness, the present article focuses on some of the new infringements, which were introduced in the Romanian legislation by the New Criminal Code, entered into force on the 1st of February 2014, namely the ones that protect the social relations concerning the beginning and the end of life.
K30|How Much Better Is Better Regulation? Assessing the Impact of the Better Regulation Package on the European Union – A Research Agenda|Emboldened by the Spitzenkandidaten process, the new European Commission emerges as the most political yet. The Commission asks EU citizens to judge its operation by its ability ‘to deliver solutions to the big issues that cannot be addressed by the Member States alone’. The Better Regulation Package translates this political commitment into an actionable approach assuring EU citizens that the Commission will remain ‘big on big things, small on small things’. To deliver on this promise, the Commission extends the Impact Assessment system, renews its consultation procedures and adds a few institutional mechanisms so as to enhance its ‘ability to deliver’ throughout the policy cycle. But in order to do so the Commission needs to bind – and somehow control – the European Parliament and the Council, on the one hand, and the Member States, on the other, in relation to their commitment to openness, participation and evidence-based policymaking. While legitimate, this attempt raises serious doubts about the compatibility of this reform with the principle of separation of powers and, in particular, that of institutional balance.
K30|Communicating judicial retirement|Justices can strategically shape perceptions of their likely retirements, and so influence the President and Senate in choosing an ideologically compatible replacement. Relatively new justices can vote insincerely to affect how their ideologies are perceived, but their strategies are shaped by older justices’ expected retirement probabilities. We show that “strong messages” of retirement are likely when new justices vote insincerely and the new and retiring justices’ ideologies are aligned. “Weak messages” are more likely when new justices vote sincerely or, if they do vote insincerely, the old and new justices’ ideologies are unaligned.
K30|Obveznopravni odnos stjecanja bez osnove|Stjecanje bez osnove, uz prouzroèivanje štete, poslovodstvo bez naloga, javno obecanje nagrade i vrijednosne papire, ubraja se u izvanugovorne obveznopravne odnose. Za nastanak izvanugovornih odnosa nije potrebno sukladno oèitovanje volja dviju osoba vec oni nastaju na temelju odrecenih èinjenica (radnja, stanja, svojstava) uz koje pravo veže postanak obveznog odnosa. Pod stjecanjem bez osnove podrazumijevamo izvanugovorni obveznopravni odnos na osnovi kojega je stjecatelj obvezan na povrat ili naknadu vrijednosti onog dijela imovine ili imovinske koristi koje je stekao bez pravom priznate osnove odnosno po osnovi koja se nije ostvarila ili je poslije otpala. Opce pretpostavke nastanka ovog izvanugovornog obveznopravnog odnosa jesu: povecanje imovine na jednoj strani, umanjenje imovine na drugoj strani, kauzalna povezanost izmecu umanjenja i povecanja, nepostojanje odgovarajuce osnove, èinidba zbog koje je došlo do promjene u imovini ne bi smjela biti štetna radnja. Tužba kojom se traži povrat steèenog bez osnove naziva se kondikcija. Postoji nekoliko tipiènih sluèajeva stjecanja bez osnove, a to su:placanje neduga (condictio indebiti),stjecanje s obzirom na osnovu koja se nije ostvarila (condictio causa dana, causa non secuta),stjecanje po osnovi koja je poslije otpala (condictio ob causam finitam),uporaba stvari na tucu korist,uporaba tuce stvari u svoju korist,izdatak za drugog. Stjecatelj je dužan steèeno bez osnove vratiti. Iznimno, ako povrat steèenog bez osnove nije moguc, stjecatelj je dužan naknaditi vrijednost postignute koristi. Uz povrat steèenoga, takocer se moraju vratiti i plodovi te platiti zatezne kamate, s time da se u obzir pritom uzima savjesnost odnosno nesavjesnost stjecatelja. U odredbama Zakona o obveznim odnosima koje se odnose na zastaru, nije predvi- cen poseban rok zastare za kondikcijski zahtjev pa se, prema tome, smatra da vrijedi opci rok za zastaru od pet godina od dana stjecanja bez osnove.
K30|Obvezno pravni odnos stjecanja bez osnove|Stjecanje bez osnove, uz prouzročivanje štete, poslovodstvo bez naloga, javno obećanje nagrade i vrijednosne papire, ubraja se u izvanugovorne obveznopravne odnose. Za nastanak izvanugovornih odnosa nije potrebno sukladno očitovanje volja dviju osoba već oni nastaju na temelju određenih činjenica (radnja, stanja, svojstava) uz koje pravo veže postanak obveznog odnosa. Pod stjecanjem bez osnove podrazumijevamo izvanugovorni obveznopravni odnos na osnovi kojega je stjecatelj obvezan na povrat ili naknadu vrijednosti onog dijela imovine ili imovinske koristi koje je stekao bez pravom priznate osnove odnosno po osnovi koja se nije ostvarila ili je poslije otpala. Opće pretpostavke nastanka ovog izvanugovornog obveznopravnog odnosa jesu:povećanje imovine na jednoj strani, umanjenje imovine na drugoj strani, kauzalna povezanost između umanjenja i povećanja, nepostojanje odgovarajuće osnove, činidba zbog koje je došlo do promjene u imovini ne bi smjela biti štetna radnja.Tužba kojom se traži povrat stečenog bez osnove naziva se kondikcija. Postoji nekoliko tipičnih slučajeva stjecanja bez osnove, a to su: plaćanje neduga (condictio indebiti), stjecanje s obzirom na osnovu koja se nije ostvarila (condictio causa dana, causa non secuta), stjecanje po osnovi koja je poslije otpala (condictio ob causam finitam), uporaba stvari na tuđu korist, uporaba tuđe stvari u svoju korist, izdatak za drugog. Stjecatelj je dužan stečeno bez osnove vratiti. Iznimno, ako povrat stečenog bez osnove nije moguć, stjecatelj je dužan naknaditi vrijednost postignute koristi. Uz povrat stečenoga, također se moraju vratiti i plodovi te platiti zatezne kamate, s time da se u obzir pritom uzima savjesnost odnosno nesavjesnost stjecatelja. U odredbama Zakona o obveznim odnosima koje se odnose na zastaru, nije predviđen poseban rok zastare za kondikcijski zahtjev pa se, prema tome, smatra da vrijedi opći rok za zastaru od pet godina od dana stjecanja bez osnove.
K30|Economic Values In The Constitutional Preambles|The economic values and categories within the constitutional preamble appear in this work as a subject of the special interest. In the contrast to the primary center of gravity of classical legal thought when it researches the constitutional preamble, the pendulum will be slightly shifted towards questionable of position and the way in which constitutional preambles regulate issues of economic values and categories. We do not regard this question less significant compared to the usual literary manners of preamble study. It is our understanding of the importance of constitutional attitudes towards to the vital issues of the state and security that started us to begin exploring of this problem, in the context of an established thematic framework of this paper. There is no doubt that legislators in the preambles treat various issues in different ways, depending on the gravity of priority. Rarely, we could find constitutions without preambles, constitutions with technical preambles and with preambles, almost entirely, faced toward the past. However, for this paper is interesting preambles which texts could be characterized as a futuristic projection and perspective, because, among them we want to find the essence of the legislators’ attitudes to economic issues.
K30|Victimisation, Wellbeing and Compensation: Using Panel Data to Estimate the Costs of Violent Crime|The costs of violent crime victimisation are often left to a judge, tribunal or jury to determine; leading to the potential for considerable subjectivity and variation. Using unique panel data, this paper provides compensation estimates that can help reduce the subjectivity of awards by giving a benchmark for the compensation required to offset direct and intangible costs. First, individual-area fixed-effects models allowing for adaptation to crime are estimated to assess the effects of violent crime victimisation on diverse measures of wellbeing. These results are then subsequently used to calculate the monetary compensation required to offset the wellbeing losses. Estimates allowing for the endogeneity of income suggest that A$88,000 is required to compensate the average crime victim. We find some evidence that compensation estimates are larger if the wellbeing losses of female family members are considered, and are larger for females if the perpetrator of the crime is a stranger rather than a partner, friend or relative.
K30|General Remarks on Collecting Stamp Duties|This paper exposes the conceptual and jurisprudential approaches on stamp duty adjustment system, as well as the procedures regarding the whole process of calculation and collection thereof. We underline that the new adjustments of the judicial stamp duties shall apply to actions falling under New Civil Code, and with respect to the new Code of Penal Procedure, it should be noted that: although it applies to processes started after the date of February 15, 2013, to deeds and documents signed prior to the entry of these codes into force, the provisions of the Law No. 146/1997 - now repealed, shall apply. Presently, High Court of Cassation and Justice- Civil Procedure, Section II, has decided that Law no. 146/1997, republished, shall apply to the disputes falling under the old civil codes, as well as the stamp duties referring to summons and remedies at law.
K30|Types And Forms Of International Legal Responsibility Of The International (Intergovernmental) Organizations|A comprehensive analysis of the types and forms of international legal responsibility of international (intergovernmental) organizations is carried out in the article. The main types of liability of the international (intergovernmental) organizations and their separation into certain forms are revealed. The forms of international legal responsibility of international (intergovernmental) organizations under existing international sources are characterized.
K30|Parliamentary Immunity – Form Of Protection And Care For Lawmakers|"Parliamentary immunity is intended to protect and care for lawmakers in contradiction with parliamentary responsibility. The idea assumes to ensure the necessary Parliament conditions during his mandate, he should enjoy social protection. Narrowly, it may be included in the safeguards of the mandate parliamentary immunities. This paper seeks to materialize under the normative frame, this concept from which the parliament benefits. Parliamentary immunity is an institution that cares for both the constitutional law (""the Statute of Deputies and Senators”) and for parliamentary law (principally aspects of immunity, including elements of the case resulting from the regulations of the two rooms). When Romania joined the European Union and has representatives in the European Parliament, parliamentary immunity is necessary in the context of constitutional law compared, at European level."
K30|Условия И Порядок Прохождения Муниципальной Службы В Субьектах Российской Федерации<BR>[Conditions and order of passing of municipal service in subjects of the Russian Federation]|In article is considered conditions and an order of passing of municipal service in subjects of the Russian Federation. The order of receipt and passing of municipal service which is defined by the charter of municipality according to laws of the subject of the Russian Federation is specified, including also the legislation of the Russian Federation on work.
K30|Толкование Отдельных Ключевых Понятий Муниципальной Службы<BR>[Interpretation of separate key concepts of municipal service]|"In article the basic concepts of municipal service are considered: ""municipal service"", ""the municipal employee"", ""a municipal position"". It is adumbrated about definition of these concepts, limits of powers on the basis synthesis of its use in the legislation of subjects of the Russian Federation, and also in sciences of the state and municipal law."
K30|Практическое Использование Основных Понятий Муниципальной Службы В Субъектах Российской Федерации<BR>[Practical use of the basic concepts of municipal service in subjects of the Russian Federation]|In article practical use of the basic concepts of municipal service in subjects of the Russian Federation is considered. It is adumbrated about definition of these concepts on the basis synthesis of its use in the legislation of subjects of the Russian Federation.
K30|Соотношение Основных Понятий И Терминов Муниципальной Службы<BR>[Ratio of the basic concepts and terms of municipal service]|In article that circumstance is considered that among the basic concepts and terms in the field of local government the law doesn't mention the municipal employee. It suggests an idea that this concept for the legislator is equivalent to concept of the official of local government.
K30|Учреждение Муниципальных Должностей<BR>[Establishment of municipal positions]|In article the standards of the regional legislation defining classification of positions of municipal service are considered. It is shown that positions of municipal service are established by charters of municipalities, proceeding from registers of the municipal positions approved by subjects of Federation.
K30|Способы И Порядок Поступления На Муниципальную Службу<BR>[Ways and order of revenues to municipal service]|In article ways and an order on municipal service are considered. It is shown that citizens of the Russian Federation have equal access to municipal service. Thus establishment at revenues to municipal service, any straight lines or indirect restrictions and advantages isn't allowed.
K30|Конкурсный Порядок Подбора Кадров На Муниципальную Службу<BR>[Competitive order of selection of shots on municipal service]|In article conditions and an order of competitive selection of shots on municipal service are considered. It is shown that the purpose of these competitions – not identification of the most worthy, but legitimating of the candidates which are obviously selected by the management of local administration.
K30|Квалификационные Разряды Муниципальной Службы И Порядок Их Присвоения<BR>[Qualification categories of municipal service and order of their assignment]|In article the order and conditions of assignment of qualification categories by the municipal employee is considered. It is shown that assignment of qualification categories indicates compliance of professional standard of municipal employees to the qualification requirements imposed to municipal positions of municipal service of the relevant group and specialization.
K30|Основные Положения Аттестации Муниципального Служащего<BR>[Basic provisions of certification of the municipal employee]|In article types of professional additional education are considered: professional development, training, vocational training, retraining. It is shown that it is necessary to pay special attention to an urgent need of development of state standard of professional additional education of municipal employees.
K30|Виды Профессионального Дополнительного Образования Муниципальных Служащих<BR>[Types of professional additional education of municipal employees]|In article types of professional additional education are considered: professional development, training, vocational training, retraining. It is shown that it is necessary to pay special attention to an urgent need of development of state standard of professional additional education of municipal employees.
K30|Основные Права Муниципальных Служащих<BR>[Basic rights of municipal employees]|In article basic rights of municipal employees are considered. It is shown that they are fixed by the charter of municipality or regulations of local governments according to federal laws and laws of territorial subjects of the Russian Federation.
K30|Основные Обязанности Муниципальных Служащих<BR>[Fundamental obligations of municipal employees]|In article basic rights of municipal employees are considered. It is shown that they are fixed by the charter of municipality or regulations of local governments according to federal laws and laws of territorial subjects of the Russian Federation.
K30|Основные Ограничения Муниципальных Служащих<BR>[Main restrictions of municipal employees]|In article basic rights of municipal employees are considered. It is shown that they are fixed by the charter of municipality or regulations of local governments according to federal laws and laws of territorial subjects of the Russian Federation.
K30|Закрепление Основных Положений Муниципальной Службы<BR>[Fixing of basic provisions of municipal service]|In article fixing of basic provisions of municipal employees is considered. It is shown that the right for freedom of opinion is recognized by concepts of public service of many countries and fix them in the general statuses about the public and municipal service.
K30|Правовое Закрепление Принципа Приоритета Прав И Свобод Человека И Гражданина В Законодательстве Муниципальной Службы<BR>[Legal fixing of the principle of a priority of the rights and freedoms of the person and citizen in the legislation of municipal service]|In article legal fixing of the principle of a priority of the rights and freedoms of the person and citizen in the legislation of municipal service is considered. It is shown that the principle of a priority of the rights and freedoms of the person and citizen needs acceptance by appropriate authorities of local government, organizational and other mechanisms of realization of this principle. The point of view according to which responsibility in the municipal right represents approach of adverse effects which are applied to the subjects of municipal legal relationship which aren't executing or the inadequate image fulfilling the duties in relation to other participants of legal relationship expresses.
K30|Правовое Закрепление Принципа Ответственности Муниципальных Служащих За Неисполнение Или Ненадлежащее Исполнение Своих Должностных Обязанностей<BR>[Legal fixing of the principle of responsibility of municipal employees for non-execution or inadequate execution of the functions]|In article legal fixing of the principle of responsibility of municipal employees for non-execution or inadequate execution of the functions is considered. It is shown that this principle is directed on strengthening of office discipline, improvement of quality of decisions, unconditional performance of functions, increase of independence and a creative initiative of municipal employees at their realization.
K30|Правовое Закрепление Принципа Внепартийности Муниципальной Службы<BR>[Legal fixing of the principle of extra party membership of municipal service]|In article legal fixing of the principle of extra party membership of municipal service is considered. It is shown that the citizen arriving on municipal service, voluntary agrees with separate restrictions of his constitutional rights and freedoms, the including ban on participation in independent political activity municipal serving.
K30|Правовое Закрепление Принципа Законности Муниципальной Службы<BR>[Legal fixing of the principle of legality of municipal service]|In article legal fixing of the principle of rule of the Constitution of the Russian Federation, federal laws and laws of subjects of Federation over other regulations, duty regulations at execution by municipal employees of functions and ensuring the rights of municipal employees is considered. It is shown that according to this principle, local governments, officials and citizens are obliged to observe the Constitution and laws, and equally conventional principles and norms of international law, the international contracts of Russia which are a component of legal system.
K30|Правовое Закрепление Принципа Равного Доступа Граждан К Муниципальной Службе<BR>[Legal fixing of the principle of equal access for citizens to municipal service]|In article legal fixing of the principle of rule of the Constitution of the Russian Federation, federal laws and laws of subjects of Federation over other regulations, duty regulations at execution by municipal employees of functions and ensuring the rights of municipal employees is considered. It is shown that according to this principle, local governments, officials and citizens are obliged to observe the Constitution and laws, and equally conventional principles and norms of international law, the international contracts of Russia which are a component of legal system.
K30|Правовое Закрепление Принципа Разграничения Предметов Ведения И Полномочий Между Органами Государственной Власти И Органами Местного Самоуправления<BR>[Legal fixing of the principle of differentiation of areas of jurisdiction and powers between public authorities and local governments]|In article legal fixing of the principle of differentiation of areas of jurisdiction and powers between public authorities and local governments is considered. It is shown that the municipal service isn't a part of the system of public service, isn't its structural part. It is independent institute of local government.
K30|Правовое Закрепление Принципа Равенства Прав И Обязанностей Муниципальных Служащих<BR>[Legal fixing of the principle of equal rights and duties of municipal employees]|In article legal fixing of the principle of equal rights and duties of municipal employees irrespective of race, a nationality, language, a social origin, property is considered by acts, aren't connected by instructions and decisions of political parties and movements, the organizations, except for labor unions for protection of the labor, social and economic law and interests of municipal employees. It is shown that fixing of this principle allows the legislator to regulate more precisely an order of protection labor, socially – the economic rights and interests of municipal employees of various Republics, considering the historical features.
K30|Правовое Закрепления Принципа Гласности В Законодательстве О Муниципальной Службе<BR>[Legal fixing of the principle of publicity in the legislation on municipal service]|In article legal fixing with subjects of the Russian Federation of the principle of publicity of municipal service is considered. It is shown that realization of the principle of publicity requires improvement of legislative base and revision of system of the state secret, regular monitoring of violations of the rights of citizens for access to information, strengthenings of control of performance of laws on publicity of work of local governments.
K30|Правовое Закрепление Субъектами Российской Федерации Принципа Стабильности Муниципальной Службы<BR>[Legal fixing with subjects of the Russian Federation of the principle of stability of municipal service]|In article legal fixing with subjects of the Russian Federation of the principle of stability of municipal service is considered. It is shown that the staffing role in the course of formation and development of municipal service is paramount, however so far problems of professionalizing of municipal service actually aren't solved yet: formation of system of vocational training and professional development of municipal employees with orientation to formation of the expert in many subjects of the Russian Federation is in an initial stage.
K30|Дисциплинарная Ответственность Муниципальных Служащих<BR>[Disciplinary responsibility of municipal employees]|In article the order of application and the appeal of disciplinary punishments to municipal employees is considered. It is shown that the legislation of most of subjects of the Russian Federation doesn't put a wide choice in a set of a disciplinary responsibility to other participants of legal relationship.
K30|Материальная Ответственность Муниципальных Служащих<BR>[Liability of municipal employees]|In article the order of application and the appeal of disciplinary punishments to municipal employees is considered. It is shown that the legislation of most of subjects of the Russian Federation doesn't put a wide choice in a set of a disciplinary responsibility to other participants of legal relationship.
K30|Уголовная Ответственность Муниципальных Служащих<BR>[Criminal liability of municipal employees]|In article the order of application of criminal liability to municipal employees is considered. It is shown that only commission by it act, the corpus delicti containing all signs can be the basis for criminal liability of the official of local government.
K30|Гражданско-Правовая Ответственность Муниципальных Служащих<BR>[Civil responsibility of municipal employees]|In article the order of application of criminal liability to municipal employees is considered. It is shown that only commission by it act, the corpus delicti containing all signs can be the basis for criminal liability of the official of local government.
K30|Административная Ответственность Муниципальных Служащих<BR>[Administrative responsibility of municipal employees]|In article the order of application of criminal liability to municipal employees is considered. It is shown that only commission by it act, the corpus delicti containing all signs can be the basis for criminal liability of the official of local government.
K30|Единые Требования К Муниципальным Должностям Муниципальной Службы<BR>[Uniform requirements to municipal positions of municipal service]|In article establishment of uniform requirements to municipal positions of municipal service is considered. It is shown that besides the general for many positions of the qualification requirements relating to the level of professional education and length of service in the specialty requirements to an experience of municipal or public service and length of service at positions of heads and experts in the branch corresponding to a profile are established.
K30|Процедура Оценки Муниципальных Служащих<BR>[Procedure of an assessment of municipal employees]|In article procedure of passing of certification of municipal employees and carrying out qualification examinations is considered. It is shown that in practice of an assessment of municipal employees it is possible to allocate two the most often applied and having legal character of a form –certification of the municipal employee and a qualification examination.
K30|Российское Законодательство Об Установлении Гарантий Муниципальным Служащим<BR>[Russian legislation on establishment of guarantees by the municipal employee]|In article the Russian legislation on establishment of guarantees by the municipal employee is considered. The conclusion that the acts of the legislation of subjects of the Russian Federation regulating questions of municipal service are subject to obligatory application if they at the same time correspond to acts of the federal legislation on municipal service is drawn and don't break competence of local governments according to the independent solution of questions of local value.
K30|Состав Денежного Содержания Муниципальных Служащих<BR>[Structure of the monetary maintenance of municipal employees]|In article the legislation on establishment of the monetary maintenance of municipal employees is considered. It is shown that in system of guarantees for municipal employees one of important places occupies an order of establishment of official salaries and compensation payments.
K30|Система Гарантий Муниципальных Служащих<BR>[System of guarantees of municipal employees]|In article the system of guarantees of the rights of the municipal employee is considered. The conclusion that acts of the legislation of subjects of the Russian Federation, regulirukyushchy questions of municipal service, are subject to obligatory application if they at the same time correspond to acts of the federal legislation on munitsikpalny service is drawn and don't break competence of local governments according to the sakmostoyatelny solution of questions of local value.
K30|Crecer no es Suficiente para Reducir la Informalidad|En este documento se estudia la relación de la informalidad laboral y el crecimiento económico en el Perú a nivel regional. Se utiliza la tasa de desempleo urbano y al consumo de electricidad por regiones y provincias como indicadores de la actividad económica en el contexto de un modelo de elección discreta de informalidad a nivel de trabajadores. Se encuentra que la elasticidad informalidad-crecimiento es estadísticamente significativa y pequeña, con lo cual, la contribución de la mayor actividad económica en la reducción de la informalidad laboral es también pequeña. Se sugiere que el crecimiento económico repercute en la informalidad mediante la creación de neta de empleos mayormente formales y de mayor productividad respecto a los empleos informales. Además, se muestra que los empleos formales tienen un retorno mayor en términos de salario respecto al sector informal, aunque esta brecha se estaría reduciendo desde inicios de la década del 2010; lo cual estaría debilitando los incentivos hacia la formalización de los empleos.
K30|Der Fall Heinisch im europäischen Kontext|Whistleblowing hat im internationalen und europäischen Rahmen in den letzten Jahren zahlreiche arbeitsrechtliche, datenschutzrechtliche und strafrechtliche Regelungen erfahren. In der Bundesrepublik Deutschland fehlt eine gesetzliche Normierung und Hinweisgeber stehen noch immer in Gefahr, ihren Arbeitsplatz zu verlieren. Der Europäische Gerichtshof für Menschenrechte, EGMR, hat am 21.7.2011 entschieden, dass die fristlose Kündigung einer Mitarbeiterin nach erfolgter Strafanzeige gegen ihren Arbeitgeber we g e n Ve r s t o ß e s g e g e n d i e F r e i h e i t d e r Meinungsäußerung, Art. 10 EMRK, ungerechtfertigt war und sich dabei dezidiert mit der bislang geübten R e c h t s p r e c h u n g d e r d e u t s c h e n Arbeitsgerichtsbarkeit auseinander gesetzt. Dabei musste der EGMR zwischen den verschiedenen Interessen der beteiligten Parteien abwägen und hat eine Reihe von Kriterien aufgestellt, die in Deutschland in vergleichbaren Fällen künftig Beachtung finden werden.
K30|Der Fall Heinisch im europäischen Kontext|Whistleblowing hat im internationalen und europäischen Rahmen in den letzten Jahren zahlreiche arbeitsrechtliche, datenschutzrechtliche und strafrechtliche Regelungen erfahren. In der Bundesrepublik Deutschland fehlt eine gesetzliche Normierung und Hinweisgeber stehen noch immer in Gefahr, ihren Arbeitsplatz zu verlieren. Der Europäische Gerichtshof für Menschenrechte, EGMR, hat am 21.7.2011 entschieden, dass die fristlose Kündigung einer Mitarbeiterin nach erfolgter Strafanzeige gegen ihren Arbeitgeber we g e n Ve r s t o ß e s g e g e n d i e F r e i h e i t d e r Meinungsäußerung, Art. 10 EMRK, ungerechtfertigt war und sich dabei dezidiert mit der bislang geübten R e c h t s p r e c h u n g d e r d e u t s c h e n Arbeitsgerichtsbarkeit auseinander gesetzt. Dabei musste der EGMR zwischen den verschiedenen Interessen der beteiligten Parteien abwägen und hat eine Reihe von Kriterien aufgestellt, die in Deutschland in vergleichbaren Fällen künftig Beachtung finden werden.
K30|Obligation To Give Reasons|Administration is obliged to notify the reasons of administrative act if the obligation to give reasons is explicitly regulated in the law. However, even if there is no explicit obligation to give reasons in positive regulations, in the rule of law, it is essential for the administration to notify the reasons of any administrative act on the basis of the justification principle In other words, even though there is no explicit regulation regarding obligation to give reasons, it is accepted that administrative acts are required to be justified because of the principle of the rule of law. In the light of these explanations, the obligation to give reasons, which does not fall within the implementation of Turkish Law very often while become an indispensable part of a modern administrative procedure, is tried to be examined in this study. Primarily, the definition of the obligation to give reasons, the relation between the reason and grounds for administrative act, and the basis of the obligation to give reasons are indicated. Following this, the functions of the obligation to give reasons, respectively, in terms of administrative, people who are subject to the administrative act and the judicial review, are addressed. Afterwards, the wording of the reasoning is touched upon. Under this title, after stated the requirement for reasoning to be explicit and clear, material and legal reasons and reasoning of administrative act based on discretion are mentioned. Finally, the obligation to give reasons and its breach in Turkish Law are evaluated.
K30|A Continuing Challenge In The Protection Of The Immovable Property Rights In Albania|The World organizations report on governance and development since year 1997 defined governance as ?the manner in which power is exercised in the management of a country?s economic and social resources for development.? The Financial Institution?s Strategy on Governance and Anticorruption broadens this definition to ?the manner in which public officials and institutions acquire and exercise the authority to shape public policy and provide public goods and services.? The authors of the World Bank Institute?s Worldwide Governance Indicators offer a more comprehensive approach:Governance consists of the traditions and institutions by which authority in a country is exercised. This includes the process by which governments are selected, monitored and replaced; the capacity of the government to effectively formulate and implement sound policies; and the respect of citizens and the state for the institutions that govern economic and social interactions among them.This review of immovable property rights in Albania draws primarily upon this definition, which takes into account the popular legitimacy of state institutions and respect for the law among citizens and government institutions?the ?softer? aspects of governance that are essential to understanding how policies are made and implemented in practice and how public resources are used.
K30|An Overview To The Circumstances Causing Legal Liability Sustained In The Event Of The Damages To The Passenger Baggage During The Carriage By Air|The liability of the carriage by air sustained in the case of the damage of any baggage ( or luggage) has already been regulated in the article 12 of Turkish Civil Aviation Code (TSHK.), the article 18 of Warsaw Convention (War.C.) and in the subsection 2, 3, 4 of the article 17 of 1999 Montreal Convention (Mon.C.). TSHK.a.121/ s.1 that regulates the liability of the carrier in the event of domestic flight is as: ?The carrier is liable for damage sustained in case of the loss of, or of damage to checked baggage on condition that the loss or damage took place during the carriage by air.? The liability indicated here, in Warsaw Convention a.18/s.1, is as: ? The carrier will be liable for the damage sustained in case of destruction, or loss of, or of damage to checked baggage; however the event causing the destruction must take place during the carriage by air?, and the liability is adjudged, in Montreal Convention a.17/s.2, is as ? The carrier is liable for the damage sustained in the event of destruction, or loss, or damage of the checked baggage on condition that the event which caused the destruction, loss or damage took place on board the aircraft or during the period in which the checked baggage was in the charge of the carrier.? As understood from these regulations, the carrier is liable for the damage sustained during the period that the registered baggage is in the charge of the carrier, whether it is domestic or international flights. The conditions of the liability mentioned above will be examined in this study.
K30|Unfair Dealing and Consumer Protection in Asset-Based Lending in Australia|The lenders and mortgage brokers operating in Australia have introduced variety of credit products to consumers which include ?subprime? or ?non-conforming? loans, which are made to borrowers who cannot obtain loans from traditional lenders, and ?low-doc? or ?no-doc? loans, which ?do not require as rigorous proof of creditworthiness?. Another type of credit product namely ?asset based? lending or ?equity stripping? has attracted borrowers, where lenders grant housing loans based solely on the value of the borrower?s security ( i.e. the sole residence) without regard to his or her income or ability to make repayments. These inappropriate practices have the potential to lead to unconscionable dealing, and they have opened the door for unscrupulous lenders to engage in ?morally repugnant? lending practices. This research is significant in light of the recent judicial decisions that exemplify the tough stance that Australian courts are taking against lenders that operate in the business of providing non-conventional loans with higher risk factors. It considers the possibility of a loan made to a borrower unable to conserve his or her own interests and secured on the family home being set aside through common law and equitable principles of unconscionable dealing and the courts' jurisdiction to reopen an unjust contract under the National Credit Code 2009 or the Contracts Review Act 1980 (NSW). Firstly, this paper examines some judicial decisions where loans secured over the family home were made to borrowers with little capacity to repay and who were arguably limited in their ability to protect their own interests. It discusses the circumstances leading to the creation of unconscionable conduct as borrower redress against asset-based lending, and the recent development of the doctrine of unconscionable conduct in the case law, including the current requirement to show a ?situational special disadvantage?. Secondly, this study considers the knowledge being attributed to a lender on the ground that a broker was its agent. In addition, this part considers the role of knowledge in setting aside a loan contract made through a broker on the grounds of unconscionable conduct against the borrower by a third party.Thirdly, this paper considers the legislation that has been enacted in Australia to combat irresponsible lending practices. This section will also involve suggestions for law reform to adequately respond to the challenges posed by the global financial crisis and the victims of inappropriate asset-based lending.
K30|The Indonesia's Implementation of Cape Town Convention 2001|Pursuant to Article 38 paragraph I of the Statute of International Court of Justice, international convention constitutes one of the most important source of International Law. Ratification is a phase of international convention drafting which is relied on the state?s policy regarding the relation to international law and national law. In 2007, Indonesia ratified the Cape Town Convention 2001 through the President Decree No. 8 Year 2007. The adoption of International Law to National Law of a state will affect the national law of such state. Thus, it is important to observe the implementation of Cape Town Convention 2001 in Indonesia and its impact, whether its advantages or disadvantages to national law of Indonesia.This research uses normative juridical method with analysis descriptive approach. The research knowledge by primary, secondary, and tertiary sources and also discussing international convention especially concerning ratification of Cape Town Convention 2001 by Indonesia related to Law No. 1 of 2009.In Implementation the Cape Town Convention 2001, Indonesia had accommodated several provisions of the national law, among other things, the Law of Aviation 2009 and several implementing regulations i.e. Minister of Transportation Decree. Four essential matters which should be implemented related to international interest, priority right, and the remedy, the provision of international registration have not implemented yet by Indonesia. The ratification of Cape Town Convention 2001 and advantages the Indonesian aviation companies by having rate reduction from American Export Import Bank for the airplane trades, however the Indonesian aviation companies should be aware of such privilege in entering into the airplane procurement contracts due to the international interest therein, hence in the event of breach of contract, the creditor can withdraw the airplane by virtue of the international registration based on Cape Town Convention 2001.
K30|Non Visual Mark Protection Especially Sound Marks In Indonesia|Trade mark definition in Indonesia based on Article 1 Law Number 15 Year 2001 about trade mark , shall mean : a sign in the form of picture, name, word, letters, figures , composisition of colors, or combination of said elements, having distinguishing features and used in the activities of trade in goods or services. Based on that definition Indonesia only protect visual mark.In recent times, conventional mark ( Visual mark) has been expanded to include non visual mark such as sounds.Now, Indonesia doesnt have a regulation to protect non visual mark.Sounds have been increasingly used as a trade mark in the market place. However, it has traditionally been difficultt to protect sounds as trademark through registration.This issue broadened the legal definition of trademark which is encompassed not only merely a sign.In other countries sounds have been more succesfully registered based on their distingtive sounds example: MGM and their Lion roar.Based on that issues Indonesia should protect sounds as aTrademark and to determine what kind of model regulation for soundmark protection.
K30|Tax effects of converting the partnership into other partnership (Skutki podatkowe przeksztalcenia spolki osobowej w inna spolke osobowa)|Commercial partnerships is a general partnership, professional partnership, limited partnership, joint-stock company. Partners of the company by selecting-at the time of signing of the erection act-the business model, choose inter alia about his responsibility for the liabilities of the company, participation in profit and loss, on the activities and the financial contributions (or in kind). To change the type of company you can carry out the process of transformation of a person, or holding company (limited liability company, joint stock company). This means, however, making legal transactions, the nature of which is not defined on the basis of the tax on civil law transactions of goods and services or income tax from natural persons. You might want to consider whether to convert a partnership in person may be fiscally neutral – and if it is wanted to apply this tax - how to determine its elements (item, rate, taxable). Tax laws are not as categorical – in respect of which operations the company is taxable or liable. This publication provides scientific analysis of the laws in force in this respect, the views contained in the doctrine of tax law and company law. The need to carry out that examination results also from the fact that both the individual interpretations and administrative jurisprudence the issue of taxation of transformations in the vast majority of this is in relation to convert the legal form of a partnership on a capital company.
K30|The powers of rural districts in Poland (Kompetencje powiatow ziemskich w Polsce)|Local government is an independent, autonomous body, which essentially prejudge its subject, object, and duties performed according to the principle of subsidiarity, autonomy, decentralization, democracy and freedom. The existing systems in Europe depend conducted by the state policy in the existing administrative structures and political and economic conditions assumed and adopted management systems. A model of decentralized administration can serve local government in France, in the UK, or in Germany. Polish system of local government is formed from seven centuries. Special stigma had on the partitioning and perturbation times in the last century. The foundations of the current system were laid twenty-two years ago. However, the construction of the districts does not meet the requirements of modern public administration, is subject to criticism, the more that subsequent governments take away their powers, thereby depriving them of the meaning of existence. The study addressed the above issues and possible solutions can be presented in block diagrams, which will be based on the observation of the historical background and the geopolitical environment and the existing legislation. Turn on here can also be conclusions derived from the survey areas of social, economic, and financial. Due to the limited length of this article, it will skip the detailed statistical analysis and will be only a reference to the conclusions of analytical tests. Correction system of districts is essential. The best solution seems to be a correction of the competence of those local government units. Nevertheless, the need for further, are more detailed analysis of situation of Polish rural districts.
K30|The Rights And Obligations Of The Main Stakeholders In Cloud Computing Services|The current technological progress triggers a new approach in the way the personal data are collected, processed or stored, by a multitude of data controllers or processors involved in the chain of trophic relations in the delivering of cloud computing services. In this circumstances, it is our objective to examine the rights and obligations of the contractual parties involved in the cloud computing agreements according to the European Union law and national legislation, and their legal consequences for the data subjects
K30|Pensionable Service And Similar Legal Institutes In The Recognition Of Certain Types Of Social Security Benefits|The article analyzes the specifics of determining and recognizing social security length of service in accordance with the principles of the general and the special legal system. In the aspect of its difference from the length of employment there are drawn basic aspects of definition and its specific features with regard to its nature, recognition by period and significance in view of principal security considerations. Specifically, there is an emphasis on the recognition of the length of service with regard to certain special hypotheses on the provision of the long - term pension payments, and also in view of specific categories of non-contributory pension schemes. With regard to the latest changes in the legal framework there is made a parallel between the general institute of social security length of service and the introduction of the requirement for the so - called real length of service, concerning particular kinds of non - contributory consideration, and the concept of teacher's length of service, connected with the pension for length of service and age, in view of which there are drawn specific conclusions and recommendations on improving th e texts and principles connected with it.
K30|Legal regime of lobby activities. A comparative view|A very important aspect is that countries with specific rules and regulations regulating the activities of lobbyists and interest groups are more the exception than the rule. The interest groups are pursuing their goals in the political arena by lobbying, or attempting to influence policy-making, are consistent with the spirit of democracy. In practice, interest group influence can sometimes lead to political corruption, the inequality of representation, and the overcrowding of political institutions. As a consequence, some political systems find it appropriate to regulate interest representation.
K30|Implications of invalidity of Data Retention Directive to telecom operators|Obligation for telecom operators to retain traffic and location data for combating crime purposes had been controversial ever since the adoption of the Data Retention Directive in 2006 because of its inherent negative impact on the fundamental right to privacy and personal data protection. However, the awaited judgment of the CJEU in April this year, which declared the Directive invalid, did not so far resolve the ambiguity of the issue. Namely, having in mind that half a year later, some countries did not amend their national data retention legislations (yet) to comply with the aforementioned CJEU judgment, telecom operators as addresses of this obligation are in uncertain legal situation which could be called “lose-lose” situation. Also, the emphasis from the question of proportionality between data privacy and public security is shifted to the question of existence of valid legal basis for data processing (retaining data and providing them to authorities) in the new legal environment in which national and EU law are still not in compliance. In this paper the author examines the implications of the CJEU judgment to national EU legislation, telecom operators and data subjects, providing comparative analysis of national data retention legislation status in EU member states. The existence of valid legal basis for data processing is examined within EU law sources, including within proposed EU General Data Protection Regulation and opinions of the relevant data protection bodies (e.g. Article 29 Working Party).
K30|Considerations on the bicameral parliamentary system in Romania|The study approaches the way Romanian bicameralism functions, considering both its strengths and weaknesses. In addition, the unicameral parliamentary system is presented in relation to the bicameral one. In the doctrine, there are several opinions according to which bicameralism is preferred to unicameralism, because the two Houses provide increased safety, as the concentration of legislative power in one place could be both dangerous and, often, unjustified. But the two Chambers should not be similar, as this would not serve their guaranteeing purpose. Furthermore, bicameralism consolidates the balance and solidity of democratic regimes, providing a better separation of powers.
K30|The Signaling Role of Corporate Social Responsibility|We examine the role of CSR as a mechanism for private provision of public goods. We argue that corporations are using CSR to signal high product quality and demonstrate that signaling gives rise to an excessive level of contributions that offsets the positive externality, which causes the under-provision of public goods. We analyze the tax policy implications of such assertion. Accounting for this offset would call for a decrease in (and potentially elimination of) the subsidy offered to corporations engaged in CSR activities.
K30|The Signaling Role of Corporate Social Responsibility|We examine the role of CSR as a mechanism for private provision of public goods. We argue that corporations are using CSR to signal high product quality and demonstrate that signaling gives rise to an excessive level of contributions that offsets the positive externality, which causes the under-provision of public goods. We analyze the tax policy implications of such assertion. Accounting for this offset would call for a decrease in (and potentially elimination of) the subsidy offered to corporations engaged in CSR activities.
K30|Tax Implications Of A Merger: A Case Study|This paper considers possible tax implications of the merger between a wholly-owned subsidiary of Domestic Co, Inc. and International Co, Ltd, which took place on November 10, 2008. Even though the merger is structured in a way that it will most likely be respected as a tax-free reorganization under section 368(a), several important representations and warranties are not included in the merger agreement. Specifically, this particular merger agreement does not have a tax warranty requiring the Target Company to file all material tax returns and does not have a warranty requiring the parties to the reorganization to refrain from any actions that would prevent the merger from qualifying as reorganization within the meaning of section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code.
K30|A Theory of Judicial Retirement|For over 50 years, narrative and empirical accounts of judicial retirement have selected variables on a range of unstated assumptions, with discordant results. This paper introduces a formal model in which the justices, the President and the Senate are rational agents who aim to shift the median ideology of the Court as close as possible to their own ideologies. The model shows that the probability of retirement depends on a set of personal, contextual and political variables. It provides a more rigorous theory for the effect of extant variables, reveals erroneous conclusions in the literature, and identifies variables that have not been previously appreciated, such as the ideologies of the non-retiring justices and whether the ideology of the retiring justice is moderate or extreme. This more complete explanation of strategic judicial retirements raises empirically testable predictions to differentiate among the disparate findings of the existing literature.
K30|“‘Novel food’ for thought” on law and policymaking in the global creative economy|Law and policymaking form a central theme of the global governance debate. In these times of an emerging global creative economy the debate is becoming increasingly complex as global governance is faced with serious challenges of a political, economic, cultural, environmental, social, technological and, last but not least, legal nature. Against the backdrop of a global food crisis, both in terms of food security and food safety for all, the present article explores some of the broader regulatory aspects of these challenges by looking at the regulation of food and notably novel food as engineered by the use of bio- and nano-technologies. It aims to show how the preservation of the integrity of law over time, and with it the objectives of providing legal predictability and legal certainty, are threatened by deficiencies in the institutional design of the current international legal framework as well as in the conceptual understanding underlying the legal instruments adopted by these institutions. The analysis at the international level is complemented by a brief look at the domestic level exemplified by the situation in the European Union and the People’s Republic of China against the backdrop of their attempts to formulate and successfully implement policies enhancing their competitive advantages in the creative economy. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014
K30|The Legal Status of Professionals in The Context of Changes Brought by The New Civil Code|"Adoption of the New Civil Code (NCC) meant a ""turning point"" for the radical concept of the subjects participating in legal relations which, according to the Commercial Code (now repealed almost all provisions) usually were traders. Currently, the Unification of Private Law, according to the monistic conception embraced by NCC there are a series of difficulties in the conceptual framework of ""professionals"", the ""company"" and, especially, the professional traders. Professional traders are individuals: the individual, authorized individual and family business. The legal status of the three categories of individuals falling into the category of professionals traders is regulated by Ordinance no. 44/2008, amended."
K30|Anmerkungen zur Herleitung eines schadensgewichteten Index der Kriminalitätsentwicklung<BR>[On the construction of a severity-based index of crime]|Zusammenfassung: Der Aufsatz beinhaltet Überlegungen zur Konstruktion eines neuen Schwereindex der Kriminalität. Das vorgestellte theoretische Konzept basiert auf dem Laspeyres-Mengenindex, bei dem die Zahl der Delikte durch die gesellschaftlichen Schäden bzw. Kosten je Straftat gewichtet werden. In den Ausführungen werden die Datenerfordernisse thematisiert, wobei besonders auf die Messung der Kosten der Kriminalität und auf die Frage des Dunkelfelds eingegangen wird. Exemplarische Berechnungen für die Entwicklung des Schwereindex zwischen 1993 und 2011 zeigen, dass eine Interpretation von Kriminalitätsentwicklungen extrem irreführend sein kann, wenn man allein auf die Gesamtzahl der Fälle, nicht aber auf die Schwere der Delikte und das Ausmaß des Dunkelfelds abstellt. Summary: The paper considers a newly constructed severity index of crime. The theoretical foundation is based on the Laspeyres quantity index, where the amount of crimes is weighted by their societal costs. The paper presents requirements which need to be met in order to apply the concept to the real world. In particular, measurement issues concerning the estimated costs of crime and the share of unreported crimes are discussed. Sensitivity analyses and preliminary estimates of the severity index of crime based on a subgroup of crime categories reveal that any interpretation of crime trends can be strongly misleading if it would be based on reported aggregate crime rates, and not on cost weighted and dark field adjusted numbers of crimes.
K30|Preferentialism in Trade Relations: Challenges for the World Trade Organization|This paper argues that preferential trade agreements (PTAs) and the World Trade Organization (WTO) are not substitutes, and while PTAs are without doubt here to stay, dispensing with a multilateral venue for doing business in trade matters is not a serious option. It is therefore necessary to seek out better accommodation between PTAs and the WTO than has been apparent to date. The law of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT)/WTO has systematically fallen short in imposing discipline on discriminatory reciprocal trade agreements, while procedural requirements, such as notifications, have been partially observed at best, and dispute settlement findings have tended to reinforce existing weaknesses in the disciplines. One approach to remedying this situation is to explore a different kind of cooperation—that of soft law. A soft law approach to improving coherence and compatibility between the WTO and PTAs may hold some promise, but the option also has its pitfalls.
K30|¿Existen Derechos Sociales?|Estudios Nueva Economía me solicitó autorización para reproducir este artículo de hace 10 años justo cuando estaba publicándose mi libro Derechos Sociales y Educación: un nuevo paradigma de lo público. La primera parte de ese libro fue conscientemente escrita como una reformulación del argumento de este artículo, una que diera cuenta de que la idea de “derechos sociales” tiene hoy una importancia pública de la que carecía en 2004. Lo primero que pensé, entonces, era que el libro hacía redundante al artículo, por lo que ya no se justificaba volver sobre éste. Pero dos consideraciones me convencieron de que republicarlo tenía un sentido: primero, como una manera de enfatizar que el argumento de este artículo no implica que no hay tal cosa como derecho social a la educación. Para mi sorpresa, algunos lectores de este artículo han quedado con la idea de que al defender hoy que la educación ha de ser un derecho social estoy rechazando la tesis de este artículo. Esos lectores entendieron que la idea defendida en este artículo era que la pregunta del título recibía una respuesta pura y simplemente negativa, cuando su primer párrafo explica que eso no es así. Yo creo, de hecho, que la manera en que se ha articulado la demanda por una nueva educación da la razón a este artículo: si se trata de hacer de la educación un derecho social, lo que es necesario es acción política, no recursos judiciales. La segunda razón es que, leyéndolo 10 años después, el artículo es a mi juicio tan correcto como lo era el día en que fue originalmente publicado. Por supuesto que hoy diría algunas cosas de modo distinto, o desarrollaría algunos temas que en este artículo solo se mencionan y no se desarrollan (algunas de estas cuestiones son identificadas más abajo en esta nota). Pero todas las ideas importantes siguen siendo correctas. O al menos yo sigo creyendo que ellas lo son.
K30|Die Insolvenz von Auslandsgesellschaften in Deutschland|In Zeiten zunehmender Globalisierung sind auch die nationalen Gesellschaftsrechte in Bewegung gekommen. Die unterschiedlichsten Gesellschaftsformen konkurrieren grenzüberschreitend in einer 'race of forms' miteinander. Die 'Ltd.' nimmt dabei eine Sonderstellung ein, nachdem der EuGH unter Verweis auf die europäische Niederlassungsfreiheit bei Anwendung der Gründungstheorie dem A u s e i n a n d e r f a l l e n v o n S a t z u n g s - u n d Verwaltungssitz und somit die Migration von Gesellschaftsformen möglich machte. Einfachheit d e r G r ü n d u n g , v e r n a c h l ä s s i g e n s w e r t e H a f t u n g s v o r a u s s e t z u n g e n u n d Verwaltungspaketlösungen durch externe Dienstleister lösten europaweit einen wahren Ltd.- Boom aus, der erst abebbte, als die Bundesrepublik D e u t s c h l a n d m i t d e r E i n f ü h r u n g d e s Alternativmodells 'UG' eine Konkurrenz zur Ltd. schuf. D e r G e b r a u c h u n t e r s c h i e d l i c h s t e r Gesellschaftsformen im In- und Ausland hat zur F o l g e , d a s s g e s e l l s c h a f t s r e c h t l i c h u n d i n s o l v e n z r e c h t l i c h d i e v e r s c h i e d e n s t e n Rechtsordnungen zur Anwendung kommen. Durch das Nebeneinander von Sitz- und Gründungstheorie sowie dem primären EG-Recht und zahlreichen Staatsverträgen ist es nicht einfach zu bestimmen, welches Recht auf welchen Sachverhalt anzuwenden ist und welches Recht den Vorrang genießt.
K30|Sanierungsalternativen von Unternehmen im Insolvenzverfahren|"Seit Inkrafttreten der Insolvenzreform am 01.01.1999 wird vergeblich gehofft, dass die Sanierung von Unternehmen durch Insolvenzverfahren in größerem Umfang stattfindet. Die Vorstellung, durch ein einheitliches Verfahren mit der Mög¬lichkeit der Eigenverwaltung des Schuldners (dazu Pape, NWB F. 19 S. 3607) und des Insolvenzplans (dazu Pape, NWB 41/2010 S. 3278) könnten die früheren Schwächen der Zweiteilung von Konkurs- und Vergleichsverfahren beseitigt werden, hat sich bisher als Trugbild erwiesen. Von diesen Möglichkeiten wird ebenso wenig Gebrauch gemacht wie von dem Vergleichsverfahren in der Zeit davor. Eine „Insolvenzkultur"", wie sie in den USA schon seit vielen Jahren besteht, konnte sich nicht etablieren. Vorherrschend ist vielmehr das Bild des Insolvenzverfahrens als Liquidationsverfahren, in dem es aus¬schließlich darum geht, das restliche Vermögen des Schuldners möglichst schnell zu verwerten. Soweit es um die Eigenverwaltung geht, widerstrebt es den Beteiligten immer noch, „den Bock zum Gärtner zu machen"". Im Planverfahren sind die beteiligten G l ä u b i g e r v i e l f a c h n u r d a r a u f a u s , d a s Zustandekommen des Plans durch obstruktives Verhalten zu verhindern. In der rechtspolitischen Diskussion geht es vornehmlich darum, alternative, gerichtsferne Sanierungsverfahren mit möglichst wenigen Regelungen durchzusetzen. Einen neuen A n l a u f , E i g e n v e r w a l t u n g u n d I n s o l v e n z p l a n v e r ¬ f a h r e n z u w i r k s a m e n Sanierungsinstrumenten zu machen, hat die Bundesregierung unter dem Eindruck der Folgen der Finanzmarktkrise mit dem - nach mehreren Vorentwürfen - am 23. 2. 2011 verabschiedeten Regierungsentwurf für ein Gesetz zur weiteren Erleichterung der Sanierung von Unternehmen (ESUG) (BT-Drucks. 17/5712 v. 4. 5. 2011), auf dessen Inhalt nachfolgend näher eingegangen werden soll, u n t e r n o m m e n . D i e B e r e i t s c h a f t , d a s Insolvenzverfahren als Sanierungsinstrument zu stärken, wird allerdings durch Maßnahmen des Haushaltsbegleitgesetzes für das Jahr 2011 (HBeglG 2011 v. 9.12. 2010, BGBl 2010 I S. 1885) konterkariert. Sie belegen, dass die fiskalischen Interessen letztlich stärker wiegen als die Bereitschaft, finanzielle Beiträge zur Sanierung von Unternehmen zu leisten. Die Tendenz geht dahin, aus der Insolvenzordnung eine Vorrechtsordnung alter Prägung zu machen."
K30|New tools in German Insolvency Procedures combine German and US instruments|Since 1999 the new German Insolvency Law has been reformed in many little steps in order to make it a useful tool to restructure ailing companies instead of liquidating them. The latest endeavor in this field is the Insolvency Amendment Draft called ‘Law to further relief the Reorganization of Companies’ (ESUG). It is the umpteenth effort to harmonize company laws and insolvency laws, to sweeten the Insolvency Plan procedures by weeding out bureaucratic structures and to make the outcome of such reorganization attractive for all involved parties. In the wake of this last lawmaking initiative, many commentators speak of a further ‘americanization’ of German Insolvency Law. This paper analyses in short the current evolution of German Insolvency Law as opposed to its role model, the US Chapter 11 Bankruptcy Proceedings and explains were the path entered upon will lead to.
K30|The Equality Of Arms Principle And The Field Of Application Under Turkish Judicial Law Regarding The Right To Litigious Trial|Following the intense violation of human rights which occurred during WWII, a protective system for the human rights which arise due to their being human beings was attempted to be created and based on this enactment, the European Convention on Human Rights was prepared by the countries who are members of European Council. With the passing time, the member states of the European Council have signed the European Convention on Human Rights and they have made harmonious changes to the provisions of national regulations. European Convention on Human Rights which was signed by Turkey as well is also an integral part of our national regulations yet it is debatable how great an area of application it can find. The scope of the right to fair trials which is among the most essential parts of basic rights and freedoms enacted under article 6 of Human Rights Convention and what its parts were and the equality of arms principle governed under the same regulations and the observation and study of litigious right to trial concepts are the primary objective of this study.Thus, in the first section of the study consisting of two parts, the scope of right to fair trial and its components are to be considered as mentioned in the 6th article of European Convention on Human Rights and Ruling Cases of European Court of Human Rights and the equality of arms principle which is among the most important milestones of fair trial and the litigious rights will be explained. In the second part, the area of application of the equality of arms principle and litigious rights and their areas of application under Turkish Law will be studied. The main reason beyond this study is attempting to understand whether a fair trial can be achieved between the administration having the upper hand and the individuals as stipulated by European Convention on Human Rights.
K30|The Regulatory Transactions Of The Administration Under The Hierarchy Of Turkish Law|The regulatory transactions performed by the Executive Power in Turkish laws are statutory decrees, decrees, regulations and other unnamed regulatory transactions. The unnamed regulatory transactions are the title to a set of general regulatory transactions. In other words, it is a general concept to express many transactions with unlimited numbers. The reason to selection of this concept is that such transactions cannot be mentioned by the constitution which is the highest norm. The hierarchy of norms which were introduced to the legal World by Hans Kelsen are also applicable in the operation of the regulatory transactions of the administration. However since the general regulatory transactions enacted by the administration increase rapidly day by day cause different arrangements to be brought forward in the same matters. The solution to some problems incurred by during the implementation stages cannot be achieved by Kelsen pyramid only. The administrative units at the same hierarchy stages may include contradictory provisions, then it is also possible that they may contradict with some regulatory transactions emanated under public administration. This paper studies what kind of a hierarchy is present between the general regulatory transactions of the administration, the solution to the legal issues between the general regulatory transactions encompassing contradicting norms, how the general regulatory transactions breaching the superior norms can be abolished and how the senior management will act in case when the people of execution.
K30|Actions For Nullity Which Have Been Filed By Non-Governmental Organizations In Turkish Administrative Procedure|The most important feature of non-governmental organizations is comprising of people consensually. Primarily, non-governmental organizations? force is related with that feature. So, communities which coex?st readily and intended for the same aims are able to have a big energy. If like communities increase in number, different ideas will be able to find voice in the society and in this way democracy culture will be able to settle further in the society. Non-governmental organization is a broad concept , which must examine in every respect. But this study is about only the non-governmental organizations which have legal personality in Turkey and theirs capacity to sue in the actions for nullities in administrative procedure.In the first part of the study which is comprised of two parts; meaning, covering and activities of non- governmental organization will be clarify and non- governmental organizations in Turkey will be researched with their?s legal and constitutional basis. In the second part; firstly the concept of ?advantage aggression? which is the prior condition of actions for nullities in administrative procedure will be explained. Besides, Turk?sh counc?l of states decions in the actions which have been filed by the associations, the unions, the endowments and the public occupational organizations in Turkey will be researched.
K30|Criminal Law and Cultural Variables: Reflection of Some Cultural Features of the Individual who Migrated from Turkey to Germany Towards German Criminal Law Applications|Rules of law have been the most important element to establish the social order from past to present. The rules of law in conjunction with the society's values are affected by some components like traditions, religion, moral values with no doubt. In today's world, in which ancient borders almost disappear and globalization started to form in many ways although universal rules of law are attempts to be reached as an ideal principle in the specific examples, cultural variables are possible to be seen. One of the best example for this situation is the problems in criminal law applications. In this context, Turkey's view in the value structure-specific problems such as tradition, honor, blood herding as the causes of crime may be encountered and these are related to the legitimacy differentiation or a religious practice circumcision which the body immunity violation of terms could be evaluated as a number of cultural differences. This study aims to analyse different elements live together in contemporary societies, like more national values shaped by the punishment system and inhabited by the dead and the applications from Turkey with maximum out-migration in the context of Germany.
K30|Confidence in the Judicial System and Court Experience: Evidence from Brazil|Although there is a literature that relates the determinants of confidence in the judicial system and utilization of the judiciary, there is a gap on the causal relationship between these two variables. The purpose of this paper is to examine the causal relationship between confidence in the judicial system and utilization of the judiciary in Brazil. To address this issue, we construct measures of the extent to which the main newspapers report government corruption in their front page during the period 2010-2013 distributed by the states: Minas Gerais, Pernambuco, Rio Grande do Sul, Rio de Janeiro, São Paulo and Distrito Federal. By examining how confidence in the judicial system affects the utilization of the judiciary, we used instrumental variable approach: IV Probit. We used the news of corruption (front page coverage of corruption) as instrumental variable. Confidence in the judicial system is the variable instrumentalized. Our results are based on four surveys conducted along 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013. We created the Brazilian Confidence in Justice Index (BCJI) as a validity argument for our confidence measure. Our results evidence that confidence in the judicial system has a positive impact on utilization of the judiciary. People who have higher levels of confidence in the judicial system have a greater propensity to seek the judiciary. We also found that there is a positive relationship between confidence in the judicial system and utilization of the judiciary for some demographic variables such as income, education, age and race.
K30|Strategic Judicial Preference Revelation|We examine the revelation of preferences of justices whose true ideologies are not known when entering the Court but gradually become apparent through their judicial decisions. In a 2-period president-Senate-Court game, we show that some new justices vote disingenuously and so move the perceived ideology of the overall Court closer to their ideally preferred outcome, which influences the selection of future justices. Justices will sometimes have an incentive to exaggerate the extremeness of their preferences and at other times will seek to appear more moderate. Systematic changes in judicial behavior can be predicted on the basis of the characteristics of the cases; the initial ideologies of the justices, the president, and the Senate; and the probabilities of retirement of the justices. These results have important implications for interpreting judicial voting behavior: particularly, it is not safe to infer changes in actual judicial preferences from changes in expression of judicial preferences.
K30|State Bankruptcy Law and Entrepreneurship: Evidence from a Border Analysis|This paper examines how differences in state bankruptcy laws, specifically the amount of the homestead exemption, affect business location decisions. We expand upon the literature by narrowing the geographic scope and focus on the amount of entrepreneurial activity within a few miles of the state boundary. By including only these border areas, we are more effectively able to control for unobserved local attributes, which are important determinants of business location decisions. Findings indicate that an increase in a state's homestead exemption attracts new businesses to that locality. In addition, we do not find that a more generous homestead exemption has a negative impact on existing businesses. Our results suggest that bankruptcy law is an important policy tool that state governments can use to attract new businesses, without experiencing an adverse effect on existing enterprises.
K30|Aristóteles y la justicia natural|"In his Nicomachean and Eudemian Ethics Aristotle says of natural justice that it is changeable and not the same everywhere. The implication seems to be that no action, not even murder, is always wrong. But, as is evident especially from his Magna Moralia, Aristotle distinguishes justice into the ""what"" (equality), the ""in what"" (proportion between persons and things), and the ""about what"" (what things are exchanged with which persons). He allows for variability only in the ""about what"". He allows for no variability in the ""what"" and the ""in what"". The fact is clear from adultery, which Aristotle says is always wrong. He says the same elsewhere of other acts, as abortion, euthanasia, and usury."
K30|Entrepreneurship, institutions, and economic dynamism: lessons from a comparison of the United States and Sweden| The purpose of the research endeavor published in this Special Section is to further our understanding of the extent, character, and orientation of entrepreneurial activity in today's wealthy countries. This is done by means of several detailed studies of institutions of particular importance for entrepreneurship and innovation-based firm growth, and its impact on the economy. All coauthors are renowned specialists in the area with deep knowledge of the pertinent institutions in Sweden and the United States, the two countries compared. Copyright 2013 The Author 2013. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Associazione ICC., Oxford University Press.
K30|The Arab spring and Islamic legal thought|At the end of 2010 there was series of political crises in the Arab world and this period came to be known as “the Arab Spring”. Islam has played a significant role in these events. In certain countries overthrowing the existing regimes resulted in Islamic governments coming to power. A number of aspects of the Arab Spring attracted the attention of contemporary Islamic legal thought. Its different schools diverge in the assessment of the mass protests. Islamic jurisprudence explains the “fiqh of revolution” which justifies the demonstrations and protests against the regime from a Sharia-based point of view
K30|Islamic constitutionalism and rule of law: a constitutional economics perspective|This study investigates the relationship between Islamic constitutionalism and rule of law. Al Azhar, one of the most respected Sunni religious institutions in the world, developed a model of an Islamic constitution. This study uses Al-Azhar’s constitution as a model of Islamic constitutionalism and examines its stance in regard to the rule of law. We find the Al-Azhar’s constitution to be incompatible with essential concepts of rule of law. For example, the powers vested in the head of the Islamic state are enormous, making the executive branch of government far superior to the legislative and judicial branches. Women and non-Muslims are explicitly discriminated against throughout the constitution. Moreover, laws stemming from this constitution are not stable since many differences exist among schools of Islamic jurisprudence (fiqh). Consequently, we show that state-of-the-art Islamic constitutionalism lacks essential components needed in any constitution based on rule of law. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2013
K30|Economic analysis of pension fund’s laws for female heirs: case of Iran’s civil servants pension fund (CSPF)|The key twin objectives of pension and retirement system are income security and consumption smoothing for members and their family (heirs). Accordingly, pension funds worldwide devise laws that preserve and improve these key objectives. Laws that failed to take into account these objectives not only impose extra financial burden on the pension system, but also may pose undesirable social and economic effects. In this respect, economic analysis of pension laws would help lawmakers to make workable and implementable laws. Generally, economic analysis of law seeks to answer two basic questions regarding legal rules: what are the effects of legal rules on the behavior of relevant actors? And are these effects socially desirable? This paper examines the pension law of Iran’s civil servant pension fund (CSPF) for female heirs in light of the afore-mentioned key objectives of pension system, and from social justice point of view. The results from the analysis reveal that this does not only adhere to social justice and pension system’s main purpose, but also it imposes economic and social costs. The weak side of the law also creates financial burden on the pension fund, the young generation (paying pension benefits to the considered heirs from its contribution) and the public at large. The study also shows that life time payment of pensions to heirs by CSPF encourages late or informal marriages hence defecting acceptable social norms and may increase informal labor supply, creating a further problem in the labor market. The study thus recommends the need for reforming the existing law and rules of CSPF for female heirs. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2013
K30|Brief Theoretical Considerations on the Review of the European Union Constituent Treaties|In the European Union, the possibility of reviewing the constituent treaties contributes to the adaptation of legislation and European policies to the new requirements of the international life. As it is well known, before the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty, there was only one procedure for reviewing the Treaties. The Lisbon Treaty regulates three procedures for reviewing the treaties: one ordinary and two simplified. Regardless, however, of the initiated procedure, Member States must unanimously adopt the review of provisions in cause. The review procedures are found in Article 48 of the Treaty on European Union.
K30|Основы Правового Обеспечения Деятельности Ситуационных Социально-Экономических Центров<BR>[Bases of Legal Support of Activity of the Situational Social and Economic Centers]|The paper analyzes issues of emergence and development of institute of legal support of activity of the situational centers in the Russian Federation
K30|A new dawn for the crescent moon: is the fear of an influx of Turkish nationals driving European law?|This paper argues that legally speaking, Turkish service recipients must be granted visa-free access to the EU. The freedom to provide services is covered by Article 41(1) Additional Protocol, and rights in this field should be extended as far as possible to Turkish nationals, as outlined in Abatay and others. Article 41(1) AP’s aim is to ensure no new visa restrictions can be placed on Turkish nationals. Given that the freedom to receive services is, as stated in Luisi and Carbone, a necessary corollary of the freedom to provide services, it is logical that this must be extended to service recipients. Furthermore, this paper argues that the extensive body of case law and Treaty law between the EU and Turkey demonstrate a relationship that is far greater than a simply economic one, as suggested by the CJEU in Ziebell, conferring greater rights on Turkish nationals. The CJEU, as outlined in Article 19(3) of the TEU, has a purely legal role within the EU legal order. It should only rule according to the letter of the law, as opposed to bringing invalid considerations into the judgment. In this regard, the Court must rule that Turkish service recipients are entitled to visa free travel. The CJEU has, however, borne political reasoning in mind in the past, especially with regard to association agreements. Demirkan potentially has huge ramifications, with the ‘erosion of sovereignty’ that comes with opening of borders to third countries. This would open the door to 75 million Turkish nationals to move freely in the EU, and given the recent violent protests in Turkey and the strength of anti-Turkish sentiments in the press. This whole issue highlights how the CJEU is often thrust into inherently political matters when its sole mandate is to rule on the law of the European Union.
K30|Les mutations des droits du travail sous influence européenne|Quels sont les conséquences et l’impact de la politique sociale européenne sur les transformations du rapport d’emploi dans les droits nationaux ? Pour répondre à cette question nous proposons d’étudier comment, suite au rapport d’Alain Supiot « Au-delà de l’emploi » (1999), à la stratégie européenne de flexicurité, et à la crise de 2008, les modèles de droit du travail traditionnels s’en sont trouvés modifiés, notamment par une application de type “distributive” des règles protectrices, en fonction du rapport d’emploi et non plus du rapport salarial.
K30|How dignity was introduced into the law and what dignity contributed to the law|The exact content of the relation between dignity and law has not been fully clarified yet. We only know that, although it has been used since antiquity, the notion entered international legislation and national constitutions only after WWII. Since then, the law uses the term, but it does not define it. Under the circumstances, can we talk about a legal concept? Is dignity a means or a purpose to law? Which is its relation with the fundamental human rights? Is it a right among others, or a basic ground for all of them? Here are a few questions to which the present article is trying to provide some answers…
K30|Explanatory factors of the relationship between gender diversity and corporate performance|No abstract is available for this item.
K30|Government and Governance in the Local Utilities of Economic Relevance: The State of Art in a Legal Perspective|This paper concerns the recent evolution in terms of government and governance of the discipline on the local public utilities in Italy,paying attention to the recent changes occurred. The Italian Constitutional Court has declared the illegitimacy of the art. 4, l. n. 148/2011 that established the general discipline of local publicservices of economic relevance within the Italian Legal System; particularly, the Constitutional Court noted that such discipline was adopted in violation of the prohibition of restoring the lawabrogated by popular referendum of 12-13 June 2011. Consequently, in view of the declaration of unconstitutionality, local public services of economic importance directly apply the European rules on the protection of competition.
K30|Fixing the Patent Office|No abstract is available for this item.
K30|Fixing the Patent Office|How can we allow patent examiners to effectively distinguish between patentable and unpatentable inventions, without slowing the process to a crawl or wasting a bunch of money? This essay reviews the recent literature and considers a number of proposals and their limitations. It concludes that the system can be improved, but that we are unlikely to solve the problem of bad patents altogether. The focus in reform discussions should be on understanding and changing applicant and examiner incentives rather than simply spending money.
K30|Did the Americanization Movement Succeed? An Evaluation of the Effect of English-Only and Compulsory Schools Laws on Immigrants' Education|"In the early twentieth century, education legislation was often passed based on arguments that new laws were needed to force immigrants to learn English and ""Americanize."" We provide the first estimates of the effect of statutes requiring English as the language of instruction and compulsory schooling laws on the school enrollment, work, literacy and English fluency of immigrant children from 1910 to 1930. English schooling statutes did increase the literacy of foreign-born children, though only modestly. Compulsory schooling and continuation school laws raised immigrants' enrollment and the effects were much larger for children born abroad than for native-born children."
K30|Statul de drept din perspectivă economică<BR>[Rule of law from economic perspective]|"State involvement in the economy and society in general was and is still a fundamental problem, being approached by the all schools of economic thought. Its role was perceived differently from one historical stage to another and from one country to another, always constituting itself in a matter of political dispute, both in theory and in practice. In these circumstances, the issue of rule of law , defined by the Jacques Chevallier, as the ""type of political regime in which state power is framed and limited by law"", initially appreciated that represents a lawyers privilege, by starting from the privilege of the idea that all: rulers and ruled, the state, shall be subject to law, that ""nobody is above the law"", is approached from the twentieth century by philosophers, politicians or, recently, economists opposing to the totalitarian state and welfare state."
K30|Основные Понятия Муниципальной Службы<BR>[BASIC CONCEPTS OF INSTITUTE OF MUNICIPAL SERVICE Basic concepts of institute of municipal]|In article questions of formation of general-theoretical concepts and legal categories of municipal service of regulation of legal institute of municipal service are considered. It is shown that the municipal service represents special legal institute which norms regulate a certain kind of the public relations arising in the course of revenues to municipal service, its passing’s and the terminations.
K30|Fixing the Patent Office|How can we allow patent examiners to effectively distinguish between patentable and unpatentable inventions, without slowing the process to a crawl or wasting a bunch of money? This essay reviews the recent literature and considers a number of proposals and their limitations. It concludes that the system can be improved, but that we are unlikely to solve the problem of bad patents altogether. The focus in reform discussions should be on understanding and changing applicant and examiner incentives rather than simply spending money.
K30|A recent case-law on the matter of interest capitalization|A recent ruling of the Supreme Court has established that the recovery proceeding started by an account holder, who alleges the nullity of amounts deducted by the bank as interest capitalization on a credit account, expires after ten years from the date on which the closing account balance was extinguished.
K30|The Economics of Marriage|In a separate-property jurisdiction, marriage may induce domestic cooperation, and enhance efficiency in the production of children, because it may lend credibility to the prospective main earner's promise to compensate the main childcarer when the children will no longer be economically dependent on them. In a community-property jurisdiction, marriage will induce domestic cooperation, and enhance efficiency in the production of children, because it rules out strategic behaviour. Whatever the matrimonial property regime, reducing the cost or difficulty of obtaining a divorce will have no permanent effect on the divorce rate. In a separate-property jurisdiction, it will encourage marriage, and induce more married women to specialize in market work. Couples should be allowed to choose the matrimonial property regime.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
K30|Beyond the Classroom: Using Title IX to Measure the Return to High School Sports| Between 1972 and 1978 U.S. high schools rapidly increased their female athletic participation rates in order to comply with Title IX. This paper examines the causal implications of this expansion by using variation in the level of boys' athletic participation across states before Title IX to instrument for change in girls' athletic participation. Analysis of differences in outcomes across states in changes between pre- and postcohorts reveals that a 10 percentage point rise in state-level female sports participation generates a 1 percentage point increase in female college attendance and a 1 to 2 percentage point rise in female labor force participation. © 2010 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
K30|Fundamentos Jurídicos y Sociales de las Operaciones de Paz en España|In Spain, one of the most innovative content of the IX Legislature has been the exercise of parliamentary control by the Congress of Deputies on Peace and Reconstruction Operations performed abroad by the Armed Forces, who plays a key role in promoting values for peace, humanitarian aid and human rights. This is a decisive advance in the process of 'parliamentarisation' security policy and the consideration of the Armed Forces as an instrument of government in service to human rights, development cooperation and peace. In exercising this function, Spain has justified the social dimension of the state in eight Military and Humanitarian Operations managed under the authorization of the Congress of Deputies from 2008 to 2010.
K30|Energia e ambiti materiali connessi: la lettura della Corte costituzionale|La giurisprudenza della Corte costituzionale in tema di energia sta mettendo in evidenza, a partire dal 2004, un complesso di interessi che sono coinvolti dalle decisioni energetiche, talvolta prevalendo sull’interesse alla sicurezza dell’approvvigionamento energetico, talvolta recedendo rispetto ad esso. Si tratta degli ambiti tutela dell’ambiente, della tutela del paesaggio, della tutela della salute, della tutela della concorrenza, dei livelli essenziali delle prestazioni, della sicurezza: il contributo analizza singolarmente i vari ambiti materiali interessati dalle decisioni di Stato e Regioni in materia di energia, indicando il bilanciamento che di essi è stato effettuato da parte della Corte costituzionale.
K30|An Essence of Public Government, Its Subjects and Functions|In Administrative Law of Georgia Public government is defined as activity of executory â€“ ordering bodies, therefore, area of operation for the public government is limited with the share of functioning of executive branch. We think that such conception is not correct and does not reflects real interconnections between branches of state machinery government (management, administration) is not a type of activity of certain group of state bodies, as it is understood in Georgian Administrative law, but systematic method of solution of problems and functional tasks, faced to the any branch of state power. So, the frame of public government should be expended and define that Public Government should be diversified into three types: Representative, Executive and Judicial Government. All of them have certain vertical of structural units of nine levels in case of executive government, two levels of representative and four levels of judicial government with their functionaries. Subjects of public government have same stages of activity, sources of financing, order of classification but different diversification indication in the structure of state machinery. Beside executive, representative and judicial bodies we think that a new category of subjects- namely special subject of public government have to be distinguished because the President, Parliament and Constitutional court have mutual integrated rights in different spheres of the public government. Upon a new approach to the concept of public government in Georgian Administrative law the definitions of representative, executive, judicial and public government are formulated.
K30|Legal Acts, Forms and Methods of Public Goverment in Georgia|In contradiction to the concept, which prevailed in Georgian administrative law we think that public government includes representative, executive and judicial goverment with typical hierarchical verticals, similar stages of activity, order of establishment and financing, territory of operation, as well as common nature of internal relationships, common ground of classification and forms of activity, but with their own diversificational features, like legal regulation of social life by legislative organs, performance of laws and by-laws by executory-ordering agencies and protection of law by means of justice and constitutional control. Despite these distinguishing features, legal acts issued in the sphere of representative, executive and judicial governments have identical characteristics classified upon their competence and receiving bodies, legal nature and juridical force, order of adoption, purposefulness and forms of expression, operation on the territory and in time. Similar form and methods of governing underline belonging of representative, executive and judicial government to the entire public government. Law-making ang law-enforcement form of operation is typical for internal and external activity of legislative, executive and judicial bodies with their own peculiarities, as well as common methods of governing, like persuasion, compulsion, adminstrative, organizational, pshycological and many others.
K30|Corruption as a Barrier to Entry: Theory and Evidence|"Conventional wisdom depicts corruption as a tax on incumbent firms. This paper challenges this view in two ways. First, by arguing that corruption matters not so much because of the value of the bribe (""tax""), but because of another less studied feature of corruption, namely bribe unavoidability. Second, we argue that the social costs of corruption arise not because corruption hurts incumbent firms, but mostly because it acts as a powerful barrier to the entry of new firms. Corruption sands and greases in tandem: it helps incumbent firms (on balance) and it hurts potential entrants. We put forward a model in which a bureaucrat chooses entry barriers to optimize bribe revenues. When the capacity to collect bribes is high, it is optimal to allow high levels of oligopoly power to incumbents. Conversely, the more avoidable are the bribes, the more firms are allowed into the market. These ideas are tested using a unique, representative sample of Brazilian manufacturing firms. Consistently with our theoretical model, we show that corruption (a) is ranked as the most important barrier to entry (above finance, taxes and regulation) and (b) while bribes unavoidability is positively related to firm performance, the size of the bribe is not."
K30|El sector informal en México. Hechos y explicaciones fundamentales|Adopting a legal definition of informality, this paper studies the causes of informality in general and with a particular application to Mexico. It starts with a discussion on the definition and measures of informality. It then argues and provides evidence that informality is not only a reflection of underdevelopment but may also be the source of further economic retardation. Next, the paper analyzes informality’s main determinants, arguing that informality is not single-caused but results from the combination of poor public services, a burdensome regulatory regime, and weak monitoring and enforcement capacity by the state. This combination is especially explosive when the country suffers from low educational achievement and features demographic pressures and primary production structures. The paper then evaluates the empirical relevance of each determinant of informality to the specific case of Mexico.// Partiendo de una definición legal de la informalidad, este artículo estudia las causas de la informalidad en general y su aplicación al caso particular de México. El artículo comienza con un análisis de la definición y los índices de la informalidad. Acto seguido, argumenta y aporta pruebas de que la informalidad es no sólo un reflejo del subdesarrollo, sino que podría también ser la fuente de un mayor atraso económico. Posteriormente se analiza los principales determinantes de la informalidad, a la vez que se argumenta que la informalidad no es resultado de una causa única sino de la combinación de las deficiencias de los servicios públicos, un régimen normativo gravoso y la poca capacidad del Estado para supervisar la actividad y hacer valer la ley. Esta combinación resulta particularmente explosiva cuando el país en análisis tiene escaso rendimiento educacional y está sometido a presiones demográficas y estructuras productivas primarias. Por último, se evalúa la relevancia empírica de cada uno de los determinantes de la informalidad en el caso específico de México.
K30|El Proceso de Bolonia en el Derecho Público Español. Autonomía universitaria, distribución de competencias y empleo público|The acquits of inter-governmental agreements, being signed by forty-six States in the Bologna Process context, as a starting point promoted by the European Union States, regions and universities to promote an area for academic integration (European Higher Education Area), is applied to three aspects which need to be identified in order to a better understanding of their benefits and to resolve their most problematic aspects. These three areas are: (a) The constitutional dimension, which is of particular significance in the following subjects: the constitutional rights, the institutional guarantee of university autonomy and the distribution of powers between the State, the Autonomous Communities and the Universities, (b) The supranational level, with a certification system based on the recognition of qualifications, and (c) The public employment and academic careers of university professors. Moreover, this triple definition must be compatible with the legal characterization of the university as a public service.
K30|What's the Use of Marriage?|We use elementary game-theoretical concepts to compare domestic equilibria with and without marriage. In particular, we examine the effects of marriage legislation, matrimonial property regime, and divorce court sentencing practice, on the decision to marry, and on the choice of game conditional on marriage. We find that, in the absence of social stigma or legal discrimination against unmarried couples, a couple will marry only if marriage serves as a commitment device which facilitates cooperation.
K30|Not Letting a Good Crisis Go to Waste: Undisclosed Consequences of the Politics of Change|Economic crisis often precipitates bureaucratic intervention when markets produce politically unpalatable outcomes.
K30|Education For The Future – Case Of Serbia|In this paper we point out the significance of education as one of the principal values of importance for the whole society. Research shows that the conscience on importance of knowledge management in Serbia grows, but there is still much to be done for advancement of education of population of all generations. The future of people lies in schools, as once wrote Pestalozzi.1 The author stresses the need to create an open and flexible system of education in Serbia and knowledge transfer too. The process of education improvement in Serbia should be oriented towards development of an integral education system and should include formal (institutional) and informal (non-institutional) subsystems, which will mutually supplement. This article represents an overview of our experiences in this area. Information technologies for knowledge management are basic starter of development. This paper orginates from the need to improve the quality of living and in such a way influence on physical and mental health of the nation and its individual members. In the paper is also discussed on efforts to dignify life in present conditions, make it more fulfilled, eliminate numerous negative phenomenons and effects of corruption, unemployment, violence in different forms.
K30|La Convention Européenne Des Droits De L’Homme Et La Jurisprudence De La Cour Européenne Des Droits De L’Homme Refléchies Dans Les Décisions De La Cour Constitutionnelle Roumaine|Since its first form of 1991, the Romanian Constitution had a provision to facilitate its European integration: the stipulations concerning the public rights and freedoms will be interpreted according to the Universal Declaration of the rights and the other Treaties that Romania has ratified, giving priority to the last ones if it would be in conflict with the national law. In the Romanian Constitutional Court opinion, this standard is justified by the fact that international regulation on the fundamental rights is assimilated to constitutional norms. As much Romania was not a member of the Council of Europe and has not ratified the European Convention of Human Rights, the interpretation of the Convention and of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, had no importance for the Romanian legislation and jurisprudence. Au contraire, after this date, the omission in the controlled norms of a requirement expressly asked by the reference texts, constituted a conflict between national law and a treaty regarding the human rights.
K30|Protecting privacy amid questions of economic efficiency and egalitarianism|This paper aims to analyze theories developed both in favor and against privacy protection according to current practices in the West. In the paper, we will examine economic justifications for privacy protection as defined by American economists and jurists, as well as the advantages to be derived by a possible elimination of said protection. Moving beyond existing economic theories, this piece develops a new economic idea, wherein privacy protection is warranted when an individual becomes interested in another's habits for a specific reason: to root out different behaviors in that person by observing a behavior that is correlated with those behaviors. Imagine the scenario of a worker who is also a soccer player, who is not competitive on the job, and is a team player, when he plays soccer, with his co-workers. The two facts, one of loving his own soccer team, and second, of not being competitive in the workplace are expressions of the same human attitude, or of a certain aspect of his personality. The employer is interested in finding out if this worker plays soccer in order to identify a lack of competitiveness on the job, and perhaps to assign him more menial tasks. The employer wishes to know the worker's interest in soccer in order to deduce therefrom a second circumstance: non-competitiveness in the workplace. Thus if regulating others' conduct is not forbidden, the worker, in order not to be found out, will no longer play soccer; he will suffer a loss in terms of his personal welfare, while the employer, on the other hand, will gain nothing, having discovered nothing. From this comes a different justification for privacy protection. In the paper, however, we note that privacy protection is a tool for encouraging equality or, in pejorative terms, egalitarianism. Behind the privacy “screen,” indeed, everyone appears in shades of gray. Privacy protection makes individuals indistinguishable. In terms of inter-personal relationships, this means a “veil” of ignorance, with all its attendant costs. Therefore, it is possible that the economic justifications defined by those in favor of privacy protection should be put aside in favor of transparency among individuals.
K30|Reinforcing the Commission's Power in the Communications Sector. An Issue for the Regulatory Framework Review|The reform of the regulatory framework for electronic communications is in progress. One of its major issue could be an institutional one, as the European Commission announced its intention to reinforce its own power, in particular in order to supervise the remedies imposed by national regulators to the dominant operators. Highlighting the importance of the objective of consolidation of the Internal Market, this article examines the case for this reinforcement and analyzes the institutional architecture which endorses it. Even if the proposal to create a European Electronic Communications Authority constitutes an event, the issue of the reinforcement of the Commissions's power should not be considered in the sole light of this project which could be rejected or amended.
K30|Mismatch in Law School|"An important criticism of race-based admissions preferences is that they may hurt minority students who are thereby induced to attend selective schools. We use two comparisons to identify so-called ""mismatch"" effects in law schools, with consistent results. There is no evidence of mismatch effects on graduation or bar passage rates of black students above the bottom quintile of the entering credentials distribution. The data are consistent with mismatch effects for bottom-quintile black students but do not demonstrate the importance of these effects, as sample selection bias is a potentially important confounding factor in this range. There is no evidence from any comparison of mismatch effects on employment outcomes."
K30|Affirmative Action in Law School Admissions: What Do Racial Preferences Do?|"The Supreme Court has held repeatedly that race-based preferences in public university admissions are constitutional. But debates over the wisdom of affirmative action continue. Opponents of these policies argue that preferences are detrimental to minority studentsâ€”that by placing these students in environments that are too competitive, affirmative action hurts their academic and career outcomes. This article examines the so-called ""mismatch"" hypothesis in the context of law school admissions. We discuss the existing scholarship on mismatch, identifying methodological limitations of earlier attempts to measure the effects of affirmative action. Using a simpler, more robust analytical strategy, we find that the data are inconsistent with large mismatch effects, particularly with respect to employment outcomes. While moderate mismatch effects are possible, they are concentrated among the students with the weakest entering academic credentials. To put our estimates in context, we simulate admissions under race-blind rules. Eliminating affirmative action would dramatically reduce the number of black law students, particularly at the most selective schools. Many potentially successful black law students would be excluded, far more than the number who would be induced to pass the bar exam by the elimination of mismatch effects. Accordingly, we find that eliminating affirmative action would dramatically reduce the production of black lawyers."
K30|Causas y consecuencias de la informalidad en el Perú|Partiendo de una definición legal de informalidad, el presente trabajo estudia las causas de este fenómeno en general, concentrándose en particular en el análisis de la informalidad en el caso peruano. Primero ofrece una discusión de la definición de informalidad y de las mediciones de ésta, señalando además las razones por las cuales la informalidad generalizada debiera ser motivo de gran preocupación. Luego analiza los determinantes principales de la informalidad y plantea que ésta no tiene una causa única, sino que es producto de la combinación de servicios públicos deficientes, de un régimen normativo opresivo y de la débil capacidad de supervisión y ejecución del estado. Dicha combinación resulta especialmente explosiva cuando el país se caracteriza por tener bajos niveles educativos, fuertes presiones demográficas y estructuras productivas primarias. Finalmente, utilizando un análisis de regresión transversal entre países, se evalúa la relevancia empírica de cada uno de los determinantes de la informalidad, aplicando luego las relaciones estimadas al caso peruano para evaluar la relevancia que tendría cada uno de los mecanismos propuestos en cada país específico. Clasificación JEL: K20, K30, H11, O17, O40.
K30|Whatever happened to the domestic division of labour? A theoretical analysis of the effects of legislation on marriage, fertility and participation|We derive the behavioural implications of legislation on the subject of marriage, divorce, de-facto unions, domestic violence, and labour market discrimination, within a game-theoretical frame- work. The predictions are consistent with two empirical obser- vations. One is that, while the prevalent pattern in development countries is for the father to specialize completely in market work, the tendency in developed countries is towards mother and father sharing market work and care of the children more or less equally between them. The other is that the sign of the cross-country correlation between fertility and female labour market participa- tion, negative worldwide until the mid-1970s, remains negative across developing countries, but has turned positive where devel- oped countries are concerned. We show that domestic division of labour is e¢ cient, while equal sharing is not. But we also argue that e¢ ciency is bought, in developing countries, at the expense of women, and discuss ways in which e¢ ciency could be restored in developed countries without setting the clock back.
K30|La política de inmigración en Andalucía tras la reforma del Estatuto de Autonomía: Derechos de los extranjeros y coordinación entre Administraciones Públicas|Spanish Autonomous Communities of Andalucia have acquired competences over migration. Inequality could be a consequence of such recognition of migration competences. Different legal systems could affect the general legal system of the state. For instance, it could affect work permits and residence permits. My paper focuses on this problem. We need a realistic and efficient system of intergovernmentals relations in order to meet the Schengen space.
K30|Instrumentos jurídicos para la gestión y control de los flujos migratorios Marruecos-España|Immigration in Spain usually comes form Morocco, but not in a regular way, but beyond legal control. It is due to strong legal requirements. Institutional methods for control and deport are often more illegal that the punished behaviour of entrance and residence. Even when criminal facts are made by illegal foreign residents, the prescript measures.
K30|Concreción de las políticas de empleo en España para los nuevos inmigrantes|The active policies of work for the immigrants group try to contribute to the increase of the incorporation possibilities and labor maintenance of these workers so related to the Spanish culture, combining, at the same time, flexibility and security in the use. In addition, in macroeconomic terms, the selective performance on the supply and the demand, with measures such as the promotion of the deprived initiative, the aid to mobility to sectors with sufficient demand or the direct creation of use, allow to reduce to the imbalances or misalignments in the work market.
K30|Antinomy|Legal systems are not necessarily coherent. Coherence represents an ideal of the law in force aimed at by both lawmakers and judges. It has a rational character and it is necessary for the application of positive law and for assuring justice and legal security. Within the legal system, considered as the internal law in force, flaws- antinomies- arise and they must be removed by the lawmaker or the magistrate with the help of specific techniques. Antinomy arises every time one case is susceptible to be given two or more different solutions. Therefore, considering the two possibilities, it can be solved in one way or another. The definition given by law to the concept of antinomy, the classification of antinomies, the ways for their identification, as well as the methods for their prevention are the issues approached by this paper
K30|The causes and consequences of informality in Peru|Adopting a legal definition of informality, this article studies the causes of informality in general and with a particular application to Peru. It starts with a discussion on the definition and measures of informality, as well as on the reasons why widespread informality should be of great concern. Then, the article analyzes informality’s main determinants, arguing that informality is not single-caused but results from the combination of poor public services, a burdensome regulatory regime, and weak monitoring and enforcement capacity by the state. This combination is especially explosive when the country suffers from low educational achievement and features demographic pressures and primary production structures. Finally, using cross-country regression analysis, the article evaluates the empirical relevance of each determinant of informality. It then applies the estimated relationships to the case of Peru in order to assess the country-specific relevance of each proposed mechanism.
K30|Avrupa Konseyi Sozlesme ve Sartlarinin Avrupa Birligi Kopenhag Kriterlerine Gore Degerlendirilmesi|Bilindigi uzere Avrupa Konseyi, Avrupa’daki demokratik uluslari birlestiren en eski uluslararasi orguttur. Ikinci Dunya Savasi’ndan sonra, ulus devletler arasinda isbirligini guclendiren, demokrasi ve istikrari koruyan bir kurum olarak gorulmustur. Bu nedenlerden dolayi bircok duzenleme uye devletlerin onayina sunulmaktadir. Avrupa Birligi’ne uye olmanin sartlarini belirten Kopenhag Kriterleri 1993 yilinda kabul edilmistir. Bu calismanin amaci, Kopenhag Siyasi Kriterlerine paralellik gosteren Avrupa Konseyi sozlesme ve sartlarini degerlendirmektir.
K30|A Game-Theoretic Model of Plagiarism|The damage to a reputation has long been viewed as the main and most effective deterrent against plagiarism among professional economists. We show that it is rational for individuals in the economics profession who want to plagiarize to engage in this activity given current incentives. Recent research concerning plagiarism in the economics profession has highlighted the frequency that instances of plagiarism have occurred. Our paper shows how it is possible given current incentives in the profession for these instances to go unreported therefore removing the threat of damage to a plagiarist’s reputation. We also discuss the harm that such actions cause to the original author and to the profession as a whole. Copyright International Atlantic Economic Society 2006
K30|Custom and Written law, Landmarks of Old Romanian Law|If we can speak of state’s evolution reflected also from culture’s perspective, we certainly can talk about law’s evolution reflected in law books. The main issue of each evolution is represented by the sender, the one that makes evolution known and represents the link between “creator” and “receiver” – in general-, between the law-maker and law-subject, in particular. This relation between creator and receiver, this continuous exchange of information, is the basis on which culture is defined. We will analyze the evolution of Romanian law and consequently of law books (legal and cultural works at the same time) from the perspective of law-maker (Romanian people who are the customs’ keepers, the interpreters of “pravile” - old laws’ collection-, the legal adviser of the ruler who supports systematization and codification) as well as from the receiver’s perspective (Romanian people) who has added to their own structure the continuous influences of the people they have got into contact
K30|Lacuna in Law|A presentation of non liquet in law needs first of all a work frame. Where should we look for a non liquet? What is the context? There are several names in the legal language for lacuna: lacuna in law, lacuna of law, juridical lacuna, legislative lacuna, normative lacuna
K30|Порядок Аттестации Муниципальных Служащих И Проведение Квалификационных Экзаменов<BR>[Order of certification of municipal employees and carrying out qualification examinations]|In article the order of certification of municipal employees and carrying out qualification examinations is considered. It is shown that results of certification of municipal employees and carrying out qualification examinations give the chance to estimate the municipal employee multilaterally: from the point of view of its opportunities as professional, and from the point of view of his opportunities of work in collective.
K30|Mismatch in Law School|An important criticism of affirmative action policies in admissions is that they may hurt minority students who are thereby induced to attend selective schools. We use two comparisons to identify so-called mismatch effects in law schools, with consistent results. Black students attain better employment outcomes than do whites with similar credentials. Any mismatch effects on graduation and bar exam passage rates are confined to the bottom quintile of the entering credentials distribution, where selection bias is an important, potentially confounding factor. Elite law schools' use of affirmative action thus does not appear to generate mismatch effects.
K30|Управление Муниципальной Службой<BR>[Management of municipal service]|In article the concept management of municipal service which is urged to provide the organization and activity of municipal service according to the concept and the scientific developed model of the organization of professional municipal service is considered. Complexity of the analysis is caused not always by adequate nature of relationship between the subject of the Russian Federation and local government.
K30|Проблемы Управления Муниципальной Службой В Законодательстве Субъектов Российской Федерации<BR>[Problems of management of municipal service in the legislation of subjects of the Russian Federation]|In article management of municipal service as the organizing activity having the administrative contents, which is carried out in the established organizational and legal forms and also as activity of specially created municipal bodies is considered. Control of municipal service is exercised for the purpose of ensuring activity of municipal employees in local governments, carrying out uniform personnel policy, creation of guarantees of functioning of local governments according to public interests on the basis of established by the Constitution of the Russian Federation, federal laws, charters of territorial subjects of the Russian Federation of the principles.
K30|Соотношение Понятий Должностное Лицо И Муниципальный Служащий<BR>[Ratio of concepts official and municipal employee]|"In article the ratio of concepts the official and the municipal employee is considered. The official of local government opkredelyatsya as ""the elective or working under the contract person who is carrying out organizational functions in local governments and not belonging to category of public servants"". The persons which are carrying out service at positions in bodies of a local samokupravleniye are municipal employees."
K30|Competencies Division in the European Union|The state makes use of this authority not only inside but also outside its territory to the extent to which the effects of the activities performed outside have an influence on its territory. Contrary to a state, the European Union doesn’t have a territory of itself, in the traditional way of meaning. It neither acquired territories nor has the possibility of ceding or protecting them from being invaded by foreigners.
K30|Предмет Муниципальной Службы<BR>[Subject of municipal service]|In article the municipal service as osokby legal institute which norms regulate a certain kind of the public relations arising in the course of revenues to municipal service, its passings and a prekrashchekniya is considered.
K30|Гарантии Муниципальных Служащих<BR>[Guarantees of municipal employees]|In article the system of guarantees of the rights of the municipal employee is considered. The conclusion that acts of the legislation of subjects of the Russian Federation, regulirukyushchy questions of municipal service, are subject to obligatory application if they at the same time correspond to acts of the federal legislation on munitsikpalny service is drawn and don't break competence of local governments according to the sakmostoyatelny solution of questions of local value.
K30|Предмет Муниципальной Службы<BR>[Subject of municipal service]|In article the municipal service as osokby legal institute which norms regulate a certain kind of the public relations arising in the course of revenues to municipal service, its passings and a prekrashchekniya is considered.
K30|Правовое Закрепление Субъектми Российской Федерации Принципов Муниципальной Службы<BR>[Legal fixing of a subjektma of the Russian Federation of the principles of municipal service]|In article legal fixing with subjects of the Russian Federation of the principles of municipal service in modern conditions is considered. The principles of municipal service create possibility of legal protection of citizens from illegal actions of officials, the heads striking their rights. To prevent abuses of officials and an administrative arbitrariness, violation of the rights and interests of the citizen the system of legal control over municipal service is called.
K30|Правовое Закрепление Субъектами Российской Федерации Принципов Муниципальной Службы<BR>[Legal fixing with subjects of the Russian Federation of the principles of municipal service]|In article legal fixing with subjects of the Russian Federation of the principles of municipal service in modern conditions is considered. The principles of municipal service create possibility of legal protection of citizens from illegal actions of officials, the heads striking their rights. To prevent abuses of officials and an administrative arbitrariness, violation of the rights and interests of the citizen the system of legal control over municipal service is called.
K30|Меры Ответственности Муниципальных Служащих В Законодательстве Российской Федерации<BR>[Measures of responsibility of municipal employees in the legislation of the Russian Federation]|Article is devoted to topical issues of application of the disciplinary, civil, administrative, criminal actions of responsibility to municipal employees directed on prevention of corruption from the state on control of a property status of municipal employees, and also the persons replacing municipal positions. Influence of the federal legislation on formation of the municipal legal acts urged to serve corruption counteraction is defined.
K30|Der kommunale Finanzausgleich Sachsen : Prüfung des Änderungsbedarfs für das geltende FAG im Gefolge des Urteils des Verfassungsgerichtshofes des Freistaates Sachsen vom 23. November 2000 zum FAG 1997|Der Forschungsbericht prüft die drei möglichen Lösungsansätze, die das Urteil des Landesverfassungsgerichtshofes vom 23. Movember 2000 zum Finanzausgleichsgesetz 1997 für die Anpassungen des geltenden kommunalen Finanzausgleichsgesetz erkennen läßt. Diese drei Lösungsoptionen werden einer ökonomische Analyse unterzogen. Als Ergebnis dieser Untersuchung wird festgestellt, dass das in der dritten Option vorgestellte Finanzausgleichssystem nicht mehr seine notwendigen Aufgaben für die kommunale Ebene erfüllen kann und die kommunale Finanzautonomie gefährdet und deshalb unter ökonomischen Aspekten abzulehnen ist.
K30|Правовой Статус Муниципального Служащего В Субъектах Российской Федерации<BR>[Legal status of the municipal employee in subjects of the Russian Federation]|In article is considered bases of legal status of the personality in subjects of the Russian Federation. It is shown that they are fixed by the charter of municipality or regulations of local governments according to federal laws and laws of territorial subjects of the Russian Federation. Thus it is necessary to consider that the law on bases of municipal service doesn't contain a concrete list of the rights and duties of the municipal employee. According to differentiation of powers in the sphere of legal regulation of municipal service this list is established in the legislation of subjects of Federation on municipal service.
K30|Правовой Статус Муниципального Служащего В Субъектах Российской Федерации<BR>[Legal status of the municipal employee in subjects of the Russian Federation]|In article is considered bases of legal status of the personality in subjects of the Russian Federation. It is shown that they are fixed by the charter of municipality or regulations of local governments according to federal laws and laws of territorial subjects of the Russian Federation. Thus it is necessary to consider that the law on bases of municipal service doesn't contain a concrete list of the rights and duties of the municipal employee. According to differentiation of powers in the sphere of legal regulation of municipal service this list is established in the legislation of subjects of Federation on municipal service.
K30|Attacking Extreme Poverty. Learning from the Experience of the International Movement ATD Fourth World|This report consists of a collection of essays on extreme poverty. The first part of the report deals with what it means to live in extreme poverty, how to reach the very poor, through programs, and interventions, and how to make private, and public institutions more responsive to their aspirations. The second part analyzes the relationship between extreme poverty, and human rights.
K30|Правовое Регулирование Предмета Муниципальной Службы<BR>[Legal regulation of a subject of municipal service]|"In article the general idea about definition of concepts of a subject of ""municipal service"", ""the municipal employee"" and ""a municipal position"" is considered. It is adumbrated about definition of these concepts on the basis synthesis of its use in the legislation of subjects of the Russian Federation, and also in sciences of the state and municipal law."
K30|Unobserved Ability, Comparative Advantage, and the Rising Return to Education in the United States: A Cohort-Based Approach|This paper quantities the extent to which the rise in the measured return to education between I979 and 2000 is reflecting a change in the causal effect of education on labor market eamings. The conceptual issues are formalized in a two-factor model of ability. schooling and eamings that allows heterogeneity in absolute and comparative advantage across the population. ln particular, the framework implies that a rise in the true return to education will increase the degree of convexity of the relationship between eamings and years of education for a fixed cohort of individuals. Permanent differences in the levels of the eamings-schooling relationship across cohorts will arise if the mapping between schooling and ability differs across cohorts. These implications of the two-factor model allow the identification of changes in the causal effect of education over time and across cohorts.
K30|"A Trojan Horse Behind Chinese Walls?: Problems and Prospects of US-Sponsored ""Rule of Law"" Reform Projects in the People's Republic of China"|"The US government has announced an initiative to promote the ""rule of law"" in the People's Republic of China. However, though China has also endorsed building the ""rule of law"" as a goal, the American and Chinese views of what ""rule of law"" entails differ substantially. In the US government, rule of law reform is seen as a way to promote human rights and political reform, whereas the Chinese government wants to restrict law reform to those areas closely related to developing a market economy. To deal with this divergence in goals, the US has adopted a ""Trojan Horse"" strategy: the belief is that the Chinese will allow US-sponsored law reform programs for economic reasons, but once established, these programs will lead to broader political reform. However, this view is not well-supported by theory or empirical evidence. Thus, while law reform programs in China may be worthwhile, we should be skeptical of their ability to trigger more fundamental political reform."
K30|Converging or Diverging Interests : A Two-Stage Cohort Study of the Determinants of Employee Attitudes to the Workplace Relations Act|When theWorkplace Relations Act 1996 was introduced by the current government in 1996, it was justified on the basis that it provided a regulatory framework which allowed firms to structure their industrial relations practices to suit their own needs and those of their employees. This paper seeks to contribute to this debate by investigating the extent to which individual employees support or oppose the objectives of the Workplace relations Act using a unique data set collected in Victoria at the time of passage of the legislation at the beginning of 1997 and one year later, at the start of 1998.
K30|"A Trojan Horse Behind Chinese Walls?: Problems and Prospects of US-Sponsored ""Rule of Law"" Reform Projects in the People’s Republic of China"|"The US government has announced an initiative to promote the ""rule of law"" in the People’s Republic of China. However, though China has also endorsed building the ""rule of law"" as a goal, the American and Chinese views of what ""rule of law"" entails differ substantially. In the US government, rule of law reform is seen as a way to promote human rights and political reform, whereas the Chinese government wants to restrict law reform to those areas closely related to developing a market economy. To deal with this divergence in goals, the US has adopted a ""Trojan Horse"" strategy: the belief is that the Chinese will allow US-sponsored law reform programs for economic reasons, but once established, these programs will lead to broader political reform. However, this view is not well-supported by theory or empirical evidence. Thus, while law reform programs in China may be worthwhile, we should be skeptical of their ability to trigger more fundamental political reform."
K30|Labour Law, Organisational Restructuring and Atypical Work - the Emerging Issues|This paper examines the interface between organisational change and the law regulating termination of employment.
K30|The Domestic Legal Sources of Immigrant Rights: the United States, Germany, and the European Union|That rights have legal sources seems to be a tautology, because in the modern legal state there are no rights unless they are legally codified and implemented. Regarding immigrants, however, the notion that rights have legal sources takes on substantive meaning. In this paper, the author will compare the development of immigrant rights in the United States, Germany, and the European Union.
K30|La mobilite du personnel en contexte de mondialisation: incidence juridiques des politiques de gestion des expatries|Dans le cadre de cet article, nous proposons d'identifier et d'analyser certains des problemes juridiques decoulant de l'expatriation international e du personnel.
K30|Coase Contracts and the Producer's Incentive to Innovate|"The paper analyzes the dynamic efficiency of the Coase solution to the problem of negative externalities. We demonstrate that with respect to the incentive of the producer to develop or to adopt a superior technology the so-called ""symmetry thesis"" does not hold for all types of contracts."
K30|Sorties from the Fortress: The Current System of Anti-Immigration Policy in Germany|"This paper gives a short synoptical overview of the most important elements of current anti-immigration policy in Germany. Based on the hypothesis that its primary aim is exclusion of new migrants, the measures taken within the framework of a groupwise nationally oriented but internationally cooperative approach are summarized. It is argued that German migration policy constitutes a complex system in which one has to take account of administrative and legal measures, as well as of applied instruments of foreign policy and development assistance. It should therefore not be characterized as a strictly defensive ""Fortress Germany"" approach any more."
K30|Coase Contracts and the Producer's Incentive to Innovate|"The paper analyzes the dynamic efficiency of the Coase solution to the problem of negative externalities. We demonstrate that with respect to the incentive of the producer to develop or to adopt a superior technology the so-called ""symmetry thesis"" does not hold for all types of contracts."
K30|Economic Efficiency and Property Rights Issues in the Management of Rural Water|In Australia, the state water Acts and related legislation determine the broad outline of property rights governing the water entitlements of irrigators and rural towns. Thus, these water rights may be described as state property regimes (Bromley 1991, p. 23). Irrigators, however, operate in a private sector environment where adaptability to climatic and market, forces is necessary for the maintenance of profitability. We critically assess the pricing, reliability and intertemporal characteristics of water rights in the major irrigation districts of Victoria and NSW.
K30|Deep Pocket Punishment of Corporate Crime|Some kinds of corporate crime can be characterized as accidents, such as many types of environmental damage. These crimes are oflen expensive to deter because conviction costs are high and maximum fines are constrained by firms' ability to pay. The paper derives how enforcement costs can be reduced by switching from harm dependent to wealth dependent fines and by combining liability threats with regulation of firms' activity levels.
K30|La nature juridique de l'anciennete en droit du travail: une comparaison des droits quebecois et francais|No abstract is available for this item.
K30|Labor Turnover in U.S. Manufacturing Industries|No abstract is available for this item.
K30|Copyright Doctrines, Abstraction and Court Error|Copyright protection can be divided into ?ve levels: subject matter, level of abstraction, exceptions, term limit, and restricted acts. Although copyright exceptions, in particular the fair use doctrine, and term limit have been subject to signi?cant economic analyses, studies on protection and the limits of protection of subject matter, and level of abstraction in copyright are still fairly scarce. Furthermore, the dominant model for optimal copyright protection is problematic for it requires a standard-based copyright doctrine to achieve what was postulated. Since copyright doctrines in respect of protection based on the level of abstraction are more rule-based in nature, an alternative explanation is in order. In a recent article titled Copyright as a Rule of Evidence, Douglas Lichtman (2003) hinted such an approach where evidence plays a role in explaining this set of doctrines. In this paper, we use an abstraction and a probabilistic model to explain copyright doctrines. Copyright doctrines such as the idea-expression dichotomy, the originality requirement, de minimis rule, substantiality requirement, merger doctrine, and the scènes á faire doctrine, have the effect of creating a protection divide. Doctrines such as the causal connection requirement, independent creation defence, and the objective similarity requirement, further create an inference divide. We show that the protection and inference divides are relevant in protecting the literal and non-literal dimensions in a copyrighted work. Furthermore, we ?nd that between the protection divide and the inference divide, there is a region of non-strict liability protection. All these three regions, and the related copyright doctrines, are explained by an evidence theory of minimising the risk of court error in deciding infringement cases.
