K31|Effects of labour and product market regulation on worker flows: evidence for the euro area using micro data|Macroeconomic studies suggest that employment-output elasticities in the euro area increased during the recovery from the crisis, especially in those countries that implemented reforms. In this paper, we use micro (individual-level) data from the Eurostat Labour Force Survey to investigate whether a similar change can be found at the micro level. We estimate the probabilities of worker flows across employment and unemployment in euro area countries during the period 2000-2015 in response to GDP growth, structural reforms and individual socio-demographic characteristics. We find evidence of a higher responsiveness of individual worker flows to output changes after the crisis, particularly for a group of countries which implemented significant reforms during the crisis. Indicators of labour and product market rigidities provide a statistically significant direct indication that such increased responsiveness may be explained by reforms. Finally, our results are not only driven by workers hired on temporary contracts, but also apply to permanent contracts. JEL Classification: J21, J24, C25, K31
K31|Equal treatment for highly qualified labour migrants|According to EU-law, third country national labour migrants shall be treated equally to local workers with regard to wages. The aim of this working paper is to clarify whether Swedish law meets this demand with regard to highly qualified labour migrants. The analysis reveals that the combined effect of entry conditions and the content of the collective agreements applicable in the sectors where highly qualified labour migrants work makes it difficult to safeguard that they are treated equally with comparable national workers. The study also demonstrates that Swedish law does not provide highly qualified labour migrants with any robust means to enforce equal treatment. Hence, it is not likely that Swedish law complies with EU law, at least not for those workers employed by an entity in Sweden. For labour migrants intra-corporate transferred or posted to Sweden in other ways the EU law demands are less clear.
K31|Population Aging, Age Discrimination, and Age Discrimination Protections at the 50th Anniversary of the Age Discrimination in Employment Act|This paper discusses population aging, increased participation of seniors in the labor force in the United States (and reasons for this), and how these trends are making the struggles of older workers in the labor market increasingly relevant. Evidence examining whether age discrimination is a barrier for seniors as they try to increase their work lives through the common practice of “bridge” jobs is also presented. After discussing the evidence that measures age discrimination, economics and legal research that seeks to determine to what extent the federal Age Discrimination in Employment Act and state-level age discrimination laws prevent age discrimination is discussed. In summary, current evidence indicates that age discrimination exists, but more so for older women. While evidence suggests that age discrimination laws may help, they cannot resolve all the challenges imposed by population aging, especially for older women.
K31|Population Aging, Age Discrimination, and Age Discrimination Protections at the 50th Anniversary of the Age Discrimination in Employment Act|"This paper discusses population aging, increased participation of seniors in the labor force in the United States (and reasons for this), and how these trends are making the struggles of older workers in the labor market increasingly relevant. Evidence examining whether age discrimination is a barrier for seniors as they try to increase their work lives through the common practice of ""bridge"" jobs is also presented. After discussing the evidence that measures age discrimination, economics and legal research that seeks to determine to what extent the federal Age Discrimination in Employment Act and state-level age discrimination laws prevent age discrimination is discussed. In summary, current evidence indicates that age discrimination exists, but more so for older women. While evidence suggests that age discrimination laws may help, they cannot resolve the challenges imposed by population aging, especially for older women."
K31|Правна Регламентация На Социалната И Солидарна Икономика И Влиянието Й Върху Заетостта<BR>[Legal regulation of the social and solidarity economics and its influence on the employment]|Abstract The present report examines the legal regulation of the social and solidarity economics in Bulgaria and its influence on the employment. For performance of the legal analysis are used legislative solutions, provided for in the Act on the enterprises of the social and solidarity economics. Based on the examination the author makes conclusions and summaries.
K31|Нормативни Гаранции За Опазване Данните От Електронните Документи В Трудовото Досие На Работника Или Служителя<BR>[Normative guarantees for safety of electronic documents in the employee's file - modern labor law]|The paper examines the normative measures, guaranteeing the security of the data from the electronic documents in the employees work file. Based on the analysis the author makes conclusions and recommendations for guaranteeing the security of the data.
K31|Educational systems and the need to review traditions in order to respond to labour market demands|This article attempts to present the challenges facing modern educational systems in the EU, and particularly that of Bulgaria, and which are the result of the dynamics of both the digital epoch, and a labour market without borders. The paper brings forward arguments in favour of reviewing and reconsidering the concept of educational policies addressing adequate employee skills for a competitive labour market. Conclusions and suggestions are made on the basis of research into the national regulatory framework and the recommendation of EESC.
K31|Нарушенията На Трудовото Законодателство – Основание За Отстраняване От Обществена Поръчка<BR>[The violations of the labor legislation – a ground for exlusion from public procurement]|Резюме: В разработката се изследват основанията за отстраняване на кандидат или участник от процедура за възлагане на обществена поръчка за нарушаване на трудовото законодателство.Целта на изследването е анализирането на нормите, отразяващи, от една страна, основанията за отстраняване на кандидат или участник, а от друга, закрилната функция на законодателя, осъществявана спрямо правото на труд. Актуалността на представената тематика е обусловена от последните нормативни промени в областта, както и от паралелното изследване на два правно и икономически значими въпроса, а именно основанията за отстраняване от процедура за възлагане на обществена поръчка и нарушенията на трудовото законодателство. На база на извършения анализ се правят изводи с теоретична и практическа насоченост. За нуждите на изследването са използвани различни методи: нормативен, сравнителноправен, синтез, индукция и дедукция.
K31|Administrative penal liability for violations of the labour migration and labour mobility act|The paper examines the specifics and system of regulation of the administrative penal liability under the Labour Migration and Labour Mobility Act (LMLMA). In the context of the peculiarities and essence of the subject matter of this special law, we have analysed the basic administrative offences and the penalties provided for them, as well as the corresponding competence of the control bodies. The authors have drawn conclusions and highlighted tendencies in the control and realisation of legal liability under the legislation, and have set forth basic recommendations for improving the legal provisions and clarifying the described offences.
K31|За Някои Особености На Контрола При Възстановяване На Разходи За Трансгранично Здравно Обслужване<BR>[For some peculiarities of the control in case of reimbursement for expenses for cross-border healthcare]|"Докладът изследва особеностите на контрола при възстановяване на разходи от трансгранично здравно обслужване в светлината на нормативната уредба и съответстващата й система за контрол и отчетост. Анализират се някои особености в същността, упражняването и режима на трансграничното здравно обслужване. На нивото на общия и специален контрол на Изпълнителна агенция ""Медицински надзор"" и делегираните й контролни правомощия се изясняват особеностите на прилагания механизъм за контролно въздействие и свързаните с него субекти и правомощия. The report examines the peculiarities of the control in case of reimbursement of expenses for cross-border healthcare in the light of the normative regulation and its corresponding system for control and accountability. Analyzed are some peculiarities in the essence, exercise and regime of the cross-border healthcare. On the level of the general and special control of the Medical Supervision Executive Agency and the control powers delegated to it are clarified the peculiarities of the applied mechanism for control impact and the subjects and powers related to it."
K31|Employer-Employee Profit-Sharing and the Incentives to Innovate when the Dismissal Regulation Matters|We develop a simple incomplete-contract model of the relationship between worker participation to revenue sharing and innovation performance of firms, under firing regimes with different stringency. Stronger worker participation to profits is shown to increase innovation probability when employer-side hold-up is prevented by stringent layoff regulation and the human capital matters signicantly. Vice-versa, under a strict layoff regulation, when the financial capital is relatively more important, the effects of worker participation devices may be reduced or inverted. Our results may help in understanding why there is no one-size-fits-all optimal strategy in the design of worker financial participation mechanisms for knowledge-intensive productions
K31|Labor Conflict at the Workplace: Do Dismissal Regulations Matter?|Using data on more than 13000 European establishments over the 2009-2013 period, I analyze the relationship between discharge regulation and industrial actions. I introduce a simple theoretical framework allowing for both positive and negative effects of dismissal constraints on the occurrence of labor disputes, and empirically answer the question as whether stricter dismissal laws make EU establishments experience more frequent and intense industrial actions (work-to-rule, strikes and occupation). I find that a change from employment at-will to a regime with very strict dismissal constraints is associated with an increase in the likelihood of observing an industrial action at the establishment-level ranging between 10.5 and 14.8 percentage points, and that this effect reduces to around 6.7 percentage points when only company-specific industrial actions are considered. Discharge constraints effects on industrial actions are then confirmed through a difference-in-differences analysis, by exploiting quasi-experimental variations in national dismissal regulations. My findings show that less strict discharge regulations moderate labor conflicts in EU establishments, by disciplining workers and restraining unions' activism.
K31|The unprotecting effects of employment protection: the impact of the 2001 labor reform in Peru|According to the National Household Survey (ENAHO), approximately three out of four employment relationships within the formal sector of the Peruvian economy are based on temporary contracts. This percentage is larger than that of any OECD country and also considerably larger to that of any other country of the Latin American region. This study aims to elucidate the role that the 2001 labor reform played on these results and the effect this has had on variables associated to Peruvian workers’ well-being. To this end, we exploit the information on contract type and start date (identified by the employment duration), which are reported on the household surveys, to analyze the decision between using fixed-term contracts or indefinite-term contracts. The average impact obtained from a differences-in-differences estimation with matching, having workers with contract but with no health insurance as a control group, is a reduction of 41 percent in the probability of having contracts of indefinite duration in the short term (up to five years after the reform), whereas the long-term impact has been a drop by 70 percent. These results are consistent, and similarly large, as those found in a model of simple differences controlling for workers’ characteristics, firms and economic context. The results are robust to placebo tests and estimations by activity sectors and firm size. These results mean that, due to the reform, by 2015 over 900,000 jobs that could have been of indefinite-term were fixed-term contracts instead. Estimates based on Mincer equations suggest that this meant a loss of around 1.5 billion dollars in workers' labor income in 2015. Also, 36,000 workers would have affiliated to a union, had such reform not been implemented. These figures suggest than, instead of increasing workers’ protection, the reform implemented by the Constitutional Court left a large portion of them unprotected.
K31|Assessing the Legal Value Added of Collective Bargaining Agreements|Abstract: How much value does collective bargaining add to the working conditions already established in general labour law? In this paper we propose a methodology to address this question: we compare the specific contents of collective agreements (except minimum wages) to their equivalent norms set by base law. We illustrate this approach by analysing in detail about 400 norms from six collective agreements in Portugal and then comparing them to the country’s Labour Code. We find that as many as 62% of those collective bargaining norms are exactly or virtually equal to the Labour Code; only 25% (an average of 16 norms per convention) are more favourable for the worker; and 12% (8) are more favourable for the employer. We conclude that collective bargaining in Portugal has a relatively small role as a source of effective labour law. We also present several potential explanations for our findings, including the wide range of base law, which may reduce the negotiating space of bargaining.
K31|Firm-level employment, labour market reforms, and bank distress|We explore the interaction between labour market reforms and financial frictions. Our study combines a new cross-country reform database on labour market reforms with matched firm-bank data for nine euro area countries over the period 1999 to 2013. While we find that labour market reforms are overall effective in increasing employment, restricted access to bank credit can undo up to half of long-term employment gains at the firm-level. Entrepreneurs without sufficient access to credit cannot reap the full benefits of more flexible employment regulation.
K31|Zur Empfehlung von Abfindungsobergrenzen für Vorstandsmitglieder|In diesem Beitrag wird untersucht, ob Vorstandsabfindungen von börsennotierten Unternehmen durch die Empfehlung 4.2.3 Abs. 4 Satz 1 des Deutschen Corporate Governance Kodex in ihrer Höhe begrenzt werden. Die Analyse umfangreicher empirischer Daten zu Entsprechenserklärungen aller CDAX-Unternehmen und tatsächlichen Abfindungshöhen vorzeitig ausgeschiedener Vorstandsmitglieder von DAX-Unternehmen in den Jahren 2010 bis 2014 zeigt, dass die empfohlenen Obergrenzen trotz anderslautender Entsprechenserklärungen mehrheitlich überschritten wurden. Mithilfe institutionenökonomischer, rechtswissenschaftlicher und soziologischer Ansätze wird theoretisch erklärt, warum das Comply-or-Explain-Prinzip des § 161 AktG, das der Konzeption der Empfehlungen des DCGK zugrunde liegt, bei der untersuchten Empfehlung versagt. Auf dieser Basis wird eine Gestaltungsempfehlung für die Praxis abgeleitet, welche der Empfehlung zu einer stärkeren Wirkung verhelfen kann.
K31|Corporate governance reporting: Compliance with upper limits for severance payments to members of executive boards in Germany|This paper examines how corporate governance reporting corresponds to actual conduct regarding severance payment caps for prematurely departing members of companies' executive boards in Germany. For this purpose, we first evaluate the declarations of conformity for all companies listed in the CDAX between 2010 and 2014, which we use to determine conformity and deviation rates, and analyse reasons for deviation. In a further full survey, we assess the compensation amounts of all severance payments made and published by DAX companies to their executive board members who were prematurely terminated, which allows us to compare the respective severance ratio with the cap recommended by the German Corporate Governance Codex (GCGC). We find that more than 20% of companies listed in the CDAX declared deviation in the declaration of conformity, and one-third of all deviations were justified by a rejection of the normative decision of the recommendation. Moreover, in 57% of actual severance cases where DAX companies had previously declared their compliance, the cap was exceeded; yet, none of the companies that had exceeded the cap in a severance case disclosed this in the following declaration of conformity. In the years under review, for the majority of severance cases in companies listed in the DAX, the GCGC's cap did not have any factual binding effect. Finally, in most cases the corporate reports deviated from reality and therefore could not serve as a suitable basis for decisions by the capital market.
K31|Do Ban the Box Laws Increase Crime?|Ban-the-box (BTB) laws, which prevent employers from asking prospective employees about their criminal histories at initial job screenings, are intended to increase employment opportunities and reduce economic incentives for crime. This study is the first to explore the relationship between BTB laws and crime. Using agency-by-month data from the National Incident-Based Reporting System (NIBRS), we find that BTB laws are associated with a 10 percent increase in criminal incidents involving Hispanic male arrestees. This finding is supported by parallel analysis using data from the National Longitudinal Survey of Youth 1997 (NLSY97) and is consistent with BTB law-induced job loss due to employer-based statistical discrimination. We find no evidence that BTB laws increase property crime among African American men despite their also facing statistical discrimination. Supplemental analyses from the American Community Survey (ACS) suggest that barriers to welfare participation among Hispanic men may explain this result. Our estimates suggest that BTB laws generate $401 million in annual crime costs.
K31|Job Market Signaling through Occupational Licensing|A large literature demonstrates that occupational licensing is a labor market friction that distorts labor supply allocation and prices. We show that an occupational license serves as a job market signal, similar to education. In the presence of occupational licensing, we find evidence that firms rely less on observable characteristics such as race and gender in determining employee wages. As a result, licensed minorities and women experience smaller wage gaps than their unlicensed peers.
K31|Do Equal Employment Opportunity Statements Backfire? Evidence From a Natural Field Experiment on Job-Entry Decisions|"Labor force composition and the allocation of talent remain of vital import to modern economies. For their part, governments and companies around the globe have implemented equal employment opportunity (EEO) regulations to influence labor market flows. Even though such regulations are pervasive, surprisingly little is known about their impacts. We use a natural field experiment conducted across 10 U.S. cities to investigate if EEO statements in job advertisements affect the first step in the employment process, application rates. Making use of data from nearly 2,500 job seekers, we find considerable policy effects, but in an unexpected direction: the presence of an EEO statement dampens rather than encourages racial minorities willingness to apply for jobs. Importantly, the effects are particularly pronounced for educated job seekers and in cities with white majority populations. Complementary survey evidence suggests the underlying mechanism at work is ""tokenism"", revealing that EEO statements backfire because racial minorities avoid environments in which they are perceived as regulatory, or symbolic, hires rather than being hired on their own merits. Beyond their practical and theoretical importance, our results highlight how field experiments can significantly improve policy making. In this case, if one goal of EEO regulations is to enhance the pool of minority applicants, then it is not working."
K31|The Minimum Wage, EITC, and Criminal Recidivism|For recently released prisoners, the minimum wage and the availability of state Earned Income Tax Credits (EITCs) can influence both their ability to find employment and their potential legal wages relative to illegal sources of income, in turn affecting the probability they return to prison. Using administrative prison release records from nearly six million o enders released between 2000 and 2014, we use a difference-in- differences strategy to identify the effect of over two hundred state and federal minimum wage increases, as well as 21 state EITC programs, on recidivism. We find that the average minimum wage increase of 8% reduces the probability that men and women return to prison within 1 year by 2%. This implies that on average the wage effect, drawing at least some ex-o enders into the legal labor market, dominates any reduced employment in this population due to the minimum wage. These reductions in reconvictions are observed for the potentially revenue generating crime categories of property and drug crimes; prison reentry for violent crimes are unchanged, supporting our framing that minimum wages affect crime that serves as a source of income. The availability of state EITCs also reduces recidivism, but only for women. Given that state EITCs are predominantly available to custodial parents of minor children, this asymmetry is not surprising. Framed within a simple model where earnings from criminal endeavors serve as a reservation wage for ex-o enders, our results suggest that the wages of crime are on average higher than comparable opportunities for low-skilled labor in the legal labor market.
K31|Information and Bargaining through Agents: Experimental Evidence from Mexico's Labor Courts|While observers agree that courts function poorly in developing countries, a lack of data has limited our understanding of the causes of malfunction. We combine data from admin- istrative records on severance cases filed in the Mexico City Labor Court with interventions that provide information to parties in randomly selected cases on predicted case outcomes and conciliation services. We first use the data to document a set of stylized facts about the func- tioning of the court. The interventions nearly double the overall settlement rate, but only when the plaintiff herself is present to receive the information directly. Administrative records from six months after the treatment indicate that the treatment effects remain unchanged over that period, even though an additional one in three cases in the control group settle in that period. The post-treatment results indicate that lawyers do not convey the information provided in the intervention to their clients. A simple analytic framework rationalizes the experimental results. Analysis of settlements induced by the interventions suggests that the provision of information is welfare-improving for the plaintiffs. The experimental results replicate over two phases conducted in different sub-courts, showing robustness.
K31|Do Male Workers Prefer Male Leaders? An Analysis of Principals' Effects on Teacher Retention|Using a 40-year panel of all public school teachers and principals in New York State, we explore how female principals affect rates of teacher turnover—an important determinant of school quality. We find that male teachers are about 12% more likely to leave their schools when they work under female principals than under male principals. In contrast, we find no such effects for female teachers. Furthermore, when male teachers request transfers, they are more likely to be to schools with male principals. These results suggest that opposition from male subordinates could inhibit female progress in leadership.
K31|The heterogeneous effect of affirmative action on performance|This paper experimentally investigates the effect of gender-based affirmative action (AA) on performance in the lab, focusing on a tournament environment. The tournament is based on GRE math questions commonly used in graduate school admission, and at which women are known to perform worse on average than men. We find heterogeneous effect of AA on female participants: AA lowers the performance of high-ability women and increases the performance of low-ability women. Our results are consistent with two possible mechanisms—one is that AA changes incentives differentially for low- and high-ability women, and the second is that AA triggers stereotype threat.
K31|Do State Laws Protecting Older Workers from Discrimination Reduce Age Discrimination in Hiring? Evidence from a Field Experiment|We conduct a résumé field experiment in all US states to study how state laws protecting older workers from age discrimination affect age discrimination in hiring for retail sales jobs. We relate the difference in callback rates between old and young applicants to states' variation in age and disability discrimination laws. These laws could boost hiring of older applicants, although they could have the unintended consequence of deterring hiring if they increase termination costs. In our preferred estimates that are weighted to be representative of the workforce, we find evidence that there is less discrimination against older men and women in states where age discrimination law allows larger damages and more limited evidence that there is less discrimination against older women in states where disability discrimination law allows larger damages. Our clearest result is that the laws do not have the unintended consequence of lowering callbacks for older workers.
K31|Cessation of activity benefit of Spanish self-employed workers: a heterogeneous impact evaluation|The goal of this paper is to evaluate the effects of a public policy implemented through the Spanish Social Security system: the Cessation of Activity Benefit (CAB) for self-employed workers. Making use of the Continuous Sample of Working Lives (MCVL) and by means of a Propensity Score Matching (PSM) methodology, our results show that, when we do not take into account heterogeneity in the treatment, self-employed workers receiving CAB experience non-employment spells between 22 and 33 logarithmic points longer than their not entitled counterparts. We also detect that this difference is not constant but depends on the likelihood of being treated. We believe that the two traditional problems that affect the insurance markets, consequence of the asymmetric information, adverse selection and moral hazard, are behind these results.
K31|Трудовоправни И Осигурителноправни Аспекти На Трудовите Договори За Краткотрайна Сезонна Работа<BR>[Labor- and insurance-legal aspects of the employment contracts for short-term seasonal work]|Резюме В доклада се прави анализ на новите законодателни решения, свързани с еднодневните трудови договори при работници със сезонна заетост. Проблематиката се изследва в контекста на заетите в лозаро-винарството, като авторите анализират в комплексност трудовоправната и съответстващата й осигурителноправна уредба. На база на извършеният анализ и с оглед натрупана практика от момента на въвеждане на договора в КТ се правят изводи, обобщения и препоръки с практическа насоченост и с оглед усъвършенстване на нормите. Abstract The report analyzes the new legislative solutions, related to the individual day’s employment contracts for workers with seasonal employment. The problems are examined in the context of the workers in the wine-making, the authors analyze in complexity the labor law and the corresponding insurance law regulation. Based on the analysis and considering the practice from the moment of introducing this contract in the Labor code the authors make conclusions, summaries and recommendations with practical importance and with view of improvement of the norms.
K31|Електронните Документи В Трудовото Досие На Работника Или Служителя – Съвременна Трудовоправна Уредба<BR>[Electronic documents in the employee's file - modern labor law]|Материалът анализира актуалната трудовоправна уредба, свързана с електронните документи в трудовото досие на работника или служителя. Акцент в изложението са въпроси свързани с изясняване на основни понятия на съвременната уредба въведени с оглед потребностите на дигиталното общество и изискванията за транспо-ниране нормите на ЕС. На база на изследването се правят изводи и препоръки по прило-жението на нормите. The material analyzes the current labor law related to electronic documents in the employee's file. Emphasis in the exhibition is to clarify the basic concepts of modernity introduced in view of the needs of digital society and the requirements for the transposition of EU norms. On the basis of the study, conclusions and recommendations on the application of the norms are made.
K31|Необходимост От Нов Модел За Определяне На Минималната Работна Заплата И Минималния Осигурителен Доход<BR>[Necessity of new model for determining of the minimal wage and the minimum contributory income]|Резюме: В статията се обосновава потребността от преосмисляне модела за оп-ределяне на минималната работна заплата и минималния осигурителен доход. С оглед постигане целта на изследването се извършва ретроспекция в развитието на понятията и взаимовръзката им с принципа на социалния диалог и колективното трудово договаря-не. В заключение се обосновава необходимостта от преминаване от административен модел към социален диалог.
K31|Някои Аспекти На Защитата От Дискриминация При Упражняване Правото На Труд – Проблеми И Тенденции<BR>[Some Aspects of the Discrimination Protection in Practicing the Right of Work – Problems and Tendencies]|The report analyses some of the aspects of discrimination in Bulgaria in practicing of the right of work. Based on the actual normative analysis and related to the practice of the SPD the author makes conclusions and summaries. Considering prevention of discrimination in the labour law the author develops the contemporary tendencies and makes recommendations for improvement of the legislation.
K31|Тенденции При Антидискриминационните Политики В Сферата На Здравното Осигуряване В Условията На Дигиталното Общество<BR>[Tendencies of Anti-discriminatory Policies in the Sphere of Health Insurance in the Conditions of Digital Society]|The report examines some of the leading tendencies of anti-discriminatory policies in the sphere of health insurance. The problematic binds the aspects of discrimination in the examined area to the processes of digitalization in the contemporary society. On this basis after the performed analysis the authors make conclusions and recommendations.
K31|За Някои Особености На Административния Контрол И Административнонаказателната Отговорност За Нарушаване На Здравословните И Безопасни Условия На Труд<BR>[About some specialties of the administrative control and the administrative penal liabiity for breaches of the rules for heathy and safe working conditions]|Резюме В настоящият доклад се изследват видовете административен контрол и съответстващата административнонаказатена отговорност за нарушаване на безопасните и здравословни условия на труд, заложени в съвременното българско законодателство. Акцент е актуалната нормативна регламентация, като комплексна гаранция за сигурността на работниците и служителите при престиране на труда им в безопасни и здравословни условия. На база на извършеният анализ се правят изводи и обобщения. Abstract The present paper examines the types of administrative control and the respective administrative penal liability for breaches of the rules for healthy and safe working conditions, regulated in the contemporary Bulgarian legislation. Accent is put on the actual normative regulation as a complex guarantee for safety of the workers and employees during work in healthy and safe conditions. On basis of the analysis the authors make conclusions and summaries.
K31|Отпуск При Временна Неработоспособност – Специфики, Реализация И Осигурително Обезпечаване<BR>[Vacation leave under temporary work disablement – specifics, realization and social security indemnification]|Резюме: Студията изследва института на отпуска поради временна неработоспособност през призмата на трудовото и осигурителното законодателство. Акцент в разработката е детайлната осигурително-правна уредба, явяваща се същностна част от института и гаранция за неговото приложение. На база на установените взаимовръзки и практически проблеми, авторите правят изводи, набелязват съвременните тенденции в развитието на нормите и правят предложения де леге ференда за усъвършенстване на законодателството.
K31|Защита Правата На Потребителите При Доброволното Осигуряване<BR>[Protection of consumer rights in voluntary insurance]|Резюме. В доклада се анализират особеностите при защитата правата на осигурените лица в доброволното осигуряване, в качеството им на потребители на услуги по застраховане и лично пенсионно осигуряване. Способите за защита на лицата предвид специалният закон – Кодекса за социално осигуряване се анализират на две основни нива. От една страна, с оглед особеностите на осигурителния договор и предоставените от него възможности, а от друга - предвид законовите механизми и методите за въздействие на потребителите при представителност на интересите им в съответните органи. На база на анализа се правят изводи и препоръки по приложението на нормите. Abstract. The report analyzes the peculiarities of the protection of the rights of the insured persons in the voluntary insurance as consumers of insurance and personal pension insurance services. The ways of protecting individuals under the special law - the Social Security Code are analyzed at two main levels. On the one hand, given the particularities of the insurance contract and the opportunities it provides, and on the other hand, given the legal mechanisms and methods of impact of the consumers in the representation of their interests in the respective bodies. On the basis of the analysis, conclusions and recommendations on the application of the norms are made.
K31|Нормативни Мерки За Гарантиране На Трудовото Възнаграждение При Несъстоятелност На Работодателя<BR>[Normative measures for guarantee of the labour remuneration in case of insolvency of the employer]|В статията се изследват актуалните законодателни промени в Закона за гарантиране на вземания на работниците и служителите при несъстоятелност на работодателя (ЗГВРСНР), като част от комплекса актуални мерки за гарантиране изплащането на трудовото възнаграждение. Въз основа на извършения нормативен анализ се правят изводи и препоръки за приложението на новите норми, както и предложения dе lеgе fеrеnda за бъдещо усъвършенстване на законодателството. The article examines the actual legislative amendments in the Guarantee of claims of the workers and employees in case of insolvency of the employer act as a part of the complex of actual measures for guarantee for payment of the labour remuneration. On basis of the normative analysis the author makes conclusions and recommendations for the application of the new legal norms, as well as proposals de lege ferenda for future improvement of the legislation.
K31|Employers as personal data administrators – specifics and requirements in the context of the information society|The paper explores the specifics of the personal data administrator in the information society and the new European regulations. On the basis of the correlation between the digitization in the economy and the impact of the process on the labor relation, the basic obligations of the employer as data administrator are analyzed. Finally, conclusions and recommendations on the application of the regulations are made in view of the employer‘s commitments regarding the employees’ personal data.
K31|Dismissal Laws, Innovation, and Economic Growth|We show theoretically and empirically that dismissal laws—laws that impose hurdles on firing of employees—spur innovation and thereby economic growth. Theoretically, dismissal laws make it costly for firms to arbitrarily discharge employees. This enables firms to commit to not punish short-run failures of employees. Because innovation is inherently risky and employment contracts are incomplete, dismissal laws enable such commitment. Specifically, absent such laws, firms cannot contractually commit so ex ante. The commitment provided by dismissal laws encourages employees to exert greater effort in risky, but path-breaking, projects thereby fostering firm-level innovation. We provide empirical evidence supporting this thesis using the discontinuity provided by the passage of the federal Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act. Using the fact that this Act only applied to firms with 100 or more employees, I undertake difference-in-difference and regression discontinuity tests to provide this evidence. Building on endogenous growth theory, which posits that economic growth stems from innovation, I also show that dismissal laws correlate positively with economic growth. However, other forms of labor laws correlate negatively with economic growth and swamp the positive effect of dismissal laws.
K31|Sectoral minimum wages in South Africa: disemployment by firm size and trade exposure|This paper measures the impact of South African minimum wages on small and large firm employment in a sector that is exposed to international competition (agriculture) and one that is not (retail). Our results highlight that small firms in a tradable sector are the most vulnerable to minimum wage legislation. In particular, small farms shed jobs, while larger farms employed more unskilled workers as a result of minimum wages. Small firms were more affected by the minimum wage as they employed a higher proportion of low-skilled, low-wage workers. In contrast, large farms employed a lower proportion of low-skilled workers and used a more capital-intensive production process and were thus less affected by the legislation. While this shift represents a short-run response to minimum wages, it intensifies a long-run movement towards fewer, larger, more capital-intensive farms. Retail firms, on the other hand, do not exhibit the same behaviour, with zero employment losses in both small and large firms. This difference in result can be explained by the fact that firms that face international competition cannot easily increase prices when faced with wage increases. Non-tradable sectors, such as retail, can increase prices and shift the burden of higher labour costs onto the consumer as they do not face international competition. The effects of minimum wages in South Africa is, therefore, more complex than what previous research shows. We argue that an undifferentiated national minimum wage can result in intra-industry concentration and inequality could grow. This is true even if the economy-wide impact of a national minimum wage could be potentially benign.
K31|Knowledge spillovers in the mutual fund industry through labor mobility|Firms’ competitive advantages are unsustainable when competitors poach their employees away to study and recreate those advantages. We document inter-firm knowledge spillovers through labor mobility in the mutual fund industry. About one quarter of the competitive advantage of the originating fund family spills over to the recipient family. These knowledge spillovers intensify when switching managers had better access to the organization processes of the originating family and frictions hampering knowledge absorption are weaker. Ease of knowledge integration, greater organizational similarity, and lower information barriers at the recipient family—acting as mitigants for the aforementioned frictions—also magnify these knowledge spillovers.
K31|Introducing Severance Payment Systems in Japan ——A Proposal for Vacancy Decontrol——| In Japan, the court requires job restoration rather than a severance payment from a firm after it decides that a dismissal has been abusive. This results in a high settlement cost for termination. This paper makes two proposals for introducing severance payments to reduce settlement costs in Japan. The first applies to existing contracts and proposes to specify levels of severance payments that would replace the current job restoration requirement after the court determines that a case is abusive. The second applies to new employees either for a recently vacated position or a new position and proposes vacancy decontrol, which allows firms to set the levels of severance payments freely while also honoring the existing contracts. Within this category, this paper proposes government-assisted vacancy decontrol, a transitional measure, where the government sets a minimum level of statutory severance payment, which is equal to six months of wages for a worker who has worked for 20 years, following the Taiwan precedent. After the need for the transitional measure is dissolved, complete vacancy decontrol should be introduced, abolishing the statutory severance payment. We have proposed that even at this stage, the government should publicly set a default level of the severance payment, which a firm should observe unless an explicit agreement or contract stipulates otherwise. The government should immediately introduce some form of vacancy decontrol for senior workers who have already retired from a regular job.
K31|The Analysis of Hysteresis in Youth Unemployment (in Korean)|Initially entering into job market in a hard time with unfavorable market institutions has a persistent, negative effect on young workers¡¯ subsequent job conditions. This paper analyzes these hysteresis in youth unemployment by using composite fixed-effect panel data model. Data sets on age-cohort unemployment rate and labor market institutions are constructed from OECD 21 advanced economies, including Korea, during the 1985-2017 periods, and readjusted to match with the peculiarity of Korea. In Korea with less-aggressive stance on active labor market policy spending, a male worker who experiences a 1 percentage point higher youth unemployment rate when he was 20-29 years old has a 0.146 percentage point higher unemployment rate at ages 30-34 years and 0.035 percentage points higher at ages 35-39 years. These figures are larger than those of most countries with more aggressive spending scheme. This finding points out that hysteresis in Korea labor market can be mitigated by expanding the active labor market policy spending more aggressively.
K31|Will Robots Automate Your Job Away? Full Employment, Basic Income, and Economic Democracy|Will the internet, robotics and artificial intelligence mean a 'jobless future'? A recent narrative says tomorrow's technology will fundamentally differ from cotton mills, steam engines, or washing machines. Automation will be less like post-WW2 demobilisation for soldiers, and more like the car for horses. Driverless vehicles will oust truckers and taxi drivers. Hyper-intelligent clouds will oust financial advisers, doctors, and journalists. We face more 'natural' or 'technological' unemployment than ever. Government, it is said, must enact a basic income, because so many jobs will vanish. Also, maybe robots should become 'electronic persons', the subjects of rights and duties, so they can be taxed. This narrative is endorsed by prominent tech-billionaires, but it is flawed. Everything depends on social policy. Instead of mass unemployment and a basic income, the law can achieve full employment and fair incomes. This article explains three views of the causes of unemployment: as 'natural', as stemming from irrationality or technology, or as caused by laws that let people restrict the supply of capital to the job market. Only the third view has any credible evidence to support it. After WW2, 42% of UK jobs were redundant (actually, not hypothetically) but social policy maintained full employment, and it can be done again. Unemployment is driven by inequality of wealth and of votes in the economy. Democratic governments should reprogramme the law: for full employment and universal fair incomes. The owners of the robots will not automate your job away, if we defend economic democracy.
K31|A Human Is Not a Resource|"The language of ""human resource management"" treats people as a means to an end. Three core tenets of human resource literature are that it is desirable to have (1) labour ""flexibility"" and ""mobility"" in a peripheral workforce, (2) individual (not social) responsibility for employment searching, and (3) a manager’s right to manage, without collective accountability. This article explores the cutting edge evidence, which show human resource theory harms productivity and human development. It explores the effects of ""HR"" in the UK, EU and international regulation on atypical work, full employment, and union voice. Where human resource beliefs have pervaded the most, the outcomes are the worst: lower productivity, higher unemployment, more inequality, less growth. To advance prosperity, economic risks must be distributed to the organisations best placed to bear them, people must have security to plan for the future, and people must have real votes at work through collective bargaining and corporate governance. Many people who themselves work in ""HR"" strongly disagree with the essential elements of their discipline. They support equality, security and democracy at work. Just as international law once affirmed that ""labour is not a commodity"", for social justice in the 21st century there must be a conviction that a human is not a resource. ""HR"" must change in name and substance, to advance human development and human rights."
K31|The Economic Significance of Laws Relating to Employment Protection & Different Forms of Employment: Analysis of a Panel of 117 Countries, 1990-2013|This paper presents findings from analysis of a dataset of labour laws, based on the Centre for Business Research Labour Regulation Index (CBR-LRI), which has recently been extended to cover 117 countries and the period from 1970 to 2013. The dataset shows that laws regulating different forms of employment (DFE), including part-time work, fixed-term employment and agency work, have become significantly more protective over time, in particular since the late 1990s. Employment protection laws (EPL), covering individual dismissal, collective consultation and codetermination rights, have become steadily more protective since the 1970s. Europe has seen a decline in the level of EPL since the onset of the sovereign debt crisis in 2008, but this trend is small, on average, by comparison to earlier increases in protection beginning in the 1970s, and has not been replicated in other regions. Time-series econometric analysis using non-stationary panel data methods suggests that strengthening worker protection in relation to DFE and EPL is associated with an increase in labour's share of national income, rising labour force participation, rising employment, and falling unemployment, although the observed magnitudes are small when set against wider economic trends.
K31|The Law-Technology Cycle & the Future of Work|Features of the 'fourth industrial revolution', such as platforms, AI and machine learning, pose challenges for the application of regulatory rules, in the area of labour law as elsewhere. However, today's digital technologies have their origins in earlier phases of industrialisation, and do not, in themselves, mark a step change in the evolution of capitalism, which was, and is, characterised by successive waves of creative destruction. The law does not simply respond to technological change; it also facilitates and mediates it. Digitalisation, by permitting the appropriation of collective knowledge, has the capacity to undermine existing forms of regulation, while creating the space for new ones. It may erode the position of some professions while enabling others, complementary to new technologies, to emerge. It is unlikely to bring about the redundancy of forms of labour law regulation centred on the employment relationship. We appear to reaching a point in the law-technology cycle where push-back against regulatory arbitrage can be expected.
K31|Institutional complementarities between labour laws and innovation|We analyse how institutional complementarities between employee representation laws and dismissal restrictions influence aggregate innovation outcomes. We argue that greater employee voice, due to improved employee representation legislations, may spur innovative effort by employees only when shareholders cannot renegotiate ex-ante agreements with workers over revenue sharing, by threatening dismissal. We perform a panel regression analysis, exploiting country-sector panel data over the 1977-2005 period, and find that stronger employee representation laws in the presence of stricter firing restrictions are in fact associated with higher patenting activity. Consistently with our theoretical argument, the magnitude of this empirical relationship is seen to be relatively larger in those sectors where the human capital contribution to production is higher. Implications for the analysis of economic institutions and for legal policy-making are proposed.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
K31|Employment Protection Legislation, Labor Courts, and Effective Firing Costs|Labor courts may influence firing costs. Apart from the procedural costs, there is the likelihood that labor courts declare firings as unfair or nil, which significantly increase severance payments over those established for fair dismissals by Employment Protection Legislation. In this paper we model the determinants of the wedge between mandated and effective firing costs arising from labor courts resolution of dismissals, and show how it is affected by EPL reforms, looking at recent EPL reforms in Spain (implemented in 2010 and 2012) that significantly widened the definition of fair economic dismissals.
K31|Information and Bargaining through Agents: Experimental Evidence from Mexico’s Labor Courts|While observers agree that courts function poorly in developing countries, a lack of data has limited our understanding of the causes of malfunction. We combine data from administrative records on severance cases filed in the Mexico City Labor Court with interventions that provide information to parties in randomly selected cases on predicted case outcomes and conciliation services. We first use the data to document a set of stylized facts about the functioning of the court. The interventions nearly double the overall settlement rate, but only when the plaintiff herself is present to receive the information directly. Administrative records from six months after the treatment indicate that the treatment effects remain unchanged over that period, even though an additional one in three cases in the control group settle in that period. The post-treatment results indicate that lawyers do not convey the information provided in the intervention to their clients. A simple analytic framework rationalizes the experimental results. Analysis of settlements induced by the interventions suggests that the provision of information is welfare-improving for the plaintiffs. The experimental results replicate over two phases conducted in different sub-courts, showing robustness.
K31|Do Equal Employment Opportunity Statements Backfire? Evidence From A Natural Field Experiment On Job-Entry Decisions|Labor force composition and the allocation of talent remain of vital import to modern economies. For their part, governments and companies around the globe have implemented equal employment opportunity (EEO) regulations to influence labor market flows. Even though such regulations are pervasive, surprisingly little is known about their impacts. We use a natural field experiment conducted across 10 U.S. cities to investigate if EEO statements in job advertisements affect the first step in the employment process, application rates. Making use of data from nearly 2,500 job seekers, we find considerable policy effects, but in an unexpected direction: the presence of an EEO statement dampens rather than encourages racial minorities’ willingness to apply for jobs. Importantly, the effects are particularly pronounced for educated job seekers and in cities with white majority populations. Complementary survey evidence suggests the underlying mechanism at work is “tokenism”, revealing that EEO statements backfire because racial minorities avoid environments in which they are perceived as regulatory, or symbolic, hires rather than being hired on their own merits. Beyond their practical and theoretical importance, our results highlight how field experiments can significantly improve policymaking. In this case, if one goal of EEO regulations is to enhance the pool of minority applicants, then it is not working.
K31|Case Selection and Judicial Decision-Making: Evidence from French Labor Courts|Using a database on French labor courts between 1998 and 2012, we investigate case selection and judicial decision-making. In France, judges are elected at the labor court level on lists proposed by unions, and litigants can first try to settle their case before the judicial hearing. We show that the ideological composition of the court indirectly impacts the settlement behavior of the parties but has no influence on the decision made in court. In addition, parties have self-fulfilling behavior and adapt to institutional rules. When they anticipate long judicial procedures at court, they settle more frequently and only require judicial hearings for complex cases. The duration to decide these complex cases is longer, explaining why they observe (and build their anticipation on) long case duration. Our empirical strategy uses probit, ordered probit and triprobit estimations to control for case selection. JEL codes: K31, K41
K31|The persistent labor market effects of a criminal conviction and ï¿½Ban the Boxï¿½ reforms|"Past literature has established that individuals who have been incarcerated face difculties reentering the work force following their release, while finding and keeping a job can significantly reduce recidivism amongst individuals with prior criminal convictions. In attempt to improve employment outcomes, many local and state governments in the United States have initiated ""Ban the Box"" regulations. These initiatives delay inquiries regarding criminal history on job applications. Versions of ban the box regulations covering public sector employment have been enacted in 31 states and more than 150 local governments. Ban the box laws have included private employers in eleven states and over 30 metropolitan areas including New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, Washington D.C, Philadelphia, San Francisco, and Seattle. This study uses biennial data from November CPS reports from 2004 through 2016 to estimate the impact of ban the box laws on labor market outcomes using a unique proxy to identify individuals with a criminal record. With a few exceptions, the results do not show the intended improvements in employment and other labor market measures for those with a criminal history."
K31|Does Job Security Hamper Employment Prospects?|We investigate the effect of employment protection legislation (EPL) on the propensity to hire workers from unemployment and active labor market programs (ALMPs), utilizing a reform that decreased dismissal costs for small firms only. Using administrative data from Sweden, we find that less stringent EPL increased the share of workers hired from unemployment and some ALMPs. Our results suggest that there was less screening of new hires after the reform, and that liberalization of EPL mitigates the stigma associated with unemployment and participation in ALMPs.
K31|Habitual Entrepreneurs in the Making: How Labour Market Rigidity and Employment Affects Entrepreneurial Re-entry|We investigate the impact of country-level labour market regulations on the reentry decision of experienced entrepreneurs, whereby they become habitual entrepreneurs. Multilevel logit models on entry decisions among 15,709 individuals in 29 European countries show that labour market regulations have a positive influence on the decision to reenter into entrepreneurship. This positive impact is stronger among individuals holding wage jobs at the time of re-entry compared to those that do not. Our results indicate that novice and habitual entrepreneurs may respond very differently to labour market rigidity. We discuss and provide tentative explanations for these differences, and outline potential policy implications.
K31|Worker Representation and Temporary Employment in Germany: The Deployment and Extent of Fixed-Term Contracts and Temporary Agency Work|This study examines the potential impact of works councils and unions on the deployment of fixed-term contracts and agency temps. We report inter al. that works councils are associated with a higher number of temporary agency workers when demand volatility is high while the opposite holds for fixed-term contracts. These disparities likely reflect differences in function, with agency work being more directed toward the protection of a shrinking core and fixed-term contacts being as much a port of entry as a buffer stock. We are also able to identify the number of new hires with a fixed-term contract as well as the number of FTC conversions (into regular employment) and renewals, the correlates of which flows are broadly consistent with the stock data.
K31|State Substitution for the Trade Union Good: The Case of Paid Holiday Entitlements|The literature on the union wage premium is among the most extensive in labour economics but unions' effects on other aspects of the wage-effort bargain have received much less attention. We contribute to the literature through a study of the union premium in paid holiday entitlements, using large-scale survey data for the UK. We find that the union premium on paid holidays is substantially larger than the union premium on wages. However, the premium fell with the introduction of a statutory minimum entitlement to paid leave. This is indicative of the difficulties that unions have faced in protecting the most vulnerable employees, and symptomatic of their decreasing regulatory role in the UK labour market.
K31|Enforcement of Labor Regulation and the Labor Market Effects of Trade: Evidence from Brazil|How does enforcement of labor regulations shape the labor market effects of trade? To tackle this question, we exploit the Brazilian trade liberalization episode and exogenous variation in the intensity of both the trade shock and enforcement across local labor markets. Regions with stricter enforcement observed no increase in informal employment but large disemployment effects. Regions with weaker enforcement had no employment losses but substantial increases in informality. All effects are concentrated on unskilled workers, with no effects on skilled workers. The results indicate that informality acts as a buffer that reduces trade-induced adjustment costs in the labor market.
K31|The Impact of Employment Protection on the Industrial Wage Structure|This paper tests whether the job security offered by stricter employment protection legislation (EPL) undermines positive compensating wage differentials that would otherwise be paid. Specifically, we ask whether industries with relatively more need for layoffs and labour flexibility have lower wages in countries where stricter EPL protects workers from layoffs. We find this generally to be true for a large sample of industries in the major OECD countries over 1984-2005, particularly for wages of unskilled workers. However, we also find that where workers are well organised, they can take advantage of EPL to secure higher wages.
K31|Inclusive Growth: The Case of Germany|This paper argues that inclusive growth appears to be the only suitable strategy for realising the right to decent work (RDW) in the digital economy. This reasoning is in blunt opposition to the current mood of giving up this right in favour of an unconditional basic income (UBI). The study starts by briefly expanding the basic argument and by defining the principles of inclusive versus exclusive growth (1); a comprehensive overview of German labour market policy and labour law reforms since the beginning of this millennium assesses to what extent Germany is pursuing these principles, accompanied by selective evidence of their consequences for the German labour market performance (2); a stylised and descriptive overview of the inclusive impact of these reforms in quantitative and qualitative terms follows, with an essay reflecting the concept of the inclusive labour contract (3).
K31|Labour Courts and Firing Costs: The Labour Market Effects of Trial Delays|Employment protection is the result of labour laws as well as of institutional factors which are not encompassed in official legislation. Courts' delays in settling labour disputes are among those factors. Using individual data from the Italian Labour Force Survey for the period 2008-2010 and exploiting the territorial heterogeneity in the duration of labour trials across Italian regions, we investigate the effect of dismissal costs on the composition of employment. We find that labour courts' delays reduce the employment rate and increase inactivity of specific categories of workers, i.e. women, young and low skilled individuals. Furthermore, lengthy trials reduce the likelihood of accessing a permanent occupation and increase the incidence of long term unemployment for the same groups of workers. These results also imply that trials length and, more generally, courts activity have an impact on labour market outcomes which goes in the same direction as explicitly written rules.
K31|Supply-side labour market reforms: a neglected cause of the productivity crisis|In spite of impressive stories about a Second Machine Age or Industry 4.0, growth rates of labor productivity in the US, Japan and Western Europe declined, during the last 10-15 years, to their lowest levels since World War II. Recent contributions on the productivity slowdown by mainstream economists produced an impressive amount of statistical data that certainly add to our understanding, but they fail addressing the negative impact of supply-side labor market reforms on innovation and productivity. I present theoretical arguments of how labor market deregulation can negatively influence innovation and productivity growth and I review empirical evidence.
K31|Crimes Related To The Profession Of Medic|A comparative study on the penal responsibility of the medical profession in respect of the form of employement, privat practice or employed by the government.
K31|Votes at Work in Britain: Shareholder Monopolisation and the 'Single Channel'|Why do shareholders monopolise voting rights in UK companies, and are trade unions the only way to get meaningful workplace representation? In 1967 a Labour Party policy document first coined the phrase that collective bargaining was – and should be – the 'single channel' of representation. Since then, it has been said the labour movement embraced an 'adversarial' rather than a 'constitutional' conception of corporations, neglecting legal rights to worker voice in enterprise governance. This article shows that matters were not so simple. It explains the substantial history of legal rights to vote in British workplaces, and the competition from the rival constitutional conception: employee share schemes. The UK has the oldest corporations – namely universities – which have consistently embedded worker participation rights in law. Britain has among the world's most sophisticated 'second channel' participation rights in pension board governance. Developing with collective bargaining, it had the world's first private corporations with legal participation rights. Although major plans in the 1920s for codetermination in rail and coal fell through, it maintained a 'third channel' of worker representatives on boards during the 20th century in numerous sectors, including ports, gas, post, steel, and buses. At different points every major political party had general proposals for votes at work. The narrative of the 'single channel' of workplace representation, and an 'adversarial' conception of the company contains some truth, but there has never been one size of regulation for all forms of enterprise.
K31|The CBR-LRI Dataset: Methods, Properties & Potential of Leximetric Coding of Labour Laws|Leximetric data coding techniques aim to measure cross-national and inter-temporal variations in the content of legal rules, thereby facilitating statistical analysis of legal systems and their social and economic impacts. In this paper we explain how leximetric methods were used to create the CBR Labour Index (CBR-LRI), an index and related dataset of labour laws from around the world spanning the period from 1970 to 2013. Datasets of this kind must, we suggest, observe certain conventions of transparency and validity if they are to be usable in statistical analysis. The theoretical framework informing the construction of the dataset and the types of questions which it is are designed to answer should be made explicit. Then the choices involved in the selection of indicators, the definition of coding algorithms, and the aggregation and weighting of data to create composite measures, must be spelled out. In addition, primary legal sources should be referenced, and it should be clear how they were used to generate reported values. With these points in mind we provide an overview of the CBR-LRI dataset's main features and structure, discuss issues of weighting, and present some initial findings on what it reveals of global trends in labour regulation.
K31|Bankruptcy and the difficulty of firing|Firms may use layoffs as an ex ante mechanism to avoid filing for bankruptcy. However, the national labor law may impose some restrictions that delay or hamper the firing decision of the employer. This study proposes a different legal pathway for policymakers whose goal is to reduce the use of bankruptcy without acting on the design of the bankruptcy law. Using a sample of 33 countries from 2007 to 2015, we show that the total amount of firing restrictions leads to more bankruptcies. The employer's legal obligation to notify a third party prior the dismissal of one employee tends to increase the number of bankruptcies. It is very likely that the employer's rescue strategy endures an intense ex post monitoring of the employment contracts and/or a strong legal opposition to the layoff decision from such third party. In addition, labor codes that apply priority rules in case of reemployment can increase the use of bankruptcy.
K31|Judicial decision making under changing legal standards: The case of dismissal arbitration|The paper analyses how government actions affect judicial decision making in Australian labour courts arbitrating dismissal disputes. We isolate two channels through which these effects materialise: statutory reforms, which change legal standards, and strategic appointments, which change court composition. We analyse the probability of plaintiff success in courts using a panel of 81 judges and 2223 judicial decisions made between 2001 and 2015. We test for and subsequently exploit the randomised matching of labour court judges with unfair dismissal cases. We find significant effects from both channels: judges’ work background and changes to legal standards are strong predictors of case outcomes. Furthermore, we find evidence of compensating effects: judges with a progressive background rule more often in favour of dismissed employees if legal reforms adversely affect their chance of success in court.
K31|Do seniority rules protect older workers? Age composition effects of the last-in-first-out principle|Employment protection legislation is often motivated by the need to increase security for older workers. Sweden has even implemented a last-in-first-out principle (LIFO), stipulating that the last hired employee should be dismissed first in the case of lay-offs. A reform in 2001 made it possible for firms with fewer than 11 employees to exclude two workers from the LIFO principle. If the LIFO regulation is serving its purpose, the reform should lead to a weakened labor market position for older workers. This study analyzes the effect of the reform on labor market flows for different age groups – with a special focus on the effects for older workers – using a difference-in-difference regression model. The results show that firms with 7-9 employees increased their recruitment from unemployment and from outside the workforce due to the reform, while the reform had no effect on separations. The increased hires came mostly from workers younger than 25 who were previously not in the workforce or were unemployed, meaning that the reform lowered youth unemployment. There is some indication of workers aged 55-64 moving to another workplace but not leaving the workforce or becoming unemployed, suggesting that the reform did not weaken the labor market position of older workers.
K31|Employment Protection Legislation and the Labor Market Position of Immigrants - A Natural Experiment|How does employment protection legislation affect the labor market position of immigrants? We investigate this question, which has scarcely been studied in a robust way previously, even though it is highly relevant from a policy perspective. A natural experiment enables us to identify a causal relationship between the reform of an employment protection law and the employment status of immigrants in Sweden. The experiment took the form of a partial reform of the Swedish employment protection law in 2001, which made it possible for firms with ten employees or less to exclude two workers from the last-in-first-out rule when dismissing personnel. Our results show that the reform positively affected the decision to hire groups that were relatively close to insider status but that the reform had no effect on decisions to hire non-western immigrants. We also find that the reform mainly increased net-hires of natives that were unemployed or outside the workforce, showing the importance of considering the labor market status of individuals when evaluating the effects of changes in employment protection legislation.
K31|Habitual Entrepreneurs in the Making: How Labour Market Rigidity and Employment Affects Entrepreneurial Re-entry|We investigate the impact of country-level labour market regulations on the re-entry decision of experienced entrepreneurs, whereby they become habitual entrepreneurs. Multilevel logit models on entry decisions among 15,709 individuals in 29 European countries show that labour market regulations have a positive influence on the decision to re-enter into entrepreneurship. This positive impact is stronger among individuals holding wage jobs at the time of re-entry compared to those that do not. Our results indicate that novice and habitual entrepreneurs may respond very differently to labour market rigidity. We discuss and provide tentative explanations for these differences, and outline potential policy implications.
K31|Countercyclical Labor Productivity: The Spanish Anomaly|The cyclical pattern of labor productivity has been a subject of discussion in the economic literature for long time with important theoretical implications. Many authors point out the role of labor market institutions as determinants of the cyclical pattern. For these authors, the loss of procyclicality experimented in the United States since the mid-1980s could be explained by decrease of rigidities in labor market. Following the literature, this paper explores the role of labor regulation by analyzing the case of Spain, which has gone in a few years from a strongly procyclical pattern to a counterciclycal one. Our results suggest that the high rigidity in wages and the great flexibility in labor, related to the temporary workers after the 1984 legislative reform, is the main cause of the countercyclical pattern of the Spanish labor productivity. Our findings are in line with previous papers highlighting the crucial influence of labor market institutions over the cyclical pattern.
K31|The economics of employment tribunals|Employment tribunals or labor courts are responsible for enforcing employment protection legislation and adjudicating rights-based disputes between employers and employees. Claim numbers are high and, in Great Britain, have been rising, affecting both administrative costs and economic competitiveness. Reforms have attempted to reduce the number of claims and to improve the speed and efficiency of dealing with them. Balancing employee protection against cost-effectiveness remains difficult, however. Gathering evidence on tribunals, including on claim instigation, resolution, decision making, and post-tribunal outcomes can inform policy efforts.
K31|Law and economics of training: a taxonomy of the main legal and institutional tools addressing suboptimal investments in human capital development|Abstract Economic literature has widely acknowledged the growing role of firm training in the knowledge economy. Training fosters labour productivity, boosts competitiveness, and strengthens firms’ capacity to innovate. This key role of training, however, raises relevant issues in terms of the optimal level of the corresponding investment. In fact firms that bear training costs may not be able to fully appropriate the relevant benefits. In addition training may facilitate structural changes and stimulate growth nationwide. Efficiency reasons thus justify the existence of legal and/or institutional tools, either voluntary or mandatory, aimed at addressing suboptimal investments in human capital development. The purpose of this study is to draw a systematic taxonomy of the main legal and institutional devices able to address the underlying inefficiencies of training investments. Training is on the top of the political agenda in many countries. The European Union is committed to increase adults’ participation in lifelong learning and to improve the quality of training programs and institutions. However, while training is of increasing political interest, a proper tool-box for policy makers is still missing.
K31|Evaluating the Impact of Employment Protection on Firm-Provided Training in an RDD Framework|This paper tests the hypothesis that employment protection legislation (EPL) increases the incentives of firms to train their employees. The identification strategy uses a regression discontinuity design (RDD) that exploits exemptions of small firms from EPL. Using firm-level data from Finland and Italy in 2005 and 2010, we do not find empirical evidence that EPL increases the propensity to train or the intensity of firm-provided training. The estimates remain insignificant throughout and mostly have a negative sign. This result is supported in a heterogeneous treatment setting that exploits variation in sector-specific employment volatility. Hence, though the upper bounds of the estimates include economically significant effects, we conclude that EPL has no effect on training of small firms in Finland and Italy.
K31|Is Occupational Licensing a Barrier to Interstate Migration?|Occupational licensure, one of the most significant labor market regulations in the United States, may restrict the interstate movement of workers. We analyze the interstate migration of 22 licensed occupations. Using an empirical strategy that controls for unobservable characteristics that drive long-distance moves, we find that the between-state migration rate for individuals in occupations with state-specific licensing exam requirements is 36 percent lower relative to members of other occupations. Members of licensed occupations with national licensing exams show no evidence of limited interstate migration. The size of this effect varies across occupations and appears to be tied to the state specificity of licensing requirements. We also provide evidence that the adoption of reciprocity agreements, which lower re-licensure costs, increases the interstate migration rate of lawyers. Based on our results, we estimate that the rise in occupational licensing can explain part of the documented decline in interstate migration and job transitions in the United States.
K31|Inclusive labour Markets in the digital era: The case of Austria|Digitalisation is one of the megatrends affecting societies and labour markets, alongside demographic change and globalisation. The fourth industrial revolution will redesign production processes and alter the relationships between work and leisure, capital and labour, the rich and the poor, the skilled and the unskilled. The degree of disruption induced by the technological transformation ahead largely depends on the policy framework. Digitalisation can lead to anything between soaring inequalities and widespread improvements of living and working conditions. Two main questions arise for policy makers: how to ensure equality of opportunities in the race with technology and how to find the appropriate level of redistribution of the gains associated with digitalisation to preserve social cohesion. Against this backdrop, this working paper will analyse the technology-induced transformation of labour markets, argue for a new social contract and discuss how the provision and use of skills need to adapt to the digital work environment. This working paper relates to the 2017 OECD Economic Survey of Austria (www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/economic-survey-austria.htm).
K31|Labour market institutions in small Pacific island countries: Main guidelines for labour market reforms|This report consists of a comprehensive overview of labour market institutions in the small Pacific island countries in order to propose recommendations to improve the performance of their labour markets. We pay particular attention to three countries: Fiji, Palau and Papua New Guinea. We focus on the main pillars of labour market institutions, as employment protection legislation, minimum wage, and labour organization. The analysis considers the possibilities for institutional change in the next future. The main guidelines for eventual reforms are discussed, for the region as a whole and for the above three countries.
K31|Are Employment Protection Laws for Disabled People Effective in a Developing Country Evidence from Cambodia|This paper investigates the impact of a law protecting and promoting the employment rights of disabled people in a developing country setting. Using data from the Cambodian Socioeconomic Survey and a difference-in-difference design, we find that employment of the disabled fell by around 9 percentage points in the four years following the introduction of the disability law. The reduction in employment is greater for women than men and is concentrated amongst employees, with the self-employment rate unaffected by the policy change. Several mechanisms via which the introduction of the law reduced employment of the disabled are explored. We find that the most plausible mechanism is that employers reduce their demand for disabled labor in order to avoid the cost of workplace accommodations for disabled workers. We also find that families respond to the reduced employment of their disabled members by providing unpaid work and roles within the family home, and by providing income transfers to non-resident disabled family members.
K31|Субективните Права На Почивка И Отпуск В Българското Трудово Право - Еволюция И Тенденции<BR>[The subjective rights of rest and leave in the bulgarian labour law – evolution and tendencies]|Резюме В доклада се разглежда проблематиката свързана със субективните трудови права на почивка и отпуск. Проследява се еволюцията в развитието им в българското право, закрепването им в правни източници от международното и вътрешно право в съответствие с потребностите на съвременното общество. На база на анализ на трудовоправните норми и юридическа практика се правят обобщения и изводи, набелязват се актуални проблеми и съвременни тенденции. Abstract The report examines the problems related to the subjective labour rights of rest and leave. It follows the evolution in their development in the Bulgarian labour law, their attachment to the legal sources of international and domestic law in accordance with the necessities of the contemporary society. On basis of the analysis of the labour law norms and the judicial practice are made resumes and conclusions, marked some actual problems and contemporary tendencies.
K31|Прекратяване На Безсрочен Трудов Договор Проблематика, Перспективи И Тенденции В Условията На Съвременна Пазарна Икономика<BR>[Termination of employment contract of indefinite duration - problems, perspectives and tendensies in the conditions of contemporary market economy]|Резюме В доклада се разглежда проблематика свързана с прекратяването на безсрочен трудов договор в съвременните условия на пазарна икономика. На база актуален анализ на нормативната уредба и съвременните фактори влияещи върху пазара на труда в България се правят обобщения, изводи и препоръки. Abstract The report examines the problems related to the termination of employment contract of indefinite duration in the contemporary conditions of market economy. On basis of the normative regulation and the contemporary factors which have influence on the labour market in Bulgaria are made resumes, conclusions and recommendations.
K31|Институтът На Почивка В Българското Трудово Право - Традиция И Съвремие<BR>[The institute rest in the Bulgarian labour law – traditions and modernity]|В доклада се изследва еволюцията в института на почивка в българското трудово право, като анализът се базира на източниците в тяхната съвкупност, както българки така и международни. На основата на традициите в националното ни право се прави анализа на съвременните текстове и се отправят критики и препоръки. The report examines the evolution in the institute of rest in the Bulgarian Labour law, the analysis is based on the sources in their aggregation – Bulgarian and International. Based on the traditions in our national law the author analyses the contemporary texts and makes critiques and recommendations.
K31|Прaвeн рeжим нa рeктoрa кaтo oргaн зa упрaвлeниe нa висшeтo училищe<BR>[Legal regime of the rector as a body of governance of the higher school]|В стaтиятa сe изслeдвa в aктуaлeн aспeкт спeцификaтa в прaвния рeжим нa рeктoрa, кaтo eднoличeн oргaн зa упрaвлeниe нa висшeтo училищe. Aнaлизирa сe кoмплeкснo нoрмaтивнaтa урeдбa в рaзличнитe й aспeкти, свързaни със спeцифики при кoнституирaнe нa oргaнa и възниквaнe нa прaвoмoщиятa, рeспeктивнo трудoвo прaвooтнoшeниe нa избрaнoтo лицe с висшeтo училищe, кoмпeтeнтнoст, aктoвe нa рeктoрa и рeд зa тяхнoтo oбжaлвaнe. Въз основа нa извършeния aнaлиз сe прaвят извoди и прeпoръки. The article examines the present aspect of the specifics in the legal regime of the rector as a single body of governance of the higher school. It analyzes complex the normative regulation in its different aspects, related to the specifics by the constituting of the body and arising of the powers, the respective employment legal relations of the chosen person with the higher school, competence, acts of the rector and order for their appeal. On basis of the analysis are made conclusions and recommendations.
K31|Berufs- und Spartengewerkschaften. Neue Akteure und Perspektiven der Tarifpolitik|Seit den fruehen 2000er Jahren beobachten wir einen zunehmenden Einfluss von Berufs- und Spartengewerkschaften. Diese Verbaende sind prominente Beispiele fuer die neue Unuebersichtlichkeit der Arbeitsbeziehungen. Der Band behandelt in sozialwissenschaftlicher Perspektive die in Wissenschaft und oeffentlichkeit kontrovers diskutierten Fragen der wesentlichen Folgen: Veraendert der Wandel von Berufsverbaenden zu Berufsgewerkschaften und ihre damit verbundene Zielverschiebung nachhaltig die etablierten Strukturen der Interessenvertretung? Fuehrt ihre Tarifpolitik zu einem hoeheren Streikniveau in der traditionell arbeitskampfarmen Bundesrepublik? Nimmt ihr Einfluss auf die Funktions-, insbesondere die Stabilitaetsbedingungen der Arbeitsbeziehungen, vor allem die Tarifpolitik, nicht nur kurz-, sondern auch langfristig zu? Werden weitere Berufsgewerkschaften entstehen? Welche Konsequenzen hat die nunmehr gegebene Gewerkschaftskonkurrenz fuer die etablierten Gewerkschaften?
K31|Tax Amnesty For Social Contribution In Romanian Legal Framework|When the state representatives realise that the fiscal liabilities are too hard to comply with and the taxpayers are very temped to avoid the payments, alternative solutions might be used. In order to move on with their daily activities, the taxpayers need to ease tax burden and a solution to rebalance the general budgetary collect/spend mechanism is to consider an amnesty regulation. Some legally stated fiscal liabilities are to be cancelled, in order to facilitate the continuity of the activity of the taxpayers and to insure further payments to the budget, despite the present diminish of the budgetary incomes. The recent Romanian fiscal amnesty is analyzed, starting with its motivations, the applicable procedures and the possible misinterpretations. The fiscal authority role and actions are presented, in comparison with the action of the beneficiaries of the law. Also, the results amnesty generated and the influence on the taxpayers? activity are analyzed, through the relevant case law already generated on the topic. The negative influence of the tax amnesty is pointed out as a result of the research.
K31|Who Benefits from Bans on Employer Credit Checks?|Eleven states limit employers’ use of credit reports, and prominent politicians have proposed a national ban. This paper evaluates the success of these credit check bans in helping financially distressed individuals find employment. In the Survey of Income and Program Participation (SIPP), we identify those likely to directly benefit from credit check bans – unemployed individuals with recent financial trouble. Exploiting the staggered passage of state bans, we find that banning credit checks increases the likelihood of finding a job by twenty-five percent among people who have had trouble meeting their expenses. We find a small and statistically insignificant change in job-finding rates among people who have not had recent financial trouble and a statistically insignificant impact on minorities overall.
K31|"Seniors for Hire? Age Discrimination, ""Sex-Plus-Age"" Discrimination, and the Effectiveness of Age Discrimination Laws"|"In this paper I discuss population aging, increased participation of seniors in the labor force in the United States (and reasons for this), and how these trends are making the struggles of older workers in the labor market increasingly policy relevant. I discuss evidence examining if age discrimination, especially age discrimination against older women (""sex-plus-age"" discrimination), as a barrier for seniors as they try to increase their work lives through the common practice of ""bridge"" or ""partial retirement"" jobs. After discussing the evidence that measures age discrimination, I discuss economics and legal research that seeks to determine to what extent the federal Age Discrimination in Employment Act and state-level age discrimination laws prevent age and ""sex-plus-age"" discrimination. I conclude that while age discrimination laws seem to help mitigate some age discrimination faced by older men, older women face more age discrimination, and current age discrimination laws do a poor job of protecting older women, who are even more economically vulnerable."
K31|Gli enti pubblici economici e le societˆ partecipate: Profili giuslavoristici fra diritto privato e legislazione speciale|LÕintervento pubblico nellÕeconomia ha un ruolo rilevante in Italia, perci˜ il tema dei modelli organizzativi attraverso i quali esso si realizza di particolare interesse, anche sotto il profilo giuslavoristico. Sebbene il legislatore abbia previsto in pi occasioni lÕapplicazione del diritto privato del lavoro anche alle imprese esercitate o controllate da enti pubblici (dallÕart. 2093 cod. civ. fino al d.lgs 175/2016), la disciplina speciale che ad esse pure si applica le colloca su un crinale fra natura pubblica e natura privata che affatica non poco gli operatori economici e del diritto.
K31|An Institutional Approach to Trade Unions’ Density. The Case of Legal Origin and Political Ideology|Which institutions may be important in terms of trade unions’ density and how significant they are? However, trade unions’ status is very different among states, they are still a very meaningful component of labor markets. In this paper we contribute to the debate on the institutions, which may affect the outcome of trade unions in different legal systems. Firstly, we draw on theoretical underpinnings of trade unions’ activity and density. Then, we conduct an empirical analysis of the relationships between trade union density in a particular country, its legal origin and government’s ideology. In this way the paper enriches an underexploited niche in institutional research devoted to labor market issues.
K31|Labour market institutions in small Pacific island countries: Main guidelines for labour market reforms|This report consists of a comprehensive overview of labour market institutions in the small Pacific island countries in order to propose recommendations to improve the performance of their labour markets. We pay particular attention to three countries: Fiji, Palau and Papua New Guinea. We focus on the main pillars of labour market institutions, as employment protection legislation, minimum wage, and labour organization. The analysis considers the possibilities for institutional change in the next future. The main guidelines for eventual reforms are discussed, for the region as a whole and for the above three countries.
K31|Sind Wettbewerbe im Profisport Rattenrennen?|Eine Reihe von Autoren - vor allem im deutschsprachigen - Raum begründet die Notwendigkeit regulatorischer Eingriffe in Profisportmärkte damit, dass der Wettbewerb auf diesen Märkten systematisch versage. Als wesentliche Ursache für Wettbewerbsprobleme innerhalb dieser Ligen oder Meisterschaften gilt dem-nach das Auftreten eines ruinösen Wettbewerbs in Form von Rattenrennen à la Akerlof. Der vorliegende Beitrag untersucht die Frage, ob Rattenrennenmodelle eine geeignete Erklärung des ökonomischen Wettbewerbs in einer Sportliga darstellen und legt regulatorische Implikationen dar.
K31|Experimental Research on Labor Market Discrimination|Understanding whether labor market discrimination explains inferior labor market outcomes for many groups has drawn the attention of labor economists for decades – at least since the publication of Gary Becker’s The Economics of Discrimination in 1957. The decades of research on discrimination in labor markets began with a regression-based “decomposition” approach, asking whether raw wage or earnings differences between groups – which might constitute prima facie evidence of discrimination – were in fact attributable to other productivity-related factors. Subsequent research – responding in large part to limitations of the regression-based approach – moved on to other approaches, such as using firm-level data to estimate both marginal productivity and wage differentials. In recent years, however, there has been substantial growth in experimental research on labor market discrimination – although the earliest experiments were done decades ago. Some experimental research on labor market discrimination takes place in the lab. But far more of it is done in the field, which makes this particular area of experimental research unique relative to the explosion of experimental economic research more generally. This paper surveys the full range of experimental literature on labor market discrimination, places it in the context of the broader research literature on labor market discrimination, discusses the experimental literature from many different perspectives (empirical, theoretical, and policy), and reviews both what this literature has taught us thus far, and what remains to be done.
K31|Faculty Preferences over Unionization: Evidence from Open Letters at Two Research Universities|What determines employee preferences for unionizing their workplaces? A substantial literature addresses this question with surveys on worker attitudes and pay. Unionization drives at the Universities of Minnesota and Washington have given rise to open letters of support or opposition from over 1,000 faculty at Washington and support from over 200 at Minnesota. Combining these expressions with publicly available data on salary, job titles, department affiliation, research productivity, teaching success, and political contributions from over 5,000 faculty, we provide new estimates of the determinants of faculty preferences for unionization at research universities. We find that faculty with higher pay and greater research productivity are less supportive of unionization, even after controlling for job title and department. Attitudes matter as well: after accounting for pay and productivity, faculty in fields documented elsewhere to have more politically liberal participants are more likely to support unionization.
K31|Bad credit, no problem? Credit and labor market consequences of bad credit reports|Credit reports are used in nearly all consumer lending decisions and, increasingly, in hiring decisions in the labor market, but the impact of a bad credit report is largely unknown. We study the effects of credit reports on financial and labor market outcomes using a difference-in-differences research design that compares changes in outcomes over time for Chapter 13 filers, whose personal bankruptcy flags are removed from credit reports after seven years, to changes for Chapter 7 filers, whose personal bankruptcy flags are removed from credit reports after ten years. Using credit bureau data, we show that the removal of a Chapter 13 bankruptcy flag leads to a large increase in credit limits and economically significant increases in credit card and mortgage borrowing. Using administrative tax records linked to personal bankruptcy records, we estimate a precise zero effect of flag removal on employment and earnings outcomes. We rationalize these contrasting results by showing that, conditional on basic observables, “hidden” bankruptcy flags are strongly correlated with adverse credit market outcomes but have no predictive power for labor market outcomes.
K31|Corporate Control around the World|"We provide an autopsy of the patterns of corporate control and ownership concentration in a dataset covering more than 40,000 listed firms from 127 countries over 2004−2012. Employing a plethora of original and secondary sources, big data techniques, and applying the Shapley-Shubik algorithm to quantify shareholder’s voting power we trace ultimate controlling shareholders from the complex, pyramidal, and often obscure corporate structures. First, we show that there are large differences in the type of corporate control (widely held firms with and without significant equity blocks, firms controlled by families, governments, and other public-private firms) across and within continents. Corporate structures appear persistent as the recent global financial crisis did not affect them much. Second, we examine the role of legal traditions on corporate control. There are economically large differences on corporate structure across legal families, with the share of controlled (widely-held) firms being the highest (lowest) in French civil-law countries, followed by German and then Scandinavian civil law countries. State ownership and control by individual/families via complex corporate structures is pervasive in civil-law countries. And while equity blocks are commonplace across widely-held firms all around the world and across all legal families, the share of widely-held firms with large blocks is the highest in French civil-law countries. Moreover, ownership concentration is considerably higher in French civil-law (and to a lesser extent in German civil-law) countries as compared to common-law countries. These patterns apply to very large, big, medium-sized and small listed firms and are not driven by regional differences, the level of economic development, or industrial structure, suggesting that legal origin has sizable long-lasting consequences on corporate structure. Third, as legal origin may affect corporate control via multiple channels, we examine the role of some likely mechanisms. We find that shareholder protection rights against self-dealing activities of insiders correlate strongly with corporate control and ownership concentration. Legal formalism and creditor’s rights do not seem to play a role. Yet, the ""reduced-form"" link between legal origin and corporate control (and ownership concentration) is also driven by entry and labour market regulation."
K31|The Community Preference Principle in Labour Migration Policy in the European Union|This paper is part of the joint project between the Directorate General for Migration and Home Affairs of the European Commission and the OECD’s Directorate for Employment, Labour and Social Affairs on “Review of Labour Migration Policy in Europe”. This document has been produced with the financial assistance of the European Union. The views expressed herein can in no way be taken to reflect the official opinion of the European Union. Grant: HOME/2013/EIFX/CA/002 / 30-CE-0615920/00-38 (DI130895) A previous version of this paper was presented and discussed at the OECD Working Party on Migration in June 2015.The paper investigates the notion of the “community preference” which in filling job posts gives a priority to EU-nationals over third-country nationals. Analysing the impact of the principle on the European labour migration policy, the report presents a brief history of the notion, and discusses how it is referred to in EU labour migration policy documents. It also examines the challenges that the principle is facing as the EU immigration policy develops, tending to give increasing rights to third-country nationals.
K31|Aspects Concerning Sexual And Moral Harassment In The Workplace|En partant du fait que chaque employé est traité de manière égale devant la loi et il est protégé contre la discrimination, nous ne pouvons pas oublier que parfois, au travail, il peut y avoir des actes de discrimination contre les employés. Dans notre communication, nous nous sommes proposé d’approcher des aspects concernant le harcèlement sexuel au lieu de travail par la perspective des lois européennes, ainsi que celle des lois roumaines. Un second aspect est centré sur le harcèlement moral au lieu de travail dans le contexte où la législation roumaine, ainsi que des législations appliquées par d’autres Etats de l’Union Européenne, ne définissent pas cette notion, mais elles interdissent toute forme de discrimination, y compris le harcèlement.
K31|Practical Considerations On Individual Dismissal Under Art. 65 Of The Romanian Labour Code And The Protection Of The Employees Rights|Dismissal is a form of employment termination at the employer’s initiative. The lawmaker regulated several scenarios where the employer may terminate an employee. Considering the legal effects arising from termination, the lawmaker established the procedure to be followed by the employer in order to issue a lawful and just termination decision under some compulsory regulations. The dismissal regulated by art. 65 of the Labour Code covers those situations when the employer terminates the position filled by the employee due to objective circumstances, as a rule of economic or technical nature. Please note that in this case the employee is not in default, and the reasons which lead to termination are objective and independent from the employee’s conduct in performing his/her job duties.
K31|Considerations On The Salary Deductions|Salary constitutes the consideration for work performed by the employee based on the individual employment contract and one of its defining elements. In the legal labor relations, the performance of a work without payment is not possible, the individual employment contract being an essential onerous act. This study aims to examine the conditions in which the employer may operate deductions from the wages of his employees respectively if such deductions may be carried out under an agreement of the parties in the light of the current legislation.
K31|“Peer effects” or “quasi-peer effects” in Spanish labour court rulings|Abstract The current work seeks to ascertain whether rulings on dismissal cases issued by incumbent judges in Spanish labour courts are influenced by whether they are acting alone in their own court or sharing duties with other judges such as replacement judges, support judges or incumbent judges from other courts. We consider that a court is treated when more than one judge rules in it. Then, an analysis is conducted so as to determine the effect of such a treatment on the percentage of cases ruled in favour of the dismissed worker. The data used in the research are taken from the information recorded at court level provided by the statistics kept by the General Council of the Spanish Judiciary. A total of 2888 observations were available, corresponding to the period spanning 2004 to 2012. As regards the findings, it may be concluded that there is a significant positive impact on the number of dismissal cases ruled in favour of workers when incumbent judges are not acting alone in their court, particularly when the incumbent judge solves cases together with another professional judge.
K31|The Effect of New Jersey’s Paid Parental Leave Policy on Employment|Paid parental leave policy remains a continuing source of controversy in the United States. Advocates for parental leave policy maintain that it has a positive effect on child rearing outcomes and family happiness. Critics, however, maintain that paid parental leave will cause firms to hire fewer women. This paper evaluates the critics’ claim that paid family leave entitlements will reduce employment using the New Jersey family leave law that took effect in 2009. We conduct a difference-in-difference analysis that compares county-level employment in western New Jersey using eastern Pennsylvania as a control. We disaggregate county-level employment to test whether women, workers of childbearing age, educated workers experienced larger employment effects in western New Jersey (relative to eastern Pennsylvania) following the New Jersey family leave law. We also conduct similar comparisons within New Jersey. Our estimates suggest that the New Jersey family leave law reduces overall employment by about 3.3 percent. However, the employment reductions among women, people of childbearing age, and more highly skilled workers are relatively larger. Finally, we find little evidence that family leave mandates have employment effects for unskilled workers.
K31|The Costs and Benefits of Migration into the European Union: Debunking Contemporary Myths with Facts|The purpose of this study is to dispel some myths associated with migrants in order to improve socio-economic appraisal of the consequences of the recent surge of migrants into Europe. We argue that: (i) the concern about loss of Christian cultural values is lacking in substance because compared to a relatively near historical epoch or era, very few European citizens do go to Church in contemporary Europe; (ii) the threat to European liberal institutions is falsifiable and statistically fragile because it is not substantiated with significant evidence; (iii) the insignificant proportion of the Moslem population that is aligned with Islamic fundamentalism invalidates the hypothesis on importation of radical Islamic fundamentalism and (iv) the concern about social security burden is relevant only in the short-term because of Europe’s ageing population.
K31|The Impact of the Employment Protection Legislation Reform on the Labor Market’s Flexicurity in Morocco|This paper uses the OECD’s methodology to build an Employment Protection Legislation index (EPL) for the Moroccan economy. In this framework, the main objective is to assess the impact of the new Labor Code’s provisions on the degree of flexicurity in the labor market. The paper also investigates the approximate influence of the EPL changes as regards to some employment-related variables. Our results show that after the 2004 Labor Code reform, the labor market’s flexibility level went down from 75 percent to 44 percent, as EPL became significantly stricter. Furthermore, our analysis suggests that the new legislation, although it brought relatively strict restrictions on hiring and firing, generated a significant increase in dismissals during the three first years of its implementation. And unlike the buckle of conventional literature and several empirical findings, the unemployment rate actually dropped, allegedly backed-up by a solid GDP growth during the 2000’s.
K31|Exploitation in a Disruptive and Unjust Gig-Economy|The purpose of this report is an appraisal of the gig economy; educating and informing an academic audience of the faults that exist and how these faults lead to exploitation and unjustness in the gig economy. During the writing process, I researched the academic articles and books related to the gig economy and exploitation, enabling myself to form a solid foundation from which to conduct further research. In addition, work was conducted to synthesize the journal articles, online resources and books. The scope of this report examines the corpus of the text relating to the gig economy and exploitation and I emphasize some of the ways the writers manage to display the exploitation and the unjustness in the gig economy.
K31|Berufs- und Spartengewerkschaften. Zur Kritik des Tarifeinheitsgesetzes (Professional unions. A critique of the Collective Agreement Unity Act)|Seit den fruehen 2000er Jahren wandeln sich einige Berufsverbaende zu Berufsgewerkschaften und etablieren sich als unabhaengige Tarifpartner im Verkehrs- und Gesundheitssektor. Der Beitrag behandelt zunaechst ihre wesentlichen gemeinsamen Merkmale. Im Mittelpunkt steht das 2015 in Kraft getretene Tarifeinheitsgesetz, welches das abgeschaffte Prinzip der Tarifeinheit wieder einfuehrt („ein Betrieb, eine Gewerkschaft“). Unsere umfassende Kritik argumentiert nicht, wie es ueblicherweise der Fall ist, aus juristischer Sicht, sondern aus der Perspektive der Arbeitsbeziehungen. Sie erfolgt auf drei Ebenen: Probleme der Praktikabilitaet der Verfahren, der breitere Kontext der Gewerkschaftsentwicklung, befuerchtete, aber unrealistische Konsequenzen fuer das System der Arbeitsbeziehungen. (Since the early 2000s some professional associations have changed into professional unions and have established themselves as independent bargaining partners in the transport and health sectors. The paper begins by presenting the most important common characteristics of such professional unions. It focuses on the Collective Agreement Unity Act which came into force in 2015 and re-establishes the abolished principle of bargaining unity (‘one company, one union’). Our comprehensive critique does not take the usual legal perspective but rather an industrial relations one. It is based on three levels: Practical problems of the applicability of procedural rules, the broader context of trade union development, feared but unrealistic consequences for the system of employment relations.)
K31|Nuevas funciones de la negociación colectiva y alteración de su marco normativo|La negociación colectiva en su origen en la sociedad industrial desplegaba dos funciones relativamente simples y complementaria: de un lado se presentaba como instrumento de tutela incrementada de los derechos de los trabajadores más allá de los previstos por parte de la normativa estatal, al mismo tiempo que tendía a establecer un régimen homogéneo de condiciones de trabajo en la empresa y/o el sector productivo con vistas a evitar escenarios de competencia desleal por la vía del dumping social. Sin llegar a desaparecer las anteriores funciones, la normativa laboral y la propio desarrollo del modelo económico le viene exigiendo a la negociación colectiva la asunción de nuevas y decisivas funciones: adaptación a las peculiaridades empresariales y sectoriales para dar respuestas a los singulares requerimientos de las partes en el ámbito local, adaptación de las condiciones de trabajo al cambio del ciclo económico o de la coyuntura empresarial, distribución equitativa de sacrificios entre los diferentes grupos de trabajadores, la gestión de la segmentación laboral provocada con naturalidad por el mercado, así como propiciar la flexibilidad laboral en un escenario de competitividad globalizada. La capacidad de asumir todas estas funciones por parte de la negociación colectiva es el gran reto que se le presenta en el escenario actual, bajo el riesgo de perder de lo contrario capacidad de protagonismo y de centralidad en el gobierno del sistema de relaciones laborales
K31|Wage Effects of Unionization and Occupational Licensing Coverage in the United States|Recent estimates in standard models of wage determination for both unionization and occupational licensing have shown wage effects that are similar across the two institutions. These cross-sectional estimates use specialized data sets, with small sample sizes, for the period 2006 to 2008. The authorsâ€™ analysis examines the impact of unions and licensing coverage on wage determination using new data collected on licensing statutes that are then linked to longitudinal data from the National Longitudinal Survey of Youth (NLSY79) from 1979 to 2010. They develop several approaches, using both cross-sectional and longitudinal analyses, to measure the impact of these two labor market institutions on wage determination. The estimates of the economic returns to union coverage are greater than those for licensing statutes.
K31|Patrimonial Responsibility Of The Employer. Criteria For Employee Discrimination|Labour jurisdiction represents the institution required to apply legal procedures by the means of competent bodies to resolve conflicts among employees and employers concerning the conclusion, performance or termination of employment. The application of labour jurisdiction procedures are related to the special nature of labour relations aimed at protecting the rights and interests of employees. The article details the procedural means to resolve individual labour conflicts in matters related to the compensation of material and moral prejudices of the employer resulted from the infringement of the legal duties of the employer in terms of violating the equal treatment and discrimination principle. There are also detailed the discrimination concept in labour relations, applicable law, legal effects as well as applicable discrimination criteria.
K31|Essential Clauses Of Individual Employment Contract - Questions And Answers|This study aims to analyze the legal texts of the Labour Code which refers to the elements / clauses in individual employment contract and clarifying those that have been essential. Rules of the Labour Code which refer to the contents of the individual employment contract are not consistent. The texts of the La bour Code which refer to the essential and specific clauses in individual employment contract are art. 17 para. (1) - (3), art. 20 and art. 41-48. Also Order no. 64/2003 sets out the mandatory elements that must be included in the individual employment con tract, showing that through negotiation between the parties, the contract may include specific clauses under the law. The analysis is done in the light of the provisions of art. 1179 and art. 1185 of the Civil Code, as in common law. At the end of the study, we conclude that certain provisions were essential character to the conclusion of any individual employment contract, others result of the negotiation, have essential character only to the contracting parties, while certain clauses are essential for certain types of individual employment contracts . Finally, it is assessed and the consequences of lack of essential clauses and establish its content contrary to legal norms.
K31|Critical Remarks On The Collective Labor Agreement In The Sphere Of Machine Building Companies And Metal Production For The Years 2016-2017|In this study we analyze the provisions of the collective labor agreement concluded in the sphere of machine building companies and metal production for the years 2016-2017.The analysis will reveal useful aspects that complement labor laws and also the offending clauses in the field of labor legislation. Study findings lead to the formulation of proposals with the purpose to improve collective bargaining in terms of reporting of the collective labor agreements to the provisions of the law.
K31|New Issues Statutory Unemployment Insurance System And Stimulate Employment (From The Perspective Of The Labour Law)|It is inconceivable By O.U.G. no. 60/2016 were brought new changes and additions to Law no. 76/2002 on the unemployment insurance system and stimulation of employment due to: labor shortages in certain regions claimed by business representatives; European climate of uncertainty marked by the possible exit of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland in the European Union, and the high probability of returning to Romania for workers who have exercised their right to free movement within the European Union; avoidance of loss absorption external grants for this year.
K31|The Role Of The Economic Justification In The Collective Dismissal Procedure|Given that any collective dismissal process must begin from a decision of the competent corporate body, the paper analyzes the reasons leading to the issuance of such a decision of reorganization, which is the justification for technical and economic viability of that decision and what It must include to be thorough and legal in the context of a possible legal claim before the courts. We studied the role of the efficient and complex analysis of the company in terms of organizational and / or economic reasons but also the impact that the change in the company's structure will have by reducing the positions for which the activity will be considered redundant through the same analysis. Research aimed the position and the implications such an economic analysis will have on the entire collective dismissal procedures, procedures that are very precisely controlled by state institutions empowered by the phases imposed by law but also in agreement with the employer`s social partner. In a state that encourages commercial freedom and the exclusive organizational privilege of the employer, may the court censor the effects of this procedure analyzing itself the opportunity of reducing positions targeted by the reorganization caused by economic reasons, or may issue c onsiderations strictly in terms of reality and the seriousness of the causes that led to the adoption of such a decision of the employer?
K31|Islamic conscious capitalism: a ‘Third Way’ in light of classical scripture|"The economic paradigm and framework advocated for in Islam is one that entails a unique combination of various socio–economic philosophies. This article advances the notion that Islam promotes a capitalistic economic model wrapped in its own garment of understanding—fashioned with threads of equity and stitched in patterns of benevolence and justice. This article examines the Islamic theological framework relating to the profit incentive and its spiritually–conscious methodology of capital procurement. The Qur’an contains around 370 references in regard to commerce, from which much of Islamic law relating to lending, banking and trading originates (Heck in Muhammad and the Arab roots of capitalism (Studien zur Geschichte und Kultur des Islamichen Orients)—Band 18. Walter de Gruyter, Berlin, p 5, 85, 2006 ). This article intends to explore the potential that these teachings have for an Islamic ‘Third Way’ (i.e. an Islamic contribution to economic philosophy and discourse that is in-between of, or an alternative to, both the purely individualistic primary concerns on prices, profits, and private property inherent in ""pure"" capitalism, and the purely communal command economics of communism, which often negates or discourages the promotion of self-interests). Part I of this paper intends to introduce the reader to the various sources of Islamic ‘law’ and its scope. In doing so, the philosophical nature and objectives of the Shariah will become evident, through the exploration of specific theological economic teachings. Part II intends to study Islam’s theological attitude toward entrepreneurship and the profit incentive, as well as the concept of the potential for salvation through ethical profits. Part III explores, in light of classical Islamic scripture, the various prohibitions within the Islamic concept of the economy. In doing so, the paper shall explore how values and theories found in classical Islamic scripture have found contemporary application within the growing modern Islamic finance industry, for example, through Shariah ‘screens’ applied on market indicies, such as the Dow Jones Islamic Market Index. Part III shall also explore Islamic edicts with regards to business practices, as well as environmental ethics. In doing so, Part IV concludes that there can indeed be such an Islamic ‘Third Way’, drawn along similar shared values found amongst other world religions. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2016"
K31|What happens when the definition of disability changes? The case of obesity|Abstract This paper examines how Congress’s 2008 expansion of who is disabled under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) impacts the labor market outcomes of newly covered individuals. Focusing on obese individuals, I exploit variation in coverage of obesity before and after the 2008 expansion to identify effects of the legal change, but I find no improvement in the labor market outcomes of the obese. Although the 2008 expansion was intended to remedy the unintended consequences of the ADA and improve labor market outcomes of the disabled, these early estimates suggest that the expansion has not yet achieved Congress’s stated goals. JEL codes: J14, J21, J78, K31
K31|What happens when the definition of disability changes? The case of obesity|This paper examines how Congress’s 2008 expansion of who is disabled under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) impacts the labor market outcomes of newly covered individuals. Focusing on obese individuals, I exploit variation in coverage of obesity before and after the 2008 expansion to identify effects of the legal change, but I find no improvement in the labor market outcomes of the obese. Although the 2008 expansion was intended to remedy the unintended consequences of the ADA and improve labor market outcomes of the disabled, these early estimates suggest that the expansion has not yet achieved Congress’s stated goals. JEL codes: J14, J21, J78, K31 Copyright Shinall. 2016
K31|Drivers and effects of labour market reforms: Evidence from a novel policy compendium|Abstract The paper analyses the determinants and short-term effects of labour market reforms, using information from a novel policy compendium that covers 110 developed and developing economies between 2008 and 2014. We find that the approval of reforms is positively associated with the unemployment rate, the simultaneous implementation of fiscal consolidation measures and the presence of a fixed exchange rate regime. Differences in the results are explored by looking at the direction of reforms (i.e. increasing or decreasing legislation), temporal horizon (i.e. temporary or permanent measures) and coverage (i.e. complete or two-tier reforms); while also analysing separately reforms’ determinants across domains of labour legislation (e.g. permanent contracts, collective dismissals). Finally, we find that deregulatory labour market reforms tend to increase the unemployment rate in the short run when they are approved during contractionary periods—while they have a non-significant effect when approved during periods of economic stability or expansion. JEL Classification: J20, J52, J38, J48, J58, K31
K31|Spartengewerkschaften auch in Wettbewerbsbereichen unterbinden<BR>[Craft Unions Should Also Be Stopped in Competitive Sectors of the Economy]|Zusammenfassung Das Bundesverfassungsgericht ist derzeit mit der Zulässigkeit von Spartengewerkschaften befasst. Dabei ist es wichtig, neben den dort behandelten juristischen Argumenten auch die ökonomische Sinnhaftigkeit von Spartengewerkschaften zu analysieren. Dazu untersucht Horst Zimmermann die Anreizstruktur der Spartengewerkschaften. Das Ergebnis deutet auf starke und zunehmende Missbrauchsmöglichkeiten hin und führt zu der Folgerung, dass Spartengewerkschaften generell zu unterbinden sind.
K31|Plädoyer zur gesetzlichen Regelung des Streikrechts – eine Replik<BR>[A Plea for Legal Regulation of the Right to Strike]|Zusammenfassung In der Februarausgabe 2016 veröffentlichte der Wirtschaftsdienst den Aufsatz: „Streiks und die Zuverlässigkeit der Verkehrsbedienung“ vom Wissenschaftlichen Beirat beim Bundesminister für Verkehr und digitale Infrastruktur. Dazu erscheint diese Replik.
K31|Insiders, Outsiders, and Involuntary Unemployment: Sexual Harrassment Exacerbates Gender Inequality|Sexual harassment is perceived to be a major impediment to female labor force participation. We use the random assignment of U.S. federal judges setting geographically-local precedent, and the fact that judges’ biographies predict decisions in sexual harassment cases, to document the causal impact of forbidding sexual harassment. Consistent with an insider-outsider theory of involuntary unemployment, but in contrast to a mandated benefits theory of employment protections, pro-plaintiff sexual harassment precedent spurred the adoption of sexual harassment human resources policies, encouraged entry of outsiders, and reduced gender inequality in labor supply and wages among the population. These effects were comparable to the effects of the Equal Employment Opportunity Act and greatest in the construction industry, which was heavily affected by sexual harassment litigation.
K31|Insiders, Outsiders, and Involuntary Unemployment: Sexual Harrassment Exacerbates Gender Inequality|Sexual harassment is perceived to be a major impediment to female labor force participation. We use the random assignment of U.S. federal judges setting geographically-local precedent, and the fact that judges’ biographies predict decisions in sexual harassment cases, to document the causal impact of forbidding sexual harassment. Consistent with an insider-outsider theory of involuntary unemployment, but in contrast to a mandated benefits theory of employment protections, pro-plaintiff sexual harassment precedent spurred the adoption of sexual harassment human resources policies, encouraged entry of outsiders, and reduced gender inequality in labor supply and wages among the population. These effects were comparable to the effects of the Equal Employment Opportunity Act and greatest in the construction industry, which was heavily affected by sexual harassment litigation.
K31|Expanding Employment Discrimination Protections for Individuals with Disabilities: Evidence from California|Effective 2001, California passed the Prudence Kay Poppink Act, which broadened Californiaâ€™s disability employment discrimination law to cover individuals with less-severe disabilities by lowering the burden of proof to establish a disability. Using both difference-in-differences and difference-in-difference-in-differences regression analyses and data from the Current Population Survey, the author estimates how this act affected the labor market outcomes for individuals with disabilities. The results suggest that the act signiï¬ cantly increased employment for individuals with disabilities, with the effect persisting at least partially up to six years later.
K31|Where Does Our Food Come From? At The Intersection Of Food Security, Human Dignity And Right To (Decent) Work|The European Union promotes sustainable development, free and fair trade and intends to protect human rights. In this context, the paper seeks to make explicit the linkage between right to food and right to work. Parodoxically, agricultural workers often have the least resources to access safe, nutritious and sufficient food; on the contrary ‘decent work’ is pivotal to ensure long-term sustainable growth, thus to eradicate poverty and hunger. Despite a solid legal framework, evidence of labour exploitation abounds across Europe. The contention is that a better understanding of the phenomenon might suggest a more promising range of tools for action. Coherently, specific policy recommendations are made for strengthening the currently available redress, leaving criminal law tools as the last resort.
K31|I rinvii legali ai contratti collettivi e il jobs act: problemi e sfide della contrattazione aziendale|LÕautore affronta il tema dei rinvii alla contrattazione collettiva nel d.lgs. 81/2015 focalizzando lÕattenzione sui suoi contenuti. Innanzitutto, egli sintetizza il dibattito in materia di rapporto fra legge e contratto collettivo, poi evidenzia le caratteristiche specifiche dei nuovi rinvii alla contrattazione collettiva aziendale e ne propone una classificazione. Infine, individua dei possibili problemi di funzionamento che possono depotenziare la portata innovativa del nuovo decreto e che rappresentano lÕennesima prova dellÕurgenza, nellÕinteresse generale, di regolare il rapporto fra le fonti del diritto del lavoro.
K31|Implikationen des Wissenschaftszeitvertragsgesetzes für Hochschulen und Mitarbeiter|Das Wissenschaftszeitvertragsgesetz (WissZeitVG) von 2007 wurde aktuell reformiert. So werden nicht mehr nur Obergrenzen für Befristungen von wissenschaftlichen Beschäftigungsverhältnissen formuliert, sondern diese sollen jetzt auch nicht kürzer sein, als für die angestrebte Qualifizierung angemessen ist, oder dem Zeitraum ihrer Drittmittelfinanzierung entsprechen. Das Gesetz gilt nur noch für wissenschaftliches und künstlerisches Personal sowie für Qualifizierungs- oder Drittmittelstellen. Insbesondere die Verlängerung der Vertragslaufzeiten hat Nachteile für Hochschulen bzw. Hochschullehrer als Arbeitgeber, ohne dass die Beschäftigten entsprechende Vorteile davon hätten.
K31|Firm Size Distortions and the Productivity Distribution: Evidence from France|We show how size-contingent laws can be used to identify the equilibrium and welfare effects of labor regulation. Our framework incorporates such regulations into the Lucas (1978) model and applies it to France where many labor laws start to bind on firms with 50 or more employees. Using population data on firms between 1995 and 2007, we structurally estimate the key parameters of our model to construct counterfactual size, productivity, and welfare distributions. We find that the cost of these regulations is equivalent to that of a 2.3 percent variable tax on labor. In our baseline case with French levels of partial real wage inflexibility, welfare costs of the regulations are 3.4 percent of GDP (falling to 1.3 percent if real wages were perfectly flexible downward). The main losers from the regulation are workers--and to a lesser extent, large firms--and the main winners are small firms.
K31|Paid Parental Leave Laws in the United States: Does Short-Duration Leave Affect Women's Labor-Force Attachment?|I analyze the effects of short-duration paid parental leave on maternal labor supply. Using monthly longitudinal data from the Survey of Income and Program Participation, my event-study research design estimates impacts of paid leave laws in California and New Jersey on women's labor-force outcomes around childbirth. I find that paid leave laws are associated with a substantial increase in labor-force attachment in the months directly around birth. While US-style short-duration leave is unlikely to change prolonged exits from the labor force, my findings imply that paid leave laws induce some women stay more attached to jobs, particularly low-skill women.
K31|The Contribution of the Minimum Wage to US Wage Inequality over Three Decades: A Reassessment|We reassess the effect of minimum wages on US earnings inequality using additional decades of data and an IV strategy that addresses potential biases in prior work. We find that the minimum wage reduces inequality in the lower tail of the wage distribution, though by substantially less than previous estimates, suggesting that rising lower tail inequality after 1980 primarily reflects underlying wage structure changes rather than an unmasking of latent inequality. These wage effects extend to percentiles where the minimum is nominally nonbinding, implying spillovers. We are unable to reject that these spillovers are due to reporting artifacts, however. (JEL J22, J31, J38, K31)
K31|The Costs and Benefits of Migration into the European Union: Debunking Contemporary Myths with Facts|The purpose of this study is to dispel some myths associated with migrants in order to improve socio-economic appraisal of the consequences of the recent surge of migrants into Europe. We argue that: (i) the concern about loss of Christian cultural values is lacking in substance because compared to a relatively near historical epoch or era, very few European citizens do go to Church in contemporary Europe; (ii) the threat to European liberal institutions is falsifiable and statistically fragile because it is not substantiated with significant evidence; (iii) the insignificant proportion of the Moslem population that is aligned with Islamic fundamentalism invalidates the hypothesis on importation of radical Islamic fundamentalism and (iv) the concern about social security burden is relevant only in the short-term because of Europe’s ageing population.
K31|Employee Representation Legislations and Innovation|We analyse how countries' innovation outcomes are affected by national legislations of worker participation to corporate governance. We develop a model of employee representation laws (ERL) and innovation in the presence of incomplete labour contracts and predict heterogeneous ERL effects across different systems of dismissal regulation. We then perform a panel regression analysis, exploiting 2-digit panel data for 21 manufacturing sectors of USA, UK, India, France and Germany, over the 1977-2005 period. We find that ERL effects on aggregate innovation output are positive, statistically significant and higher in magnitude where national labour laws impose significant ring costs to the firm with respect to institutional settings in which ring costs are low or absent. These results are robust to possible technology selection dynamics, endogeneity and institutional changes in the legal system of patent protection. We also estimate ERL effects on innovation conditional on ring costs at an industry level and show that the impact of ERL is relatively larger in those sectors where the human capital contribution to production is higher. Our results have relevant implications for the optimal design of employee representation legislations.
K31|Job Protection, Housing Market Regulation and the Youth|Young Europeans experience high unemployment rates, job instability and late emancipation. Meanwhile they do not support reforms weakening protection on long-term contracts. In this paper, we suggest a possible rationale for such reform distaste. When the rental market is very regulated, landlords screen applicants with regard to their ability to pay the rent. Protecting regular jobs offers a second-best technology to sort workers, thereby increasing the rental market size. We provide a model where non-employed workers demand protected jobs despite unemployment and the share of short-term jobs increase, whereas rents, wages and the individual risk of dismissal are unaffected.
K31|Enforcement individual labor contracts and undeclared work|"Failure to conclude individual employment contract as provided in the applicable legal rules in the field of legal work brings into question the concept of ""undeclared work"" – one of the important issues facing the Romanian society."
K31|Litigation to execution in legal labour relationships. Study case|Enforced execution is the legal way by which the Creditor under an enforceable order protects his rights by resorting to coercive force of the state. When the Debtor does not comply voluntarily, the Creditor may appeal to the Bailiff to commence the enforced execution in all manner prescribed by law. Of course, the start of compulsory execution is limited by the conditions of admissibility imperatively specified in the law, principally the condition to exist an enforceable order owned by the Creditor. Regarding the order to be enforced, it can be represented either by an enforceable or final judgement, with provisional enforcement or any other document that can be enforced. Procedurally, the provisions of Art.712 of the Civil Procedure Code allow the introduction by a Creditor who has a litigation to execution against the execution itself, against the Closures issued by the Bailiff, and against any other act of enforcement. Jurisdiction of the Court in this matter will be of the Executor Court or the Court in whose district the Debtor is situated, on the date of the appeal. The appeal of the Debtor questions the Parties not only over the acts of execution because the appeal is also allowed over the explanations relative to the meaning, scope or application of the enforceable order, but in the conditions limited by the legal nature of this order. Thus, according to the law when enforceable order is not issued by a Court or Arbitration may be invoked before an Executor Court including reasons of fact or law which could not be discussed during an earlier trial, in the first instance or in an appeal. Basically, if enforced execution is under an enforceable order that is not from a Court, these reasons can be invoked when there is no other processual mean for its abolition. There also can be submitted a complaint against the Closure by which was upheld the appeal for an enforced execution, and the act of execution concerning the division of the common property or common goods. For the purposes of the foregoing ideas, the article details the mean of introduction the execution appeal for recovery of emoluments arising from a legal labour relationship. Creditor’s debt is represented by the financial rights related to the management function held in a public institution. Regarding the enforcement order it is the Decision of the Appeal Court by which the Debtor public institution is obliged to cover the material damage suffered by the Creditor civil servant, starting from the time of his dismissal from the management function until effectively reintegration on the same position. There are analysed the Debtor’s appeals requesting the annulment of execution acts issued by the Bailiff, and the execution itself, the appeal motivation, the defences of the parties in fact and in law, and the role of the Court during the course of the procedure.
K31|The working time – various developments of the meaning of working time at the European Union level from a Romanian labor relations’ perspective|The working time is defined by the European Directive concerning certain aspects of the organisation of working time. The meaning of ‘working time’ and applicability of the Directive’s requirements was further clarified by the Court of Justice of the European Union in its case law, with respect to various situations such as: working time of the employees who perform work on call, working time of the foresters who are provided with tied accommodation within the range of forest within their purview and qualification of the time spent by workers when travelling from home to work. Over the past years such cases have been more often met in the employment relationships in Romania, especially as regards work on call and mobile employees. Since there are no specific legal provisions to clarify the legal regime applicable to such situations, whether and in which circumstances they represent working time and the corresponding rights and obligations of the respective employees, the study aims to analyse such situations from the perspective of the Romanian labour relations by comparing the European legislation and case law with the Romanian national legislation in view of finding some specific answers useful for the interpretation and application of the Romanian legislation in such specific cases.
K31|The profound precariousness of work through temporary work agency|The increase in the number of atypical work contracts in the field of industry relationships, as part of a major European trend towards gaining more flexibility in the labour market, is significant and cannot be overlooked in most member countries of the European Union. This finding is corroborated by the recent surveys conducted across Europe, that reveal the prevalence of these flexible ways of organizing work, over the archetypal template of the individual work contract. However, this range of atypical contractual arrangements and the great number of versions and subcategories they include, are describing a number of negative features that seem to characterize these new forms of employment. Since the field of atypical employment is complex and we cannot analyse the incidence of these negative effects for all the atypical methods of employment, in the following article we will limit ourselves to explore the pressing issues related to the system of temporary work through work agencies. As we shall see, all aspects of the salary field, of health and safety at work and the level of insecurity and instability of labour through temporary work agency reveals a strong character associated with this kind of precarious employment.
K31|Theoretical and practical considerations on probation in labor disputes|Having the actori incubit onus probandi apothegm as a starting point, we shall examine the particular aspects of probation in work -related conflicts, as stipulated in the 272-273 Article within the 53/2003 Law regarding The Labour Code and 212 Article within 62/2011 Law on Social Dialogue. The objective of this paper is to examine distinct features related to the functions of evidence, to the set of fundamental principles which underlie the judicial proceedings of probation in work -related conflicts, as well as the active role of the judge in order to assure a righteous and fair trial. All the elements referred to will be regarded from historical, hermeneutic, teleological and comparative points of view. The specific character of regulations underpinning the management procedures regarding probation in work -related conflicts, differing from the provisions under statutory law, highlights the legislator's choice towards establishing a simple and urgent procedure. It should be adjusted to the work terms and to the individual right to work, representing a genuine guarantee for bringing the law claims which derive from adequate or inadequate performance of individual or collective contracts, performed by the employer. Examples provided by judicial practice uncloak the difficulties encountered by both parties of the trial and court when it comes to enforcing the specific provisions for the application of the legislation, fact which is not always compatible with the legislature’s aim, by means of regulation.
K31|Trends toward „individualization” of labour law|The paper aims to identify the trends of labor law to return to the individual and the impact of such trends on the trade unionism and collective relations. Because, in relation to the trend of increased individual aspects of labor law, manifested in many fields, it appears legitimate the question: does the collectivist paradigm still meet the postmodern industrial relations? The question is especially relevant in the context of a difficult communication of trade unions with society as a whole, and also in the context of increased competitive relationship between employees - factors likely to hinder the scope of trade unions and even the collective dimension of labor law. The paper aims at finding answers, perhaps even useful in shaping the future labor law.
K31|Working time of employees posted on a business trip|Posting of workers to a Member State of the European Union under the law of the Slovak Republic may be realised by the institute of business trip, the temporary assignment of employees to another employer, or agreed place of work abroad. Using the institution of the business trip opens up many application problems. The author is in his paper focused on selected application problems of the business trip, relating to working time, particularly when considering working time on a business trip as well as continuous rest after returning from a business trip, respectively at the end performed work.
K31|Brief Considerations On Meal Vouchers, Holidays, Giftvouchers And Nurseries, During The Current Crisis|At the beginning of the sixth decade of the last century, in France, were created meal vouchers which have since spread to other European countries in order to encourage operators to contribute financially to better nutrition for employees in order to increase productivity and to improve the health of the population. Subsequently, the meal vouchers model was also taken by the public institutions, during which it was created the necessary legislative framework for issuing them, and later on, on the same criteria, have also been issued holiday vouchers, giftware and nursery vouchers. In our country, was first created the legislative framework for providing meal vouchers in 1998, gift vouchers and nurseries in 2006, and the legislation granting holiday vouchers was adopted in 2009.
K31|"The ""E Triangle"": Employment, Employee And Employer In The European Union"|"One of the biggest forces of the European Union is its people, people living and working within this Union. This stands not only for the European Union but for every state, as it is well known that people are the ones that can make a state great or poor. For this reason, the matters regarding labor are a continuous concern both for European Union common institutions as well as for every individual state of the European Union. The main interest, on both sides, is to ensure the best for every part involved in labor process because this means, in the end, added value for everyone. The article focuses on the realities as well as on the expectations regarding the labor field highlighting the most preeminent aspects of the so called ""E triangle"": employment, employee and employer starting with the most needed definition for each and every one of the above going towards even to proposing remedies for the ""spots"" needing improvement."
K31|Incentives and evaluation of public managers in Italy|We analyse the current structure and the most recent evolution of the legislation concerning incentives for public managers in Italy. In the light of the main findings of economic theory, we identify the most critical issues inherent to the design of an optimal system of incentives. These are the existence of multi-principle agency problems involving public managers; the difficulty of observing and measuring the output produced in the public sector; the excessive limits to managersï¿½ autonomy imposed by the need to respect the rule of law. Along these three lines, we analyse the reforms of public management that have been adopted in Italy from the nineties and evaluate their effectiveness through an empirical analysis of the premiums paid to public managers in 2012. The empirical analysis reveals a substantial flattening of the premiums paid and highlights that only the age of the manager significantly affects how much they receive. We conclude that the poor effectiveness of the current system of incentives for public managers is mainly due to the undifferentiated application of the same rules to all organizations, to an inadequate planning of the objectives and to the excessive limits to managersï¿½ autonomy.
K31|Incentives and selection in public employment|The effectiveness of the Public administration depends on its ability to attract and select skilled individuals and encourage them to exert effort. Recruitment and career policies affect the composition of the pool of applicants who take part in the selection procedures. The process by which these are managed determines who, among the self-selected candidates, accesses public employment and, consequently, the distribution of individual characteristics across the public workforce. Such distribution, in turn, sets the environment in which incentive schemes are designed. This work provides an overview of the interactions among these dimensions and studies some critical aspects of the Italian context: the decreased selectivity and increased instability in recruitment, pay and career policies that insufficiently compensate education and skills, rigid selection procedures slanted towards generalist knowledge, the uniform application of incentive schemes to the entire Public administration without structural rearrangements. Furthermore, this work provides a critical comparison between these considerations and the direction taken by the recent reforms of public employment.
K31|The distribution of public employees in Italy: role and functions of mobility|Several studies have demonstrated the presence of significant asymmetries in the distribution of public employees in Italy. An econometric analysis of the civil registry services of Italian municipalities confirms this result, indicating the existence of significant deviations from the average ratio between input and output in the delivery of such services: specifically, municipalities with larger staff are located in the Centre-South and in areas where the unemployment level is higher. Therefore, there appears to be considerable room to achieve efficiency gains through an appropriate reallocation of public employees. However, a number of institutional factors, including, in particular, the lack of objective criteria for determining actual staffing needs, the high segmentation of public entities and the uncertainties flowing from different systems for classifying public employees, appear to hinder mobility flows, which are extremely low.
K31|Beyond the austerity dispute: new priorities for fiscal policy|The workshop aimed at moving forward the fiscal policy debate, which in the crisis years was unavoidably focused on how to regain fiscal credibility and to implement sizable and fast consolidation plans. Four main themes have been proposed for the debate during the workshop. First, the two-way link between fiscal consolidation and inequality, with the idea that consolidation efforts cannot be successful in the long run if they entail a socially unsustainable increase in inequality. Second, the importance of preserving, even in contexts in which the fiscal policy stance is necessarily restrictive, growth-enhancing public investments. Third, the challenges posed to fiscal management by a low inflation context, taking into account that a subdued price dynamics not only makes the real burden of debt heavier, but it also has subtle effects, at least in the short term, on several budgetary items. Finally, the need for a simpler and more appropriate set of rules for the governance of the EMU. The latter topic was also the object of the high-level panel at the end of the workshop. While differences in emphasis emerged among the panellists, they agreed that the current framework could be streamlined, and – more importantly – that no set of rules can work if trust and a sense of sharing a common objective is not rebuilt among the Member States.
K31|Employment Protection Reform, Enforcement in Collective Agreements and Worker Flows|Differential enforcement of employment protection by explicit design of the legislation, for example through exemptions for small firms, has been exploited in a growing body of research. However, little is known about the effects of differential enforcement that is not defined by the letter of the law, presumably due to the lack of data. Our study incorporates aspects of both types of differential enforcement as we combine the evaluation of a partial reform with information on the more difficult-to-observe enforcement of the same reform in collective agreements. We analyse a reform of notice periods for employer-initiated separations in Sweden, which reduced the notice periods for newly hired older workers substantially but implied minor or no changes in the notices for younger workers. The reform was initiated at different times depending on collective agreement. These circumstances provide ample opportunity for the identification of its effects. Our findings indicate heterogeneous effects across collective agreements. Despite differences in terms of dynamics and size, a positive effect on hirings is found for all agreements. In most cases, our results also show an increase in separations, indicating an increase in employment turnover. A salient feature of the results is that the estimated effects increase with the treatment dose, i.e., the size of the reduction in notice periods across different age groups.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
K31|Un modèle multi-agent du marché du travail français, outil d’évaluation des politiques de l’emploi : l’exemple du contrat de génération|This article presents an agent-based model of the French labor market and uses it for ex ante simulations of the effects of the ?Generation Contract.??The model simulates the decisions and interactions of individuals and firms (10,000?agents in our simulations) which take place in a duly specified economic and legal environment.?The decisions consist for firms in creating or suppressing jobs of two types, Fixed Duration Contracts, and Open Ended Contracts, as well as hiring, promoting, and laying off their employees.?The individuals apply for jobs, and can quit.?The interactions induce gross flows between the states of employed, unemployed, and inactive, flows which generate complete stock-flow accounts.?A calibration algorithm enables us to reproduce the main caracteristics of the French labor market in 2011, which is strongly structured by the coexistence of Fixed Duration Contracts, and Open Ended Contracts.?As simulated by the model, the Generation Contract is expected to lower youth unemployment, but the effect is small due to very important windfall effects as well as moderate crowding out effects.?The trajectories of the youths who have benefited from the Generation Contract show a positive effect on their employment rate in the long run.?Variants show that it is not easy to improve the policy scheme. Classification JEL?: C63, J63, J64, J65, J68, K31.
K31|Le contrat unique. Une auberge espagnole|The proposal of a single contract often stems from the fact that labour market duality is observed, with, on the one hand, highly protected employees (i.e. those with permanent contracts and civil servants) and, on the other, those alternating between badly protected insecure jobs and periods of unemployment. But the concept of this ?single contract? is often poorly defined. Its three stated objectives are to: (i) reduce status inequalities arising from the coexistence of permanent contracts and ?insecure? contracts (fixed-term and temporary); (ii) reduce the costly uncertainty and complexity of dismissal laws; (iii) partly internalise the social costs of dismissals. Our analysis shows that a single contract cannot truly meet these objectives, which could be better addressed in other ways, and that it would entail considerable legal risks. Codes JEL?: J41?; J52?; J53?; K31
K31|The Contribution of Labour Law to Economic Development & Growth|A review of theoretical, historical and quantitative empirical research on the economic effects of labour laws suggests that worker-protective labour regulation generates net positive outcomes for development and growth. Labour law should be seen as a developmental institution which has a symbiotic relationship to the rise of capitalism in the global north and is part of the transition to a market economy being experienced by today's low- and middle-income countries. Claims made for the desuetude of labour law's core mechanisms, including the standard employment relationship, are not borne about by recent evidence. The complex role played by labour regulation in the dynamics of capitalism would repay further investigation.
K31|Pricing Labour Capacity: The Unexpected Effects of Formalizing Employment Contracts in China|This paper analyses the effects of recent laws formalising employment contracts in China, part of a wider policy to normalise features of an emerging market economy. Using a unique hand-collected dataset of 294 industrial injury claims handled by a labour dispute arbitration commission in 2010, we study the impact of having a formal contract on the amount of compensation paid to victims of workplace accidents. An inherent feature of the employment contract under a market economy is its incompleteness: because work-effort bargain and labour capacity cannot be accurately specified ex ante, the employer can expropriate the surplus from production ex post. The legally-driven formalisation of employment contracts is intended to redress this effect by holding the employer to the terms of the parties’ agreement and proving for third party enforcement. Our empirical analysis shows that having a written employment contract makes an injury claim more than twice likely to be arbitrated than mediated, in line with the intended effect of the law, but that it also leads to a reduction of around half in the amount of compensation awarded. Formalisation of employment contracts may reduce employer discretion during the course of the employment relationship, but it also makes it difficult for workers to invoke actual or customary wage levels for the purposes of putting a value on an accident compensation claim, in the face of the formal wage stated in the contract. Formalisation ends up reinforcing the hierarchical power of the employer which is a feature of capitalist work relations.
K31|State and Knowledge Production: Industrial Relations Scholarship under Chinese Capitalism|We use the evolution of industrial relations scholarship in China to study the role of the state in the process of knowledge production. In the course of the last decade the policy of the Chinese state has shifted from promoting a flexible labour market as part of an export-led growth strategy, to addressing problems of growing labour unrest. This shift has, however, yet to be reflected in research and teaching of industrial relations. Drawing on an archive of over 7,000 articles published in Chinese-language journals, we show that the industrial relations field has failed to cohere in China as it did in North America and Western Europe in response to similar pressures in the middle decades of the twentieth century. Chinese research on labour issues is divided between a practice-orientated human resource management literature and a sociological approach which is isolated from practice and policy. We explain this pattern in terms of the distinctive nature of Chinese capitalism, which manages to be simultaneously state-encompassed yet individualistic, leaving little space for the collective institutions of civil society which have been the focus of industrial relations research in the West.
K31|Enforcement of labor market regulations: heterogeneous compliance and adjustment across gender|Abstract This paper explores microdata from Argentine household surveys to analyze how changes in the enforcement of labor regulations affect the compliance level and other labor outcomes among men and women. Using information of the highly decentralized labor inspection system in Argentina, I construct an enforcement measure with variation at the province, sector, and time level (share of inspected firms) which I instrument using a measure of the arrival cost of labor inspectors to the firms. The main findings reveal that when enforcement increases, the compliance with mandated benefits and formal wages increase among men, while informal wages decline. Among women, the compliance level declines jointly with informal wages. These heterogenous impacts are explained by labor regulations that make formal and informal men more substitutable in the production process than formal and informal women.
K31|Do firms' political connections depress the union wage effect? Evidence from China|Our paper reconciles the debated literature on the role of the Chinese unions by exploring the heterogeneous effects of unionization on wages in firms with and without political connections. We utilize a survey of 1268 firms in 12 cities to verify our hypothesis that wages increase due to unionization, but this union wage effect is significantly depressed by firms' political connections. Through a detailed analysis of the mechanism behind the empirical results, we conclude that unions increase workers' wages by strengthening the bargaining power of workers, while this bargaining power can be weakened by firms' political connections. Our main conclusion is robust to a series of robustness checks. Moreover, the results from quantile regressions inform us that the union wage effect and the role of political connections may vary along with the firms' wage distribution. Our findings suggest that the solution to further increase wages for low-wage workers and reduce wage inequality is to make the labor union an independent organization which can freely bargain with firms in terms of workers' wages and benefits, rather than an agency subordinate to the government whose role can be affected by the government support and undermined largely by firms' political connections.
K31|How do firms respond to minimum wage regulation in China? Evidence from Chinese private firms|To study how firms respond to minimum wage regulation in China, this paper empirically explores a number of dimensions along which firms adjust in response to minimum wage differences, using three waves of a national survey of Chinese private firms. Consistent with the predictions of economic theory, we find that private firms in China respond to minimum wage increases by cutting various fringe benefits such as pension and insurance, and by laying off low-skilled workers and short-term workers. Despite these adjustments, firms cannot fully mitigate the detrimental effects on firm profitability when faced with adverse demand shocks because of the wage rigidity introduced by minimum wage regulation. These findings highlight the unintended consequences of minimum wage regulation on the private sector in China.
K31|Labor protection and corporate Debt maturity: International evidence|This paper investigates the impact of labor protection on corporate debt maturity structure. We hypothesize that stronger labor protection is conducive to a greater use of short-term debt maturity by firms. Using various country-level indicators as measures of labor protection, and a sample of 114,594 firm-years from 43 countries over the 1990–2010 period, we document robust evidence that firms located in countries where labor enjoys a strong protection tend to borrow more short-term. Our analysis suggests that labor protection is an important institutional factor that plays a role in determining the maturity structure of corporate debt over-and-above economic, legal, and political factors identified in prior research.
K31|Labor protection and the privatization or partial privatization method|In this paper, we examine whether the extent to which the labor force is legally protected impacts the choice of whether to privatize SOEs through share issues in the public stock exchange or through asset sales to a small group of investors. Based on a sample of 3983 privatizations, which occurred from 1989 through 2008 in 55 countries, and using various measures of labor protection, we find that greater labor protection enhances the likelihood of share issue privatizations (SIPs). This result is robust to controls for political, legal, and economic factors and suggests that legally protected labor acquires enough power to be able to influence a government's choice of the privatization method. We also provide evidence that the positive effect of labor protection on the likelihood of SIPs is stronger (weaker) in countries where investors enjoy better (worse) legal protection, financial systems are more (less) developed, and when foreign investors are involved in the privatization offer.
K31|Measuring the effects of employment protection policies: Theory and evidence from the Americans with Disabilities Act|Title I of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) is an employment protection policy for disabled workers. By exploiting cross-state variation in pre-ADA legislation, we measure the effects of the law on transition rates of disabled workers. We find a decline in employment-to-non-employment transitions after the ADA, with an insignificant change in flow into employment. We use a model to disentangle the costs of firing and hiring imposed by the ADA. Our findings suggest that the ADA induces firms to fire less frequently but become more selective with new hires, impacting the aggregate productivity of the workforce and output of the economy.
K31|Job Protection, Housing Market Regulation and the Youth|Young Europeans experience high unemployment rates, job instability and late emancipation. Meanwhile they do not support reforms weakening protection on long-term contracts. In this paper, we suggest a possible rationale for such reform distaste. When the rental market is very regulated, landlords screen applicants with regard to their ability to pay the rent. Protecting regular jobs offers a second-best technology to sort workers, thereby increasing the rental market size. We provide a model where non-employed workers demand protected jobs despite unemployment and the share of short-term jobs increase, whereas rents, wages and the individual risk of dismissal are unaffected.
K31|Seniority rules, worker mobility and wages: Evidence from multi-country linked employer-employee data|We construct multi-country employer-employee data to examine the consequences of last-in, first-out rules. We identify the effects by comparing worker exit rates between different units of the same firms operating in Sweden and Finland, two countries that have different seniority rules. We observe a relatively lower exit rate for more senior workers in Sweden in the shrinking firms and among the low-wage workers. These empirical patterns are consistent with last-in, first-out rules in Sweden providing protection from dismissals for the more senior workers among the worker groups to whom the rules are most relevant. Similarly, we observe a steeper seniority-wage profile in Sweden, suggesting that last-in, first-out rules may also be beneficial for more senior workers in terms of compensation.
K31|Child labour and inequality|This paper focuses on the role that inequality plays in shaping political support for child labour regulation policies. We provide a model of the evolution of child labour, fertility and human capital where the heterogeneity between low- and high-skilled workers allows for an endogenous analysis of inequality generated by child labour. Depending on the initial level of inequality, child labour regulation policies can affect the welfare of low- and high-skilled workers in different ways and therefore can have an impact on political support for their introduction. The possible conflicts of interest that may arise between the two groups can help explain the difficulties that many governments have when dealing with the issue of child labour. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2016
K31|Child labour and inequality|Abstract This paper focuses on the role that inequality plays in shaping political support for child labour regulation policies. We provide a model of the evolution of child labour, fertility and human capital where the heterogeneity between low- and high-skilled workers allows for an endogenous analysis of inequality generated by child labour. Depending on the initial level of inequality, child labour regulation policies can affect the welfare of low- and high-skilled workers in different ways and therefore can have an impact on political support for their introduction. The possible conflicts of interest that may arise between the two groups can help explain the difficulties that many governments have when dealing with the issue of child labour.
K31|The Industrial Organization of Health-Care Markets|The U.S. health-care sector is large and growing—health-care spending in 2011 amounted to $2.7 trillion and 18 percent of GDP. Approximately half of health-care output is allocated via markets. In this paper, we analyze the industrial organization literature on health-care markets, focusing on the impact of competition on price, quality, and treatment decisions for health-care providers and health insurers. We conclude with a discussion of research opportunities for industrial organization economists, including opportunities created by the U.S. Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. (JEL J15, J24, J71, J81, K31)
K31|Racial Realism: A Review Essay on John Skrentny's After Civil Rights|In his valuable contribution, After Civil Rights, John Skrentny shows that in many sectors of the labor market, race is used in ways that were unanticipated when the 1964 Civil Rights Act was enacted. With separate chapters on the professions and business, the public sector, media and entertainment, and the low-skill market, he demonstrates that the new racial realism is widespread, generally has some justification from social scientific research, and is usually inconsistent with judicial decisions. I review the racially realistic practices (racial matching, increasing diversity, racial signaling, and racial characteristics) and discuss their implications for labor economics and for policy. (JEL J15, J24, J71, J81, K31)
K31|Service order execution procedure (in terms of labour law)|From the perspective of labor law, it is understood that the execution of the order of service, the essence of labor discipline, has in principle lawful purpose and, consequently, can not attract liability. It requires, however, the regulation mechanism by which theoretical assertions regarding order execution service materializes from a procedural standpoint.
K31|Analysis of the Portuguese legal framework concerning the safeguarding of employees' rights in the event of the transfer of an undertaking or an establishment compliance with the Directive 2001/23/CE of 12 march 2001|The undertaking, business, or part of an undertaking or business can be transferred to another person or corporation as a result of a merger or a legal transfer, transitory or definitive. As a consequence of the transfer, there is subrogation ex lege of the transferee in the rights and obligations arising from the employment relationship existing on the date of a transfer. This issue is of the utmost importance to accomplish the freedom of the employer negotiate the undertaking and the protection of employees' rights as well. The Portuguese legal framework has been shaped by Directive 77/187/ CEE and subsequently by Directive 2001/23/CE. In this paper, in order to assess the compliance of the legal framework concerning the enshrined in Labor Code with the Directive 2001/23/CE, it will be performed a comparative analysis between both regulations, which will be coordinated with the case law from the Court of Justice and Portuguese Courts. We will conclude that, apart from some issues, the Portuguese labour law regarding the safeguarding of employees' rights in the event of the transfer of an undertaking complies with the Directive 2001/23 /CE and the case law from the Court of Justice
K31|Non-standard employment relationship and the gender dimension|Besides influences economic, political and social on the standard form of individual employment contract, which led to a more flexible regulatory framework in the field of labor relations, an important factor that marked trend evolving contract atypical employment is the number of women who entered the labor market in recent decades. Because most strongly feminized form of employment non-standard employment relationship part-time, this article captures the issues most important about the relationship work part-time and the gender factor, the impact of this form of employment on the size women's social and level of protection provided by labor law and social protection rules in light of states that have agreed to support and legitimize this form of employment. Also, the circumstances of the most important, determining the choice of women in terms of hiring part-time, rationales justifying the strong influence of gender in hiring part-time, along with the identification of negative consequences of the feminization of this atypical forms of work are important factors that are discussed in this article.
K31|Issues legal and economic regarding amendments of the individual employment contract because the individual performance targets are not achieved by the employee|Adapting a gainful economic or technological developments ma y require modification of the individual employment contract under which the activity is performed, taking into account the intrinsic dynamism of employment.
K31|Whistleblowing in the Slovak labor law regulation|Corrupt behaviour is a common practice with negative effects on the whole of society. For instance, if a company wins a public procurement contract in an unfair way, it enriches itself not only at the expense of competition, but also at the expense of the whole of society, as the best applicant has not necessarily been selected within such a procurement. The same applies in the case of a supplier launching an unsafe product onto the market, threatening the health of everyone who buys it. In order to prevent such malpractice and eliminate their negative effects, the cooperation of persons aware of such behaviours is necessary. In order to ensure such cooperation, however, the existence of instruments protecting whistle-blowers against various sanctions (especially by employers) is necessary. As Slovak legislation did not include a regulation of procedures for reporting malpractice and protecting whistle-blowers, a new law aimed at solving such issues was enacted in October, 2014. The given legal regulation took effect on January 1, 2015. This paper endeavours to provide basic knowledge of the environment that the given regulation entered, as well as information on the possibilities of individuals to protect social interests on its grounds.
K31|Employment protection legislation and labor court activity in Spain|Labor courts may introduce a significant wedge between “legal” firing costs and “effective” (post-trial) firing costs. Apart from procedural costs, there is uncertainty over judges’ rulings, in particular over the likelihood of a “fair” dismissal ultimately being ruled as “unfair”, which may increase firing costs significantly. In 2010 and 2012, reforms of Employment Protection Legislation widened the definition of fair economic dismissals in Spain. In this paper we look at Labor Court rulings on dismissals across Spanish provinces before and after the EPL reforms (2004-2014). We make this comparison taking into account a set of co-variates (local labor market conditions, characteristics of the Labor Courts, pre-trial conciliations, congestion of Labor Courts) which may determine the selection of dismissal cases ruled by Labor Courts. Our results suggest that, despite the 2010 and 2012 EPL reforms, the proportion of economic redundancies being ruled as fair by Labor Courts has not substantially increased, although it is now less negatively associated with the local unemployment rate than in the pre-reform period.
K31|Maternity and Labor Markets: Impact of Legislation in Colombia|Our research seeks to determine the impact on female labor outcomes of the amendment on the Colombian labor law in which maternity leave was extended from 12 to 14 weeks (through Law 1468 of July 2011). To identify this impact we compare labor market outcomes of two groups of women with differences in their fertility rates. We find evidence that as a result of the extension of the maternity leave period, women in the high-fertility age group have experienced an increase in inactivity rates, informality, and self-employment. We argue that a redesign of maternity protection policy is due, one through which the economic and social costs of bearing children are shared by both parents and which may generate social change regarding the importance of paternal care.
K31|How Does China's New Labour Contract Law Affect Floating Workers?|China's new Labor Contract Law took effect on January 2008 and required firms to give migrant workers written contracts, strengthened labor protections for workers and contained penalties for firms that did not follow the labor code. This paper uses survey data of migrant workers in the Pearl River Delta before and after the law and a retrospective question on when workers received their first labor contract to assess the effects of the law on labor outcomes. The evidence shows that the new law increased the percentage of migrant workers with written contracts, which in turn raised social insurance coverage, reduced the likelihood of wage arrears, and raised the likelihood that the worker had a union at their workplace.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
K31|Market forces shaping human capital in eighteenth-century London|" type=""main""> This article draws on quantitative and descriptive data from Robert Campbell's manual for prospective apprentices, The London tradesman (1747), to demonstrate the responsiveness of apprenticeship premiums in mid-eighteenth-century London to market forces of supply and demand. It first shows that Campbell's data on mid-eighteenth-century journeymen wages, apprenticeship premiums, and masters’ set-up costs in London are consistent with other sources. It then applies instrumental variable regressions to estimate the elasticity of apprenticeship premiums with respect to journeymen wages and set-up costs, using Campbell's education and ability requirements by trade to instrument for wages. We find an elasticity of one with respect to wages, and of 0.25 with respect to set-up costs, both statistically significant at a p-value less than 0.1%. We interpret these findings as supporting the thesis that apprenticeship played an important role in adapting the English workforce to the skill requirements of the industrial revolution in its early stages, insofar as the institution of apprenticeship in London was representative of other parts of England. Furthermore, by demonstrating the internal and external consistency of Campbell's observations, our findings should encourage their use as an unparalleled source of detailed, trade-specific wage data from the early years of the industrial revolution."
K31|Let Young People Join The Legislative Process. A Twitter Based Experiment On Internships|The aim of this research is to examine the possible effects of labour market institutional characteristics on young people's perceptions of their internship experiences as expressed on Twitter. By looking at these opinions (satisfaction versus dissatisfaction) in relation to certain features of internships as well as to the more general labour market regulatory framework, this project aims to give a voice to young people, enabling them (indirectly) to provide policy suggestions to law-makers. Furthermore, we propose a preview of a possible empirical model for data collection based on the manual coding of Tweets. By employing a Probit regression and Blinder-Oaxaca and Fairlie decompositions, we have tried to establish a link between the perceived evaluation of internships and the country where the internship is based, the latter being used as a proxy for the legal system. In all our tests we found that the country in which the internship is placed is the main factor in the positive or negative perception. Ultimately we shall propose the use of Twitter not only as a relevant research tool, but also as an instrument for bringing young people's needs to the attention of law-makers.
K31|How Should India Reforms Its Labour Laws?|We examine the current policy debate around the reform of labour laws in India, which has been stimulated in part by the success of the Gujarat model of economic development. Gujarat's deregulatory reforms have included changes to the legal regime governing employment terminations, which could form a basis for a change in national-level labour laws. Evidence linking labour law deregulation to growth, however, is weak, whether the focus is on India or the experience of other countries. Building labour market institutions is a long-term process which requires investment in state capacity for the management of risks associated with the transition to a formal economy.
K31|Dismissal Disputes and Endogenous Sorting|Dismissal disputes occur mostly in recessions and often lead to long and costly contract termination procedures. This paper investigates how dispute procedures may affect the job-matching process. First we present a simple accounting framework that corresponds with general dismissal legislation, but is sufficiently flexible to accommodate country-specific legislation. Detailed information from a sample of 2,191 disputes that occurred in the Netherlands between 2006 and 2009 is used to adjust the framework to Dutch institutional specificity. The resulting equilibrium matching model is solved to explain endogenous sorting between lengthy and costly firing procedures. The model also rationalizes the longevity of the dual Dutch model and its political resilience.
K31|Education and Marriage Decisions of Japanese Women and the Role of the Equal Employment Opportunity Act|The Japanese Equal Employment Opportunity Act (EEOA) of 1985 aimed to reduce gender discrimination in the labor market, especially for career-oriented jobs. This paper investigates whether this act had an unanticipated effect on women’s marriage decisions. Using micro data from the Japanese Panel Survey of Consumers, we model women’s interrelated decisions on university education and whether to marry, focusing on whether women have married by age 32. Our results show a negative relationship between university education and marriage that is much greater for post-EEOA cohorts of women than for pre-EEOA cohorts, consistent with our hypothesis that the enhanced career opportunities associated with the EEOA stimulated women to delay or forgo marriage.
K31|What factors influence firm perceptions of labour market constraints to growth in the MENA region?|Purpose - – Labour market constraints constitute prominent obstacles to firm development and economic growth of countries located in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region. The purpose of this paper is to examine the implications of firm characteristics, national locations, and sectoral associations for the perceptions of firms concerning two basic labour market constraints: labour regulations and labour skill shortages. Design/methodology/approach - – The empirical analysis is carried out using firm-level data set sourced from the World Bank’s Enterprise Surveys database. A bivariate probit estimator is used to account for potential correlations between the errors in the two labour market constraints’ equations. The authors implement overall estimations and comparative cross-country and cross-sector analyses, and use alternative estimation models. Findings - – The empirical results reveal some important implications of firm characteristics (e.g. firm size, labour compositions) for firm perceptions of labour regulations and labour skill shortages. They also delineate important cross-country and cross-sector variations. The authors also find significant heterogeneity in the factors’ implications for the perceptions of firms belonging to different sectors and located in different MENA countries. Originality/value - – Reforms in labour regulations and investment in human capital are important governmental policy interventions for promoting firm development and economic growth in the MENA region. This paper contributes to the empirical literature by analysing the factors influencing the perceptions of firms located in the MENA region concerning labour regulations and labour skill shortages. It provides policy-makers with information needed in the design of labour policies that attenuate the impacts of labour market constraints and enhance the performance of firms and the long-run economic growth.
K31|Maternity and Labor Markets: Impact of Legislation in Colombia|This study seeks to determine the impact on female labor outcomes of the amendment to the Colombian labor law that extended maternity leave from 12 to 14 weeks (Law 1468 of July 2011). To identify this impact, labor market outcomes of two groups of women with different fertility rates are compared. The study finds evidence that as a result of the extension of the maternity leave period, women in the high-fertility age group experience an increase in inactivity rates, informality, and self-employment. The study points to the need for a redesign of maternity protection policy that would enable the economic and social costs of bearing children to be shared by both parents and that may generate social change regarding the importance of paternal care.
K31|Economic analysis of hiring forms dedicated to managerial positions in Poland|This paper deals with the economic analysis of hiring forms dedicated to managerial positions. Theoretical frames for corporate governance are based on agency theory. Crucial problems considered within agency theory are: information asymmetry, conflict of interests and supervision (monitoring) of management. Presented analysis covers also remuneration forms and manager’s participation in ownership. Theoretical underpinnings of this research supports the analysis of managers hiring methods available in Poland (managerial contracts and employment contracts) in order to point out the solution, which reduces agency costs to the greatest extent.
K31|Involvement of employees in corporate governance in a European company|The aim of this paper is to consider the meaning of employee involvement in practical functioning of European companies. The basis for this evaluation will be not only legal provisions but also practical operation of European companies in the market. This will allow us to learn about the level and scope of employee involvement in corporate governance at the transnational level, and to determine whether this is in fact the future direction of development of this type of governance. The considerations will be carried out utilizing literature review and comparative law analysis as methodologies. The analysis of the legal framework will be complemented by an empirical approach that is necessary to identify the European companies operating in the market.
K31|Dismissal Disputes and Endogenous Sorting|Dismissal disputes occur mostly in recessions and often lead to long and costly contract termination procedures. This paper investigates how dispute procedures may affect the job-matching process. First we present a simple accounting framework that corresponds with general dismissal legislation, but is sufficiently flexible to accommodate country-specific legislation. Detailed information from a sample of 2,191 disputes that occurred in the Netherlands between 2006 and 2009 is used to adjust the framework to Dutch institutional specificity. The resulting equilibrium matching model is solved to explain endogenous sorting between lengthy and costly firing procedures. The model also rationalizes the longevity of the dual Dutch model and its political resilience.
K31|Raising rivals’ cost through buyer power|We re-examine the view that a ban on price discrimination in input markets is particularly desirable in the presence of buyer power. This argument crucially depends on an inverse relationship between downstream firms’ profits and the uniform input price. Assuming different input efficiencies among downstream firms, we derive a necessary and sufficient condition such that a higher input price benefits a subset of relatively efficient downstream firms. In such instances, consumers may be better off if discriminatory pricing is feasible.
K31|Does a high minimum wage spur low-skilled emigration?|We investigate the migration response to state and local variation in minimum wages in the United States. We find that a one dollar difference between two areas’ real minimum wage is associated with 3.1% more migration of low-skilled workers towards the location with the lower minimum wage. The minimum wage does not influence the migration decisions of high-skilled workers.
K31|Lobbying and dismissal dispute resolution systems|Previous studies of dismissal protection have largely been based on the analysis of the rules on the books. However, actual outcomes often rely on the involvement of courts. Our model takes this feature into account and explains how relative lobbying power of unions and employer associations in the legislature and judicial realm, and characteristics of labor court systems shape labor court activity and affect payoffs. Our model predicts that (a) as employer associations become stronger, court activity increases, and firms’ costs and workers’ payoffs decrease; (b) higher court costs tend to reduce the extent of labor court disputes and may, therefore, actually reduce the cost of judicial involvement; (c) court systems that can be lobbied more effectively make reliance on courts less attractive for the trade union if it is the stronger party.
K31|Peer effects in judicial decisions: Evidence from Spanish labour courts|The aim of this paper is to estimate peer effects in judicial decisions by exploring whether local and/or regional patterns may impact these decisions. The analysis of these patterns allows us to detect the existence of different social or neighbourhood effects, namely, contextual, correlated and peer effects. Our empirical analysis is based on the General Council of the Judiciary database, which provides court level information on the number of cases resolved in favour of the worker by judges between 2004 and 2010. Methodologically, we build different spatial correlation matrices to find local and/or regional patterns. Underlying the current analysis is the notion that judges might be influenced by the decisions taken by their colleagues in neighbouring provincial or even regional courts. Our results point to the absence of contextual effects, some significance of correlated effects (likely caused by the existence of a High Court in each region that acts as the highest authority before which appeals may be filed) and strong evidence of peer effects.
K31|Employment-At-Will Exceptions and jobless recovery|This paper studies the effects on jobless recovery of diminishing the power of an employer to fire an employee through Employment-At-Will Exceptions (EWEs). I use dynamic panel regressions with quarterly data ranging from 1976 to 2010 for the 50 states in the U.S. I test both changes in state unemployment rates and state-weighted GDP growth. I also resolve differences in the various sources documenting the three types of EWEs in different states and show two of the three contribute significantly to jobless recovery in the U.S. The results lend support to predictions of theory that increased firing costs decrease the rate of hiring during recoveries. Statistical tests show the adoption of both EWEs would slow decreases in the unemployment rate during recovery from recession by up to 0.352 percentage points annually.
K31|Apologija Novom Hrvatskom Insolvencijskom Pravu|Stecajni zakon donesen je u svibnju 1996. (NN 44/96) i nakon toga mijenjan (dopunjavan) sedam puta (NN 44/96, 29/99, 129/00, 123/03, 82/06, 116/10, 25/12 i 45/13 - dalje: SZ). Donošenje Stecajnoga zakona po uzoru na njemacki Insolvencijski zakon (Insolvenzordnung) od 5. 10. 1994. (Bundesgesetzblatt, 1994., I, str. 2866; posljednja izmjena Bundesgesetzblatt, 2011., I, str. 2854.) i prestanak važenja Zakona o prisilnoj nagodbi, stecaju i likvidaciji (NN br. 53/91 i 54/94) predstavljalo je korjenitu promjenu nacina na koji se provodio stecajni postupak u Republici Hrvatskoj. Kod gotovo svih promjena bilo je rijec o namjeri prevladavanja „akutnih“ problema u praksi i unaprjecenju sustava ostvarivanja stecajno-pravne zaštite, i to funkcionalizacijom, ubrzanjem i smanjenjem troškova stecajnoga postupka. Mecutim, kako je razdoblje nakon donošenja SZ-a vrijeme ekonomskoga rasta, posljedicno nije postojala svijest o potrebi da se spoznaju i stecaju daju i druge funkcije osim da služi samo kao instrument naplate dospjelih potraživanja od dužnika nesposobnih da izvršavaju svoje obveze, što za krajnji rezultat ima njihovu likvidaciju. Ipak, ceste financijske krize uvjetovale su potrebu za radikalnom reformom stecajne regulative, a buduæi da tehnika provocenja stecaja nije dala pomake i da se u stecaj ide, u pravilu, bez stecajnoga plana, javila se potreba za implementiranjem novoga zakona, Zakona o financijskome poslovanju i predstecajnoj nagodbi (NN 108/12, 144/12, 81/13 i 112/13 (71/15 i 78/15)). Iako je donošenjem ZFPPN-a 2012. znatno izmijenjen stecajni postupak u Republici Hrvatskoj, u njegovoj dvogodišnjoj prakticnoj primjeni uoceno je niz problema u tumacenju i ucincima pojedinih odredbi i instituta, što æe se pokušati otkloniti donošenjem novoga Stecajnog zakona (NN 71/15). Kako je „novi“ SZ drukcije od staroga definirao ovlaštenja i odgovornosti stecajnoga upravitelja, bilo je, prema shvaæanju zakonodavca, nužno i nomotehnicki urediti pitanje nagrade operativnih tijela stecajnoga postupka novom uredbom, a na temelju ovlaštenja iz SZ-a (Uredba o kriterijima i nacinu obracuna i plaæanja nagrade stecajnim upraviteljima objavljena je u NN 105/15). Nadalje, iako indikativna metoda utvrcivanja cinjenica ukazuje kako željeni ciljevi funkcionalizacije stecajno-pravne zaštite još nisu ostvareni, pred zakonodavcem je novi/stari zadatak – implementacija instituta potrošackoga stecaja kroz rješenja Zakona o stecaju potrošaca (NN 100/15). Štoviše, radi usklacenja s novim SZ, a u želji i daljnjega ekonomsko-socijalnoga poboljšanja najugroženijih u stecajnom postupku, dakle radnika, zakonodavac je po hitnom postupku drugi put novelirao Zakon o osiguranju potraživanja radnika u slucaju stecaja poslodavca (NN 86/08, 80/13 i 82/15). Svakako smatramo bitnim istaknuti kako prostor koji ovdje imamo ne dopušta detaljnu rašclambu ove problematike pa smo prinuceni ograniciti se iskljucivo, po mišljenju autora, na najvažnije aspekte nove insolvencije regulative. Štoviše, rezultat koji autor ovim radom želi postiæi jest uciniti jedan doprinos potpunijem i cjelovitijem shvaæanju pitanja koja se mogu postaviti (i pojaviti) u vezi s novim institutima. U cilju što sveobuhvatnijega odgovora na samu temu struktura ovoga rada je tomu morala biti prilagocena. Ovaj rad mogao je biti podijeljen na cetiri dijela, ali to formalno nije ucinjeno.
K31|Las reformas laborales en la crisis económica: su impacto económico|This article focuses on the economic impact of labour market reforms passed during the last financial crisis in Spain, in particular the ones of 2010, 2011 and 2012, but above all the last one, the most radical of all the reforms approved since the passing of the Workers’ Statute in 1980. The 2012 labour reform introduced relevant modifications in the labour law in matters of hiring, firing, alteration of working conditions and wage argaining. The article analyses the effects of those reforms on the labour market, in particular on hirings and employment precariousness, labour turnover and firing, the dynamic and structure of wage bargaining, wages, competitiveness, productivity and capacity of employment creation.
K31|Managing Labour Adjustments in an Integrating ASEAN|The integration processes of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) are ushering changes in the labour market across the region. Unions complain that jobs are increasingly becoming precarious. Human resource managers find it difficult to retain talents which have become mobile under the ASEAN Economic Community (AEC) Blueprint (ASEAN, 2007b) allowing the free flow of skilled labour. And labour administrators are faced with three major policy issues: 1) how to promote human resource development in a labour market that has become regional; 2) how to balance the demand of workers for more protection and the demand of industry for more labour flexibility; and 3) how to maintain industrial peace in an integrating ASEAN? To address the foregoing, the paper argues for increased bipartite and tripartite social dialogue in accordance with the “ASEAN Guidelines on Good Industrial Relations Practices” adopted by the ASEAN Labour Ministers (ALM) in 2010.
K31|La prospettiva europea di un’occupazione stabile e di qualità: limiti, paradossi, tendenze|A partire dalla formula more and better jobs, le politiche europee hanno teso ad associare aumento occupazionale e creazione posti di lavoro di qualità. Il saggio mette in evidenza la carenza di analisi valutative dell’impatto quantitativo e qualitativo che l’evoluzione normativa ha prodotto sul lavoro. Da questo punto di vista, l’Italia rappresenta un caso emblematico di bassa attenzione alle conseguenze della continua produzione normativa sulle condizioni concrete del mercato del lavoro. Infatti, per far fronte ai pressanti inviti ad adottare politiche economiche attente alla sostenibilità socio-economica ed ambientale, si è optato per una modifica continua del diritto del lavoro sempre più svincolato da una valutazione concreta e complessiva dei cambiamenti, rassicurando i mercati e affidandosi alle imprese come via di uscita dalla crisi. Persa l’occasione per una sedimentazione delle norme e una verifica dei loro effetti, si va così delineando uno scenario in cui si assiste alla crescente disattenzione verso i processi di precarizzazione del lavoro subordinato e all’affermazione di un diritto del lavoro che monetizza le prestazioni e non considera il lavoratore come parte debole da proteggere.
K31|Quarant’anni di contrattazione collettiva in aia|Aia, Agricola Italiana Alimentare, è una delle primarie aziende europee nel settore carni fresche, prodotti gastronomici e affettati avicoli. L’attività produttiva è avviata negli anni Sessanta dalla famiglia Veronesi nello stabilimento di S. Martino Buon Albergo (VR), per poi assumere progressivamente una struttura moderna e complessa. Nel dicembre del 1970 viene siglato il primo contratto aziendale della storia negoziale di Aia, dando inizio ad una ricca produzione di accordi sino ai nostri giorni. Nel 2009 le parti sociali realizzano un Testo Unico e una raccolta del patrimonio negoziale prodotto. L’articolo intende cogliere le evoluzioni più interessanti della contrattazione aziendale e di Gruppo di Aia, dagli istituti contrattuali di natura partecipativa all’organizzazione del lavoro, evidenziando la gestione dei turni, mansioni e inquadramento, orario di lavoro, ferie e riposi, ecc., nonché temi collegati al miglioramento qualitativo del lavoro sul piano della sicurezza o di altri servizi, come la mensa o lo spaccio, sino a ricomprendere gli aspetti legati al salario, come contrattazione acquisitiva, in termini di indennità, premio di produzione sino all'attuale premio di risultato.
K31|Contratto di rete e gestione del personale tra distacco, codatorialità e assunzioni congiunte|Con la legge 99/13, il legislatore italiano ha introdotto nuovi strumenti giuridici per la gestione del personale nelle imprese che hanno sottoscritto un contratto di rete. Il saggio analizza le differenze tra gli istituti del distacco, codatorialità e assunzione congiunta, così come regolati dagli artt. 30 e 31 del dlgs 276/03. Dopo una ricostruzione delle principali prospettive interpretative in dottrina, l’analisi propone una lettura della codatorialità - nei limiti della normativa in vigore - in termini di distacco «a parte complessa». Ciò nondimeno, sono evidenziate lacune e incoerenze normative nonché problematiche applicative che richiederanno necessariamente un intervento del legislatore e/o un chiarimento amministrativo, e che attualmente stanno scoraggiando le imprese dal dare attuazione all’istituto della codatorialità.
K31|Catene di appalti e subappalti: responsabilità solidale del committente e minimale retributivo dei soci lavoratori|"L’articolo analizza in modo approfondito alcuni istituti di particolare rilevanza in tema di appalti e subappalti: la disciplina della solidarietà passiva tra committente, appaltatore e subappaltatore, in perenne evoluzione, e quella del c.d. minimale retributivo dei soci lavoratori delle cooperative di produzione e lavoro, di grande attualità dopo la sentenza della Corte Costituzionale n. 51 del 2015 sul tema. L’esigenza di analisi e di approfondimento di tali istituti è emersa in occasione di alcuni incontri di formazione che si sono tenuti nel corso del 2015 con dirigenti, delegati e funzionari sindacali: si è trattato di un percorso di ricerca- azione costruito a partire da alcuni casi concreti, discussi e analizzati, che hanno consentito di toccare le problematiche che ogni giorno si presentano all’attenzione di chi ha il non facile compito di combattere il lavoro non pagato e le nuove dilaganti forme di competizione salariale ""al ribasso""."
K31|In defense of Private Discrimination: The case for religious freedom to deny services to individuals|Advocates of the war against discrimination and affirmative action claim it is necessary to set up additional regulatory procedures that will defend interests of minorities who, previously, were not given enough chances to succeed. Because there is no set definition of a minority who suffered from discrimination in the past (Historically Excluded Groups [HEGs] consider all women to be a minority), law-enforcement practices are to a large degree dependent on precedence (judicial authorities) as well as the behavior of bureaucrats who have the authority to defend people against discrimination. Incentives and the true criteria for choosing minorities will be analyzed in this report. There are practices in the USA and Israel, as well as statistics of EEOC practices (a committee on equal rights in hiring, that is a kind of specialized public prosecution office) supporting the hypothesis that the main anti-discriminatory activity aims to mobilize groups who traditionally voted against a limited government, to vote for a nanny state that provides cradle to grave care.
K31|"\""The parts and the whole”: Unbundling and re-bundling institutional systems and their effect on economic development"|This paper surveys the growing empirical neo-institutional literature dealing with economic development and shows that it has essentially developed a one-dimensional perspective on institutions and their effect on economic development that has overlooked the fact that economic effects of institutions actually tend to cluster. The paper introduces an original framework to analyze institutional systems and the clustered effect of institutions. Drawing on this framework and on recent empirical studies having attempted to unbundle or re-bundle institutional systems along these lines, it is argued that understanding how institutions cluster their impact on economic outcomes imposes to give more attention to institutional systems, notably by (1) unbundling the specific economic effects of specialized institutions from those of such general purpose institutions as rule of law or property right enforcement, and by (2) re-bundling these effects so that de jure and de facto complementarities and hierarchies can be identified between specialized and general purpose institutions.
K31|The Harrington Paradox Squared|"Harrington (1988) shows that state-dependent enforcement based on past compliance records provides an explanation to the seemingly contradictory observation that firms' compliance with environmental regulations is high despite the fact that inspections occur infrequently and fines are rare and small. This result has been labeled in the literature as the ""Harrington paradox"". In this paper we propose an improved transition structure for the audit framework where targeting is based not only on firms' past compliance record but also on adoption of environmentally superior technologies. We show that this transition structure would not only foster the adoption of new technology but also increase deterrence by changing the composition of firms in the industry toward an increased fraction of cleaner firms that pollute and violate less."
K31|Employment protection and labor productivity|Current theoretical predictions of how employment protection affects firm productivity are ambiguous. In this paper, I study the effect of employment protection rules on labor productivity using Swedish register data. A reform of employment protection rules in 2001 enabled small firms with fewer than eleven employees to exempt two workers from the seniority rules. I treat this reform as a natural experiment. My results indicate that increased labor market flexibility increases labor productivity. This increase is explained by total factor productivity and capital intensity rather than the educational level of workers.
K31|Individual Dismissal from the Perspective of the Employer and Specific Regulations if Bankruptcy of the Company in Romania|Individual dismissal is individual employment termination as a result of the effective abolition of the position held by the employee, for one or more reasons not related to his person, based on actual cause real and serious under art. 65 Romanian Labour Code. It should be noted that the practice shows that, at present, the reasons are, in fact, the same: economic, technological, organizational. As for checking the validity of the plea raised by the employer, it falls within the jurisdiction of the courts seised of the appeal dismissed employee. By law no. 85/2014 on procedures to prevent insolvency and insolvency to set a new insolvency regime by repealing the previous law no. 85/2006 regarding the same. We consider that art. 123 of Law no. 85/2014 does not cover a new hypothesis for the termination of individual employment contract, but a reflection of the provisions of the Romanian Labour Code. In reality, it does not simply embodies, in principle, the possibility of individual labor contract parties to unilaterally terminate the contract, the obligation to respect the right that the period of notice. Art. 123 para. 1 is not the individual employment contracts, and art. 123 para. 7 generic enshrines the right of both parties to terminate the contract of employment. Alin. 8 of the same article regulates the right of the employer to the employee's dismissal of individual or collective. In conclusion, art. 123 is an application of art. 65 et seq. of the Romanian Labour Code, the applicable individual or collective dismissal procedure covered by these texts.
K31|From deregulation to re-regulation : trend reversal in German labour market institutions and its possible implications|"""From the mid-1980s until 2005 the German labour market was characterised by continuous deregulation. In the period of an improving German labour market, the German governments have since imposed measures to re-regulate the labour market in order to strengthen employees' rights. At the same time one can observe a tendency towards atypical forms of employment and an increase in low-wage employment. Two closely interrelated questions arise: What role did deregulation play with respect to the overall improvement of the German labour market and shifts in the employment structure? How could re-regulation impact labour market performance and employment structure in the future? The paper presents evidence that institutional reforms were an important driver of the improvement of the German labour market as well as of changes in the employment structure but definitely not the only one. This result suggests that with regard to the potential effects of recent re-regulation neither concerns about severe job losses nor hopes for a much better quality of jobs should be overestimated."" (Author's abstract, IAB-Doku) ((en))"
K31|Executive Women And Work-Family Interaction: Evidence In Mexico Mujeres Ejecutivas E Interaccion Trabajofamilia: Evidencias En Mexico|The access of women to high positions in organizations has been limited by some difficulties originate by the culture, that institutionalizes discrimination, subordination and inequity between men and women. These problems make evident the need for structural changes in the family, the state and the labor market. This paper is a gender view to the interaction family-work; analyzes executive women in the cities of Durango and Aguascalientes. The strategy was a survey conducted 58 interviews with women executives. Comparison of findings from three studies on executive is also made. (Griselda MartÃ­nez VÃ¡zquez, 1997; Adriana Gallegos, 2004 and MarÃ­a del Carmen Bernal and Enrique Taracena, 2012). Looking for the construction of a new gender identity for this group of workers, is possible show some findings: women still perceived themselves as responsible for the private world, and there is not a substantial change in terms of new female identity, because women executives have reconciled work and family but feelings of guilt persist; although they show egalitarian relationships with their husbands with whom they share the parenting.
K31|Maternity and Labor Markets: Impact of Legislation in Colombia|Our research seeks to determine the impact on female labor outcomes of the amendment on the Colombian labor law in which maternity leave was extended from 12 to 14 weeks (through Law 1468 of July 2011). To identify this impact we compare labor market outcomes of two groups of women with differences in their fertility rates. We find evidence that as a result of the extension of the maternity leave period, women in the high-fertility age group have experienced an increase in inactivity rates, informality, and self-employment. We argue that a redesign of maternity protection policy is due, one through which the economic and social costs of bearing children are shared by both parents and which may generate social change regarding the importance of paternal care.
