K33|Optimal environmental border adjustments under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade|We consider the legal and economic context for border adjustments that might be used to augment subglobal carbon abatement. Following Markusen (1975) we establish optimal border policy in the presence of cross-border environmental damages. The optimal border policy includes a strategic component that is inconsistent with legal commitments under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). Incorporating GATT compliance into the theory indicates an optimal border adjustment that taxes the carbon content of trade below the domestic carbon price. This theoretic finding is in contrast to the standard advice to impose the domestic carbon price on the carbon content of trade. The wedge between the domestic carbon price and the optimal environmental border adjustment occurs in general equilibrium because border adjustments inadvertently drive up consumption of emissions intensive goods in unregulated regions. We conclude our analysis with numeric simulations of Annex-I carbon policy. We find an optimal import tariff on the carbon content of aluminum that is on the order of 50% of the domestic carbon price. Countries that impose border carbon adjustments at the domestic carbon price will be extracting rents from unregulated regions at the expense of efficient environmental policy and consistency with international law.
K33| El sistema de Madrid y la reducción los costos de transacción. Una evaluación econométrica| Desde el año 1993 cuando se marca el fin de la GATT[1] los aspectos relacionados a la propiedad intelectual se convierten en un elemento clave en el acceso a nuevos mercados. Simultáneamente, se produce un cambio en la estrategia de negociaciones comerciales desde una de enfoque multilateral hacia una que enfatizara las negociaciones de gobierno a gobierno. Estos dos cambios condujeron a que los aspectos relacionados a los derechos de propiedad intelectual se constituyan en un elemento clave en la estrategia de acceso a mercados, en ese sentido, El llamado Sistema de Madrid (SM) es un mecanismo administrativo que reduce tanto el costo de registro de marcas así como el costo de mantenimiento del valor contractual de las mismas, y por lo tanto permite a las empresas utilizar las marcas de manera globalizada y así diferenciar sus productos (servicios) y enfrentar la competencia en los mercados con mejor chance. En ese sentido, el SM ofrece una ventana de oportunidades para las potenciales exportaciones de bienes y servicios producidas principalmente para las pequeñas y medianas empresas, en particular; en el caso peruano, el sector gastronómico es el sector que potencialmente podría beneficiarse de la adopción del SM por parte del Perú. Los resultados de nuestro estudio muestran que las solicitudes de los residentes crecen en promedio de 29% a 34% anual lo que potencialmente genera un fenómeno multiplicador de producción y empleo que puede resultar muy significativo, especialmente si está asociado con sectores intensivos en mano de obra como es el caso del sector servicios que presenta características muy atrayentes de desarrollo significativo, y donde la adopción al SM facilitaría el crecimiento de dicho sector al ampliarle el acceso a los mercados de una manera costo eficiente. EL SM cuenta actualmente con 117 miembros, siendo particularmente resaltante que el grueso de los países latinoamericanos no participe en dicho sistema, lo que pone en discusión el rol que pueden jugar los grupos de interés en la adopción de reformas institucionales reductoras de costes de transacción y, en consecuencia, profundizando el rol de los mercados. JEL Classification-JEL: C23, D72, F13 y K33.
K33|Do Cross-border Patents Promote Trade?|"While we would expect that cross-border patents are used to protect a technology that is made available in another country, that technology could either be produced locally or imported. International patent filings could therefore be either complements or substitutes to international trade. This study combines data on patenting and trade for 149 countries and 249 industries between 1974 and 2006 with a ""three-way"" PPML panel data model that addresses several biases emphasized in the trade literature in order to provide a systematic analysis of how bilateral trade responds to cross-border patent filings. We find that cross-border patents have a positive (complementary) overall effect on the patent-filing country's exports to the patent-granting country and no effect overall on imports flowing in the opposite direction. These effects vary substantially across industries and destination markets. Patents promote significantly more bilateral export growth--and significantly less bilateral import growth--in less-differentiated industries and are found to have stronger effects on exports to more distant destinations. These findings support the interpretation that cross-border patents are mainly used to protect cost and/or quality innovations from being adopted by producers of competing products in the patent-granting country."
K33|The effect of economic crises on the emergence of investor-state arbitration cases|The number of investor-state arbitration disputes has been on the rise since the mid 1990s. Their determinants are still not fully understood. This study empirically examines the effects of economic crises on investor-state arbitration claims, based on international investment agreements (IIAs). We use a unique dataset containing 961 investor-state arbitration claims covering 132 host (defendant) and 75 home (claimant) countries over the 1986-2017 period. We find that episodes of economic crises are positively and significantly associated with the number of investor-state arbitration cases and we uncover evidence that the type of economic crisis matters. In addition, the positive impact of economic crises on arbitration cases is inversely related to the rule of law in a host country. These results are consistent with the view that governments are prioritizing policy actions aiming at mitigating the negative impact of economic crises over compliance with their obligations in IIAs. From a policy perspective, our results suggest that besides strengthening the rule of law domestically, the IIA system should be reformed with a focus on avoiding a vicious circle, thus shortening the recovery period after economic crises.
K33|The effect of economic crises on the emergence of investor-state arbitration cases| The number of investor-state arbitration disputes has been on the rise since the mid 1990s. Their determinants are still not fully understood. This study empirically examines the effects of economic crises on investor-state arbitration claims, based on international investment agreements (IIAs). We use a unique dataset containing 961 investor-state arbitration claims covering 132 host (defendant) and 75 home (claimant) countries over the 1986-2017 period. We find that episodes of economic crises are positively and significantly associated with the number of investor-state arbitration cases and we uncover evidence that the type of economic crisis matters. In addition, the positive impact of economic crises on arbitration cases is inversely related to the rule of law in a host country. These results are consistent with the view that governments are prioritizing policy actions aiming at mitigating the negative impact of economic crises over compliance with their obligations in IIAs. From a policy perspective, our results suggest that besides strengthening the rule of law domestically, the IIA system should be reformed with a focus on avoiding a vicious circle, thus shortening the recovery period after economic crises.
K33|Systemic usury and the European Consumer Credit Directive|Usury is a frequent occurrence in consumer credit markets and particularly affects low-income households. Systemic usury exploits poverty by shifting usury into additional products and leveraging usury gains by stringing together individual loan agreements. This paper reviews the economic rationale for usury legislation and on this basis evaluates the European Consumer Credit Directive 2008/48/EC. Systemic usury is a market failure. The most powerful explanations for such failure in consumer credit markets are monopoly power, where the consumer is locked in a bilateral credit relationship, discrimination through risk-based pricing, and negative externalities, where the least solvent borrowers are cross-subsidized by the more solvent ones. Incomplete information of consumers cannot explain systemic usury in credit markets, because even fully informed consumers would be discriminated and trapped into a situation of bilateral monopoly. However, the European Consumer Credit Directive is primarily based on the model of incomplete information, which it seeks to correct by informational duties. As a consequence, usurious practices and products are implicitly acknowledged as legal, which has eroded the national combat against usury. Therefore, this Directive is not effective and must be reformed.
K33|Special and Differential Treatment of Developing Countries in the WTO Agreement on Trade Facilitation: Is there a cause for optimism?|The growing evidence of market failure, uncertainties in international cooperation and complexities of the problems of global inequalities has made special and differential treatment of developing countries (S&DT) not only increasingly necessary, but also increasingly difficult. In this paper, we examine the S&DT measures in the WTO Agreement on Trade Facilitation (TFA), in addressing the delicate balance between the concerns of developing countries and fostering the TFA’s objectives of expediting the movement, release and clearance of goods, including goods in transit. We find that, while the S&DT appears, in the face value, to offer flexibility for developing countries especially the least developed countries in implementation of the TFA, this flexibility has been eroded by conditioning assistance and support for capacity building to notification of commitments. The linking of support to commitment creates not only dilemma for developing countries on the timing of commitment (implementation) but also exposes them to risks of taking on increasing commitment before prerequisite capacity. Given the ‘best endeavour’ nature of the relevant provisions, it is not apparent that the benefits of implementing the Agreement will outweigh its costs if developed countries relegate on their promise to provide assistance and support for capacity building.
K33|Trade in Financial Services Regionalism: Derivatives Clearing and Settlement in Economic Integration Agreements|Trade in financial services is integrated through Economic Integration Agreements (EIAs), in addition to the multilateral trading system developed under the WTO. Securities’ clearing and settlement services have nowadays become more important than ever. The latter have gained enormous strategic relevance due to the global regulatory shift towards tasking clearinghouses to mitigate the risks associated with trading of OTC derivatives. This study assesses the liberalization levels of the financial services in the plurilateral trading system. It aims to shed light on the underlying dynamics that could explain the rationale behind international trade treaties. Most importantly, this contribution assesses the relationship between regulation of international trade and regulation of financial market infrastructure in order to bring into the spotlight problematic features that underscore existing silos in WTO Members’ administrations.
K33|The Status of Irregular Migrants at Sea: The Principle of Non-Refoulement v. Push-Back Operations|Since the conflict began in 2011, an estimated 5 million people have fled Syria by land and sea in order to survive. The Aegean sea from Turkey to Greece has become one of the popular and deadly routes for asylum-seekers and migrants to reach Europe since then. In 2015, while more than 851.000 asylum seekers entered to Greece via the Aegean sea route. The number of the irregular migrants coming to the European Union has begun to threat the area of freedom, security and justice which is established to enable its citizens to exercise their free movement rights.The principle of non-refoulement which prohibits the expulsion, deportation, or return of a refugee to a state where refugee?s life would be in danger is accepted by most States, including the EU in accordance with the protection of human rights.At this point a dilemma has appeared for the EU. While preventing the entrance of the irregular migrants to the area of freedom, security and justice via push-back operations in Aegean on the one hand, the breach of non-refoulement principle occurs on the other.Because of the reasons above, this paper aims to examine the breach of non-refoulement principle via push-back operations in the Aegean Sea and determine the responsibility of States stemmed from the principle in the light of international law.
K33|Privileges And Immunity Of Foreign Military Base And Personnel Under Modern International Law|In case of deployment of a foreign military base in the territory of any State, a number of problematic issues arise concerning the legal status of the military base and its personnel; in particular, what privileges and immunity they have with respect to the legal system of the host country. In this article, an attempt has been made to present the main approaches to the problem in international legal practice and determine the legal nature of the immunity granted to military bases and their personnel in the framework of modern international law. Given that the study of these matters first of all need to understand what the foreign military base represents, within the framework of the article also an attempt has been made to define the concept of foreign military base.
K33|The Attraction of Foreign Direct Investment in the East African Community: A Two-edged Sword for Equitable Economic Development|Created in 1999, the East African Community (EAC) is regional integration community constituted by six sub-Saharan countries, i.e. Burundi, Kenya, Rwanda, South Sudan, Tanzania and Uganda. One of the purpose of this integration is the promotion of equitable economic development of its member states through the attraction of foreign direct investment. However, although all EAC member states are developing countries, there exist deep discrepancies between their economies regarding key investment determinants such as their economic productivity, human capital, infrastructure, and normative framework. Despite these discrepancies, the member states have adopted a common market consecrating the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital. Yet, according to well tested New Economic Geography theory, a common market between highly asymmetric economies tend to cause agglomeration of FDI in the territories of the common market?s member states that present the best comparative advantage in terms of FDI determinants. Accordingly, only one or two EAC member states will end up reaping all the benefits of the common market in attracting the majority of FDI. This would definitely jeopardize the attainment of the EAC goal to reach an equitable distribution of FDI between its members states. As a consequence, the worse-off member states would be tempted to defect from the regional integration, which might lead to the collapse of the EAC just as it already happened in 1964 and in 1977 against the background of economic imbalances claims between member states.This paper takes this threat seriously and examines which legal and institutional framework is needed to mitigate the divisive nature of FDI in the EAC. It is postulated that partial transfer of competence on investment from the member states to a central body within the EAC in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity would effectively address the side effects of an intra-EAC competition for FDI attraction. But to be successful, this must be done within the framework of a robust common investment policy that the member states have to adopt. Otherwise, instead of being the wished catalyst of equitable economic development of the EAC member states, FDI is highly likely to rather become the trigger of a fatal intra-EAC competition.
K33|Punitive Damages ? A Rising Star in International Commercial Arbitration?|Punitive damages in international commercial arbitration has been considered more a theoretical than a practical issue, especially in civil law countries. Nevertheless, the national law regulations must provide a way how to react on such claims, particularly in the area of international commercial arbitration. This article is considered primarily with the analysis of the current status quo of certain civil law countries related to punitive damages since not only applicable substantive law, but also procedural law of the seat of arbitration has an impact on the availability of punitive damages in international arbitration. It also discusses legal reasons why punitive damages are of limited relevance in international commercial arbitration that consequently leads to a minimal number of arbitral awards of punitive damages. Despite of infrequency, the importance and clear approach to whether punitive damages should have a place in international commercial arbitration must be drawn.
K33|Characteristics of Judgments of the EU Court of Justice|The Court of Justice of the European Union is an independent judicial organ of the European Union. Its decisions possess usual characteristics and procedural aspects that judicial decisions in general have. In this respect we may consider res judicata principle, precedential effect and temporal effect of Court?s decisions. However, some of these characteristics are modified due to the specific nature and aim of judicial process on the EU level. The aim of the paper will be to define the aforementioned characteristics of the Court of Justice decisions, to analyze them on the basis of Court?s jurisprudence and to deal with them in depth in the context of EU judiciary.
K33|The Fair and Equitable Treatment Standard - Customary Rule of International Investment Law?|Article examines whether or not the Fair and Equitable Treatment (FET) standard has become a rule of customary international law. It analyses the question based on the two conditions under which a treaty-based norm could transform into a customary rule. Author argues that FET standard has not become a rule of custom. Practice of states to include FET clauses in their BITs can be considered as general, widespread and representative, however it is not uniform and consistent. There is no indication that state parties to BITs believe that they have an obligation under international law to provide fair and equitable treatment protection to investors.
K33|International legal relations in troubled times and their impact on substantive elements of international trade|Trade between different countries forms a significant part of national economic development worldwide. The significance of the interdependence of countries is increasing with rising globalisation (Helpman, 2011). To facilitate cross-border cooperation, including trade, countries form associations and other cooperative units with established rules, often with economic advantages, amongst the Member States. The European Union (the ?EU?) and the European Economic Area (the ?EEA?) are relevant examples of the above cooperation. One of the main objectives of the EU is the establishment of an internal market without internal frontiers ensuring the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital (Consolidated version of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union 2012, Art. 26). The EEA unites the EU countries with Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway, allowing the non-EU members to enjoy the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital without internal frontiers similarly (Agreement on the European Economic Area, 1994, Art. 1). The United Kingdom (the ?UK?) is a Member State of the EU (and therefore the EEA) allowing it to be part of the concept of an internal market. However, the situation for the UK might be changed in the future due to the UK?s EU membership referendum which took place on 23rd June 2016 resulting in the majority of voters expressing their desire for the UK to leave the EU (the UK leaving the EU also ?BREXIT?). BREXIT will inevitably impact various aspects of the existing legal establishment. The area of Private international law (the ?PIL?), encompassing the determination of applicable law, jurisdiction of courts and enforcement of foreign judgement, will be influenced to a significant extent. The paper will briefly examine the current legal establishment and the options the UK has concerning future arrangements of the PIL rules. Further, the paper will investigate future jurisdictional competence, enforceability of foreign judgements taking into consideration the development in a field of international arbitration, specifically the enforcement of arbitration awards and control of arbitration proceedings in the BREXIT context. The paper aims to identify the challenges brought by the potential removal of the current EU PIL regime which can be considered as a ?safety net?.
K33|Is Othering Antithetical To Human Rights?|In any homogeneous or heterogeneous society, reference to ?others? is not only to those who have been internally displaced or have entered as refugees or migrants, but also to those who are not identifiable as belonging to that society. The reasons could be many-fold; including different culture, nationality, gender, and so on. These differences are commonly known. But otherness can also be distinguished because of certain features which are outside this realm i.e. those who are not in power or place of authority, or those who are having a belief or ideology which donot form part of the larger group. They are unable to integrate with society because not only have they lost their identity but their assimilation has also been restricted by the ?majority?. These ?others? are not accepted as part of ?us? where the society is in a superior position so as to be able to stop ?others? from being ?us?. Since the ?others? are not accepted in the mainstream, their vulnerability leads to denial of basic rights which form part of those rights that are recognized as human rights. The paper will be divided into four parts. The first part will explore the reality of ?otherness? amongst human beings which is not only because of majority-minority based reasoning. The second part of the paper will discuss the human rights aspect of the concept of otherness, because the moment we distinguish a group as others, we violate their human rights. The part will highlight the basic rights of the migrants being violated which are recognized under the UDHR e.g. right to asylum. It will also focus on the principle of non-refoulement which is now a rule of customary international law.Part three will highlight the plight of refugees owing to the indifference of Governments towards them. The case of Syrian crisis in Europe will be analogized with the Rohingya refugee crisis in India. The political setting of a developing state like India will also be discussed. The plight of internally displaced persons will also be reflected upon to draw a contrast to the situation in Europe. In conclusion, part four of the paper will focus on implementation of human rights i.e. whether recognizing ?others? amongst ?us? will be antithesis to the concept of human rights in the light of Refugee Convention 1951 which has already distinguished refugees as others.
K33|Electronic monitoring of offenders and accused persons in Slovakia in the international and European context|The first program of Electronic monitoring of offenders and accused persons in Slovakia was launched by Law adopted in 2015 and shaped by the results of the pilot project co financed by the European Union. The aim of this presentation/paper is threefold: (1) to briefly summarize the key facts and data concerning this program, (2) to introduce the project titled ?Interdisciplinary approach to electronic monitoring of accused and convicted persons in the Slovak environment? (acronymed IAEMPS), and (3) to present the results of the research concerning the international and European context of the above mentioned Slovak national program, carried out within the IAEMPS project.
K33|A Victim-Oriented Justice Dispute in the context of the Judicial System Reform in Albania|The position and status of victims in the criminal justice process have been the subject of recent developments at the domestic, European and international levels in many aspects. The adoption of domestic legislations reflects the understanding of the challenges faced by victims and their commitment to a progressive judicial system. In this context, the recent amendments to its Code of Criminal Procedure in light of the recent Judicial System Reform by Albania seem to be a positive development towards the extensive participation of victims of crime in criminal proceedings. However, there are debates whether the right to participate is practically implemented and what is its impact on the criminal trial. This research shows the demand for the establishment of a neutral support mechanism to assist victims at all stages of the judicial process - from investigation to a final judgment. This paper addresses the perceptions and expectations of the judicial staff to address all the issues pertaining to victims? needs in and outside the criminal proceedings. This article aims: (1) to shed a light on the reasons behind the Judicial System Reform approach to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure rather than to adopt a comprehensive and comprehensible victim-oriented justice; (2) to reflect upon the role and rights of victims in the Albanian criminal justice system; and (3) to conclude with the recommendation to set up an effective long-term mechanism with the sole responsibility to provide the required support and assistance to the victims in Albania and in the context of the Kosovo Specialist Chamber.
K33|Regulation of Geo-blocking: does it address the problem of low intraEU iTrade?|The goal of the article is to critically verify and to discuss main areas necessary for increasing intraEU iTrade. To achieve this aim, the legal analysis of the regulation is confronted with the econometric approach identifying the main determinants of cross-border e-commerce. The model is based on data from a survey conducted among 6901 Polish business owners in 2017. Our hypotheses include the following issues: (1) the main barrier of intraEU iTrade is the low level of integration of digital technologies by SMEs; therefore (2) the character of the impact of legal means adopted in the regulation 2018/302 on the development of transnational service provision and entrepreneurship based on e-commerce is doubtful. We argue that the introduction of more and more advanced requirements by EC will only reduce their interest in developing business abroad through cross-border e-commerce and result in losing the opportunities linked to the development of digital economy.
K33|Freeze! Financial Sanctions and Bank Responses|We study the effects of financial sanctions on cross-border credit supply. Using a differences-in-differences approach to analyze eleven sanctions episodes between 2002 and 2015, we find that banks located in Germany reduce their positions in countries with sanctioned entities by 38%. The average German branch or subsidiary located outside Germany does not adjust its positions after the imposition of sanctions. For affiliated banks located in countries with low financial standards, we even observe a relative increase in credit supply. These effects are stronger if sanctions are only imposed by EU member states and not by the entire UN.
K33|Civil society in times of change: Shrinking, changing and expanding spaces and the need for new regulatory approaches|"The relationship between many G20 governments and organized civil society has become more complex, laden with tensions, and such that both have to find more optimal modes of engagement. In some instances, state-civil society relations have worsened, leading some experts and activists to speak of a ""shrinking space"" for civil society. How wide- spread is this phenomenon? Are these more isolated occurrences or indeed part of a more general development? How can countries achieve and maintain an enabling environment for civil society? The authors suggest that much of the current impasse results foremost from outdated and increasingly ill-suited regulatory frameworks that fail to accommodate a much more diverse and expanded set of civil society organizations (CSO). In response, they propose a differentiated model for a regulatory framework based on functional roles. Based on quantitative profiling and expert surveys, moreover, the paper also derives initial recommendations on how governments and civil society could find ways to relate to each other in both national and multilateral contexts."
K33|Determinants of International Arms Control Ratification|The paper analyses the determinants of ratification of international treaties concerning arms control. It theorizes that the ratification of an arms control treaty serves as a signal of a country’s intention to avoid arms races and wars. I argue that fast growing countries have a special incentive to send that signal in order to avoid aggression from declining powers. Also, democracies are hypothesised to support the underlying humanitarian norms of arms control treaties and therefore ratify arms control agreements more often. The theory is tested by panel ordered logit regression of the number of treaties ratified by a country and with panel logit estimation of treaty ratification. The data cover 186 countries over the period of 1975-2010. Results support the theory and suggest that especially treaties where compliance can be considered as cheap are ratified more often.
K33|Still Tools of Repression? Re-Assessing the Effect of Arms Imports on Physical Integrity Rights|Small arms and light weapons (SALWs) imports have been found to be linked to a worsening of human rights conditions in the importing state. In this paper, we reexamine the relationship of government’s SALW imports and the decision to engage in violations of physical integrity rights using updated and more reliable repression data as well as proposing a different estimation strategy. Analyzing physical integrity rights violations and SALW imports of 176 countries from 1991 to 2010, empirical results indicate that SALW imports have a negative impact on respect for physical integrity rights. When disaggregating findings by regime type, we find that SALW imports in autocracies are associated with more repression, while we have mixed results for democracies.
K33|How does the regular work of WTO influence regional trade agreements?|This paper illustrates how the work of the WTO's standing committees is fuelling regulatory cooperation between WTO members, and inspiring RTA negotiators. We explore, as a case study, how the WTO TBT Committee has shaped provisions on international standards in RTAs, and focus on the extent to which RTAs have assimilated the WTO TBT principles for development of international standards (the Six Principles), arguably the most important decision taken by the TBT Committee over last 20-plus years. Our analysis covers 260 RTAs, and shows that while most RTAs are silent on the matter, one quarter have provisions where the Parties commit to implement WTO TBT principles, and, among these, a few go further still - for example by naming specific international standardizing bodies which are relevant in certain sectors. In addition, the RTAs sharpen and harden the Six Principles by making them directly applicable to the parties.
K33|Addressing tensions and avoiding disputes: Specific trade concerns in the TBT Committee|Most specific trade concerns (STCs), which are raised before the WTO Committee on Technical Barriers to Trade (TBT Committee), disappear from the TBT Committee's meeting agendas without escalating into formal disputes. At the same time, a relatively small number of TBT-related disputes have been subject to the WTO dispute settlement procedures. By examining the practice of raising STCs and the relationship between STCs and disputes, the paper emphasises the role of STCs as a trade tension resolution mechanism. It argues that the STC mechanism is a viable alternative to the currently overburdened WTO dispute settlement system. The paper also suggests ways to strengthen the STC mechanism of the TBT Committee through dividing TBT Committee meetings into thematic sessions, adopting mediation procedures and reporting on STC resolutions. Further, it underscores the importance of increasing transparency and promoting good regulatory practice in avoiding disputes.
K33|Future European Alliance - Europe as a Flexible Democracy|A reasonable future for Europe can only be achieved if two essential elements are fulfilled: Firstly, newly established institutions must be democratic and have strong support from citizens rather than from national governments. Secondly, the large number of different ethnic, cultural, religious, and regional units existing on the European continent must be able to maintain their identity. This diversity must be institutionally supported rather than be undermined by standardization and centralization. We suggest political institutions, which are formed to meet these goals, following the example of Functional, Overlapping, Competing Jurisdictions (FOCJ). If these two goals are adequately reached, a future alliance raises the identification with the European project, and induces citizens to exhibit civic virtue in strengthening these goals.
K33|Freeze! Financial sanctions and bank responses|We study the effects of financial sanctions on cross-border credit supply. Using a differences-in-differences approach to analyze eleven sanctions episodes between 2002 and 2015, we find that banks located in Germany reduce their positions in countries with sanctioned entities by 38%. The average German branch or subsidiary located outside Germany does not adjust its positions after the imposition of sanctions. For affiliated banks located in countries with low financial standards, we even observe a relative increase in credit supply. These effects are stronger if sanctions are only imposed by EU member states and not by the entire UN.
K33|Plataformas de Capital versus Plataformas Sociales en la Economía Colaborativa: Punto de vista jurídico internacional|In the economy, we distinguish, in a simple way, the strictly capitalist business sector and the corporate social sector. This simple dichotomy has been transferred to the scope of the collaborative economy, which mistakenly includes under the same name capital platforms and social platforms. These platforms have in common different factors, for instance, namely that they essentially use the digital platform to develop their activity; but they differ in that the first ones seek to maximize capital and the platform is a mere messenger that manages economic transactions just like the classical economy. In front of these, there are social platforms in which the main objective is not for profit, although benefits are obtained, the goal being to have a social impact, at the same time that it provides services or products to the users, following specific values. On the one hand, it is necessary to analyze the legal structure of these platforms. The capitalist economy has as a leading actor the mercantile company, while the social economy is based on cooperatives, associations, foundations. The last assertion does not imply that limited companies of social economy exist in comparative law. On the other hand, is very important to determine the legal position of the parties or participants in the collaborative economy and the value of their agreements, especially in situations where does not exist peer-to-peer. In particular, our study aims to focus on contractual and noncontractual relationships exist between the three participants. At this point, we introduce the initial legislative proposals that are being made in the European Union, which specifically wants to protect the consumer, especially online.
K33|The Impact of the French Doctrine of Significant Imbalance on International Business Transactions|This article examines the concept of “significant imbalance” (SI) under French law and its impact on international business transactions. “Significant imbalance” is a legal standard meant to assess whether a contractual clause is unfair (abusive). Although initially restricted to consumer law, it has been extended to general contract law with the implementation of a reform entered into force on 1st October 2016. Previously, the Commercial Court of Paris in the ruling Ministry of Economy et al. v. Expedia, Inc. et al. (2015) had qualified SI as an “overriding mandatory provision” (loi de police) under EU Regulation No. 593/2008 on the applicable law to contractual obligations (Rome I). As a consequence, SI became operative in respect of international contracts despite an express choice of a foreign governing law made by the parties to the transaction. This article argues that, as a result of Expedia and the 2016 reform, French courts can interfere with international business transactions by striking down contractual terms that they deem unfair according to the SI standard. The analysis focuses on two key issues. On the one hand, notwithstanding recent judicial precedents, SI still fails to provide a reliable test for predicting which clauses or contracts are at risk of being deemed unfair. On the other hand, the legal arsenal supporting French legislator’s disapproval of SI allocates great power to French courts and the French government to pursue tort lawsuits against foreign companies allegedly oppressing their commercial partners with SI clauses. Empirical evidence shows that these actions are highly successful compared to those commenced by private actors. The article concludes that all these aspects, together with SI’s turbulent case-law throughout the years, will sprout uncertainty in international business transactions and may eventually disparage France in the global competition in such a field.
K33|Reinventing Legal Education: How Clinical Education is Reforming Law Teaching and Practice in Europe (Introduction)|European legal teaching - historically formalistic, doctrinal, hierarchical, and passive - is coming under increasing pressure to re-imagine itself as pragmatic, policy-aware, and action-oriented. Out of this context, a bottom-up movement of university law clinics appears to be emerging in Europe. Although intellectually indebted to the US model, the European variant reflects legal education and practice in Europe, specifically the multi-layered and multi-genetic legal landscape resulting from the Europeanization and internationalization of national legal systems, the globalization of European legal markets, and the growing demand for civic engagement in view of increasingly powerful supra-national institutions. Through the prism of clinical legal education, Reinventing Legal Education is the first attempt to gather scholarly and systematic reflections on the developments taking place in European legal teaching and practice. This groundbreaking book should be read by anyone interested in how clinical legal education is reinventing legal education in Europe.
K33|Reinforcing the Public Law Taboo: A Note on Hellenic Republic v Nikiforidis|This article hinges on the preliminary ruling rendered by the Court of Justice of the EU (CJEU) (Grand Chamber) on 18 October 2016 and the related judgment of the German Federal Labour Court of 26 April 2017 in the Nikiforidis case to investigate an area of private international law that is undergoing a substantial development: overriding mandatory provisions. In Nikiforidis, the CJEU excluded that two Greek laws cutting the salary of public employees may be enforced against a teacher working in Germany for the Greek Government under an employment contract governed by German law. The question addressed to the CJEU was whether the said laws were “overriding mandatory provisions” according to the Rome I Regulation. The Court denied it, and left to the referring court to determine whether they could nevertheless operate “as matter of fact” under the governing law. This article explains how the CJEU’s conclusion has broader implications by regulating third countries’ interference in international business transactions. Starting with an analysis of the case, the article examines the history and nature of overriding mandatory provisions under EU private international law and argues that the solution embraced by the CJEU leaves room for uncertainty and unpredictability in the operation of foreign mandatory provisions.
K33|Better Regulation: Holding Martin Selmayr Accountable|This time was supposed 'to be different', at least this was the motto of the 2014 European Parliament elections campaign. With less than a year before the next European elections, the time is ripe to examine how different this EU political cycle has actually been. Emboldened by the Spitzenkandidaten process – which established for the first time a link between the outcome of the EU elections and the presidency of the EU Commission –, the Juncker Commission emerged as the most political yet. To shrug off the label of technocratic institution – historically insulated from citizens’ preferences –, the new Commission asked EU citizens to judge its operation by its ability ‘to deliver solutions to the big issues that cannot be addressed by the Member States alone’. While the Better Regulation Agenda might have improved the Commission’s public accountability – with both citizens and stakeholders being better informed about and engaged with EU policy-making –, without however increasing its responsiveness to public preferences. This is the case at the input, throughput and output stage. Rather, the techno-political approach to policymaking – which characterizes the Juncker’s Better Regulation – might have paradoxically led to a compression of participatory democracy and somehow chilled stakeholder engagement. At a time of unprecedented contestation of the EU project – a trend which is combined by a record-demand for new forms of political representation –, it appears paradoxical that the EU – an early promoter of participation – is missing out the chance to seize the momentum to diversify and redesign its participatory structures being busy delivering on its electoral promises no one will ever judge.At the very same time the Juncker Commission has been striving to develop its own, autonomous democratic credentials, its choice to embrace a set of well-defined institutional mechanisms that reward expert judgment over political adjudication appears at odds with its newly-acquired political nature.
K33|U.S. Economic Sanctions and the Corporate Compliance of Foreign Banks|This article links the economic sanctions enacted by the United States and the internal compliance functions of non-American banks. Whereas scholars have recently investigated either aspect, only a few have drawn a connection between them. At the moment of writing, and to our knowledge, no scholar has proposed a comprehensive view of the corporate compliance of banks operating outside the territory of the United States, and in Europe especially, regarding the U.S. economic sanctions arsenal as a whole, including the extraterritoriality problem.
K33|Disciplines on State-Owned Enterprises under the Trans-Pacific Partnership Agreement: Overview and Assessment|This paper analyses the disciplines of state-owned enterprises (SOEs) stipulated in Chapter 17 of the Trans-Pacific Partnership Agreement (TPP). The introduction of the extensive disciplines on SOEs was led by the concern that SOEs are likely to disturb fair international competition regime by conducting business activities not depending on economic rationality and anticompetitive activities. Major provision of this chapter includes definitions and the scope of application, commercial considerations and non-discriminatory treatment, non-commercial assistance, and transparency. While Chapter 17 can be appreciated as the first comprehensive and detailed discipline on SOEs including that of the WTO-plus, it still has problems and remaining issues concerning the disciplines. Nevertheless, the very fact that the TPP includes specific rules for SOEs is appreciated as a first step towards disciplining them in the future.
K33|Rethinking odious debt in the age of predatory lending: Old ideas for new problems|This essay suggests that odious debt needs a restatement to stay relevant in the face of important changes affecting state (i.e. “sovereign”) debt. Today, a major issue affecting creditor-debtor relations in the sovereign sector is the predicament of over-lending. Examples abound of reckless creditors pressuring vulnerable states to borrow for projects they do not need and at conditions they do not fully understand. This development, which recalls the aggressive business tactics used by predatory lenders in consumer lending, has become a ubiquitous problem affecting both developing and developed nations. Yet, this problem remains largely unaccounted for in international law and in the odious debt doctrine in particular. The future of odious debt depends upon a collective endeavor to make the legal doctrine more sensitive to issues of predatory lending. This essay offers insights into the benefits that such efforts may yield on states and their creditors.
K33|Investor-State vs. State-State Dispute Settlement|International investment agreements have provoked intense criticism in the policy debate during recent years. Particularly contentious has been their “ISDS” mechanisms, which enable investors to bring disputes against host countries. This paper examines whether host countries would be better off with state-state dispute settlement (SSDS), as often alleged, assuming that SSDS cause political/diplomatic arbitration costs that are not present with ISDS. Two separate reasons why host countries might benefit from SSDS are identified, but neither provides a convincing argument for host countries to move to SSDS. The paper concludes that host countries should reduce the stringency of their agreements, rather than introduce imperfections in the dispute settlement systems to reduce their bite.​
K33|A Non-Technical Introduction to Economic Aspects of International Investment Agreements|International investment agreements have become increasingly controversial. The agreements are alleged to be beset with a large number of deficiencies that harm host countries in particular. For instance, they are said to cause “regulatory chill”, to distorts investment patterns, and to lead to excessive litigation due to the Investor-State Dispute Settlement (ISDS) mechanisms they almost invariably contain. Many of the issues brought up in this debate have evident economic aspects. But until recently there has been very little economic literature on the driving forces behind these agreements, on their appropriate design, and on their effects. There is a nascent theoretical literature on investment agreements and regulatory expropriations, however. This literature is still very much in its infancy. The purpose of this note is to explain in non-technical terms some observations that emerge from this early literature.
K33|HRMI Civil and Political Rights Metrics: 2018 Technical Note|This paper details a new methodology developed to measure civil and political rights violations in a pilot sample of 13 diverse countries. In doing so, we discuss the problems present in previous attempts to measure civil and political rights cross-nationally and argue that our approach overcomes many of those problems. Using an expert survey that draws on the knowledge of human rights researchers, advocates, lawyers, journalists, and others responsible for directly monitoring the human rights situation in countries worldwide, we present new measures of the intensity and distribution of respect for seven separate areas of civil and political rights and compare those data with existing work. The results demonstrate that our technique for producing data on civil and political rights produces outcomes with strong face validity vis-à-vis existing measures, while providing more and better information than any previous cross-national data collection effort. We aim to extend this approach to most other countries in the world over the coming years.
K33|Societal benefits and costs of International Investment Agreements: A critical review of aspects and available empirical evidence|This paper reviews alleged societal benefits and costs of International Investment Agreements (IIAs) as suggested by academia, governments, business and civil society. It sets out the wide range of issues that diverse actors have proposed in the context of assessing the societal benefits and costs of IIAs. The paper analyses and organises the available material generated by these sources to identify and classify the many different issues, summarises available empirical evidence and findings in these sources on the individual aspects, and assesses strengths and weaknesses of the approaches. The paper focuses in particular on the investor protection component of IIAs. The inventory finds that for many claims about the positive or negative impact of IIAs, little robust evidence has been generated to date. The paper highlights methodological challenges and suggests areas where further study would be required to draw firmer conclusions.
K33|The contribution of trans-governmental networks of regulators to international regulatory co-operation|This study takes stock of the membership, governance structure, operational mode and regulatory power of trans-governmental networks of regulators (TGNs). It contributes to a greater OECD project aimed at building greater understanding of the benefits and pitfalls of various approaches to international regulatory co-operation (IRC) as identified in OECD (2013), International Regulatory Co-operation: Addressing Global Challenges.In order to fill the knowledge gap, this study provides a working definition of TGNs, maps existing cases, and analyses their key features. It relies on information gathered for this study on 144 TGNs. It analyses the substantive fields in which TGNs operate as well as differences in membership and other structural features. It discusses the range of regulatory activities in which TGNs engage and analyses the advantages and the disadvantages of TGNs as mechanisms for IRC, based on a review of the large and growing scholarly literature. It provides a new database on the topic, as well short case studies of three significant but structurally dissimilar TGNs: the Asian Harmonization Working Party (AHWP) on medical devices, the International Association of Insurance Supervisors (IAIS), and the International Council for Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human Use (ICH).
K33|Economics and Politics of International Investment Agreements|"This paper investigates the design and implications of international investment agreements. These are ubiquitous, potent and heavily criticized state-to-state treaties that protect foreign investment against host country policies. We show that optimal agreements cause national but not global underregulation (""regulatory chill""). The incentives to form agreements and their distributional consequences depend on countries’unilateral commitment possibilities and the direction of investment ‡ows. The bene…ts from agreements between developed countries accrue to foreign investors at the expense of the rest of society, but this is not the case for agreements between developed and developing countries."
K33|China–HP-SSST: Last Part of Growing Pains?|In December 2012 Japan requested the establishment of a World Trade Organization (WTO) Panel regarding AD duties that China had imposed on high-performance stainless steel seamless tubes (HP-SSST). The European Union joined as a complainant in June 2013. To some degree, this dispute follows earlier ones involving China, as similar procedural and substantial issues were raised in previous cases. However, this is the first time that the WTO Panel rejected some important claims, only for those decisions to be reversed by the Appellate Body. Now that various rulings have clarified these legal issues, it remains to be seen if HP-SSST represents the last part of growing pains for Chinese authorities to learn about AD legal procedures.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
K33|Thinking Justice Outside the Docket: A Critical Assessment of the Reform of the EU's Court System|The 2015 reform of the EU’s court system will go down in history as the most radical transformation of the EU judicial architecture since the establishment of the General Court in 1989. It doubles the number of General Court judges but also dissolves the Civil Service Tribunal. This article offers a critical assessment of these two major, structural changes, addressing both the process by which they were adopted and their overall merits. After providing a detailed examination of the reform’s tortuous legislative history and highlighting its unique underlying procedural feature – with the Court itself initiating the process – this article identifies and systematizes its major shortcomings. It criticizes the underlying diagnosis and the cure administered. It concludes by presenting this reform process as a missed opportunity to address, in a more holistic manner, the pressing non-docket related challenges facing the EU judicial system, in particular, to reform a governance structure which is no longer fit for purpose considering the massive transformation of the EU judicial branch since 1951.
K33|The Open Government Partnership Beyond the Nation State: The Case of the European Union|The article outlines the options for collaboration between the European Union (EU) and the Open Government Partnership (OGP). The OGP accepts full participants (states), sub-national participants (pilot program), and observers. As of now, the OGP’s charter states that it only accepts “states” for full participant status. Three options are available to the OGP for accommodating the EU: 1. Full participant status for the EU: the OGP would have to amend its Articles of Governance to allow non-state entities such as the EU to be participants by removing any mention of “government” of states, and replacing it with any government at the sub-national, national or supranational levels; 2. Ad-hoc participation of the EU by creating a supra-national government program: the OGP would have to create a program tailored to the EU, which could be used as a model for allowing other supra-national bodies in the future. If option 2 is a success, the OGP could propose full participant status to the EU at that time; 3. ‘Observer status’ for non-state entities with the EU as an observer: the OGP maintains the status quo by enabling non-state actors to obtain observer status. The article also reviews the requirements for OGP membership, the competence of the EU to join, and the question of which EU institution would be responsible for negotiating OGP membership. The article concludes by analysing how the EU would formalise its commitment to the OGP through an Inter-Institutional Agreement.
K33|Legal Opinion on the Proposed Inter-Institutional Agreement for a Mandatory Transparency Register in the European Union|This paper discusses the legal implications deriving from the choice of an interinstitutional agreement to regulate interest representation activities in the European Union. In particular, it focuses on whether this instrument may validly allow the European Parliament to impose a set of requirements on its Members (in relation to their free and independent mandate), the political groups, the intergroups and other informal groupings of Members, and on the accredited parliamentary assistants (APAs). It concludes that, given its legal status, the proposed IIA operationalises rather than extending the existing transparency obligations stemming from the Treaty and its requirements are proportionate to the aims pursued. As such it does not affect the free and independent mandate of Members as it is defined in the Members’ Statute nor it conflicts with the prerogatives of other internal actors. The proposed IIA intends to develop and complement obligations of primary law, such as the duty of openness and transparency that already govern the Statute and its interpretation, without compromising the substantive rights and obligations provided by the former. These obligations of primary law already put limits on the freedom and the independence of the Members enshrined in Article 2 (1) of the Statute as well as that of other internal actors. Additionally, the proposed mandatory Transparency Register also allows Members to easily identify the identity of interest representatives they meet, thus enhancing the Member’s ability to inform themselves.
K33|Shining a Spotlight on EU Political Group Spending: Legal Guide on Access to Document Requests|The purpose of this legal memorandum is to provide advice to organisations and individuals interested in submitting a request for public access to documents under Regulation (EC) No 1049/01 (“Regulation 1049/01”) to the European Parliament for documents related to the spending of political groups covered by Budget Item 400 appropriations under Chapter 7. Requests for those documents may face rejection on grounds related to exceptions provided for in Regulation 1049/01, specifically those found in Articles 4(1)b, 4(2), and 4(3) pertaining to privacy and integrity of the individual, commercial interests, and institution’s decision-making process respectively. This legal memorandum addresses the applicability of those exceptions to the documents requested for potential use in a confirmatory request to be submitted to the European Parliament subsequent to the initial rejection in line with Article 7 of Regulation 1049/01. The memo also provides arguments for overcoming these exceptions in light of: 1) recent developments in the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union (“CJEU”) relating to the privacy exception; and 2) the strict legal requirements for triggering the commercial interests and institutional decision-making exceptions. The last section of the memo is structured to provide draft responses to the denial of requests for documents and should be tailored to the specific situation in question.
K33|The effect of patents on trade|In contrast with quotas and tariffs, it is theoretically ambiguous whether fewer (or ‘weaker’) rules over intellectual property rights will increase or decrease trade in patentable goods. The prevailing view is that anticipation of imitation reduces exporters' incentive to export goods to jurisdictions with ‘weak’ patent regimes. This empirical paper uses new measures of how the destination-country patent system can affect trade. In contrast with existing studies which assume would-be exporters can always get a patent in the target foreign market, we construct measures of the bias against foreign patent applicants and patents which may block imported goods. We find evidence that the presence of destination-country blocking patents has the larger (negative) impact on international trade. Being refused a patent also has a negative impact on trade but the magnitude is smaller.
K33|Domestic politics and the formation of international environmental agreements|We investigate the effect of domestic politics on international environmental policy by incorporating into a classic stage game of coalition formation the phenomenon of lobbying by special-interest groups. In doing so, we contribute to the theory of international environmental agreements, which has overwhelmingly assumed that governments make decisions based on a single set of public-interest motivations. Our results suggest that lobbying on emissions may affect the size of the stable coalition in counterintuitive ways. In particular, a powerful business lobby may increase the government's incentives to sign an agreement, by providing it with strong bargaining power with respect to that lobby at the emission stage. This would result in lower total emissions when the number of countries involved is not too large. We also show that things change radically when lobbying bears directly on the membership decisions, suggesting that both the object and timing of lobbying matter for the way in which membership decisions, emissions and welfare are affected.
K33|Analyzing the effectiveness of international environmental policies: The case of the Kyoto Protocol|We study the effectiveness of emission targets under the Kyoto Protocol with respect to reducing CO2 emissions. Using country-level and US state-level panel data and employing the synthetic control method, we find very little evidence for an emission reduction effect for the major emitters among the Annex B countries with binding emission targets. More generally, we also show that evaluating the effectiveness of international environmental policies at the country level comes with a number of empirical challenges that may invalidate findings based on more traditional panel data approaches.
K33|International Investment Agreements and Investor-State Disputes: A Review and Evaluation for Indonesia|Foreign investors can lodge a complaint against a host country for alleged treaty violations under the Investor-State Dispute Settlement (ISDS) provisions of bilateral investment treaties (BITs). The complaints are arbitrated internationally outside the host country's domestic court, sometimes involve claims exceeding US$1 billion, and give rise to significant financial risk of international arbitration for host countries. Because of this, Indonesia has recently cancelled many of its BITs. But at the same time, Indonesia has agreed to ISDS under the ASEAN Comprehensive Investment Agreement (ACIA) and ASEAN's five agreements with Dialogue Partners. Furthermore, President Joko Widodo has expressed strong interest in joining the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), which contains provisions for ISDS. ASEAN's Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) will also provide for ISDS. This note reviews the status of Indonesia's international obligations with respect to ISDS, evaluates some of the benefits and costs of ISDS, and reviews the extent to which Indonesia would be undertaking new ISDS obligations under TPP. The note concludes with a discussion of ways that Indonesia can reduce the risk of international arbitration through domestic regulatory reforms.
K33|Dynamics and factors of inflation convergence in the European union|We analyze inflation convergence in the whole European Union (EU) over 1999–2017. We provide comprehensive evidence that the process of inflation convergence among the countries of the EU was not permanently disrupted during the global financial crisis, the European sovereign debt crisis, or the period of zero lower bound interest rates. Specifically, the convergence process did not noticeably weaken after the crisis and the occurrence of inflation convergence became more widespread compared to the pre-crisis years. Our results are robust with respect to the use of three inflation benchmarks (the cross-sectional average, the inflation target of the European Central Bank, and the Maastricht inflation criterion), structural breaks, and a core inflation measure. Our main findings imply that further enlargement of the euro area is feasible from the perspective of inflation convergence among EU countries.
K33|Does dividend tax impede competition for corporate charters?|We develop a model of jurisdictional competition for corporate charters among the states in which a firm’s agency cost depends on the federal dividend income tax rate and the takeover regulations of its domicile state. When firms are mobile across states, the federal dividend income tax rate affects both the intensity of competition among the states and the equilibrium level of state takeover regulations. Our model shows that increasing dividend tax rate weakens the competition for corporate charters under a condition: dividend-paying and the market for corporate control are complementary corporate governance mechanisms. This condition holds empirically, suggesting that dividend tax not only discourages firms from paying dividends but also weakens their corporate governance by disincentivizing states to improve their corporate laws.
K33|Learning by Ruling and Trade Disputes|Over the WTO years, the frequency of disputes and court rulings has trended downwards. Such trends are sometimes interpreted as symptoms of a dispute resolution system in decline. In this paper we propose a theory that can explain these trends as a result of judicial learning; thus according to our theory such trends represent good news, not bad news. We then offer evidence that the predictions of our model are consistent with WTO trade dispute data, and we take a first step towards estimating the strength and scope of court learning.
K33|The balance between investor protection and the right to regulate in investment treaties: A scoping paper|There is vigorous debate about reforms to address the balance between investor protection and the right to regulate in the over 3000 existing investment treaties. This paper first notes the growing trend to analyse particular treaty rules rather than treaties as a whole and the importance of comparative analysis of balancing under other regimes. It then outlines issues in four areas: (i) the types of regulation potentially at issue in investment treaty claims by covered investors; (ii) the types and levels of investor protection; (iii) the degree of impact of treaties on regulation; and (iv) the processes and institutions that may be involved in balancing interests in investor protection and the right to regulate. While the paper recognises that dispute resolution institutions have a significant impact on the balance and the right to regulate, it focuses primarily on substantive issues in light of other ongoing work on dispute settlement.
K33|Addressing the balance of interests in investment treaties: The limitation of fair and equitable treatment provisions to the minimum standard of treatment under customary international law|The fair and equitable treatment (FET) provision has leapt to prominence in the last 15 years as the principal ground of liability at issue in many if not most investment treaty arbitration claims. In debates about the impact of investment treaties on the right to regulate, FET is second only to investor-state dispute settlement (ISDS) as the most-cited provision. This paper examines government action to address the balance between investor protection and the right to regulate by limiting fair and equitable treatment provisions to the minimum standard of treatment under customary international law (MST-FET). The paper reviews the distinction between MST-FET clauses and autonomous FET clauses, and notes growing use of an express MST-FET approach in many regions. NAFTA governments’ views about the nature of the MST-FET standard, how it is identified, and its content are then examined in detail. An initial focus on NAFTA, while limited, is justified due to many singularities in NAFTA, including numerous government interpretations of MST-FET since 1994, their availability to the public and the comparatively higher success rate of NAFTA governments in defending FET claims. The paper concludes with brief comparisons between the government views and the views of ISDS tribunals and commentators.
K33|Adjudicator Compensation Systems and Investor-State Dispute Settlement|Compensation for adjudicators is generally considered as a core issue for judicial independence and for attracting good judges in the institutional design for courts. This paper examines compensation systems for adjudicators and dispute settlement administrators in investor-state dispute settlement (ISDS). The paper uses in part a comparative perspective based on approaches in domestic courts in advanced economies, an approach rarely taken in analysing investor-state arbitration.The first section of the paper provides historical context and examines the reform of remuneration of judges to replace private litigant fees with salaries in colonial America and the United States, France and England in the 18th and early 19th centuries. Subsequent sections address debates over the impact of compensation systems on adjudicators; contemporary approaches to the compensation of judges in advanced economies; the co-existence in advanced economies of national courts with salaried judges since the early 19th century with generally strong support for commercial arbitration based on ad hoc fee-based remuneration; and similarities and differences between commercial arbitration and investment arbitration, focusing how the largely similar compensation systems may have different effects and be differently perceived by the public.Annexes to the paper report on discussions about adjudicator compensation at the 2016 OECD Investment Treaty Conference and gather some preliminary facts about adjudicator and dispute administrator compensation in investor-state arbitration as well as the investment court system included in the recent EU-Canada CETA trade and investment agreement.
K33|Bringing together international trade and investment perspectives on state enterprises|State enterprises (SEs) have been increasingly competing with private firms in international markets, in terms of both cross-border trade and FDI. Given both the potentially positive contribution internationally trading and investing SEs can make, as well as the concerns raised about their competitive behaviour, there is an interest in elaborating policy approaches that minimise any potentially distortionary effects and at the same time restrain protectionist policies that may be directed at SEs. The growing interdependency between trade and FDI, the increased contestability and complexity of markets and the varied nature of state intervention in the economy today mean that policy approaches need to consistently cover issues which transcend the traditional boundaries between trade, investment and competition. This paper investigates how international trade and investment perspectives on SEs are being brought together in international trade and investment agreements and how they could be integrated further. It does so by examining both the ability of existing provisions to ensure a level playing field between private firms and SEs and the disparity in approaches to regulating international activities of SEs between international trade and investment treaties. The paper first reviews the work documenting international activities of SEs and the associated concerns, highlighting the example of the steel sector. Next, it discusses some of the non-binding approaches that can be used to level the playing field, before reviewing relevant provisions in multilateral and preferential trade and investment agreements and identifying potential gaps. The concluding section summarises the results and identifies key issues for policy consideration.
K33|Changes in perception of European integration after Brexit|Research background: UK rejects the paradigm of the role and rank of the security community and the perception of European integration as a road of no return. Economic and legal study allows to assess the reasoning of Brexit and future regime of EU-UK relations. Purpose of the article: To assess changes in perception of European integration due to Brexit and to determine its geopolitical and geo-economic consequences. The reasons of such purpose: the evolving structure of the UK, persistent trends of separatism in the UK, geographical differences in attitudes of UK citizens to Brexit. Methods: The research is an interdisciplinary economic and law study. The authors use: economic and legal methods applicable to the research. Conclusions are formulated on the basis of the synthesis of the results and approximations. Findings: Brexit changes the perception and attractiveness of European integration. Weakening of Britain’s ties with EU Members will have a significant impact on the strength of European identity. Brexit will weaken the European pillar of Atlantic Alliance. Brexit will be a factor of permanent disintegration of UK.
K33|CHALLENGE OF MIGRATIONS– THE CASE OF SERBIA Abstract Spring wave of refugees threatens Europe this year 2016. The paper highlights the problems caused by the influx of refugeesin the Republic of Serbia, as well as legal norms in force.In Serbia, the refugees are treated more fairly than in many European countries. Our country is faced with all types of migration. This imposes a number of different yet clearly related challenges for modern migration management. On the territory of the Republic of Serbia there are 82 opened border crossings, of which 50 road, 14 railway, 4 airport, 12 river and 2 ferry. Back in December 2008, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has decided to establish the Center for asylum, which operates within the Commissariat for Refugees. To meet these challenges caused primarily due to a sudden increase in the number of asylum seekers in the Republic of Serbia in 2010, 2011 and 2012, particularly after the intensification of the armed conflict in Syria, the government has opened a new center for asylum in Bogovadja. The situation with migrants is more serious in Serbia and now the checking of all migrants who pass through our country is reinforced. According to the Government’s Decision on the issuing the certificate of entry on the territory of the Republic of Serbia for migrants coming from countries where their lives are in danger (2015), this certificate serves migrants to stay in the Republic of Serbia for a period of 72 hours of its issuance. With this certificate migrants may use the services of banks, stay in establishments providing accommodation and receive the necessary medical help. Holders of these certificates do not acquire the status of asylum seekers in terms of rules for asylum in the Republic of Serbia. In Serbia there is a clear policy of migration management which is carried on through different national strategies and strategic documents for accession to the EU, though migration represent a global phenomenon whose impact and consequences transcend national boundaries. One of the foreign policy priorities of the Republic of Serbia is to be placed on the so-called “white Schengen list”, what necessarily imposes the need of prevention of illegal migration, especially from our country or from other countries through the territory of the Republic of Serbia, toward other EU countries, candidate countries for EU membership, but also to other countries in general|No abstract is available for this item.
K33|Human Rights and Sovereign Debts in the Context of Property and Creditor Rights|Post-War conceptions of human rights have evolved independently of long-established theory and practice of property and creditor rights, to the detriment of the development and implementation of human rights law. This chapter attempts to build a first bridge between these two fields of law. It begins by recalling the strikingly different origin and implementation of ‘human’ versus property and creditor rights, because the differences have significant implications. Human rights laws are more honoured in the breach than in the observance in most parts of the world, principally because states accepted international standards governing the treatment of their own nationals in their own territory while reserving to themselves the sovereign right to enforce those rights as they saw fit. In sharp contrast, when it comes to property and creditor rights, there are few gaps between principled intentions, legal mandates, and actual enforcement. Property and creditor rights are important for the attainment of other human rights, especially those of an economic nature, and many human rights are connected to, and are rather inseparable from, broadly conceived property rights. There follows a discussion of the still wide gap between aspirational human rights and economic reality. The time has come for human rights scholars to ratchet down their expectations to match the very limited capacity of low-income and formerly communist countries most prone to human rights deficiencies to import the Western European welfare state model. The final section focuses on the poorly understood interconnections between sovereign debts and human rights. Neglect of property and creditor-rights considerations has led many contemporary human rights advocates down an infertile, if not inappropriate, intellectual and policy path. Speculation that contracts governing cross-border debts and investments may not be sufficiently compelling, at least relative to human rights commitments, is unwarranted and counterproductive.
K33|The Significance of WTO’s Trade Related Investment Measures (TRIMs) Agreement For Inward FDI in Sub-Saharan Africa|The significance of a crucial WTO accession agreement component, that is, Trade Related Investment Measures (TRIMs) agreement in increasing Sub-Saharan African developing country’s appeal for investors from abroad is assessed over here. Conventional FDI location determinants like macroeconomic stability, market size, infrastructure, trade openness and economic development are also considered. Utilising yearly data for 38 Sub-Saharan developing nations over the time period from 1988 to 2015 in a panel form, the researcher found that removal of market distortions through TRIMs, sound macroeconomic management, infrastructure availability, liberalisation of investment and trade regime have plausible significant effects on FDI inflows. Contrary to the empirical FDI literature economic development is found to be insignificant and market size sensitive to the addition of explanatory variables, especially, WTO led TRIMs. Time invariant features such as language, geographical location and sea access cannot be evaluated as fixed effect panel estimation technique does not support them.
K33|The Development Dimension of the WTO Agreement on Trade Facilitation|The focus on development adopted at the WTO’s Doha Ministerial Meeting in 2001 has changed the architecture of multilateral trade negotiations, with development issues assuming a central position in the WTO negotiation spaces and agreements. In this paper, we assess the extent to which the concerns of developing countries have been addressed in the TFA substantive provisions and special and differential treatment (S&DT) provisions for developing countries. We find that the TFA approach resembles a traditional approach to addressing concerns of developing countries and follows closely the already trodden path of the Uruguay S&DT discipline. An important cluster of issues that did not find its way into the TFA is that relating to regional approach in implementation of TFA. The TFA holds the promise of contributing positively to the development process in less developed countries if the promise of support is realized and developing countries set clear and objective targets to make effective use of the assistance, but in itself may not guarantee the realization of development objectives for developing and least developed countries. Provision of support and capacity building are unguranteed by nonbinding nature of the relevant provisions. This is the input that international partners could, and should, make to the realization of development objec-tive of TFA.
K33|The impact of multi-fibre agreement phase-out on Sub-Saharan Africa’s textiles and clothing exports|This paper analyses exports of textiles and clothing (T&C) from Sub-Saharan African countries in the decade leading to and after a phase out of the Agreement on Textile and Clothing (ATC) (Multi-fibre Agreement restrictions on T&C export)—from 1990s to 2016 using WTO and World Bank data sets—to ascertain the initial effects of the end of quotas and other restrictions on global trade in textile and clothing. Our results show a fall in exports of African countries in the aftermath of the ATC, and a simultaneous and gradual shift of increasing T&C exports by Asian countries (Asia & Pacific) into African markets at a much faster rate than their increase into the U.S. and EU markets. To the U.S, the Asian countries continue to export post-ATC at about the same levels of textile and clothing that they did before ATC phase out. Taken together, there is no clear evidence that the termination of the ATC has been a major contributing factor to the decline of Sub-Saharan Africa’s T&C exports. The utilisation of safeguard mechanisms by the U.S. and the EU and the continued option to maintain tariffs and other non-tariff barriers make it difficult to trace the effects of the end of ATC, but also raise important issues that could be considered in the WTO negotiations on rules: trade remedies (safeguard and countervailing measures) since the end of ATC did not bring about “free trade” for clothing and textiles.
K33|The EU’s Investment Court System and Prospects for a New Multilateral Investment Dispute Settlement System|The EU’s proposal to establish a new Investment Court System during the TTIP negotiations has well represented the cumulative resentment of the public, governments, civil societies as well as academics in regard to the existing ISDS mechanism. Such issues as the lack of legitimacy, transparency, consistency, the absence of a review mechanism, and the high burden to public finance in the existing system have been criticized as undermining the sovereignty of the State and its right to regulate for legitimate policy objectives such as the environment, health, and safety. Despite the merits of the existing ISDS mechanism, the increasing demand for improved safeguards against abusive claims and discretionary power of private adjudicators should be adequately addressed in consideration of the democratic principles and the objectives of sustainable development goals. It is also noteworthy that the function of the traditional ISDS system, devised as a preferential instrument for foreign investors, has evolved over time as the distinction between capital-exporting and capital-importing countries became blurred and more attention is focused on the equality and balance of power among domestic and foreign businesses as well as between investors and the host States. In this vein, the establishment of a permanent tribunal and the public appointment of tribunal members with a fixed-term, as proposed by the EU in the new ICS, are indicative of the shifting paradigm in the discourse of treaty-based investor to State arbitration systems. Despite the fact that the system of ICS can hardly solve all of the problems, it may possibly improve the level of legitimacy by incorporating public features of the procedure. At the same time, it is noteworthy that the objective of improving the legitimacy and consistency of the dispute settlement system cannot be achieved without the prospect of establishing a multilateral dispute settlement mechanism with consolidated and harmonized standards of investment rules. Considering the difficulties of reaching a multilateral agreement on investment as witnessed in the past decades, the approach of the Mauritius Convention, which adopted an opt-in mechanism, would be useful as it reduces the risk of failure in negotiations while building a consensus among participants and allowing them to decide when to ratify the Convention in consideration of their domestic circumstances. Considering the extensive network of trade and investment agreements that Korea has concluded in the past decade, it is more than necessary for the Korean government to pay close attention to the recent development in this process and actively participate in discussions on the possibility of establishing a multilateral investment court and the key principles of investment protection and facilitation in international fora.
K33|Applying Competition Policy to Optimize International Trade Rules|"This paper delves into the relationship between trade and competition, which has long been a subject largely untouched since the issue had been dropped from the multilateral trade agenda in 2003. The need to incorporate elements of competition policy into international trade rules has long been discussed in the context of making the international trade regime more effective. The issue has gained more attention as state-owned enterprises (SOEs) began to emerge as new influential players in the international market, competing with private enterprises on an unequal footing. A growing number of bilateral trade agreements have included chapters on competition policy, albeit with rules that do not have sufficient binding force for disciplining the business practices of state-owned enterprises. The recently concluded Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), however, has introduced innovative rules for disciplining the competitive practices of SOEs by integrating the existing WTO disciplines on subsidies with competition rules. In this article, ""competitive neutrality"", the fundamental principle underlying the SOE disciplines, is used as a framework of analysis for understanding the new disciplines and obligations in the SOE rules. Several legal issues and challenges are identified that are relevant for applying the new rules in the real world, and implications are derived for future rule-making involving other new trade issues."
K33|License For Genocide: International Law Violations & The Bleiburg Massacre At The Close Of World War Ii|This presentation examines violations of international law in Europe at the end of World War II that resulted in what is referred to as The Bleiburg Massacre and Operation Slaughterhouse. Through analysis of historical documents, newly released evidence of mass graves, and interviews with survivors, military intelligence officers, and scholars, we trace the forced repatriation to Yugoslavia of 700,000 Croatian civilians and military personnel who sought asylum in Austria at the close of World War II. The study provides support for the thesis of complicity of British authorities with Josip Broz Tito in violation of the Geneva Conventions. Data suggest that the violations of international law led to the death of the overwhelming majority of these individuals at the hands of Yugoslav Partisans through death marches and mass executions. The presentation includes excerpts from a documentary film on the subject currently in production by the authors.
K33|A Brief Assessment About The Legal Status Of Vatican|For a long time in history, Papal State was one of the most powerful state in all over Europe with the Pope as a head of state. But, the situation had changed after it lost its territory to Italy, which, as a consequnce, developed the problem of the status of Vatican under the principles of international law. At the time it continued to act as if it was a state, and some states promoted the very idea. This complex situation somehow eased by the conclusion of 1929 Lateran Treaty with Italy, in which a small territory was given to it and recognized its sovereignty over it. But, the question of status, as it would appear, has remained stand-still. In this respect, some jurists in doctrine challenges the status of Vatican as a state and acknowledges it as a sui generis subject of international law, while some recognizes it as a state. Hence, in this brief assessment the question of the legal status of Vatican will be analyzed.
K33|The Solution Of The Sea Disagreement|In order to reach fair conclusions, I had to set out some definitions given by the International Conventions. This area is relatively new and unobtrusively studied by academics, military, Albanian lawmakers, who have been unequally confronted with the Greeks in this agreement because they have human capacities at the world's best levels, institutes and institutions of the sea. The method used to relate this study is that of comparison and deduction. To reach the goal, the study was conducted around the answers to these questions:1.How do legal regimes operate in sea?2.How are resolved marine disagreements? 3.Does the Albania-Greece deal matter??4.How was it done in similar cases?5.Is this agreement in accordance with the UN Conventions?6.What is lacking in this agreement?Only after the above answers, the relevant conclusions and recommendations have been reached.
K33|Contemporary Challenges in the Business Law|This volume contains the scientific papers presented at the Sixth International Conference „Perspectives of Business Law in the Third Millennium” that was held on 25-26 November 2016 at Bucharest University of Economic Studies, Romania. The scientific studies included in this volume are grouped into two chapters: Contemporary challenges in the regulation of international business law; Contemporary challenges in the regulation of national business law. The present volume is addressed to practitioners, researchers, students and PhD candidates in juridical sciences, who are interested in recent developments and prospects for development in the field of business law at international and national level.
K33|Sanctioned to Death? The Impact of Economic Sanctions on Life Expectancy and its Gender Gap|In this paper, we empirically analyze the effect of UN and US economic sanctions on life expectancy and its gender gap in target countries. Our sample covers 98 less developed and newly industrialized countries over the period 1977–2012. We employ a matching approach to account for the endogeneity of sanctions. Our results indicate that an average episode of UN sanctions reduces life expectancy by about 1.2–1.4 years. The corresponding decrease of 0.4–0.5 years under an average episode of US sanctions is significantly smaller. These average effects conceal that the damage to life expectancy is accumulating over time; with every additional year under UN (US) sanctions the size of the adverse effect on life expectancy increases by 0.3 (0.2) years. Finally, we find evidence that women are affected more severely by the imposition of sanctions. The fact that sanctions are not “gender-blind” can be interpreted as evidence that sanctions disproportionately affect (the life expectancy of) the more vulnerable members of society.
K33|Do Bilateral Investment Treaties Attract Foreign Direct Investment? The Role of International Dispute Settlement Provisions|This paper studies the effect of the strength of Bilateral Investment Treaties (BITs) on FDI activity. We develop an index for the strength of international dispute settlement provisions included in BITs in order to examine the role the content of BITs plays in attracting FDI. To this end we make use of data from the UNCTAD’s International Investment Agreement Mapping Project and measure the provision strength of 1,676 BITs. Using panel data of bilateral and total inward FDI flows and stocks we study the effect of BITs on FDI. Our main finding indicates that stronger international dispute settlement provisions in BITs are indeed associated with positive effects on FDI activity.
K33|The true art of the tax deal: Evidence on aid flows and bilateral double tax agreements|Of a total of 2,976 double tax agreements (DTAs), some 60% are signed between a developing and a developed economy. As DTAs shift taxing rights from capitalâ€ importing to capitalâ€ exporting countries, the latter inherently benefit more from the agreements. In this paper, we argue that capital exporters use foreign aid to incite capital importers into signing DTAs. We demonstrate in a theoretical model that in a deal, one country does not trump the other, but that the deal must be mutually beneficial. In the case of an asymmetric DTA, this requires compensation from the capitalâ€ exporting country to the capitalâ€ importing country. Examining DTAs that are signed between donor and recipient countries between 1991 and 2012, and using a fixed effects Poisson model, we find that bilateral foreign aid commitments increase by 22% in the year of the signature of a DTA. Evaluated at the sample mean, this translates into around US$ six million additional aid commitments in a DTA signatory year.
K33|Arbeitsprogramm zum UZK 2016 – Beschluss (EU) 2016/578|Der Unionszollkodex – die VO (EU) Nr. 952/2013 – (UZK) hat am 1. Mai 2016 vollständige Geltung erlangt. Viele vorgesehene IT-Systeme zur einheitlichen Abwicklung des Zollrechts in der EU sind jedoch zu diesem Zeitpunkt noch nicht verfügbar und funktionsfähig gewesen. Die Kommission ist mit Artikel 280 UZK im Rahmen eines „Arbeitsprogrammes“ zum Unionszollkodex beauftragt worden, die weitere Entwicklung der IT-Systeme zur Zollabwicklung voranzutreiben und zeitnah abzuschließen. Das Arbeitsprogramm zum UZK soll jährlich aktualisiert werden. Das erste UZK-Arbeitsprogramm – der Durchführungsbeschluss 2014/255/EU – ist nach nunmehr zwei Jahren durch den Durchführungsbeschluss (EU) 2016/578 neu gefasst worden. Dieser Beitrag stellt das überarbeitete UZK-Arbeitsprogramm 2016 vor und gibt einen Überblick über IT-Verfahren und Zeiträume der Umsetzung/Einführung.
K33|Das Zollverfahren der Ausfuhr nach dem Unionszollkodex in grafischen Übersichten|Der Unionszollkodex (VO [EU] Nr. 952/2013) des Europäischen Parlaments und des Rates vom 9.10.2013 hat seit dem 1.5.2016 den bisher geltenden Zollkodex der Gemeinschaften (VO [EWG] Nr. 2913/92) vollständig ersetzt. Das bisherige Ausfuhrverfahren für Gemeinschaftswaren (ein Zollverfahren nach Art. 4 Nr. 16 ZK) war v. a. in den Art. 161, 162, 183 ZK und vielen Vorschriften der ZK-DVO geregelt. Die Wiederausfuhr für Nicht-Unionswaren war eine zollrechtliche Bestimmung (Art. 4 Nr. 15 ZK), die in den Art. 182 ZK und Art. 842 ZK-DVO geregelt gewesen ist. Das nationale Außenwirtschaftsrecht ergänzte dabei die Vorschriften des Europarechts. Mit dem UZK ist das Zollverfahren der Ausfuhr eines von drei Zollverfahren geworden, das sowohl die Ausfuhr von Unionswaren als auch die Wiederausfuhr von Nicht-Unionswaren umfasst. Die wesentlichen Regelungen des Zollverfahrens der Ausfuhr sind in den Art. 263–277 UZK enthalten. Daneben treten – wie bisher – die Regelungen der Abgabe einer Zollanmeldung (Art. 158–167 UZK) sowie der §§ 12–20 AWV. Alle Anwender werden auch diese Fundstellen und z. T. neuen Inhalte der Artikel neu lernen müssen. Bislang gibt es erste systematische Überblicke und Umschlüsselungshilfen, doch die Detailarbeit und insbesondere die Verknüpfung von UZK zu den ergänzenden UZK-DVOen sind nicht einfach in einer Umschlüsselungshilfe darstellbar. Neben den UZK treten die beiden Delegierenden Verordnungen – Delegierender Rechtsakt, VO (EU) 2015/2446 (UZK-DA) und Implementierender Durchführungsrechtsakt (UZK-IA), VO (EU) 2015/2447 – und die Verknüpfung der UZK-Normen zu den DVOen ist komplex und muss neu erlernt werden.
K33|Toward a global norm against manipulating the integrity of financial data|The financial crisis that erupted in 2007 highlighted how important trust is for the global system and how fragile it can be. The 2016 Bangladesh central bank cyber incident exposed a new threat to financial stability and the unprecedented scale of the risk that malicious cyber actors pose to financial institutions. Beyond theft, using cyber operations to manipulate the integrity of data, in particular, poses a distinct and greater set of systemic risks than other forms of financial coercion. The complex and interdependent character of the financial system and its transcendence of physical and national boundaries mean that manipulating the integrity of financial institutions' data can, intentionally and/or unintentionally, threaten financial stability and the stability of the international system. Importantly, unlike the 2007-2008 global crisis, this risk exists independent of the underlying economic fundamentals and will only increase as more and more governments make cashless economies an explicit goal. The G20 finance ministers and central bank governors should be commended for urging improvements in the resilience of the global financial system in their March 2017 communique. In a next step, the G20 member states could commit their countries explicitly to refrain from using offensive cybertools to corrupt the integrity of data in the financial system and to cooperate when such attacks do occur.
K33|Civil society challenged: Towards an enabling policy environment|"The roles of non-governmental or civil society organizations have become more complex, especially in the context of changing relationships with nation states and the international community. In many instances, state-civil society relations have worsened, leading experts to speak of a ""shrinking space"" for civil society nationally as well as internationally. The author proposes to initiate a process for the establishment of an independent high-level commission of eminent persons (i) to examine the changing policy environment for civil society organizations in many countries as well as internationally, (ii) to review the reasons behind the shrinking space civil society encounters in some parts of the world and its steady development in others, and (iii) to make concrete proposals for how the state and the international system on the one hand and civil society on the other hand can relate in productive ways in national and multilateral contexts."
K33|The G20 countries should engage with blockchain technologies to build an inclusive, transparent, and accountable digital economy for all|Blockchain technologies hold the key to building an inclusive global digital economy that is auditably secure and transparently accountable to the world's citizens. At a time when governments must fight to restore the public's faith in cross-border economic cooperation, blockchains can play a critical role in strengthening economic resilience while ensuring the global economy works to the benefit of all. The G20 must take decisive steps to harness this technology in service of its policy goals across the core focus areas of economic resilience, financial inclusion, taxation, trade and investment, employment, climate, health, sustainable development, and women's empowerment. Failure to do so risks further fragmenting the global economy, undermining public trust in international economic institutions, and pushing the most cutting-edge blockchain developments into dark web deployments that are beyond the reach of government influence. By acting now to embrace blockchains' socially beneficial properties and minimize their potential downside risks, the G20 governments can lay the foundation for a just, prosperous, and truly shared global economy.
K33|Trade issues affecting disaster response|The frequency, severity and economic impact of natural disasters are growing. Import surges resulting from disaster-response efforts can highlight underlying structural failings in the border clearance regimes of disaster-affected countries. Relief supplies, specialized personnel and agencies often face regulatory barriers affecting their entry and practice in disaster-affected environments. Against that background, the purpose of this working paper is twofold: it sets out to explore trade issues that can undermine effective disaster response, and then outlines how these trade issues might be addressed, including through implementation of the WTO Trade Facilitation Agreement as well as through technology-enabled services and the expansion of disaster risk insurance. The merits of further discussion of trade and natural disasters are also discussed.
K33|Arbitration and Renegotiation in Trade Agreements|"What can parties to a trade agreement achieve by institutionalizing a rules-based dispute settlement procedure? What role can third-party arbitration play in dispute settlement? I study these questions within a mechanism design framework. The model generates predictions regarding the pattern of pre-trial and post-trial settlement negotiations, non-compliance with the arbitrator’s ruling, and retaliations under an optimal trade agreement. It is shown that an Arbitrated-Liability Regime, under which a defecting party is liable for damages only to the extent that an arbitrator specifies, could implement the optimal direct mechanism. Moreover, property rule is not an optimal ""escape"" provision as it induces too much retaliations. (JEL F13, K33)"
K33|Considerations on the Right to Asylum|"Hugo Grotius, considered one of the fathers of public international law, was the one who tried since 1625 to define the concept of asylum in the legal sphere in his writings, especially in his work ""De jure belli ac pacis."" While internationally there is no concrete definition of the term asylum, the application for asylum is considered a fundamental human right that emerges from legal instruments related to this matter, adapted to the goal of cooperation of states at intergovernmental level and even national level, according to art. 14 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which stipulates that ""in case of persecution, everyone has the right to seek and enjoy asylum in other countries. This right may not be invoked in the case of prosecutions genuinely arising from a crime or from acts contrary to the purposes and principles of the United Nations ""."
K33|Considerations on the Right to a Healthy Living Environment|"Among the fundamental rights of ""third generation"" rights of solidarity, the right to a healthy and ecologically balanced environment is characterized by a special dynamicof its recognition and its legal guarantee. Originally internationally proclaimed , constitutionally and legislatively recognized by states, this right is perceived with difficulty, judicially, by the system of the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and by European law. In the absence of specific legislation, it is recognized and guaranteed, especially through procedures and jurisprudence. The Stockholm Conference of 1972 organized by the UN and its decisions have spurred socioeconomic and legal-constitutional concerns of consecration of environmental protection. Virtually any constitution that was adopted or substantially modified after that time also included provisions on the environment. In this regard, more frequent constitutional consecration is positive and paves the way for his inclusion among post-modern fundamentals right. It is considered that the right to environment is a subjective right to third parties whose compliance with can be requested by any natural or legal person, public or private."
K33|The Problem that Wasn’t: Coordination Failures in Sovereign Debt Restructurings|Abstract Contrary to widespread expectation, emerging market debt renegotiations in the era of bond finance have generally been quick and involved little litigation. This paper presents a model that rationalizes some of the initial fears and offers two interpretations for why they did not come true. First, when debt exchange offers are sufficiently attractive relative to the risk faced by holdouts, full participation can be an equilibrium. Second, legal innovations such as minimum participation thresholds and defensive exit consents helped coordinate creditors and avoid litigation. In this regard, exit consents are shown to have similar effects on creditor coordination as collective action clauses (CACs). Unlike CACs, exit consents can be exploited to force a high haircut on creditors, but the ability of creditors to coordinate to block exit consents limits overly aggressive use.
K33|The Challenges Of The Recent Financial Crisis: An Analytical Approach Of Poland Experience|When looking back to the global financial crisis which has been over for a few years now, we can see both, European Union Member states which were profoundly affected by it and others which were relatively unscathed. The core of the last scenario is represented by Poland that unlike the majority of European countries has actually faired very well in the face of this recession. A lot of literature discusses its success, emphasizing the internal strength of the economy, and partly the impact of several external factors which helped Poland to deal with the global crisis. Although, from an outsider perspective, Poland appears to have had a certain level of immunity to financial crisis, in reality the crisis has had an impact on its economy and public administration structures. Taking into account that, the biggest challenges may still lie ahead, and the fact that certain member states of the European Union still try to recover from global crisis, this paper aims to look closer to Poland, and to evaluate its responses to the global financial crisis for identifying some mechanisms or public policies and institutions which can be considered as benchmarking or good practice for other countries. The main concern is outlining various measures were taken or are currently being taken to stem any further effects of the crisis. The unit analysis consists on reforms of public administration and economic policies of Polish Government and European Union strategies. As research methodology, the study adopts a case-oriented approach to advance its arguments using both quantitative and qualitative data, published by European and national institutions.
K33|Le Role Du Mediateur Fiscal Pour Maintenir La Confiance Du Contribuable Dans L’Administration Fiscale: Approche De Droit Comparè|"The consent to pay taxes is an essential foundation of democracy, solemnly enunciated in the Declaration of human and civic rights of 26 august 1789, along with the principle of imposing everyone to contribute to the security of all and the common administration. The relationship between the citizen and public administration should be based on the confidence. In France, the Ombudsman of the Ministries of Economy and Budget sometimes designated as ""le Médiateur de Bercy"", established since 2002, is the correspondent of the Defender of Rights, but in the tax area and subordinated to the minister. He receives individual complaints concerning the operation of services of the Ministry in their relations with users and to rule on disputes solution. Defender of the taxpayer face of maladministration, he also intervenes in cases of flagrant inequity and can propose reforms hi considers necessary, with the objective of maintaining the confidence between the taxpayer and the tax administration. In Romania, the institution of tax Ombudsman and conciliation in tax matters does not exist. There are only Ombudsman, an independent and autonomous institution and aims to protect the rights and freedoms of individuals in their relations with the administration. In the Ombudsman powers enter the petitions concerning cases of maladministration of public authorities, one of his areas being the property, labor, social security and taxes. This paper presents some aspects concerning institution of tax Ombudsman, underlining its useful role in defending the rights of taxpayers, by presenting it as a model of strong fiscal governance and also as a proposal to establish in Romania."
K33|La unificación del derecho privado europeo y las transacciones jurídico-mercantiles transfronterizas<BR>[The unification of European private law and the cross-border legal-mercantile transactions]|This article analyzes the historical progress, perspectives and proposals on the processes of unification of European private law, from a legal and empirical study, in order to highlight the current situation of legal-mercantile transactions within the European Union and the Incidence of legal asymmetry of states on mercantile and financial flows.
K33|How Necessary? A Comparison of Legal and Economic Assessments GATT Dispute Settlements under: Article XX(b), TBT 2.2 and SPS 5.6|"This paper identifies the legal and economic assessments applied to resolve WTO disputes requiring an assessment of the contribution of the measure to the objective pursued, along with identifying any reasonably available alternatives. It focuses on disputes encompassing an interpretation of GATT Article XX (b), Sanitary and PhytoSanitary Agreement (SPS) Article 5.6 and the Technical Barriers to Trade (TBT) Agreement Article 2.2. This narrow focus is because the WTO DSB has opined that there are no significant differences between the tests developed under Art. XX(b) of the GATT 1994 and Art. 5.6 of the SPS Agreement, nor that any aspect of the Art. XX(b) jurisprudence relating to the interpretation of the term ""necessary"" would be inapplicable to Art. 2.2 of the TBT Agreement. This provides an opportunity to compare the legal and economic assessments applied in disputes falling under these provisions. This paper identifies no significant differences between the legal tests relating to the interpretation of the term ""necessary"". A WTO Panel is under no obligation to quantify the measure's contribution to the objective pursued and 'a risk may be evaluated either in quantitative or qualitative terms'. However, the same cannot be said for the economic assessments determining whether the necessity of the contribution of the contested measure. After setting out the legal tests, the paper identifies those economic assessments undertaken to resolve disputes involving these three different GATT/WTO provisions. The paper finds that quantitative economic models are rarely employed in WTO dispute cases. The lack of coherent guidelines for assessing the economic dimensions of a dispute in a transparent and robust manner potentially undermines the effectiveness and the reputation of WTO Dispute Settlement Body (DSB) recommendations."
K33|The textile and clothing industry in Lesotho in the wake of the multi-fibre agreement phase-out|This paper examines the textile and clothing (T&C) industry in Lesotho to ascertain the initial effects of the end of quotas and other restrictions on global trade in textile and clothing. Results show a dramatic decline in Lesotho’s T&C exports, both in value terms and export share in major markets in industrialised countries: the U.S. and the EU in the aftermath of the Agreement on Textile and Clothing (ATC). The export decline for Lesotho and for Sub-Saharan African countries as a group has not been accompanied by simultaneous or rapid shift of increasing T&C exports by Asian developing countries, who continue to export post-ATC at about the same levels of textile and clothing that they did before ATC phase out. While T&C exports from Lesotho and other African countries continue to decline, post-ATC, it is unclear if the end of the ATC quotas has been the main cause of that decline. Results do not provide clear evidence that the termination of the ATC has been a major contributing factor to the decline of Lesotho’s and SSA Africa’s T&C exports. Instead, we find evidence of simultaneous and rapid shift of increasing T&C exports from China to Lesotho and other African markets. Compared to competition in export markets, the influx of Chinese products imposes worse threat to the textile and clothing sector in Lesotho and the rest of Africa. Further to these, the utilisation of safeguard mechanisms by the U.S. and the continued option to maintain tariffs and other non-tariff barriers means that the end of ATC did not fully bring about “free trade” for clothing and textiles. These results raise important policy issues that could be considered in the ongoing negotiations on rules: trade remedies, particularly those dealing with safeguard and countervailing measures.
K33|Návrh bezpečných přístavů v oblasti převodních cen pro malé a střední podniky<BR>[The Proposal of Safe Harbours in the Area of Transfer Prices for Small and Medium Sized Enterprises]|In this paper we focus on transfer pricing issues of SMEs which impose relatively higher compliance costs of taxation on SMEs than on large entities which can benefit from economies of scale. Therefore, the international platforms recommend introducing the simplified transfer pricing approaches mainly for SMEs. Currently, 62% of EU Member States have implemented simplified transfer pricing measurements for them. The aim of the paper is to propose the methodical tool for SMEs in the form of safe harbours based on the arm´s length profit margins in the selected industry sectors in order to reflect sectoral and size-classes differences. Further, we try to answer on the question, how wide margin is possible to apply in case of distributors if the proposed methodical tool is used and manufacturers generate different operating costs.
K33|Bilateral Investment Treaties and Investor State Disputes|Bilateral Investment treaties have been a source of political controversy in recent years because of the alarming increase in the investor state dispute settlement cases. Against this backdrop, the paper analyses the issues with diffused reciprocity imbibed in BITs leading to the unequal distribution of rights and obligations between developed and developing countries. The hypotheses developed within this analytical framework that a) BITS increases the risk of litigation and b) BITs negatively impacts on the net benefits of countries, are tested empirically using multivariate regression models using country pooled and panel data. Our conclusions are that the investors initiate higher number of cases against countries with BITs. Moreover, the net benefits accruing to countries are seen to be substantially lower for countries with BITs. Our findings support the growing view that a re-look at the traditional BITs model is warranted with a focus to evolve a new generation foreign investment policy framework that together with promoting foreign investment will also enable regulation of investment in keeping with host country public policy.
K33|The Fight Against Cyber-Crime In The Context Of Compliance With The Right To Protection Against Arbitrary Or U|The right to privacy of correspondence is enshrined in Article 8 of the European Convention and the jurisprudence of the ECHR. Violation of privacy is one of the crimes against the constitutional rights and freedoms of man. Within the framework of the problems in combating international terrorism and the legitimate interests of law enforcement or national security, restriction on the right of a citizen to privacy of correspondence is permitted only in accordance with the law, including international human rights law. Paragraph 2 of article 17 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights explicitly states that everyone has the right to the protection of the law against unlawful or arbitrary interference with their privacy. This implies that any communications surveillance programme must be conducted on the basis of a publicly accessible law, which in turn must comply with the State?s own constitutional regime and international human rights law.
K33|Emerging Avenues Of Space And International Law|This paper will address legal approaches to a number of new ventures that will be carried out in outer space in the near future and that will likely require major changes to the way nations will approach space law. Today we tend to view activities in space from an individual program or project perspective and we tend to analyze the engineering, social, and legal issues very narrowly and separately for each proposed venture. However, four current government and commercial activities: active debris removal, satellite servicing, diverting near earth objects, and resource extraction and processing all raise similar major and unresolved legal issues. These issues should be considered together in a consistent, logical, and rational way, insuring that solutions are coordinated and uniform. All of these activities involve attaching to an orbiting natural or human object and then working on or with that object. Issues raised range from definitions to property rights to weaponization. All will require new approaches to regulatory areas such as safety, the environment, transparency, liability, indemnification, and dispute resolution. Our current legal system in space is oriented toward launch and satellite operations, not towards active private sector initiatives in space and on celestial bodies such as the Moon and asteroids. It is clear that a balance between governmental objectives and commercial assurances on financing and profits will have to be made. Similarly, the dual-use nature of space will have to balance national security with business risktaking. An ad hoc national or international legal regime will not serve any nation or company well. This paper will suggest ways to approach these required changes in international space law that will be evolutionary and consistent with the current space treaties and international law.
K33|United States E The Suspention Of The Constitutional Guarantee: Fear Os Security?|In this article I wanted to deal with an extremely important aspect of the United States Constitution: the suspension of constitutional guarantees.The United States throughout history have had several moments when the central government decided the suspension of constitutional guarantees (habeas corpus, habeas data to name a few) as a security measure to deal with the war or the states of exception. The American people, appealing to nationalist sentiments, has always supported the decisions of the US government in this regard, of course, not realizing the consequences and restrictions that they could make to their private lives.This article of the constitution, in my opinion, should be reviewed by the American constituents.It is not permissible in the country's free and democratic par excellence the restriction of rights and freedoms. The suspension of constitutional guarantees in a state of emergency, natural disaster and war periods can become a powerful weapon in the hands of the rulers whom can also use arbitrarily.This article will highlight the danger resulting from the suspension of constitutional guarantees, accompanied by examples of suspension of guarantees at different periods of American history, with an invitation to the American constituent to adopted the fundamental charter to recent standards on the prohibition of the suspension of guarantees to better protect their citizens.
K33|A Case Study over the Concept of ?Effectivités? to Decide Sovereignty over Disputed Islands: Malaysia/Singapor|The International Court of Justice (ICJ) announced its verdict on a territorial dispute between Singapore and Malaysia on 23 May 2008, involving the three marine features of Pedra Branca/Pulau Batu Puteh, Middle Rocks, and South Ledge. Consequently, Pedra Branca/Pulau Batu Puteh awarded to Singapore and Middle Rocks to Malaysia. The Court found that sovereignty over South Ledge belongs to the State in the territorial waters of which it is located.In this Case, the ICJ decided by following a specific method; first, it described the geographical context, and next gave an overview of the complex historical background, then examined the positions of the Parties, legal status of the islands and applicable law, finally took the conduct of the Parties into consideration for the purpose of assessing and validating effectivités. Effectivités of the Parties seem to be decisive and have a direct effect on the verdict in this Case. This study shows that some categories of effectivités are legally significant and demonstrate à titre de souverain, but some are not. Additionally, it points out that not to protest the opponent?s activities with respect to the maritime features in dispute is seen as ?implied recognition? by the Court.
K33|Future of Exclusive Economic Zone|History shows us that strong states usually maritime nations are rigidly opposed to the limitation of the freedom of the seas, meanwile some other states assert the limited use of the maritime domain. As a result of the trend towards increasing sovereignty of some states over seas, the consept of Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) emerged in 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS). The Convention provides certain economic rights and jurisdictions to the coastal states and sets forth some rights and duties to other states. However, the legal status of foreign military activities in the EEZ is ambiguous since it is not clearly defined in the Convention. As a consequence of this uncertainty, the legal status of the foreign military activities in the EEZ is interpreted from very different poiny of views by states. The diversity of the views causes conflicts for states from time to time. The above mentioned conflicts can affect the future of the EEZ which is at utmost importance for the use of the maritime domain. In this study; the history and the legal aspects of the EEZ should be assessed in general for predicting the future of the EEZ. Then, basic disputes over the legal status of foreign military activities in EEZ will be explored, and practices and interpretations of states will be mentioned briefly. Finally, this study will evaluate the issues about how the legal future of the EEZ might be shaped and how it should be.
K33|Delimiting The Outer Space|Though science fiction authors have dreamed of permanent space colonies for decades, humans have not walked the surface of another celestial body since Apollo 17 left the moon in December, 1972. Today, however, the possibility of leaving Earth?s orbit for long duration missions is looking brighter. With newcomers like China and India, established spacefarers like the United States and Russia, and a host of private corporations contemplating establishing habitats on the moon or Mars, it is important to consider the extent to which such celestial bodies may be used. In this paper, I examine the fine line between long-term use of outer space and appropriation. First, I consider the concept of ?appropriation? as it has been interpreted by scholars and commentators. Second, I argue that the geosynchronous orbit (?GSO?) provides an analogy for thinking about permissible occupancy and use of man-made structures on the surface of the moon or other celestial bodies, both with respect to the custom that has developed over the use of orbital slots and as a possible regulatory scheme for allocating real property in outer space. Third, I apply this analogy of the GSO to delimit the extent of allowed uses of such areas, both temporally and spatially.
K33|Non-governmental organisations in European Union and its role in consumer protection|The article is based on an analysis of the subject literature, the legal acts and information from the official web sites of European non-governmental organisations (NGO?s), the main purpose of which is to present the idea and the primary role of NGO?s, whose priority is to propagate and popularize consumer protection in the European Union.In addition an analysis is conducted of the systematics of Consumer non-governmental sector in European Union. Also the relation between non-governmental organisations and European Commission are indicated. The article includes a characterisation of the specific role of the European Economic and Social Committee, which consists of representatives of the various economic and social components of organised civil society, such as consumers in the development of consumer protection in the European market. Generally consumer protection policy was established after the year 1992. At that time, on 7 February 1992 in Maastricht, the Treaty on the European Union undertaken to integrate Europe was signed by the members of the European Community. The Treaty devoted to consumer protection is under a separate title, XI. From that time, the Community shall contribute to the attainment of a high level of consumer protection. One of the ways to achieve this aim is the development of NGO?s within the consumer sectors, which can be called the dedicated voice of the consumer at national and Community level.In the next section of the article the chosen European Union non-government organization and its role in consumer protection is analyzed. In particular the specific actions undertaken on that matter by the European Community of Consumer Co-operatives (Euro Coop), the European Farmers Organisation, the European Association for the co-ordination of Consumer Representation in Standardisation (ANEC) and the Bureau Européen des Unions de Consommateurs ( BEUC ) are analysed.The final section of the article is the conclusion of the real role of consumer NGO?s both now and in the future in European Union policy. Those considerations are based on real European Union regulations such as Regulation (EU) No 254/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on a multiannual consumer programme for the years 2014-20, and the Opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee on the Proposal for the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Consumer Programme 2014-2020.
K33|Prosecuting Rape, Sexual Enslavement, and Genocide in Time of War: Southeastern Europe 1991-1995|This paper addresses the experiences and concerns of the 20,000-50,000 women who were raped and sexually enslaved in the war in Southeastern Europe and are still awaiting prosecution of their victimizers. Through interviews with survivors and experts, we document the challenges faced by those seeking official status as victims of war crimes entitled to moral, spiritual, and financial assistance. The paper examines the record of the U.N.'s International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) and the courts of Bosnia-Herzegovina and Croatia in combating impunity for conflict-related sexual violence by successfully prosecuting the crimes. Our findings suggest that the ICTY's application of the concepts of 'joint criminal enterprise' and 'moral equivalency' resulted in a limited record of successful prosecution and an uncertain political future for the region.
K33|Prevention, Detection, Investigation And Prosecution Of Terrorist Offenses And Other Serious Crimes By Using Passenger Name Record (Pnr) Data. Critical Opinions. De Lege Ferenda Proposals|In this study we have examined (sometimes critically) the provisions of Directive (EU) 2016/681 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the use of Passenger Name Record (PNR) data for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution terrorist offenses and serious crimes. Representing an absolute novelty in EU legislation, the European legislative act is examined from the perspective of transposing it into the Romanian law. The innovations that are brought to this study are the examination itself and the de lege ferenda proposals which can be useful to the European legislator, but mostly to the Romanian legislator in the transposition of this legislative act into the Romanian law. The paper can be useful to academics and practitioners in the field of preventing and fighting terrorist offenses and serious crimes.
K33|Issuance And Transmission Of The European Protection Order In The European Union. Critical Opinions. De Lege Ferenda Proposals|The objective of this study is to examine the provisions of Directive 2011/99 / EU concerning the procedure for issuing and transmission of a European protection order. The examination highlights the need for a previously ordered protection measure, under which it may issue a European protection order at the request of the person seeking protection. Along with the conducted examination there were identified also depositions that may cause some malfunctions into practice, which is why there were formulated some de lege ferenda proposals, which may be considered by the European legislator. We highlight here the proposal that regards the need, within the procedure for issuing a European protection order, to ensure the right to defense to the protected person and to the person representing a danger. The paper can be useful to both academics and practitioners and also to the European legislator, in terms of operating the necessary changes.
K33|Withdrawal From The European Union According To Art. 50 Of The Treaty Of Lisbon. Practical Application – Brexit|Lisbon Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union regulates Article 50 posbilitatea Member States to withdraw voluntarily respecting national constitutional provisions. BREXIT (Britain and exit) is the term that has been named Britain's withdrawal from the European Union. Following a consultative referendum held in the UK in June 2016 52% of the votes cast were in favor of leaving the EU. The new prime minister of Great Britain, Theresa May announced that by the end of March 2017 the government he leads will invoke Article 50 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, triggering the formal withdrawal, it will be finalized by in late March 2019. Beyond the political and economic implications, unprecedented in the perste 60 years of the Eu ropean Union (including the three European Communities), the procedure of withdrawal from the European Union and Brexit site raises a number of legal issues, uniqueness being the consequence of the that such a procedure has never been used again anyway not in this form, on the one hand and, on the other hand, it is a state belonging to the system of common law based on judicial precedent which, in this case , does not exist.
K33|Short Overview Of International Arbitration Ruling In Romania From The Perspective Of The Rules Of Newly Established Arbitration Forums|In Romania there are several traditional or new arbitral Courtsthat are willing to provide their services to legal entities in an international context and in a competent and efficient semblance. Two of these, the Arbitration Court of the Romanian-German Chamber of Industry and Commerce and Bucharest International Arbitration Court, adopted their Rules relatively recent and eluded from practitionersreviews. Therefore, the present article will analyze the Rules of the mentioned arbitral Courts by comparison with the ICC Rules, LCIA Rules and HKIAC Rules, starting from the most valuable characteristics of international arbitration, as determined in the 2015 International Arbitration Survey, with the purpose of concluding if the new arbitral Courts of Romania are important competitors in the field and if their recommended arbitration agreement should be included in the commercial agreements.
K33|Can I stay a BIT longer? The effect of bilateral investment treaties on political survival|Abstract Bilateral Investment Treaties (BITs) have proliferated throughout the international system. While ostensibly commercial in purpose, do BITs have domestic political ramifications? I argue that BITs affect a leader’s tenure through their effect on the property rights environment in developing countries. BITs, by segmenting a country’s property rights environment for foreign and domestic firms, reduce the incentive for foreign firms to lobby for property rights protections in the host country thus leading to a stagnating domestic property rights environment. In autocracies, a stagnating domestic property rights regime benefits domestic business elites who can continue to stymie small and medium enterprises (SMEs). The political benefits of BITs, however, decrease as a country becomes more democratic. Using a dataset of developing country leaders over the period 1965-2011, I find support for my hypothesis that BITs are associated with a decreased hazard of losing office and that the effect diminishes with higher levels of democracy. My results highlight the consequences of the legalization of global investment on the domestic political economy.
K33|Brexit Poker — Wer hat die besseren Karten in den Austrittsverhandlungen?<BR>[Brexit Poker — Who Holds the Better Cards in the Withdrawal Negotiations?]|Zusammenfassung Die politische, wirtschaftliche und rechtliche Lage Großbritanniens gegenüber der Europäischen Union nach dem EU-Mitgliedschaftsreferendum und im Vorfeld der Austrittsverhandlungen stellt sich ungewiss dar. Die Autoren fassen die verfassungsrechtliche Kontroverse über die Kompetenz- und Verfahrensfragen zur rechtmäßigen Brexit-Durchführung zusammen. Darüber hinaus geben sie einen Überblick, inwiefern der Vertrag über die Europäische Union und der Vertrag über die Arbeitsweise der Europäischen Union die Entscheidungsfindung der Verhandlungspartner determinieren. Vermutlich wird Großbritannien, um den Zugang zum europäischen Markt nicht zu verlieren und um seine Rolle als Finanzzentrum sowie als Tor zu Europa für private Investoren aus Drittländern weiter spielen zu können, Transferleistungen an die EU akzeptieren und wesentliche Bereiche des Acquis Communautaire beachten müssen.
K33|Folgt nach „TTIP Leaks“ nun doch „TTIP Light“?<BR>[After “TTIP Leaks” Follows “TTIP Light”?]|Zusammenfassung Die Diskussion über die Transatlantische Handels- und Investitionspartnerschaft (TTIP) ist kontrovers. Durch die neuerdings bekannt gewordenen Veröffentlichungen zum Verhandlungsstand des TTIP-Abkommens (TTIP Leaks) ist aber eine bessere Beurteilung der Einzelfragen möglich. Der Autor untersucht, bei welchen kritischen TTIP-Komponenten ein Kompromiss denkbar und sinnvoll wäre, welche Themen so strittig sind, dass sie einen „TTIP Light“-Ansatz rechtfertigen würden, und ob das daraus resultierende Abkommen letztlich noch werthaltig wäre.
K33|South Africa: Trading international investment for policy space|The overall trend since 1994 of growing foreign direct investment into South Africa has been a reflection of the country’s openness to investment as well as significant international trust in its institutions. Recent policy and legislative developments, including the termination of South Africa’s bilateral investment treaties with EU trading partners and the introduction of the Protection of Investment Act, are however raising concern among international investors and bringing into question the attractiveness and reliability of South Africa as a destination for foreign investment. These concerns have been compounded by increasing regulatory restrictions upon foreign investors, including stricter visa requirements, and the introduction of various other pieces of legislation that have implications upon the level of protection of property rights in South Africa. A policy shift, reflected in legislation such as the Protection of Investment Act, the Private Security Industry Regulation Amendment Bill and the Expropriation Bill, indicates an enhanced focus on the public interest aspect of the constitutional right to property in accordance with the government’s constitutionally mandated transformative agenda. A balance needs to be found between the government’s sovereign right to implement domestic policies in order to achieve its socio-economic goals, its duty to protect foreign investments, and its overall objective of promoting sustainable economic growth.
K33|Review about the legal framework of the foreign investments in Venezuela|Human relations in the modern world are framed by institutions that regulate the actions of agents by previously defined and recognized rules of engagement. In this context, international trade is regulated by laws that facilitate the exchange of goods and services and is there where the state intervenes to ensure the protection of its national interests and to encourage foreign investment with the certainty that their capital will be taken care of as if it was its own. This article pretends, under a descriptive approach, to understand the influence of the domestic legal framework on the levels of foreign investment entering the country.
K33|The Empirical Landscape of Trade Policy|This paper surveys empirically the broad features of trade policy in goods for 31 major economies that collectively represented 83 percent of the world's population and 91 percent of the world's GDP in 2013. We address five questions: Do some countries have more liberal trading regimes than others? Within countries, which industries receive the most import protection? How do trade policies change over time? Do countries discriminate among their trading partners when setting trade policy? Finally, how liberalized is world trade? Our analysis documents the extent of cross-sectional heterogeneity in applied commercial policy across countries, their economic sectors, and their trading partners, over time. We conclude that substantial trade policy barriers remain as an important feature of the world economy.
K33|Sieben Jahre Zugelassener Wirtschaftsbeteiligter (AEO)|Der Zugelassene Wirtschaftsbeteiligte (AEO) wurde mit Wirkung vom 1. Januar 2008 geschaffen. Sieben Jahre sind vergangen, nach denen es nun erneut gilt, eine Zwischenbilanz zu ziehen – wurden die Erwartungen und Antragszahlen erreicht, was gibt es an Neuerungen und welche Tendenzen sind erkennbar? Neue rechtliche Rahmenbedingungen gelten bereits seit dem 1. Januar 2009 – die Kriterien für alle zollrechtlichen Bewilligungen von vereinfachten Anmeldeverfahren und Anschreibeverfahren (Einfuhr und Ausfuhr) werden grundsätzlich an einige AEO-Kriterien angepasst. Das BMF verschärfte alle Prüfungen für neue und bestehende Bewilligungen bei der Wareneinfuhr und Warenausfuhr. Erneut werden auch die Zahlen für Norwegen und die Schweiz dargestellt, obwohl die AEO-Zahlen in beiden Ländern bescheiden sind. Der Unions-Zollkodex (UZK) wurde veröffentlicht und gilt spätestens ab dem 1.5.2016. Der Beitritt Kroatiens zur EU-28 wurde berücksichtigt. 2014 wurden in Kroatien die ersten AEO-Zertifikate erteilt. Die AEO-Zertifikate in einigen Mitgliedstaaten stagnieren, in anderen dagegen steigt die Zahl weiter. Die Entwicklungen in dieser Spätphase der AEO-Zertifizierung sind dynamisch und teilweise überraschend.
K33|Der Unionszollkodex – Übersicht der Neuerungen und Zeitpunkte der Geltungen|Der Unionszollkodex (UZK) (VO [EU] Nr. 952/2013 des Europäischen Parlaments und des Rates vom 9.10.20132 wird mit Wirkung vom 1.5.2016 den bisher geltenden Zollkodex der Gemeinschaften (VO [EWG] Nr. 2913/92) vollständig ersetzen. Viele Vorschriften fallen weg oder werden vollständig neu gefasst. Kaum ein Stein bleibt auf dem anderen. Alle Anwender werden die Fundstellen und Artikel neu lernen müssen. Eine Umschlüsselungshilfe (Synopse) zwischen UZK und ZK zum Auffinden der Norminhalte wurde bereits veröffentlicht. Erste Einführungen in den UZK und kompakte Darstellungen liegen vor. Dieser kleine Beitrag beleuchtet die Frage, ob sofort alles anders wird oder was wann geändert wird – gibt es Übergangsregelungen? Wenn ja, welche? Beide UZK-DVOen wurden am 29.12.2015 im Amtsblatt der EU veröffentlicht und sind Grundlage dieses Beitrags. Ein weiterer Beitrag beleuchtet alle UZK-Übergangsvorschriften der UZK-DVOen (v. a. für Bewilligungen) im Detail. Dieser Beitrag legt sein Augenmerk auf die IT-Verfahren.
K33|Acht Jahre Zugelassener Wirtschaftsbeteiligter (AEO)|Der Zugelassene Wirtschaftsbeteiligte (AEO) wurde mit Wirkung vom 1. Januar 2008 geschaffen. Acht Jahre sind vergangen, nach denen es nun erneut gilt, eine Zwischenbilanz zu ziehen – wurden die Erwartungen und Antragszahlen erreicht, was gibt es an Neuerungen und welche Tendenzen sind erkennbar? Neue rechtliche Rahmenbedingungen gelten ab dem 1. Mai 2016 mit dem Unionszollkodex (UZK) welcher auch große Einflüsse auf die Nachfrage für den AEO haben dürfte. Geltende Bewilligungen müssen bis Ende April 2019 angepasst werden. Erneut werden auch die Zahlen für Norwegen und die Schweiz dargestellt, obwohl die AEO-Zahlen in beiden Ländern bescheiden sind. Die AEO-Zertifikate in einigen Mitgliedstaaten stagnieren, in anderen dagegen steigt die Zahl weiter. Die Entwicklungen in dieser Spätphase der AEO-Zertifizierung sind dynamisch und teilweise überraschend. Aber ist es wirklich die Spätphase? Oder steht uns wegen des UZK eine neue Antragswelle bevor?!
K33|TBT and Trade Facilitation Agreements: Leveraging linkages to reduce trade costs|"The average international trade transaction is subject to numerous procedural and documentation requirements, which add to the costs of doing business as an importer or exporter and also use up scarce government resources. While these requirements can be necessary to fulfil policy objectives, questions are often raised about why and how they are implemented. The Trade Facilitation Agreement (TFA), adopted by WTO Members in 2014, seeks to expedite the movement, release and clearance of goods across borders and reduce these trade transaction costs - by an average of 14.3 per cent as estimated by the 2015 World Trade Report. At the same time, many WTO Agreements already contain provisions aimed at facilitating trade procedures and avoiding unnecessary costs. The Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade (the TBT Agreement) is one of these: its provisions on transparency and conformity assessment procedures, some of which are applied at the border, are of particular relevance in this context. The TFA and TBT Agreements are in fact complementary, with the TFA introducing some new requirements/recommendations, which are likely to apply to certain TBT measures. This paper maps out the linkages between these two Agreements. It does so with a view to informing TBT officials of the requirements and best practices emerging in the trade facilitation area as well as raising awareness amongst trade/customs officials of existing rules and evolving practices in the TBT area. The 2015 World Trade Report refers to ""border agency cooperation"" as the main TFA implementation challenge identified by developing countries and also points to the importance of cooperation and coordination between ministries as one of the main success factors. Considering that a significant share of import/export procedures and controls arise from the implementation of TBT measures, a better understanding of the linkages between the TFA and the TBT Agreement (as well as other relevant WTO Agreements such as the SPS Agreement) will be crucial for effective implementation. It will also contribute to more streamlined technical assistance activities and raise awareness among TBT officials of the opportunities generated by trade facilitation projects. The procedures and practices of the WTO TBT Committee, especially with regards to transparency and specific trade concerns, could also be of interest to the future TFA Committee, as it embarks on its task of furthering the implementation of the TFA. All these in turn will help reap the expected benefits of the new Trade Facilitation Agreement."
K33|Trade, testing and toasters: Conformity assessment procedures and the TBT Committee|Even if traders adapt to technical regulations and standards in an export market, they still must prove compliance by undergoing conformity assessment procedures (CAPs), such as testing, inspection, or certification. Duplication, delays or discrimination in CAPs can significantly increase trade costs, and this risk is reflected in the growing importance of CAPs in WTO discussions and bilateral and regional free trade agreements. This paper conducts an empirical study of the trade issues that WTO Members encounter with CAPs as described in specific trade concerns (STCs) raised in the WTO Committee on Technical Barriers to Trade (TBT) during 2010-2014. We observe that CAPs raise proportionally more concern among WTO Members than technical regulations do, and that testing and certification are the procedures that most frequently give rise to trade problems. Within the framework of the TBT Agreement, we find that questions around transparency and whether CAPs create unnecessary barriers to trade are the two most prominent issues highlighted by Members.
K33|Global Commercial Law between Unity, Pluralism, and Competition: The Case of the CISG|The global legal system consists of a multitude of legal regimes of various origin, thus constituting a regulatory framework which is significantly different from the one of a nation state. In the absence of a world state, international and supranational law regimes, various domestic legal systems, and transnational law regimes such as the lex mercatoria each claim normative authority in the global sphere, which inevitably overlap and interfere in some issue areas. Not surprisingly, this messy state has attracted some attention among legal theory scholars, stimulating various different lines of thought on how global law is actually structured and which organizing principles ought to be in operation. In this paper we identify unity, pluralism, and competition as three paradigms, which qualify in particular to guide our discourse on the structure and the organizing principles of global law. Since theoretical debates tend to remain quite abstract and vague, if not opaque, we decided to flesh out the differences and commonalities between the approaches by applying the three paradigms to the concrete field of the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods (CISG) as a cornerstone of global commercial law. This brings together up to now more or less separate theoretical and dogmatic discourses in a fruitful cross-disciplinary way. As a result, we plea for a paradigmatic pluralism, meaning that global law should not be constructed according to one single organizing principle only. This paper serves as an introduction to three in-depth papers, which each explore the issue from the perspective of one paradigm. Altogether they will publish in a focus issue of the Uniform Law Review in 2016.
K33|The Market Impacts of Pharmaceutical Product Patents in Developing Countries: Evidence from India|In 2005, as the result of a World Trade Organization mandate, India implemented a patent reform for pharmaceuticals that was intended to comply with the 1995 Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS). Exploiting variation in the timing of patent decisions, we estimate that a molecule receiving a patent experienced an average price increase of just 3-6 percent, with larger increases for more recently developed molecules and for those produced by just one firm when the patent system began. Our results also show little impact on quantities sold or on the number of pharmaceutical firms operating in the market. (JEL K33, L11, L13, L65, O14, O34, O38)
K33|Is the WTO Passé?|The WTO has delivered policy outcomes that are very different from those likely to emerge out of the recent wave of preferential trade agreements (PTAs). Should economists see this as an efficient institutional hand-off, where the WTO has carried trade liberalization as far as it can manage, and is now passing the baton to PTAs to finish the job? We survey a growing economics literature on international trade agreements and argue on this basis that the WTO is not passé. Rather, and subject to some caveats, our survey of research to date suggests that the WTO warrants strong support while a more cautious view of PTAs seems appropriate.
K33|The World Trade Organization and the Future of Multilateralism|When the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade was signed by 23 nations in 1947, the goal was to establish a rules-based world trading system and to facilitate mutually advantageous trade liberalization. As the GATT evolved over time and morphed into the World Trade Organization in 1993, both goals have largely been achieved. The WTO presides over a rule-based trading system based on norms that are almost universally accepted and respected by its 163 members. Tariffs today are below 5 percent on most trade, and zero for a very large share of imports. Despite its manifest success, the WTO is widely regarded as suffering from a deep malaise. The main reason is that the latest WTO negotiation, the Doha Round, has staggered between failures, flops, and false dawns since it was launched in 2001. But the Doha logjam has not inhibited tariff liberalization far from it. During the last 15 years, most WTO members have massively lowered barriers to trade, investment, and services bilaterally, regionally, and unilaterally—indeed, everywhere except through the WTO. For today's offshoring-linked international commerce, the trade rules that matter are less about tariffs and more about protection of investments and intellectual property, along with legal and regulatory steps to assure that the two-way flows of goods, services, investment, and people will not be impeded. It's possible to imagine a hypothetical WTO that would incorporate these rules. But the most likely outcome for the future governance of international trade is a two-pillar structure in which the WTO continues to govern with its 1994-era rules while the new rules for international production networks are set by a decentralized process of sometimes overlapping and inconsistent mega-regional agreements.
K33|Alternative Approaches for Rating INDCs: a Comparative Analysis|The “Intended nationally determined contributions” (INDCs) communicated by both developing and developed countries represent a crucial element of the Paris agreement. This paper aims at analysing the INDCs submitted by Parties, through the different tools and approaches proposed by the research community. In particular, our analysis looks at the different ways to assess the effectiveness of the proposed emission reduction pledges, both in terms of aggregate and national efforts. However, we also consider other factors that will be critical in determining the success of the Paris talks, such as the coherence and fairness of single contributions.
K33|"Profili di illegittimità costituzionale della c.d. ""Unione bancaria"" e del bail-in nel quadro della moneta unica"|1. Introduzione al tema; 2. Il quadro normativo europeo in materia di risparmio e di sua promozione e tutela; 3. La disciplina costituzionale del risparmio in termini letterali e sistematici; 4. Lo schema economico e ideologico trasposto nella disciplina dell’unione bancaria; 5. Gli effetti di sistema della “apparente” unione bancaria sulla stessa titolarità del potere di creazione della moneta; 6. Quadro generale della contrarietà della moneta unica alla Costituzione, sotto il profilo della tutela del risparmio e dei saldi della contabilità nazionale (prescindendo dall’applicazione dell’unione bancaria); 7. Conclusioni sulla illegittimità costituzionale della disciplina dell’unione bancaria nel quadro istituzionale della moneta unica; 8. Il valore sintomatico della illegittimità costituzionale del sistema di assicurazione “privato” dei depositi bancari.
K33|La notion de bail professionnel en droit OHADA et ses implications sur la théorie générale du fonds de commerce|"The last reform of the Uniform Act on General Commercial Law OHADA reconsidered several pieces of commercial law. The concept of leasing has not been spared. She, who was accompanied by the ""commercial"" substantive, has been transformed into ""commercial lease"". Question of style or simple semantics? Certainly not, because the legislature in 1997, had not previously dared revise the designation commercial lease that no longer fit with the extension of the beneficiaries he had devoted himself. With the reform of December 2010, the institution of the lease has just renamed. Parliament also confirmed the extension of the scope of economic actors involved in the protection of the lease. The regime of former Uniform Act was therefore not fully extended, particularly since we noted another significant change in the new text. Contrary to former Article 69 which devoted two cumulative criteria necessary for the implementation of the lease of the regime, including the situation in a populated city of more than 5,000 people and membership of local under lease to a designated class, the new text retains a single criterion, that of belonging to a local specific category. This mutation disrupts some basics of goodwill theory. Indeed, with the increasing scope of lessees, there is a sliding protection to professional trader. This causes result in a substitution of the lease of the foundation that passes from customer to the profession. The loss of the privileged place of business customers coupled with doctrinal and jurisprudential developments in the theory of civil customers, argue for an assimilation of the different customer categories."
K33|The right to interpretation and translation within criminal proceedings in the European Union. Comparative examination. Critical opinions|In the present study we have examined the Directive 2010/64/EU of the European Parliament and the Council, the European legal instrument governing the right to interpretation and translation within criminal proceedings in the European Union. The innovations in this paper concern the examination of the regulatory way of the mentioned two rights, the formulated critical opinions and the proposals of de lege ferenda. The value of the paper lies in the de lege ferenda proposals, which that can contribute to improving the system of European legislation in the field, which in the constant interpretation of the ECHR it also requires respecting the right to interpretation and translation in ongoing criminal proceedings. Also, the examination highlights the importance and necessity of adopting this European legal instrument regarding the harmonization of the national laws in terms of compulsoriness and the procedure for complying with the two rights to which we referred, in case where the suspect or the accused is to be judged of the territory of a Member State other than his State of origin. The work can be useful to theorists, practitioners and to the European legislator from the perspective of operating the suggested changes.
K33|L’incrimination du terrorisme en droit pénal camerounais|Law No. 2014/28 of 23 December 2014 on the suppression of acts of terrorism in Cameroon was enacted in a context characterized by the resurgence of terrorism. But the caution with which it was greeted raises questions about the formal technique used by the legislator. A content analysis of this law, we come to two conclusions: First the legality principle is violated because the offense is not defined and it is formulated in vague terms. Second, the prominence it gives to mobile and indifference of the means used in the commission of the offense exalt guilt.
K33|Premises for the establishing of the European Administrative Space|Article analyzes the premises which made possible the creation of a European Administrative Space in the European Union. Are researched the criteria for belonging to the European Space, the conditions for the existence of a European Public Space and the notion of the European Administrative Space. They emphasize the factors that can determine a unified transnational public law by analyzing the administrative convergences in Europe. Today we find that although the term and concept of law of public administration differ from one national system to another, it is possible an agreement on a common definition of administrative law, as a set of principles and rules that relate to the organization and administration management public and relations between governments and citizens.
K33|Romanian procedural and administrative particularities of the sale of lands to foreign persons|This study aims to examine the particularities of the procedures and legal instruments through which foreign persons, in the broadest sense of this term,3 may acquire, especially through sale-purchase contracts, agricultural lands situated outside of the built-up area, after Romania joined the European Union (1st of January, 2007). Likewise, this paper analyses specific international private law problems that may arise in relation with the application of the Romanian law regarding the legal transfer of agricultural and non-agricultural lands.
K33|European investigation order in criminal matters in the European Union. General considerations. Some critical opinions|Throughout this paper we have conducted a general examination of the principles under which it is regulated the newest form of European judicial assistance in criminal matters, namely, the European Investigation Order in criminal matters. The examination is focused in particular on the necessity and importance of establishing this new form of legal assistance in criminal matters between the Member States, given that it will override the order of freezing property or evidence in the European Union. When examining the general principles of this form of assistance we have noticed some imperfections of the European law, therefore we have formulated some critical opinions, supplemented by proposals of de lege ferenda. At the same time, given that up to May 22, 2017 the European legal instrument will have to be transposed into the Romanian law, we have formulated some proposals of de lege ferenda aiming at the improvement of Law no. 302/2004 on international judicial cooperation in criminal matters, republished, as amended and supplemented. The innovations of the work regard the examination of the general principles set out in the Preamble of the European legal instrument, the importance and the necessity for adopting this regulation, as well as formulating critical opinions supplemented by appropriate proposals de lege ferenda. The current study follows other works in the international and European judicial cooperation in criminal matters domain, published in some national and foreign publishing houses and in the volumes of international or national scientific conferences. The work can be useful to academics, practitioners in the field and to the Romanian legislator from the perspective of transposing the provisions into the national law of the European legal instrument.
K33|The Energy Charter Treaty and settlement of disputes – current challenges|The Energy Charter Treaty (the “ECT”) is a multilateral agreement aiming to promote energy cooperation and security. This paper focuses on the provisions of the ECT governing the protection of foreign investments and the settlement of disputes between investors and host states. In particular, this paper analyses the recent developments and challenges in the field of dispute settlement under the ECT, such as the increase in arbitrations, the withdrawal of Italy from the ECT, as well as the interplay between EU law and the ECT.
K33|The fiduciary guarantee in the Romanian and European legal context|The importance of the fiduciary guarantee has not reached its full potential in the Romanian market, nor in the European area. The ongoing “dispute” between the fiduciary operations (familiar to the continental law) and the trust (with its common -law heritage) seems to be won by the latter. However, considering the express provisions on the fiduciary operations in the Romanian Civil Code entered into force in 2011, similar to the introduction of the same legal instrument in the French Civil Code in 2007, could give a boost to this ancient tool, present from the Roman era. Even if the European legal framework do not provide many rules on this institution, however, the Financial Collateral Directive raised many questions on how the fiduciary guarantees can be used in practice, and contributed to the change that followed in this area.
K33|Legal aspects of Brexit|The Brexit referendum vote has mainly political implications and no direct legal effect. The article 50 of the Treaty on European Union allows member states to withdraw from the European Union in accordance with its own constitutional requirements. After the referendum is a period of two years from the british notice of intention to withdraw to negotiate terms of exit unless all the other member states agree to extend it. Article 50 put the balance of power firmly in the hands of the 27 other states more than the leaving state. After the time limit in article 50 is expiring, Europen Union in theory law ceases to apply in the United Kingdom. In the same time, separating European law from british national law will be an complicated process.
K33|Issuance and transmission of the European protection order by the Romanian judicial authorities. Some critical opinions. De lege ferenda proposals|The objective of the study aims at examining the provisions of Law no. 15 1/2016 on the European protection order and amending and supplementing certain legislative acts, starting from the transposition into the national law of the provisions of the European legal instrument. Also, in this study we have formulated some critical opinions, supplemented by de lege ferenda proposals which aim the improvement of the national criminal legal system. The innovations consist of both the conducted examination, supplemented by the interpretation of provisions of the Romanian law, the formulated critical opinions and the de lege ferenda proposals. The paper can be helpful to academics, particularly students of law faculties and practitioners in the field.
K33|The human rights and the terrorism|Regarding Human rights has been emphasized by governments through universal declaration human rights and its violations faced the global reaction in any case. From this perspective; the necessity of observing human rights against terrorism has been emphasized by many resolutions of the General Assembly, the Security Council and many regional resolutions. But, today especially after the September 11 events and America unilateral attacks by resorting to human rights and of course by considering the lack of international agreement on the norms, strategies and principles of human rights, the campaign against terrorism has started on the basis of its obligations, regardless to existing norms. So it would be said that today; the war against terrorism more than any other terrorist attacks threatens the security and human rights. However, human rights framework has never prevented effective and legitimate actions to the terrorist attacks. In other words; in the human right framework, there is no conflict with the campaign against terrorism, it emphasizes on identifying and fighting and even it guarantees the effectiveness of such a fight. As a result, Human rights violations at the expense of security, certainly associated with the destruction of both.
K33|"The investigation of committed crimes against “Myanmar’s Rohingya"" and the invoke necessity to ""the theory of responsibility to protect"""|"For several decades, the Rohingya ethnic minority, in ""Myanmar's Rakhine state"" is exposed to the systematic violence by the state and governmental agents. The intensity of this violence was emerged in June 2012 and attract the international community attention towards of the Myanmar's country. The theory of responsibility to protect, is the primary responsibility to protect of the people against the four major crimes, including genocide, war crimes, crimes against humanity and ethnic cleansing which are in charge of the each country state. At the same time, in the absence of willing or clear ability of the mentioned government, the international community has a responsibility to act under the Charter of the United Nations and in accordance with the charter provisions to prevent or stop of th e mentioned crimes. According to the necessary urgent support from the Rohingya, in this study, in addition to explain the concept of theory of responsibility to protect, the possibility of international crimes against of them is examined and whereas with regard to this question whether in the Myanmar’s Rohingya situation, there is the invoke condition in terms of the theory of responsibility to protect or not, indeed, whether the international community can invoke to protect them with regard to this theory or not, will be answered."
K33|Historic evolutions of the effects of the European Union political instruments in the Romanian legal order – effects of the mechanism for cooperation and verification|Since the accession of Romanian to the European Union, many unsolved problems related to the accountability and efficiency of the legal system and of the law enforcement bodies have been identified, a reason for which the European Commission justified the institution of a Mechanism for Cooperation and Verification as a political instrument for the monitoring and optimization of the progresses made by Romania to attain certain reference objectives specific to the field of reform of the legal system and the fight against corruption. This mechanism has been instituted to improve the functioning of the legislative, administrative and legal system and to repair the serious deficiencies in the fight against corruption. The goal of the mechanism for cooperation and verification was and is to ensure the adoption of those measures that may guarantee the Romanians and other member states that the administrative and judiciary decisions, standards and practices in Romania meet those of the European Union. The progresses made in the field of reform of the legal system and the fight against corruption will allow Romanian citizens and trading companies to enjoy their rights in quality of citizens of the European Union.
K33|The right to information within the criminal proceedings in the European Union. Comparative examination. Critical opinions|In the present study we have examined the provisions of Directive 2012/13 / EU of the European Parliament and the Council on the right to information in criminal proceedings and a compared examination relating to the provisions of Romanian law regarding ensuring the right to information within the Romanian criminal proceedings. The innovations and the value of the work consist of the examination of the European legal instrument, the comparative examination and the critical opinions and the proposals of de lege ferenda. As recognized in the jurisprudence of the ECHR, the right to information of the person suspected or accused of committing a crime or arrested for committing a crime on the territory of another Member State is part of the right to a fair trial, being necessary its compliance throughout the criminal trial, on the territory of each Member State. At the same time the European legislative act establishes a general procedure that needs to be respected by each Member State, which entails theobligation for Member States to ensure at least the same rights as for the citizen or the conditions under which a national of another Member State is suspected, accused or arrested for the commission of a crime. This paper continues the research conducted in the field of International and European judicial cooperation in criminal matters, which have resulted in the publication of papers in wellknown publishing houses in the country and abroad, in national and international specialized journals or conference proceedings. The work can be useful to both theorists and practitioners in the field of judicial cooperation in criminal matters regarding the rights of certain categories of people and to the Romanian or European legislator for amending and supplementing the legislation.
K33|The juridical status of the service firearm ownership and utilization procedure and the armament and munitions operations within the Romanian penitentiary administrative system|The general activity of the special status civil servants from within the Romanian penitentiary administration system, involves, due to the nature of the work-related duties, particular risks and tasks, therefore this activity cannot be conducted without ensuring a distinct and efficient juridical regime, ensuring the protection and safeguarding the fundamental rights of people deprived of their freedom. This paper aims to present the adoption of the current juridical regime of the procedure of owning and using the worksupplied weapons and the weapons and ammunition operations in the Romanian prison system, the no. 23/2016 Law regarding the possession and use of the work-supplied weapons and the weapons and munitions operations in the penitentiary administrative system, namely the use of weapons, munitions and military devices, by the civil servants with a special status from the penitentiary administrative system, being allowed only in the specially designed, approved and authorized shooting ranges, for this purpose; the situations in which the civil servants from the penitentiary administrative system, carrying lethal weapons, in the line of duty, are entitled to use their lethal or nonlethal weapon, depending on the case, only after the official warning has been made, as well as the situations in which they can use their weapons, without warning, if there is no time for this: in case of self-defense or in case of a state of emergency.
K33|Iceland, the EFTA Court and the indexation of credit to inflation: operating in nature ex-post but need to calculate and disclose ex-ante. A law of contradiction?|Indexation of credit to inflation (ex-post) is a unique legal practice in Iceland based on valorism theory on money vs. nominalism. Two rulings issued in 2014 by the EFTA Court try to clarify the legality and fairness of this particular price-variation clause under the European Economic Area consumer credit acquis. The study summarizes the rulings and analyses critically the interpretation provided by the court. It argues that the judgements defy the logic of non-contradiction since indexation of credit proves to be an impossible oxymoron under EU/EEA law. The results are confusing. On one hand, cost of credit and usury practices tend to fall outside the scope of European harmonisation (provided disclosure obligation of cost of credit and transparency ex-ante are respected). A fairness control is thus dependent on national and case circumstances to be assessed by domestic courts. On the other hand, European rules also impose with no derogations that the cost of indexation of credit to inflation is disclosed in a transparent way and calculated ex-ante. The paradox is there. Since indexation of credit operates ex-post on the basis of real inflation, it is impossible to disclose ex-ante in a transparent way. The findings of the study help to understand the situation of impasse in Iceland. Without a clear interpretation from the EFTA Court, the saga has continued at national level and will probably head for a second round of assessment at European level.
K33|The enforcement of fines and forfeiture measures ordered by the International Criminal Court: the critical role of States|This paper aims at analyzing the legal regime for the enforcement of fines and forfeiture measures as provided by the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court (ICC). The institution of this category of penalties and measures is unprecedented in international criminal law and has as major ambition of ensuring reparations for victims. The success of the restorative justice system under the Statute is dependent on the efficiency of the enforcement of fines and forfeitures ordered by the Court. Such success is actually based on domestic legal systems. Analysis of enforcement mechanisms of fines and forfeitures shows that the assistance of State authorities is vital in the enforcement of ICC decisions. To ensure effective enforcement of fines and forfeiture, the Statute enshrines the application of national legislation; which implicitly requires States Parties otherwise to adopt appropriate legislation, at least to undertake the adaptation of existing legislation. The satisfaction of this substantial requirement enables the States Parties to serenely execute their major obligations in this area (the obligation to give effect to fines or forfeitures ordered by the Court and the obligation to protect the rights of bona fide third parties).
K33|International standardization of arbitration as an alternate dispute resolution forum and its acceptance in India|With trade and commerce increasing rapidly between nations, there has been a significant rise in disputes, leading to an urgent need for an effective and unified dispute resolution system which can sufficiently settle disagreements/issues among parties in dispute and which has to be arrived at keeping in mind the differences in laws of every nation, hence, immensely increasing the scope of private international law, or conflict of laws as called by different nations. Such urgency led to many conventions, one of most important being The New York Convention of 1958 (Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards) and the UNCITRAL Model Law promulgated in 1985 and amended as recently as 2006 which has been the source for International Arbitration, the most widely used dispute resolution method for international commercial trade and transactions and many countries like India have also based their legislations on the rules of the UNCITRAL Model Law. Most European countries as well as India have ratified the New York Convention of 1958 (Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards) for the purposes of International trade and commercial transactions therefore opening the gateway for international commercial transactions to take place among such convention countries easier. Further, the judiciary of concerned countries has also affirmed such ratification and the applicability of the Model Law laid down.
K33|The rights of shareholders – basic principle of corporate governance by means of case-specific jurisprudence|Respecting shareholders’ rights represents one of the fundamental principles of corporate governance, underpinning the establishment of economic entities, as a form of association of individuals and / or legal entities in order to carry out profit-oriented activities. However, there are situations in which the management, the other shareholders, or even the authorities, do not respect certain shareholders’ rights, leading to a number of negative effects, such as the closing of companies. Based on these considerations, in this paper, we set as research objective to analyze the circumstances, which may affect shareholders’ rights. To meet the research objectives, we analyzed the case-specific jurisprudence published by the courts of law till 31st of December 2015. The results of the study show that the shareholders’ rights, which are not respected, include: the property right, the right to receive dividends, the right to participate and vote in the general assemblies of shareholders, the right to be elected in the governing bodies, and not the least, the most important one in accounting terms, the right to be informed.
K33|Globalization And Justice At Wto: Investment-Related Disputes Settlement|Given that trade and investment have become so tightly enmeshed, one would expect this fact to be reflected in the investments legal regulation process advancing more rapidly, at least to the extent that trade relations are regulated. In the last decades, world nations have grown increasingly concerned vis-Ã -vis governments' low capacity to politically harness foreign investors' activity, especially when the latter are multinational companies. The potential contradiction, in letter and fact, between actions promoted by governments in order to deal with foreign investment and the freedom of trade as reflected in the articles of the GATT, is the chief impediment to the adoption of multilateral norms with regard to foreign investments.
K33|Introduction: Eurobonds beyond Crisis Management|Eurobonds, i.e. the mutualization of (some) of the Eurozone member states debts, remain a promising tool not as a remedy for the ongoing debt crisis but for a number of other, more long-term reasons. This introduction to the present special issue of the Review of Law and Economics lays the ground for the subsequent in-depth analyses by providing a framework comprised of, on the one hand, the most prominent proposals for Eurobonds and, on the other hand, the legal and economic criteria against which the suitability of these proposals may be judged.
K33|Consequences of Different Eurobond Proposals|We analyze various Eurobond proposals and show that they have different effects on moral hazard, interest rates, international transfer payments and the necessity for European fiscal centralization. On closer inspection, these consequences are more diverse than the discussion on Eurobonds so far suggests. For instance, Eurobonds might increase rather than decrease marginal interest rates in weaker countries. Some proposals lead to international transfer payments while others do not. Some require changes to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, others require changes to national constitutions, and others yet require both. Some proposals, while not necessitating such legal change, may still have mutual advantages for the issuing states.
K33|How Can Eurobonds Be Legally Implemented into European Law?|This contribution examines to what extent and under what conditions the various proposals for Eurobonds may be considered to be in accordance with European law (especially Art. 125 TFEU) and the national (constitutional) law of the Member States. It finds that their admissibility primarily depends on the degree to which these proposals would be able to curb debtor moral hazard, which in turn depends on the liability regime chosen: joint and several or pro rata liability. We conclude that most types of Eurobonds would require a Treaty amendment, whose political feasibility is questionable.
K33|Is there Life in the Old Dog Yet? Observations on the Political Economy and Constitutional Viability of Common Debt Issuing in the Euro Area|Departing from a political economy analysis of the benefits of common debt issuance by the Eurozone member states, we examine to what extent the various proposals for Eurobonds may be considered admissible under EU law and exemplary national (constitutional) laws, including those of Germany, Estonia, France, Ireland and Poland, from which one can deduce general national constitutional requirements applicable in all Eurozone member states. The medium and long-term potential gains from increased Eurozone stability and improved fiscal discipline must be traded off against the considerable legal and political obstacles of implementing any of these proposals. Yet key to the success of any common debt issuance is the effective dealing with the legacy debt of the Eurozone member states.
K33|La Alianza del Pacífico: ¿apuesta estratégica de la política exterior colombiana?|En el presente artículo se desarrolla un estudio comparado de los tratados bilaterales de los países de la Alianza del Pacífico con China, Corea del Sur y Japón, desde 1990. Como este campo de estudio ha sido poco explorado, se busca brindar una primera aproximación con énfasis en las relaciones comerciales. En el documento se presenta una comparación de los principales indicadores de comercio exterior y los tratados bilaterales con las contrapartes asiáticas. Partiendo de esto, se enfoca en el aprovechamiento que pueden tener las normas de origen en el marco de la Alianza. A partir de lo anterior, se concluye que Colombia, por su posición entre sus socios de la Alianza, puede hacer uso de la acumulación como una estrategia de corto y mediano plazo para promover y diversificar el comercio internacional
K33|Political risk in foreign direct investments and its reduction by bilateral investment treaties|The first part of this paper focuses on the definition of political risk in foreign direct investments. The main objective of this paper is to present the role and the evaluation of the functioning of Bilateral Investment Treaties (BIT) in Poland. BIT’s play an important role in polish economy. Research studies, that were conducted at the beginning of 2016, concentrated on comparative analysis of selected BIT’s. These studies bring interesting conclusions concerning BIT’s in Poland.
K33|The European Public Prosecutor’s Office — the fiasco of the European Union financial security vision?|Aim: The article is devoted to the problem of financial abuses and frauds that undermines the public finances of EU and public interest. Motivation: The problem is not new and it is known for several years. There is no doubt that investments funded by the EU are common. A huge amount of EU money is also a huge temptation and purpose of economic crimes. Over the years, the EU and the Member States already took some action to prevent from embezzlement of the EU budget. Until now, the main institution that coordinated the fight against these phenomena was the European Commission and its structure, especially the European Anti-Fraud Office. Fighting against economic crimes violating the interests of the EU is difficult for the procedural reasons. European investigators have no prosecuting power. Investigative role is limited to gathering evidence and transferring it to the national prosecuting authorities. After that European investigators lose the control over conducted case. The Treaty on the functioning of the European Union gives us another tool to fight the frauds. It seems that the solution is to establish the European Public Prosecutor Office (EPPO) with full procedural rights to prosecute violators. That’s why the general thesis is that EPPO should be established as soon as it is possible to help prevent EU citizens money in more effective way than it is today. However this could be a contribution for the next article concerning the economic analysis of the law and the impact of new regulations on security funds entrusted to the EU. Results: The idea of establishing an EPPO has almost 10 years and was initiated in the connection with the latest financial crisis. Unfortunately, despite declarations and attempts to start it in January 2015 it is still not known if and when it will actually work. The article also takes the issue of commitment and various visions of the Member States of achieving the EU budget safety and other problems on this ground.
K33|State aid and the functioning of the Single European Market — the crisis perspective|Motivation: The financial crisis and the collapsing of the financial market as a result of bankruptcy in 2008 of Lehman Brothers bank became the justification for the need for State intervention in order to prevent the bankruptcy of other financial institutions and related consequences for the real economy. Results: Essential in this range was the position of the European Commission, whose task is to exercise control over compliance with European rules relating to the Member States intervention in the economy. A special role is played here by rules on granting State aid because their violation can lead to distortions of competition in the Single European Market. Aim: The aim of the article is to analyze the conditions of admissibility of State aid in the European Union, taking into account the rules applicable to the aid for undertakings during the crisis.
K33|The Purpose of Trade Agreements|This paper reviews the literature on governments' motivations for negotiating and joining international trade agreements. I discuss both normative explanations for trade agreements and explanations based on political-economy concerns. Most of the paper focuses on the purpose of multilateral agreements, but I do discuss briefly the reasons we might see governments forming preferential or regional trade agreements that exclude some countries.
K33|The empirical landscape of trade policy|This paper surveys empirically the broad features of trade policy in goods for 31 major economies that collectively represented 83 percent of the world's population and 91 percent of the world's GDP in 2013. It addresses the following five questions: Do some countries have more liberal trading regimes than others? Within countries, which industries receive the most import protection? How do trade policies change over time? Do countries discriminate among their trading partners when setting trade policy? Finally, how liberalized is world trade? The analysis documents the extent of cross-sectional heterogeneity in applied commercial policy across countries, their economic sectors, and their trading partners, over time. It concludes that substantial trade policy barriers remain as an important feature of the world economy.
K33|The International Law and Economics of Coercive Diplomacy: Macroeconomic Effects and Empirical Findings|This paper empirically investigates the actual and probable macroeconomic effects of economic sanctions (coercive diplomacy) within the framework of international law. It considers the performance of critical macroeconomic variables before and after the imposition of sanctions. The methodology of this paper incorporates risk tolerance (probabilities) in order to report probabilistic and real outcomes when targets become noncompliant. For a select number of countries with a history of exposure to sanctions, this paper finds that states that are willing to accommodate the economic risks imposed by senders are not likely to increase national income and human welfare.
K33|What Role for Civil Society Coalitions in Supranational Governance?|Beyond Networks critically dissects and systematizes an insightful, well-researched and elegantly written account of the democratic potential carried out by coalitions of civil society actors. Once established a case for studying coalitions of civil society organization through the lens of Global Administrative Law, the book eventually unveils its underlying research question. This volume specifically attempts to explain how civil society networks – which are studied within the broader notion of Global Civil Society (GSC) – drive the development of principles of democratic value at the supranational level. It does so within the broader debate about new modes of global governance and in particular that of experimentalist governance. It proceeds to theorize an autonomous organization network model within GSC: the so-called 'interlocutory coalitions'. Those coalitions are typically made of diverse category of entities whose major – sometimes solely – common feature is the cross-border pursuit of a common cause. In order to build an original and valuable taxonomy of civil society networks, interlocutory coalitions must be contrasted to other forms of networks, including social networks, trans-governmental committees, think tanks, Parallel Summits and QUANGOs. After reconstructing their respective composition, membership, rules of governance and legal status, the book delves into interlocutory coalitions' decision-making. How do coalitions presenting high degree of variation when it comes to their mission, governance, funding and membership coalesce around one common cause? How do they come to existence and get along? How can such coalitions speak with one voice when representing and advocating their common position in front of the relevant international organizations? What kind of techniques and deliberative mechanisms are used to attain a common position and then convey it to the outside world? This book provides a rigorous, constructive and promising stepping stone to embark on such a challenging journey. Yet the case for a global participatory democracy remains to be made.
K33|Balancing Free Movement and Public Health: The Case of Minimum Unit Pricing of Alcohol in Scotch Whisky|Scotland is the first jurisdiction in the world to introduce a minimum price per unit of alcohol to reduce consumption. The relevant industry did not hesitate to challenge this new alcohol control policy before courts. The ensuing judgment contains a wealth of insights stemming from regulatory autonomy to proportionality review. What is the role of a national court in the review of national measures restricting free movement? In particular, how should it review the proportionality of those measures when adopted on public health grounds, and on the basis of what evidence? What is the burden of proof that the relevant Member State must discharge? Those are essentially the questions referred by a Scottish court to the Court of Justice when called upon to determine the compatibility with EU law of Minimum Unit Prices for alcohol introduced by the Scottish Government. Although rather recurrent in the Court’s free movement case law, the question of the standard of review, and corresponding burden of proof epitomises the struggle currently faced by national courts in striking the right balance between the proper functioning of the market and due recognition and protection of national regulatory autonomy. As such, this preliminary reference offered an opportunity to address “the information gap on what the Court of Justice expects defendant States to establish” in order to justify their measures under the proportionality stages of free movement analysis. But there is more. This case also raises deeper epistemic and methodological questions faced by any court of law when asked to review the proportionality, and in particular the necessity, of an individual policy intervention that belongs to a wider ‘political strategy’. Indeed, those strategies – as exemplified in the present case by the Scottish policy designed to combat the devastating effects of alcohol – generally entail the enactment of a full ‘regulatory mix’ of policy interventions. In those circumstances, how can we pinpoint the effect of a given policy option when it is part of a set of measures? How can we distinguish the effect, in terms of health gains deriving from a drop in alcohol consumption, to be ascribed to the introduction of MUP when such a measure coexists with other measures (more than 40 in Scotland) that have been introduced? And what when the contested measure has never been tested before? While this judgment confirms the gradual empirical turn made by the Court in its own review of the proportionality of national restrictive measures, it also provides some pragmatic guidance on how national courts may realistically engage in that review. Given the growing number of Member States ready to experiment with new policies aimed at tackling inter alia lifestyle risk factors, such as tobacco use, harmful consumption of alcohol and unhealthy diets, this appears as welcome development. Ultimately, the ensuing number of national restrictive measures of trade enacted on public health grounds, such as the UK standardised packaging for cigarettes, its sugar tax or the Hungarian ‘fat tax’, is set to put to test the Court’s approach towards both the qualification of those measures as restrictions and their justification under EU law.
K33|Memorandum: On the Ethical and Legal Issues Arising from the Appointment of the Former President of the European Commission Jose Manuel Barroso As Non-Executive Chairman and Director of Goldman Sachs International|This Memorandum to the European Commission presents our professional opinion on the legal and ethical issues arising from the appointment of the former President of the European Commission Jose Manuel Barroso as non-executive chairman and director of Goldman Sachs. We identify a number of flaws of the Opinion of the Ad Hoc Ethical Committee which considered the issue and offer our own analysis of applicable law and the action the Commission is required to take. In our view, the Opinion represents a case of maladministration, on the ground of which it should have been set aside by the Commission in unequivocal terms. On our own analysis, Mr. Barroso’s acceptance of his new appointment was ethically inappropriate and, therefore, a violation of TFEU. Further we argue that the Commission has powers to take remedial action and is legally obliged to act to enforce the EU law and to protect the interests of the EU and its reputation. We show that, contrary to most comments in the media, the expiry of the eighteen months ‘cooling-off’ period does not put Mr. Barroso on the right side of the law, and does not preclude the obligation of the Commission to take remedial action.
K33|Measuring tax treaty negotiation outcomes: the Actionaid tax treaties dataset|This paper introduces a new dataset that codes the content of 519 tax treaties signed by low- and lower-middle-income countries in Africa and Asia. Often called Double Taxation Agreements, bilateral tax treaties divide up the right to tax cross-border economic activity between their two signatories. When one of the signatories is a developing country that is predominantly a recipient of foreign investment, the effect of the tax treaty is to impose constraints on its ability to tax inward investors, ostensibly to encourage more investment. The merits of tax treaties for developing countries have been challenged in critical legal literature for decades, and studies of whether or not they attract new investment into developing countries give contradictory and inconclusive results. These studies have rarely disaggregated the elements of tax treaties to determine which may be most pertinent to any investment-promoting effect. Meanwhile, as developing countries continue to negotiate, renegotiate, review and terminate tax treaties, comparative data on negotiating histories and outcomes is not easily obtained. The new dataset fills both these gaps. Using it, this paper demonstrates how tax treaties are changing over time. The restrictions they impose on the rate of withholding tax developing countries can levy on cross-border payments have intensified since 1970. In contrast, the permanent establishment threshold, which specifies when a foreign company’s profits become taxable in a developing country, has been falling, giving developing countries more opportunity to tax foreign investors. The picture with respect to capital gains tax and other provisions is mixed. As a group, OECD countries appear to be moving towards treaties with developing countries that impose more restrictions on the latter’s taxing rights, while non-OECD countries appear to be allowing developing countries to retain more taxing rights than in the past. These overall trends, however, mask some surprising differences between the positions of individual industrialised and emerging economies. These findings pose more questions than they answer, and it is hoped that this paper and the dataset it accompanies will stimulate new research on tax treaties.
K33|Domestic politics and the formation of international environmental agreements|We investigate the effect of domestic politics on international environmental policy by incorporating into a classic stage game of coalition formation the phenomenon of lobbying by special-interest groups. In doing so, we contribute to the theory of international environmental agreements, which has overwhelmingly assumed that governments make decisions based on a single set of public-interest motivations. Our results suggest that lobbying on emissions may affect the size of the stable coalition in counterintuitive ways. In particular, a powerful business lobby may increase the government's incentives to sign an agreement, by providing it with strong bargaining power with respect to that lobby at the emission stage. This would result in lower total emissions when the number of countries involved is not too large. We also show that things change radically when lobbying bears directly on the membership decisions, suggesting that both the object and timing of lobbying matter for the way in which membership decisions, emissions and welfare are affected.
K33|The governance of blockchain financial networks|Since the emergence of the virtual currency Bitcoin in 2009, a new, Internet-based way of recording entitlements and enforcing rights has increasingly captured the interest of businesses and governments. The technology is commonly called ‘blockchain’ and is often associated with a closely related phenomenon, the ‘smart contract’. The market is now exploring ways of using these concepts for financial assets, such as securities, legal tender and derivative contracts. This article develops a conceptual framework for the governance of blockchain-based networks in financial markets. It constructs a vision of how financial regulation and private law should set the boundaries of this new technology in order to protect market participants and societies at large, while at the same time allowing for the necessary room for innovation.
K33|The SSM at 1|On February 3-4, 2016 SUERF – The European Money and Finance Forum –, Deutsche Bundesbank and Stiftung Geld und Währung jointly organized a Colloquium/Conference in Frankfurt in order to evaluate the experience with the SSM – the Single Supervisory Mechanism – during the first year of its existence. The present issue of SUERF Conference Proceedings includes a selection of papers based on the authors’ contributions to the Frankfurt event.
K33|Fresh Thoughts from Young Researchers|Re3 publishes the interviews with the winners of the FEEM 2014 Award, which periodically rewards new ideas and innovative research in economics by young scholars. The interviews span a wide variety of topics, from the case of Fukushima to labour market reforms and whether financial incentives affect fertility.
K33|Unpacking the Paris Agreement|The recently adopted global climate deal is expected to enter into force in 2020, at the end of the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol. It has been hailed as a turning point in climate negotiations, after the failed attempt at Copenhagen climate conference in 2009 and four years of groundwork started in 2011 with the Durban Platform for Enhanced Action, whose mandate was to involve all countries, both developed and developing, in adopting “a protocol, another legal instrument or an agreed outcome with legal force” applicable to all Parties to the UNFCCC. The paper examines the main features of the new global climate agreement, paying particular attention on mitigation, cooperative approaches, adaptation and loss & damage, climate finance, compliance and review mechanisms.
K33|Alternative Approaches for Rating INDCs: a Comparative Analysis| The “Intended nationally determined contributions” (INDCs) communicated by both developing and developed countries represent a crucial element of the Paris agreement. This paper aims at analysing the INDCs submitted by Parties, through the different tools and approaches proposed by the research community. In particular, our analysis looks at the different ways to assess the effectiveness of the proposed emission reduction pledges, both in terms of aggregate and national efforts. However, we also consider other factors that will be critical in determining the success of the Paris talks, such as the coherence and fairness of single contributions.
K33|The Limits of the Judiciary within the Eurasian Integration Process|The Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU) has its own judicial body tasked with ensuring the uniform application of EAEU law by member states and institutions. The EAEU Court has a number of important powers; however, it is noteworthy, that such crucial ones as the preliminary ruling procedure and the ability to review actions of member states upon request of the EAEU regulatory body are missing. This paper reviews the missing powers in a search for the reasons behind their removal, and the ensuing ramifications. It also uncovers other limitations of the Eurasian judiciary and its strained relationships with national judiciaries. It is argued, that the EAEU Court will struggle to fulfil its mission without solutions compensating its limited powers
K33|Granting China The Market Economy Status And Its Impact On The Eu Member States|The existence of a transitory provision in China’s Protocol of Accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO) permitted the country’s status of non-market economy to be maintained for aperiod of 15 years, which materialized in the possibility to treat imports from China differently in order to protect the European Union (EU) market against dumping prices. As this clause is going to expire at the beginning of December 2016, the EU will have to adopt a position regarding the official recognition of China as a market economy, thus assuming also the possible economic implications brought about by this kind of decision. In this context, the present paper aims to assess the effects of this option on the EU economy, as well as to briefly overview the measures taken in order to safeguard fair competition and avoid future market distortions.
K33|In Europe We Trust?|The decrease in the rule of law and in control of corruption in several EU countries is a threat to the cohesion in the EU. Brexit has reinforced the centrifugal forces in the EU. To counter this threat the EU needs to engage in unpopular measures as they infringe on the Member States' sovereignty. We propose to introduce new measures in treaty revisions like the possibility of individuals to appeal to European courts to counter negative developments in governance in EU Member States.
K33|Can market mechanisms solve the refugee crisis?|The unequal distribution of refugees across countries could unravel the international refugee protection system or, in the case of the EU, hinder a common policy response to refugee crises. A way to distribute refugees efficiently, while respecting their rights, is to combine two market mechanisms. First, a market for tradable refugee admission quotas that allows refugees to be established wherever it is less costly to do so. Second, a matching system that links refugees to their preferred destinations, and host countries to their preferred types of refugees. The proposal is efficient but has yet to be tested in practice.
K33|Complexity Of The Effects Of Cross Border Merger on Internal Market Under The Both Company Law And Competition Law|The purpose of this paper is to provide an insight into the legal regime of the effect s of cross-border merger on internal market assessed from Company Law and Company law provisions. On the other hand merger may be analyzed as abuse of market power which affect European trade, qualified as a dominant position by the European Commission and the European Union Court of Justice. Therefore, competition provisions purpose also to remove the barriers to European internal market arising from actions of powerful of single undertakings which enjoy a dominant position in a particular market for good and services. However, the new European legislation would make it easier and much cheaper for undertakings (companies with share capital) to merge with enterprises in other Member States.
K33|The Concept Of Professional – A New Paradigm Of Companies|TThe concept of professional provided by Article 3 of Romanian Civil Code relates to any legal or phisical person who exploits an enterprise. The legislator intended to replace the consecrated institutions such as merchant or commercial company with this very new legal concept characterized by an insufficient normative rigorousness and terminological clarity, generating a series of problems regarding its applicability. In our opinion this replacement is mechanical and uncorrelated with other relevant concept such as enterprise or economic enterprise or economic activity etc.
K33|Inefficiency and Self-Determination: Simulation-based Evidence from Meiji Japan| We consider a model in which the arrangement of political boundaries involves a tradeoff between efficiencies of scale and geographic heterogeneity. If jurisdiction formation is decentralized, the model corresponds to a fractional hedonic game. We show how mixed integer programming can be used to calculate core partitions for fractional hedonic games via a sequence of myopic deviations. Using historical data from Japan regarding a set of centralized boundary changes, we estimate parameters using moment inequalities and find that core partitions always exist. In a counterfactual world in which there are no between-village income differences, these core partitions are extremely close to the partition that would be chosen by a utilitarian central planner. When actual cross-village income differences are used, however, sorting on income results in mergers that are both smaller and geographically bizarre.
K33|Effect of the Service Directive on Wholesale and Retail Companies: Diff in Diff in Diff Evidence|The Service Directive puts into motion the free movement of service, one of the milestones of the Single Market of the European Union. Though very ambitious at its draft, several adjustments have been made and it is argued whether the final Directive is helpful at all. This article aims to answer the question by focusing on productivity of affected companies with use of two distinct control groups and employing Difference-in-difference-in-difference design on firm-level data. The article finds that the Service Directive significantly increased productivity of companies though the results cannot be labelled as profoundly causal as is further discussed in the article.
K33|Harmonised Standards and Firm Productivity: Difference-in-Differences Evidence|One of the main objectives of the European Union is to enhance the competitiveness of companies within its Member States and that may be supported by further development of the Single Market. Introduction of harmonized standards for production of goods and services encourages companies to take advantage of the Single Market by reducing transaction costs. In other words, the EU is adjusting the economic and legal framework in which companies operate in order to remove existing barriers to its vision of a well-functioning Single Market. This paper researches the relationship between these changes and productivity of microeconomic agents â€“ firms. The analysis uses a panel data regression model with difference-in-differences research design built on a sample of affected and unaffected firms as control groups to be able to extract effect caused by the regulation. The article provides evaluation of individual standards and states the direction of effect at each of those. It can be said that while some standards (mostly those with wide applicability) have a positive relation with productivity and some are insignificant. There can be found also one that has a robust significant negative correlation with productivity.
K33|The Purpose of Trade Agreements|This paper reviews the literature on governments' motivations for negotiating and joining international trade agreements. I discuss both normative explanations for trade agreements and explanations based on political-economy concerns. Most of the paper focuses on the purpose of multilateral agreements, but I do discuss briefly the reasons we might see governments forming preferential or regional trade agreements that exclude some countries.
K33|Regime of Carrier’s Macro and Micro-Liability Dealing with the International Carriage of Goods by Sea Contracts|The present research is dedicated on one of most significant legal problems dealing with in­ternational carriage of goods by sea contracts – the carrier’s liability. The carrier is the bearer of the characteristic contract’s performance. In this article some basic international con­ventional rules have been analyzed, as follows – the Haag rules (1924), the Haag-Visby rules (1968), the Hamburg rules (1978) and, first of all – the recent Rotterdam rules (2009), which, even if not yet ratified, after their entrance into force, they will trace the future development of international carriages of goods by sea.
K33|The legal framework applicable to joint interpretive agreements of investment treaties|Governments have been examining the potential role of joint government interpretations of investment treaties at OECD-hosted intergovernmental investment roundtables. Now well-established in the model BITs and treaty practice of the NAFTA governments, express provisions for such joint interpretations have recently been included in an increasing range of treaties and investment policies around the world. But while a significant number of major recent treaties contain such express provisions, most investment treaties do not expressly address joint interpretations and thus leave the issue to more general rules. This paper addresses the general legal framework applicable to joint agreements by treaty parties about the interpretation of treaties. It outlines some key concepts and distinctions in treaty interpretation, and then considers the effects of treaty interpretations and amendments on third parties and in particular on investors covered by a treaty. Joint government interpretation can be binding or non-binding on investment arbitration tribunals. The paper concludes with brief consideration of possible criteria that could affect the persuasiveness of non-binding guidance.
K33|State-to-State dispute settlement and the interpretation of investment treaties|Many governments have expressed concerns about the uncertainty linked to the perceived inconsistency of treaty interpretation in Investor-State dispute settlement (ISDS). An OECD-hosted intergovernmental investment roundtable has been considering a range of tools through which governments can take action to improve the interpretation of investment treaties and some participants suggested consideration of the potential role of State-to-State dispute settlement (SSDS) in this area. This paper responds to this interest. The first part sets forth a rough typology of possible SSDS claims under investment treaties. The second part outlines policy issues relating to a possible type of SSDS claim which would be most relevant to the question of interpretation, for so-called “pure” interpretation of an investment treaty. The analysis seeks to identify policy reasons why governments might wish to provide for or exclude the power to obtain pure interpretations of investment treaties from SSDS tribunals or to make it broad or narrow. The final section examines SSDS cases under investment treaties addressing claims for interpretation.
K33|Climate Clubs: Overcoming Free-Riding in International Climate Policy|Notwithstanding great progress in scientific and economic understanding of climate change, it has proven difficult to forge international agreements because of free-riding, as seen in the defunct Kyoto Protocol. This study examines the club as a model for international climate policy. Based on economic theory and empirical modeling, it finds that without sanctions against non-participants there are no stable coalitions other than those with minimal abatement. By contrast, a regime with small trade penalties on non-participants, a Climate Club, can induce a large stable coalition with high levels of abatement. (JEL Q54, Q58, K32, K33)
K33|Best Practices in Customs Procedures|The paper presents the main aspects related to the modernisation process of the European Union customs legislation and identifies a series of benefits that arise from implementing the measures of the Modernised Community customs code. In this context, foreign trade companies must adapt their logistics strategies to the new customs system, a necessary condition in order to obtain competitive advantages. In an increasingly competitive global environment, best practices in the customs activity have a positive influence both on the international trade as well as on the consumer safety and protection. The results of implementing best practices are also found in rankings made by different institutions and international organisations regarding the competitiveness in logistics and ease in the development of foreign trade transactions. They mainly relate to reducing the time for the necessary clearance procedure and reducing the logistics costs by decreasing the number of physical and documentation checks, giving a priority treatment to consignments when they are selected for control, the possibility to choose the location for customs controls and less information to submit in summary declarations.
K33|Political Economy of the 2014 Farm Bill|This article assesses the political economy of the 2014 U.S. farm bill, with a focus on the farm support safety net. The farm bill secured substantial bipartisan majorities in a politically contentious Congress. Planned outlays are predominately for nutrition assistance programs directed toward a traditional nonfarm constituency in the farm bill coalition, while annual fixed direct payments to farmers are eliminated but replaced with enhanced downside risk protection against low prices or revenue. The new support programs may prove more or less costly than the foregone fixed payments, with farmers offered a choice between a price countercyclical program with increased reference prices and a revised moving-average revenue guarantee program. The role of insurance is enhanced, notably by replacing past support programs with a new upland cotton revenue insurance program and dairy milk-to-feed margin protection program. Open policy issues that are highlighted include the costs and distortionary effects of moving-average revenue benchmarks versus fixed reference prices, the overall level of insurance premium subsidies, the potential for overlap between commodity and insurance programs, and lastly, food, environmental, and biofuels concerns that reflect the diverse portfolio of products demanded from agriculture. In an international context, we conclude that the 2014 farm safety net likely would not have been enacted had multilateral agreement been reached on the 2008 Doha Round World Trade Organization negotiating documents. Conversely, the 2014 farm bill makes achieving those limits more difficult. Research is discussed that can elucidate the ongoing political economy of U.S. farm policy and help shape future program design.
K33|Field cross-fertilization between GM and non-GM maize in Mallorca: a Mediterranean insular approach|No abstract is available for this item.
K33|The Cyprus Crisis and the Legal Protection of Foreign Investors|The legal protection of foreign investments deposited in EU financial institutions has attracted considerable attention both in the legal as well as in the business community following European Parliament’s approval on last April of the Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive which includes the so called bail in clause. As the introduction of this clause reflects the intentions of EU’s institutions to put an end to the use of taxpayers’ funds to resolve financial crises, on the other hand it already had a remarkable impact on banks’ creditors’ property rights, especially in the case of foreign investors. In this view, this dissertation will survey the possible legal protection, mostly but not exclusively included in ad hoc Bilateral Investment Treaties (“BIT”), provided to foreign investors to recover the losses suffered following bail-ins’ of credit institutions. In this regard, particular attention will be given to the analysis of the relevant crisis of the Cypriot’s banking sector and the following laws enabling its restructuring by means of creditors’ assets write off, the subsequent institutionalization of this template at the EU level and the connections of this new legal framework with international law rules and principles which safeguard property rights of expropriated foreign investors.
K33|Trade Agreements and Enforcement: Evidence from WTO Dispute Settlement|This paper examines implications of the terms-of-trade theory for the determinants of outcomes arising under the enforcement provisions of international agreements. Like original trade agreement negotiations, formal trade dispute negotiations are modeled as potentially addressing the terms-of-trade externality problem that governments implement import protection above the globally efficient level so as to shift some of the policy's costs onto trading partners. The approach first extends the Bagwell and Staiger (1999, 2011) model from trade agreement accession negotiations to the setting of enforcement negotiations, and the resulting theory guides the empirical assessment on trade volume outcomes from WTO disputes over 1995-2009.
K33|The legal regime of competition in United Kingdom|The United Kingdom has recently introduced a unitary competition regime. Begining with 1979, the United Kingdom was a primary exponent of the neoliberal philosophy, putting in first place market, privatisation, liberalisation and deregulation. For that reason, a competition policy did not exist too much in practice for almost two decades. An important aspect was the influence of European Union competition law. Even in a such situation, the supranational policy could not take the place in of a domestic competition policy. The British Parliament adopted some rules in 1998 in the field of anti-competitive agreements and the control of abuse of dominance and in 2002 in the field of merger control. In March 2012, there were announced the proposals for the reformation the United Kingdom competition law regime. According to the proposals, the functions of the Competition Commission and the competition functions of the Office of Fair Trading (OFT), will be the competences of a new, single competition authority, the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA). The new body will have jurisdiction to analyse merger control reviews and market investigations, and in the same time will act as the main institution enforcing the competition laws.
K33|Considerations regarding parental authority in Romanian private international law|Parental authority is the entirety of rights and obligations concerning both the person and the property of the child and belongs equally to both parents. In Romanian private international law, parental authority is governed by art. 2611 of the Romanian Civil Code. This legal provision is a reference rule which establishes that the law applicable to parental authority and children’s protection is determined under the Convention on Jurisdiction, Applicable Law, Recognition, Enforcement and Cooperation in respect of Parental Responsibility and Measures for the Protection of Children, adopted in Hague on 19 October 1996. This convention is part of the complex process of aligning the Romanian legislation to EU regulations. For an overview of relevant legal regulations addressed by the Convention, in the present study we analyzed the main issues referring to the domain of application of the Convention, the law applicable to child protection measures, parental responsibility, and the recognition and enforcement of measures regarding parental responsibility and child protection.
K33|Key criteria in appointment of arbitrators in international arbitration|Maybe in all situations the most important factor is the decision making person. In arbitration this person is the arbitrator. Knowing how to choose your arbitrator is the first step in knowing how to win your case. There are some important criteria that needs to be taken into account when appointing an arbitrator, like the independence and impartiality of the arbitrator, the experience in similar cases, knowledge of the system of law applicable to the contract and other backgrounds.Another important aspect is the number of arbitrators and the advantages and disadvantages of having one, three or more arbitrators. All those issues are very important when drafting the arbitration agreement and in matters of complex contracts it is of high importance to have legal advisors that will help you draft an agreement that will minimize risks and favor efficient arbitral proceedings.
K33|Les pouvoirs d’office du juge des procédures collectives de l'Organisation pour l'Harmonisation en Afrique du Droit des Affaires (OHADA) et les principes cardinaux du procès|The law of collective proceedings for clearing off depts which replaces the former bankruptcy law pursues an economic objective the reason why it carries certain exceptions to the common procedure law. As such, the judge of collective proceedings has powers of initiative in the institution and conduct of the trial. He can thus of his own initiative open the collective proceeding. The aim of this study is to confront the judge's office powers with the cardinal principles of the trial. The expected result should help verify the compatibility of those powers with the requirements of a fair trial. A hypothesis emerges that automatically powers that deviate somewhat to the cardinal principles of the trial, are justified by the aim of safeguarding collective interests pursued by the insolvency judge.
K33|Are the rules of European Union public policy a reality?|Over the years there have been a lot of debates at academic and doctrinal level regarding the EU rules of public policy. Are these rules to be found in the Treaties or in secondary legislation? Which EU legal rules shall be considered as being rules of public policy? Which EU values are they protecting? These are some of the questions that the present study tries to answer starting with the definition of EU public policy rules and analyzing then its content and its role within EU legal system.
K33|The State and the separation of powers|The State is a complex concept that can be addressed from a legal, political, social and economic perspective. The paper explores the meanings of the concept of State, State elements and stresses that the State power is one and indivisible and it is exercised through three functions and not to separate powers, namely the legislative function, executive function and the judicial function. The State institutions through which the three functions are controlled each other and collaborate to achieve the needs of society, which is likely to prevent abuses against citizens.
K33|The late payment under the EU legislation|According to Article 14 EC, the European Union shall guarantee the free movement of goods and services. In this regard, it is necessary that the entrepreneurs should be able to do their business throughout the internal market and to recover their receivables in due time. Therefore, that late payment represents an obstacle to the proper functioning of the internal market. The Directive on combating late payment in commercial transactions, Directive 2000/35/EC is placed in the context of maintaining and developing an area of freedom, security and justice. This Directive governs all commercial transactions irrespective of whether they are carried out between private or public entrepreneurs or between entrepreneurs and public authorities, having regard to the fact that the latter handle a considerable volume of payments to business. It should therefore also regulate all commercial transactions between main contractors and their suppliers and subcontractors. This paper explores the legal framework on late payment of trade credit from the European legislation perspective.
K33|Modernisation of EU State aid procedures: are the rights of third parties more protected?|Despite the important role in increasing efficiency of the State aid control and in revealing the existence of State aid, third parties in EU State aid procedures are considered merely as a “source of information”. This article provides a critical analysis of the reforms of State aid procedures from a third party perspective. The reforms are disappointing maintaining the bilateral character of State aid procedures between two main parties the Commission and the Member States concerned and leaving third parties with very limited procedural rights. In addition the hard-law reform of the State aid procedures of 2013 increases the procedural duties of third parties without procedural guarantees and extends the investigatory powers of the Commission.
K33|Theoretical and practical issues relating to the right to the protection of personal data|The legal regime of the right to the protection of personal data is of particular concern in the context of the technological developments that have as a consequence the increased collection and exchange of such data. Information technology and its development constitute forms of evolution of society, but this evolution must take place within the limits of and with respect for fundamental rights as regulated by States’ Constitutions and the relevant international documents. Having regard to the dynamics of these phenomena, timely and continuous adaptation of the legislation is undoubtedly difficult. As a result, an important role in the definition and guarantee of the right to the protection of personal data and the reconciliation with other fundamental rights that also need to be protected is played by national courts (particularly the constitutional courts) and international courts, obliged to carry out an evolutionary and at the same time consistent approach in this matter. The judges’ dialogue is thus the key to ensuring an effective protection of fundamental rights that need to be reconciled.
K33|Steuerung der Flüchtlingsströme durch Preise und Kapazitäten|Im laufenden Jahr ist es zu einer sprunghaften Erhöhung der Zahl der Zuwanderer aus Staaten außenhalb der EU in die EU und insbesondere nach Deutschland gekommen. Der Beitrag schlägt ein durch Preise und Kapazitäten gesteuertes Verfahren zur Verteilung der Flüchtlingsströme vor.
K33|The single market and the “bicycle theory” of the European Union politics. Does it still work?|Decades of liberalization have transformed the original structure of the EC common market, being a synonym of the validity of the Four Freedoms — free movement of persons, goods, services and capital — into an integral instrument for conducting EU economic policy, but not without many constraints, both formal and informal. The process of globalization of the world economy means, in the opinion of EU institutions, that currently the European Union more than ever needs a single market that would support reforms to boost growth and increase its competitiveness. The Single Market Acts of 2011 and 2012 suggest measures to further its development. It is treated as a continuous process. However, for many Member States the evolution of the single market is a kind of a perpetual transaction — a tender, in which a concession to EU group interests is expected equivalent of particular benefit. Quite often all concessions are treated by public authorities as downright harmful to the national interest, especially in times of economic and financial crisis. The aim of this paper is an attempt to answer the question why building consensus on further proceeding to the single market is seemingly more difficult to achieve than ever in the past? The problem looks even more serious, once we accept as a starting point the “bicycle theory”, which shows that the halting of the evolution of the single market may cause the opposite process — the disintegration of the EU market.
K33|Canada–Renewable Energy: Implications for WTO Law on Green and Not-So-Green Subsidies|In the first dispute on renewable energy to come to WTO dispute settlement, the domestic content requirement of Ontario’s feed-in tariff was challenged as a discriminatory investment-related measure and as a prohibited import substitution subsidy. The panel and Appellate Body agreed that Canada was violating the GATT and the TRIMS Agreement. But the SCM Article 3 claim by Japan and the European Union remains unadjudicated, because neither tribunal made a finding that the price guaranteed for electricity from renewable sources constitutes a ‘benefit’ pursuant to the SCM Agreement. Although the Appellate Body provides useful guidance to future panels on how the existence of a benefit could be calculated, the most noteworthy aspect of the new jurisprudence is the Appellate Body’s reasoning that delineating the proper market for ‘benefit’ analysis entails respect for the policy choices made by a government. Thus, in this dispute, the proper market is electricity produced only from wind and solar energy.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
K33|Les paradis fiscaux dans la concurrence fiscale internationale|In the framework of the growth and the internationalisation of the financial flows since the beginning of the twentieth century, Tax havens leading positions in the economic and financial environment have become so much important, that many political actors of the well developed countries have tried to assess this phenomenon through the international tax competition studies. Going further in the tax optimisation and tax planning process of the offshore sphere of activity, we can consider that far from being isolated in the sovereignty of a few countries, the offshore financial model is far integrated in the worldwide economic system, which can explain the difficulty and the different means used by the political authority to manage and stop the offshore mechanism through a by territory approach.
K33|Do legal origins affect cross-country incarceration rates?|Prison populations vary tremendously across countries. This paper investigates the potential relationship between incarceration rates and legal origins in a large cross-section of countries. We argue that legal origins alter the relative costs associated with imprisonment as a means for social control. Using panel data from 2001 to 2011, we find countries with civil legal origins have lower prison populations. Our empirical results are highly robust after controlling for crime rates, criminal justice resources, economic factors, political institutions, and social factors. In addition, our results do not appear to be driven by the variation in criminalized activities. To explain these results, we conjecture that imprisonment is a lower cost mechanism for enforcing social order in common law countries. In civil law countries, bureaucratic infrastructures allow for methods such as day-fines, community service, seizure of property, and probation as more affordable alternatives to imprisonment.
K33|Membership has its Privileges – The Effect of Membership in International Organizations on FDI|We argue that membership in specific international organizations (IOs) is an important determinant of foreign direct investment (FDI) inflows. To the extent that membership restricts a country from pursuing policies that are harmful to investors, it can signal reduced political risk. Using data over the 1971–2012 period, we find that membership in IOs does indeed increase inflows of FDI. We find this effect to be substantively important and robust to controlling for alternative determinants of FDI, to using different model specifications and to using an indicator of membership in regional rather than global IOs.
K33|Energy and Environmental Observatory. Climate policy after Paris: assessment and perspectives|"The Paris Agreement, adopted at the end of 2015 has been welcomed as a turning point in climate negotiations, after the failed attempt at Copenhagen climate conference in 2009 and four years of groundwork started in 2011 in Durban. Its mandate was indeed to adopt ""a protocol, another legal instrument or an agreed outcome with legal force"" applicable to all the States Parties to the UNFCCC. The Paris Conference (COP21) accomplished this task by delivering a global agreement that asks the international community to keep the increase in the global average temperature to well below 2 °C above pre-industrial levels, but also include adaptation and low-carbon finance objectives. To achieve these goals the Agreement formalizes a new approach, applicable to all countries, and that will rely on ""Nationally Determined Contributions"". Yet, beyond the text, challenges remain for turning commitments into action. Key technical and political elements are still to be detailed in policy areas such as mitigation, adaptation, carbon pricing, climate finance and transparency. This paper aims at examining the main features of the new global climate agreement, paying particular attention to these key issues and discussing the implications they will have in the near and long term future. ."
