K34|The Digital Services Tax as a Tax on Location-Specific Rent|In 2018, the European Council and the UK and Spanish governments each proposed to introduce a Digital Services Tax (DST), to be levied on the revenue of large digital platforms from advertising, online intermediation, and/or the transmission of data. We offer a rationalization of the DST as a tax on location-specific rent (LSR). That is, just as many countries already levy royalties on rent from extracting natural resources, one can think of the DST as levied on rent earned by digital platforms from particular locations. We provide stylized illustrations of how platform rent can be assigned to specific locations, even when users from multiple jurisdictions participate. We then elaborate the analogy between the DST and resource royalties, and analyze the DST’s incidence and effect on consumer welfare using a simple model. Finally, we argue that the DST suggests useful directions for redesigning international taxation in the age of labor-replacing AI technology.
K34|The Impact of Country-by-Country Reporting on Corporate Tax Avoidance|Within the framework of its BEPS initiative, the OECD introduced a requirement for non-public country-by-country reporting (CbCR) applying to multinational companies with revenues above EUR 750m. The reports provide data on the global activities and financial structure of multinationals at a country level to tax authorities. This paper investigates the effectiveness of this measure against corporate tax avoidance using a difference-in-difference approach. The analysis is based on financial data both at the group and the subsidiary level. By testing several hypotheses, this paper provides limited support for the effectiveness of CbCR. While the effective tax rates of multinational groups with a reporting requirement increase by about 0.8 percentage points as compared to companies in the control group, the growth rate of total tax payments is unaffected. This seems to be due to a reduction of the tax base which is also due to a rise in leverage and resulting tax-deductible interest payments. At the same time, shifting of profits out of high tax jurisdictions is reduced by CbCR, but not at the expense of low tax OECD countries. CbCR therefore seems to primarily reduce profits located in tax haven affiliates of multinational groups. Lastly, there is little evidence for a distribution of profits closer aligned with frequently suggested apportionment factors.
K34|Impacto redistributivo de la tributación a los dividendos en Colombia|Colombia introdujo en 2017 un impuesto a los dividendos con una tarifa del 10% que se elevó al 15% a partir de 2019. Cuando se agoten las utilidades de las vigencias fiscales 2016 y anteriores, no sujetas al tributo, se espera que el impuesto recaude $1,2 billones, aproximadamente el 1% de los ingresos tributarios nacionales y 0,13% del PIB. Los contribuyentes del último decil de la renta asumen casi la totalidad del impuesto, pues en ese grupo se concentra el 94% de los dividendos. Su tarifa efectiva promedio pasa del 15,4% hasta el 17,1% con la aplicación del tributo. La tributación conjunta socio-sociedad se situaría en un intervalo comprendido entre 30% y 40,5% en 2022, explicado por la tarifa del 30% sobre la renta corporativa y del 15% sobre los dividendos. Sin embargo, los efectos redistributivos del impuesto a los dividendos son muy limitados, puesto que su tarifa es prácticamente única para cualquier nivel de renta y afecta tan solo a 158 mil personas, el 0,3% de la población colombiana o el 5% de las personas naturales que presentan declaración de renta. El índice de Gini no cambia cuando se introduce el impuesto a los dividendos. La desigualdad de la renta disponible de los contribuyentes pasa de 0,431 a 0,428. La progresividad del impuesto a los dividendos podría mejorar si el foco del impuesto sobre la renta se traslada al nivel individual y se gravan los dividendos con tarifas marginales crecientes. Sin embargo, esta ruta parece un poco riesgosa, porque requiere contar con una administración tributaria moderna, para afrontar de manera eficiente el control y servicio de millones de contribuyentes. Adicionalmente, la tarifa promedio que se aplica en la renta corporativa será del 30% a partir de 2022, mientras que en el nivel personal la tarifa nominal promedio apenas se acerca al 9%. Esta circunstancia eventualmente podría reducir la recaudación total del impuesto de renta. *** Colombia introduced a tax on dividends in 2017 with a tax rate of 10% that was raised to 15% starting in 2019. The profits of 2016 and previous fiscal periods, which are not covered by the dividend tax, will be gradually finished and then the dividend tax could raise COP$ 1.2 billion, approximately 1% of national tax revenues and 0.13% of GDP. Taxpayers located in the last decile of rent assume almost entire dividend tax, since in that group is concentrated 94% of dividends. Their effective average tax rate goes from 15.4% to 17.1%, as result of application of this tax. The partner-partnership joint taxation would be between 30% and 40.5% in 2022, explained by the tax rate of 30% on corporate income and 15% on dividends. However, the redistributive effects of dividend tax are very limited, because its tax rate is practically unique for any level of income and affects only 158 thousand people, 0.3% of Colombian population or 5% of personal income taxpayers who present an income tax statement. The Gini index does not change when dividend tax is introduced. The inequality of taxpayers' disposable income goes from 0.431 to 0.428. The progressivity of dividen tax could be improved if income tax focus is transferred to individual level and dividens are taxed with marginal tax rates are applied to the dividends. However, this route seems a little risky, because it requires a modern tax administration to efficiently face the control and service for millions of personal income taxpayers. Additionally, the average rate applied to corporate income will be 30% from 2022, while at the personal level the average nominal rate is only close to 9%. This circumstance could eventually reduce income tax overall collection.
K34|Tax Professionals: Tax-Evasion Facilitators or Information Hubs?|To study the role of tax professionals, we merge tax records of 2.5 million taxpayers in Italy with the respective audit files from the tax revenue agency. Our data covers the entire population of sole proprietorship taxpayers in seven regions, followed over seven fiscal years. We first document that tax evasion is systematically correlated with the average evasion of other customers of the same tax professional. We then exploit the unique structure of our dataset to study the channels through which these social spillover effects are generated. Guided by an equilibrium model of tax compliance with tax professionals and auditing, we highlight two mechanisms that may be behind this phenomenon: self-selection of taxpayers who sort themselves into professionals of heterogeneous tolerance for tax evasion; and informational externalities generated by the tax professional activities. We provide evidence supporting the simultaneous presence of both mechanisms.
K34|Sozialverträglicher CO2-Preis: Vorschlag für einen Pro-Kopf-Bonus durch Krankenversicherungen|CO2-Abgaben bergen die Gefahr, einkommensschwächere Haushalte überdurchschnittlich zu belasten. Zur Abwehr solcher regressiven Verteilungswirkungen wird erwogen, einen Teil der Einnahmen durch einen Pro-Kopf-Bonus an die Bürger*innen zurückzugeben. Der vorliegende Beitrag entwickelt einen Vorschlag für einen in das deutsche Krankenversicherungssystem integrierten Bonus. Dazu werden zunächst die Ziele definiert, die ein solcher Bonus verfolgen soll: Er soll die regressive Wirkung der CO2-Abgabe beseitigen, ohne die beabsichtige Lenkungswirkung der CO2-Abgabe zu beeinträchtigen. Zugleich sollen die Verwaltungskosten und die Befolgungskosten der Steuer und des Kompensationsmechanismus möglichst gering sein. Schließlich soll der Mechanismus von möglichst vielen Berechtigten auch tatsächlich in Anspruch genommen werden. Danach werden die institutionellen Details vorgestellt: Der Pro-Kopf-Bonus sollte so weit wie möglich durch Leistung von Zuschüssen über die Krankenversicherungen abgewickelt werden; gesonderte Mechanismen müssten für Empfänger von Transferzahlungen und für Empfänger von Heilfürsorge vorgesehen werden. Abschließend werden die Voraussetzungen dafür aufgezeigt, dass ein solcher Vorschlag mit den verfassungsrechtlichen Vorgaben im Einklang steht.
K34|Partage de la rente et progressivité des régimes fiscaux dans le secteur minier : une analyse sur 21 pays africains producteurs d’or|Dans le secteur minier, les Etats doivent être en mesure de concilier deux objectifs : attirer les investissements directs étrangers pour exploiter la ressource et capter une part suffisante de la rente minière pour financer le développement. Cette problématique est connue depuis longtemps et pose certes la question de la répartition de la rente minière entre les acteurs mais devrait aussi mettre en évidence l’importance de la progressivité des régimes fiscaux. Une fiscalité progressive est un, sinon le critère principal qui pourrait rassurer de façon durable les investisseurs et garantir à l’Etat de capter une part « juste » de la rente générée par le secteur. Alors que plusieurs études différencient les instruments fiscaux selon leurs effets économiques, aucune ne cherchent à évaluer la capacité des régimes miniers africains à adapter la charge fiscale supportée par l’investisseur à la rentabilité des projets. La base de données fiscales mise à disposition par la Ferdi[1], en partenariat avec le CERDI et l’ICTD, recense les 12 principaux impôts, droits et taxes qui s’appliquent selon la législation aux entreprises industrielles dans le secteur de l’or de 1980 à nos jours dans 21 pays africains. Appliquer aux données économiques de mines représentatives africaines, cette base de données donne les moyens aux chercheurs et analystes de construire des indicateurs permettant d’identifier les régimes fiscaux les plus à même de réconcilier les acteurs du secteur, tout en tenant compte de leur complexité. Les résultats de notre analyse montrent 1) que la part de la rente minière perçue par les Etats est très hétérogène entre les pays, et 2) que les « innovations » en termes de conception de l’impôt, n’ont fait qu’atténuer, dans le meilleur des cas, la régressivité des régimes fiscaux. [1] https://fiscalite-miniere.ferdi.fr.
K34|Partage de la rente et progressivité des régimes fiscaux dans le secteur minier : une analyse sur 21 pays africains producteurs d’or|Dans le secteur minier, les Etats doivent être en mesure de concilier deux objectifs : attirer les investissements directs étrangers pour exploiter la ressource et capter une part suffisante de la rente minière pour financer le développement. Cette problématique est connue depuis longtemps et pose certes la question de la répartition de la rente minière entre les acteurs mais devrait aussi mettre en évidence l’importance de la progressivité des régimes fiscaux. Une fiscalité progressive est un, sinon le critère principal qui pourrait rassurer de façon durable les investisseurs et garantir à l’Etat de capter une part « juste » de la rente générée par le secteur. Alors que plusieurs études différencient les instruments fiscaux selon leurs effets économiques, aucune ne cherchent à évaluer la capacité des régimes miniers africains à adapter la charge fiscale supportée par l’investisseur à la rentabilité des projets. La base de données fiscales mise à disposition par la Ferdi[1], en partenariat avec le CERDI et l’ICTD, recense les 12 principaux impôts, droits et taxes qui s’appliquent selon la législation aux entreprises industrielles dans le secteur de l’or de 1980 à nos jours dans 21 pays africains. Appliquer aux données économiques de mines représentatives africaines, cette base de données donne les moyens aux chercheurs et analystes de construire des indicateurs permettant d’identifier les régimes fiscaux les plus à même de réconcilier les acteurs du secteur, tout en tenant compte de leur complexité. Les résultats de notre analyse montrent 1) que la part de la rente minière perçue par les Etats est très hétérogène entre les pays, et 2) que les « innovations » en termes de conception de l’impôt, n’ont fait qu’atténuer, dans le meilleur des cas, la régressivité des régimes fiscaux. [1] https://fiscalite-miniere.ferdi.fr.
K34|What if dividends were tax-exempt? Evidence from a natural experiment|We study the effect of dividend taxes on the payout and investment policy of listed firms and discuss their implications for agency problems. To do so, we exploit a unique setting in Switzerland where some, but not all, firms were suddenly able to pay tax-exempted dividends to their shareholders following the corporate tax reform of 2011. Using a difference-in-differences specification, we show that treated firms increased their payout by around 30% compared to control firms after the tax cut. Differently, treated firms did not concurrently or subsequently increase investment. We show that the tax-inelasticity of investment was due to a significant drop in retained earnings ̶ as the rise in dividends was not compensated by an equally-sized reduction in share repurchases. Furthermore, treated firms did not raise more equity than control firms. Lastly, we show that an unintended consequence of cutting dividend taxes is to mitigate the agency problems that arise between insiders and minority shareholders.
K34|The Rise and Decline of Industrial Foundations as Controlling Owners of Swedish Listed Firms: The Role of Tax Incentives|Beginning in the interwar period, industrial foundations became a vehicle for the corporate control of large listed firms in Sweden, but in the 1990s they were replaced by wealthy individuals who either directly own controlling blocks or who own them through holding companies. We study potential explanations for this change and propose two taxation-related candidates: shifts in the relative effective taxation across owner types and the dismantling of the inheritance taxation that prevented the generational transfer of the ownership of large controlling blocks. Our analysis exploits newly computed marginal effective capital income tax rates across capital owners, accounting for all relevant factors, including rules governing tax exemptions. We show that the 1990–91 tax reform, abolition of the wealth tax for controlling owners in 1997, 2003 tax exemption of dividends and capital gains on listed stock for holding companies with a voting or equity share of at least 10 percent, and abolition of the inheritance and gift taxes in 2004 reversed the rules of the game. Recently, control has largely been wielded through direct ownership, and the role of foundations is rapidly declining. These findings point to the importance of tax incentives for the use of foundations as the control vehicles of listed firms.
K34|The impact of international tax information exchange agreements on the use of tax amnesty: evidence from Norway|In this paper we develop a model for tax amnesty applications in a multi-period setting. One key insight from the model is that applying for amnesty becomes more attractive at the moment when stricter enforcement is announced, even if the implementation of the policy is in the distant future. We use our model to make sense of how international tax information exchange agreements affects voluntary disclosure of wealth and income previously hidden in tax havens. Our data is from Norway. In accordance with the dynamic amnesty model we observe a strong announcement effect of a tax information exchange agreement between Norway and Switzerland and Luxembourg, the two most important tax havens for Norwegian tax evaders. However, the effect levels off very quickly, much faster than our model predicts. We think this is because the initial announcement of the tax agreement exaggerated the risk the agreement imposed to those who had hidden taxable income and wealth in Switzerland. We also estimate and find significant effects of the press releases the Norwegian Tax Authority issues to inform taxpayers about new international tax agreements and the amnesty, or voluntary disclosure, option that exists in the Norwegian tax code.
K34|The impact of international tax information exchange agreements on the use of tax amnesty: evidence from Norway|In this paper we develop a model for tax amnesty applications in a multi-period setting. One key insight from the model is that applying for amnesty becomes more attractive at the moment when stricter enforcement is announced, even if the implementation of the policy is in the distant future. We use our model to make sense of how international tax information exchange agreements affects voluntary disclosure of wealth and income previously hidden in tax havens. Our data is from Norway. In accordance with the dynamic amnesty model we observe a strong announcement effect of a tax information exchange agreement between Norway and Switzerland and Luxembourg, the two most important tax havens for Norwegian tax evaders. However, the effect levels off very quickly, much faster than our model predicts. We think this is because the initial announcement of the tax agreement exaggerated the risk the agreement imposed to those who had hidden taxable income and wealth in Switzerland. We also estimate and find significant effects of the press releases the Norwegian Tax Authority issues to inform taxpayers about new international tax agreements and the amnesty, or voluntary disclosure, option that exists in the Norwegian tax code.
K34|Tax Audits as Scarecrows: Evidence from a Large-Scale Field Experiment|The canonical model of Allingham and Sandmo (1972) predicts that firms evade taxes by optimally trading off between the costs and benefits of evasion. However, there is no direct evidence that firms react to audits in this way. We conducted a large-scale field experiment in collaboration with Uruguay’s tax authority to address this question. We sent letters to 20,440 small- and medium-sized firms that collectively paid more than 200 million dollars in taxes per year. Our letters provided exogenous yet nondeceptive signals about key inputs for their evasion decisions, such as audit probabilities and penalty rates. We measured the effect of these signals on their subsequent perceptions about the auditing process, based on survey data, as well as on the actual taxes paid, based on administrative data. We find that providing information about audits had a significant effect on tax compliance but in a manner that was inconsistent with Allingham and Sandmo (1972). Our findings are consistent with an alternative model, risk-as-feelings, in which messages about audits generate fear and induce probability neglect. According to this model, audits may deter tax evasion in the same way that scarecrows frighten off birds.
K34|Tax Morale and Fairness in Conflict - An Experiment|Arguably, for many citizens the perceived expected disutility from sanctions is smaller than the monetary gain from tax evasion. Nevertheless most people pay their taxes most of the time. In a lab experiment, we show that the willingness to pay taxes even absent enforcement is indeed pronounced. Yet voluntary compliance is reduced if participants learn that income is heterogeneous. The effect is driven by participants with the lowest income. The reduction obtains irrespective of the tax regime. If the tax is proportional to income, or progressive, participants become more skeptical about the willingness of participants with high income to comply.
K34|Tax Professionals:Tax-Evasion Facilitators or Information Hubs?|To study the role of tax professionals, we merge tax records of 2.5 million taxpayers in Italy with the respective audit files from the tax revenue agency. Our data covers the entire population of sole proprietorship taxpayers in seven regions, followed over seven fiscal years. We first document that tax evasion is systematically correlated with the average evasion of other customers of the same tax professional. We then exploit the unique structure of our dataset to study the channels through which these social spillover effects are generated. Guided by an equilibrium model of tax compliance with tax professionals and auditing, we highlight two mechanisms that may be behind this phenomenon: self-selection of taxpayers who sort themselves into professionals of heterogeneous tolerance for tax evasion; and informational externalities generated by the tax professional activities. We provide evidence supporting the simultaneous presence of both mechanisms.
K34|Use It or Lose It: Efficiency Gains from Wealth Taxation|This paper studies the quantitative implications of wealth taxation (as opposed to capital income taxation) in an incomplete markets model with return rate heterogeneity across individuals. The rate of return heterogeneity arises from the fact that some individuals have better entrepreneurial skills than others, allowing them to obtain a higher return on their wealth. With such heterogeneity, capital income and wealth taxes have different efficiency and distributional implications. Under capital income taxation, entrepreneurs who are more productive and, as a result, generate more income pay higher taxes. Under wealth taxation, on the other hand, entrepreneurs who have similar wealth levels pay similar taxes regardless of their productivity. Thus, in this environment, the tax burden shifts from productive entrepreneurs to unproductive ones if the capital income tax were replaced with a wealth tax. This reallocation increases aggregate productivity. Second, and at the same time, it increases wealth inequality in the population. To provide a quantitative assessment of these different effects, we build and simulate an overlapping generations model with individual-specific returns on capital income and with idiosyncratic shocks to labor income. Our results indicate that switching from a capital income tax to a wealth tax increases welfare by almost 8% through better allocation of capital. We also study optimal taxation in this environment and find that, relative to the benchmark, the optimal wealth tax increases welfare by 9.6% while the optimal capital income tax increases it by 6.3%.
K34|An Analysis of Transfer Pricing Disputes in India|The transfer pricing regime in India, since its inception, has been criticised for pronounced and protracted litigation. In this context, this paper evaluates the transfer pricing regime over the span of a decade (2003-04 to 2013-14) using 6731 case orders. It presents the first evidence of the duration of transfer pricing cases, delineated into pre-ITAT and post-ITAT phases, and compares the performance of the two pre-ITAT forums - the CIT(A) and the DRP. Further, the paper presents evidence on issues such as repeated litigation on identical grounds and remand orders that place companies in cycles of litigation. We find that while the DRP, as an alternative dispute resolution mechanism, may have led to a reduction in case duration in the initial years, this benefit may have now peaked leading to a convergence across forums. Further, we find that often grounds for litigation are similar across years, and therefore joint audits for multiple years may be a superior strategy for transfer pricing cases than the current one.
K34|Fuzzy Profit Shifting: A Model for Optimal Tax-induced Transfer Pricing with Fuzzy Arm's Length Parameter|This paper proposes a model of optimal tax-induced transfer pricing with a fuzzy arm's length parameter. Fuzzy numbers provide a suitable structure for modelling the ambiguity that is intrinsic to the arm's length parameter. For the usual conditions regarding the anti-shifting mechanisms, the optimal transfer price becomes a maximising a-cut of the fuzzy arm's length parameter. Nonetheless, we show that it is profitable for firms to choose any maximising transfer price if the probability of tax audit is sufficiently low, even if the chosen price is considered a completely non-arm's length price by tax authorities. In this case, we derive the necessary and sufficient conditions to prevent this extreme shifting strategy.
K34|Tax-Motivated Profit Shifting and Anti-Avoidance Stringency: Firm-Level Evidence from Developing Countries|This paper uses firm-level data from developing countries to examine the significance of tax-motivated profit shifting from high-tax to low-tax countries by multinational enterprises and to analyze the extent to which anti-avoidance measures mitigate the profit shifting. Focusing on firms in ASEAN5, this study shows that (1) tax-motivated profit shifting is statistically and economically significant, especially for manufacturing firms, (2) auditing and transfer-pricing scrutiny is more effective in reducing profit shifting than documentation requirement alone, and (3) tax-motivated profit shifting is prominent for large firms, while anti-tax avoidance measures result in the absence of profit shifting detected from small manufacturing firms. The findings have important policy implications regarding tax revenues in developing countries, especially those depending on multinational enterprises but having weak governance.
K34|Should There Be Lower Taxes on Patent Income?|A “patent box” is a term for the application of a lower corporate tax rate to the income derived from the ownership of patents. This tax subsidy instrument has been introduced in a number of countries since 2000. Using comprehensive data on patents filed at the European Patent Office, including information on ownership transfers pre- and post-grant, we investigate the impact of the introduction of a patent box on international patent transfers, on the choice of ownership location, and on invention in the relevant country. We find that the impact on transfers is small but present, especially when the tax instrument contains a development condition and for high value patents (those most likely to have generated income), but that invention itself is not affected. This calls into question whether the patent box is an effective instrument for encouraging innovation in a country, rather than simply facilitating the shifting of corporate income to low tax jurisdictions.
K34|Tax audits as scarecrows. Evidence from a large-scale field experiment|The canonical model of Allingham and Sandmo (1972) predicts that firms evade taxes by optimally trading off between the costs and benefits of evasion. However, there is no direct evidence that firms react to audits in this way. We conducted a large-scale field experiment in collaboration with Uruguay’s tax authority to address this question. We sent letters to 20,440 small- and medium-sized firms that collectively paid more than 200 million dollars in taxes per year. Our letters provided exogenous yet nondeceptive signals about key inputs for their evasion decisions, such as audit probabilities and penalty rates. We measured the effect of these signals on their subsequent perceptions about the auditing process, based on survey data, as well as on the actual taxes paid, based on administrative data. We find that providing information about audits had a significant effect on tax compliance but in a manner that was inconsistent with Allingham and Sandmo (1972). Our findings are consistent with an alternative model, risk-as-feelings, in which messages about audits generate fear and induce probability neglect. According to this model, audits may deter tax evasion in the same way that scarecrows frighten off birds.
K34|Who benefits from using property taxes to finance a labor tax wedge reduction?|We use a New Keynesian DSGE model with a rental housing market to evaluate how financing a labor tax wedge reduction through higher property taxation affects the real economy and welfare. We find that a labor tax wedge reduction generates favorable macroeconomic effects and improves international competitiveness, independent of the financing instrument used. Even though it negatively affects the housing market, property acquisition taxation outperforms all other instruments as the financing instrument in terms of welfare. This finding is the result of allowing households to decide whether to buy or to rent housing services and of the fact that, in this situation, they shift from purchasing to renting more housing services. Abandoning tax credit on mortgage interest payments effectively harms borrowers.
K34|CO2-orientierte Bepreisung der Energieträger - Handlungsoptionen, Kompensationsmöglichkeiten und ihre rechtlichen Rahmenbedingungen|Der klimapolitische Handlungsdruck hat eine Instrumentendiskussion entfacht. So plausibel die Forderung nach CO2-Bepreisung der Energieträger zu sein scheint, so heterogen ist das Spektrum möglicher Regelungsansätze. Die Vielzahl wirtschaftspolitischer Empfehlungen hat den Rechtsrahmen, in dem sich die Instrumentendiskussion bewegt, bislang kaum in den Blick genommen. Dieser Beitrag diskutiert Möglichkeiten und Grenzen der Instrumente nach Maßgabe der steuer-, haushalts-, finanzverfassungs- und europarechtlichen Vorgaben. Es zeigt sich, dass die aktuell diskutierten Reformschritte zur CO2-Bepreisung überwiegend im Einklang mit den Rechtsrahmen ausgestaltet werden könnten. Bei den Kompensationsmaßnahmen verengen sich die zur Verfügung stehenden Optionen unter rechtlichen und praktischen Gesichtspunkten.
K34|Fuzzy Profit Shifting: A Model for Optimal Tax-induced Transfer Pricing with Fuzzy Arm's Length Parameter|This paper proposes a model of optimal tax-induced transfer pricing with a fuzzy arm's length parameter. Fuzzy numbers provide a suitable structure for modelling the ambiguity that is intrinsic to the arm's length parameter. For the usual conditions regarding the anti-shifting mechanisms, the optimal transfer price becomes a maximising a-cut of the fuzzy arm's length parameter. Nonetheless, we show that it is profitable for firms to choose any maximising transfer price if the probability of tax audit is sufficiently low, even if the chosen price is considered a completely non-arm's length price by tax authorities. In this case, we derive the necessary and sufficient conditions to prevent this extreme shifting strategy.
K34|Online Platform Operators as Sovereigns over the Ecommerce Sellers Selected by the German Legislator|The German law to combat VAT fraud and other tax regulations went into force recently. The German legislator aims to enforce German VAT law via a liability of platform operators (like Amazon and eBay). The consequences of this regulatory approach are a) that platform operators enforce the law more strictly in relation to the ecommerce sellers than required by the law, b) that legal uncertainty occurs and c) that the legal protection of ecommerce sellers is not clear. Background of the more strict enforcement is that platform operators want to avoid liability risks. The situation from the ecommerce sellers’ perspective is described and discussed.
K34|Evolving Practice in Land Demarcation|This paper analyzes social choice with respect to the demarcation of land boundaries, distinguishing between physical and legal demarcation. In contrast with the influential “land administration” literature and the World Bank’s policy guidelines, the analysis supports voluntary—instead of mandatory—demarcation as well as non-integrated services for land administration. Consistent with these theoretical arguments, the paper empirically verifies that demarcation conflicts play a lesser role in title-, land- and property-related litigation, which seems to increase in all these areas after physical demarcation is made mandatory. Relying on World Bank data, it also observes that linking and merging cadastres and land registries does not correlate with lower transaction costs.
K34|Labor tax reductions in Europe: The role of property taxation|We use a New Keynesian DSGE model with search frictions on the housing market to evaluate how financing a labor tax reduction by higher property taxation affects the real economy and welfare. Search on the housing market enables us to explicitly model stocks and flows, which is necessary to differentiate between recurrent property taxes (levied on stocks) and property transaction taxes (levied to flows). We find that using recurrent property taxation as financing instrument outperforms other instruments although all policy measures increase aggregate economy-wide welfare. Our simulations suggest that using property transaction taxation as financing instrument is the least favorable measure.
K34|Deferred-Compensation-Modelle: Ersatz für eine konventionelle betriebliche Altersversorgung nach dem Betriebsrentengesetz?|In Zeiten von wirtschaftlichen Hochphasen wird das Angebot an qualifizierten Mitarbeiter zunehmend knapp und der Wettbewerb um die Ressource Arbeitnehmer immer ausgeprägter. Im Rahmen des Aufsatzes sollte daher die Frage geklärt werden, ob Deferred-Compensation-Modelle einen Ersatz für eine konventionelle betriebliche Altersversorgung nach dem Betriebsrentengesetz darstellen können. Hierzu kann festgehalten werden, dass Deferred-Compensation-Modelle sowohl aus zivil- und arbeitsrechtlicher, handels- und steuerbilanzieller, sowie sozialversicherungs- und insolvenzrechtlicher Sicht in Deutschland als Mitarbeiterbindungsinstrumentarium eingesetzt werden können. Aufgrund der frei gestaltbaren Unverfallbarkeitsfristen kann bei der Ausgestaltung derartiger Modelle aus Sicht der Autoren mindestens eine genauso starke Mitarbeiterbindung erzielt werden als bei betrieblichen Zusatzrenten, die unter das Betriebsrentengesetz fallen.
K34|Shaming for Tax Enforcement: Evidence from a New Policy|Can public shaming increase tax compliance through social pressure? Many tax authorities make ample use of public shaming. However, empirical evidence from outside the laboratory on how a new shaming law affects overall compliance is lacking. We provide the first evidence from the field, exploiting comprehensive administrative tax data and the introduction of a novel naming-and-shaming policy in Slovenia in 2012. The policy aims to reduce outstanding tax debt among the self-employed and corporations. Our empirical strategy exploits the variation across taxpayers in ex ante exposure to the shaming policy. We find that taxpayers reduce their tax debt by 8.5% to avoid shaming, particularly in industries where reputational concerns are likely to be important. The publication of the first naming-and-shaming list further reduces tax debt among shamed taxpayers because of social learning. This effect, however, is marginal in terms of revenue and tapers off quickly.
K34|Improving Tax Literacy and Tax Morale of Young Adults|This research considers socio-demographic influences and the impact enhancements to financial and tax literacy may have on young adultsâ€™ tax morale. It also considers the subjectsâ€™ perceptions of tax compliance and tax administration. The results show that gender, tax tuition, and employment experience influence tax morale. Most of the 377 students surveyed thought the UK tax system is fair, but complex with personal tax rates that are too high. The majority also believe that a significant number of taxpayers cheat by paying less than they legally owe. The research shows the positive impact of focused tax tuition on university students in raising financial and tax literacy as well as an appreciation for public finance. While the researchers were unable to conclude enhanced literacy resulted in enhanced tax morale in this study, the results nevertheless demonstrated marginal improvements in this regard, thus warranting further research into causation. The researchers make several recommendations for further initiatives and enhancements to existing programmes in taxpayer education focused on young people before they leave school and enter the job market.
K34|Tax Morale: Framing and Fairness|This paper examines to the relationship between the perception of tax fairness and tax morale conditional on the level of financial and tax literacy (FTL). The findings are based on the survey responses of 627 US or UK citizens in either public or private employment. Using factor analysis, the researchers found that there is a systematic variation of the effect of perceived tax fairness conditional on the FTL. Further, the way in which questions are framed is found to be important. For positively framed tax morale questions, the moderating effect of tax fairness is significantly negative for low levels of FTL candidates and improves with literacy. However, in negatively framed tax morale questions, tax morale is improved as one views that the tax system is fair but the impact is significant for higher levels of literacy. This has further policy implications as the â€˜framingâ€™ of tax literature could be instrumental in improving the tax morale of taxpayers.
K34|The taxation of savings: the Italian system and international comparison|After a brief review of the economic literature, the paper offers a comparative analysis of the main features of capital income taxation in Italy, the EU and the US. The paper also analyses the recent evolution of capital taxation and portfolio allocation in Italy. The findings point to high heterogeneity in the choice of the type of tax system, taxation level and forms of preferential taxation, suggesting no convergence towards a single model of taxation among countries. However, a common feature of most systems is that capital income is taxed more lightly than labour income. The heterogeneity in the tax treatment of households’ savings is likely to persist in the future; recent developments at international level concerning the transparency of taxation are expected to increase governments’ degrees of freedom in choosing their preferred tax system. Empirical evidence for Italy suggests that the tax burden on financial assets has increased in recent years but the evolution of financial assets over time is not particularly sensitive to tax changes.
K34|Evolving practice in land demarcation|This paper analyzes social choice with respect to the demarcation of land boundaries, distinguishing between physical and legal demarcation. In contrast with the influential “land administration” literature and the World Bank’s policy guidelines, the analysis supports voluntary—instead of mandatory—demarcation as well as non-integrated services for land administration. Consistent with these theoretical arguments, the paper empirically verifies that demarcation conflicts play a lesser role in title-, land- and property-related litigation, which seems to increase in all these areas after physical demarcation is made mandatory. Relying on World Bank data, it also observes that linking and merging cadastres and land registries does not correlate with lower transaction costs.
K34|Shaming for tax enforcement: Evidence from a new policy|Can public shaming increase tax compliance through social pressure? Many tax authorities make ample use of public shaming. However, empirical evidence from outside the laboratory on how a new shaming law affects overall compliance is lacking. We provide the first evidence from the field, exploiting comprehensive administrative tax data and the introduction of a novel naming-and-shaming policy in Slovenia in 2012. The policy aims to reduce outstanding tax debt among the self-employed and corporations. Our empirical strategy exploits the variation across taxpayers in ex ante exposure to the shaming policy. We find that taxpayers reduce their tax debt by 8.5% to avoid shaming, particularly in industries where reputational concerns are likely to be important. The publication of the first naming-and-shaming list further reduces tax debt among shamed taxpayers because of social learning. This effect, however, is marginal in terms of revenue and tapers off quickly.
K34|Consumers as Tax Auditors|Access to third-party information trails is widely believed to be critical to the development of modern tax systems, but there is limited direct evidence of the effects of changes in information trails. This paper investigates the enforcement effect of an increased availability of third-party information, and sheds light on how governments can harness this information despite collusion opportunities. I exploit unique administrative data on firms and consumers from an anti-tax evasion program in Sao Paulo, Brazil (Nota Fiscal Paulista) that created monetary rewards for consumers to ensure that firms report final sales transactions, and establishes an online verification system that aids consumers in whistle-blowing firms. Using variation in intensity of exposure to the policy, I estimate that firms' reported revenue increased by at least 21% over four years. Heterogeneous effects across firms shed light on mechanisms: the results are consistent with fixed costs to conceal collusive deals and positive shifts in detection probability from whistle-blower threats. I also investigate the effect of whistle-blowers directly: firms report 7% more receipts and 3% more revenue after receiving the first consumer complaint. To study the role of the value of rewards in improving enforcement, I show evidence consistent with the possibility that lottery incentives amplify consumer responses due to behavioral biases, which would make it more costly for firms to try to match government incentives in a collusive deal. Finally, I find that although firms significantly adjusted reported expenses, there was an increase in tax revenue net of rewards of 9.3%.
K34|When do developing countries negotiate away their corporate tax base?|Developing countries have concluded thousands of bilateral tax treaties, which restrict their ‘taxing rights’ over international investment. Qualitative case studies of these negotiation outcomes emphasize power politics, knowledge asymmetries and negotiating capability in the eventual distribution of taxing rights between signatories, yet such insights are absent from cross‐country quantitative work. This paper bridges the gap by replicating two quantitative studies, introducing new data on countries' ability to mobilize tax revenue and the outcomes of tax treaty negotiations. It provides statistical support for the insights from qualitative research. The size of a government's revenue base, and its reliance on corporate tax, might affect the salience of the revenue sacrifice in policy makers' minds. These variables influence the likelihood of signing a tax treaty and the particular concessions made. Power asymmetries between signatories lead to more unequal distributions of taxing rights away from developing countries, in contrast to the findings of earlier studies. Developing countries also become better negotiators as they gain experience.
K34|"Nothing is Certain Except Death and Taxes : The Lack of Policy Uncertainty from Expiring ""Temporary"" Taxes"|What is the policy uncertainty surrounding expiring taxes? How uncertain are the approvals of routine extensions of temporary tax policies? To answer these questions, I use event studies to measure cumulative abnormal returns (CARs) for firms that claimed the U.S. research and development (R&D) tax credit from 1996-2015. In 1996, the U.S. R&D tax credit was statutorily temporary but was routinely extended ten times until 2015, when it was made permanent. I take the event dates as both when these ten extensions of the R&D tax credit were introduced into committee and when the extensions were signed by the U.S. president into law. On average, I find no statistically significant CARs on these dates, which suggests that the market anticipated these extensions to become law. My results support the fact that a routine extension of a temporary tax policy is not a generator of policy uncertainty and, therefore, that a routine extension of temporary tax policy is not a fiscal shock.
K34|The Hausmann-Gorky Effect|For over a century, legal scholars have debated the question of what to do about the debts incurred by despotic governments; asking whether successor non-despotic governments should have to pay them. That debate has gone nowhere. This paper examines whether an Op Ed written by Harvard economist, Ricardo Hausmann, in May 2017, may have shown an alternative path to the goal of increasing the cost of borrowing for despotic governments. Hausmann, in his Op Ed, had sought to produce a pricing penalty on the entire Venezuelan debt stock by trying to shame JPMorgan into removing Venezuelan bonds from its emerging market index. JPMorgan did not comply, but there was a pricing penalty. Intriguingly, the penalty hit only one bond; an issue by Venezuela’s state-owned oil company that went on the market two days prior to the Hausmann’s piece. That bond then began to carry the name in the market of “Hunger Bond.” Using quantitative data and interviews with investors, we try to understand the causes of the Hunger Bond penalty and ask whether there are lessons for policy makers.
K34|Maduro Bonds|For multiple decades, activists have sought to institute an international legal regime that limits the ability of despotic governments to borrow money and then shift those obligations onto more democratic successor governments. Our goal in this article is to raise the possibility of an alternate legal path to raising the costs of borrowing for despotic regimes. All countries have systems of domestic laws that regulate agency relationships and try to deter corruption; otherwise the domestic economy would not function. Despotic governments, we conjecture, are especially likely to engage in transactions that are legally problematic. The reason being that despotic governments, by definition, lack the support of the populace; meaning that there is a high likelihood that actions that they take on behalf of the populace can be challenged as unrepresentative and contrary to the interests of the true principals. The foregoing conditions, if one translates them into the context of an ordinary principal-agent relationship, would constitute a voidable transaction in most modern legal systems. That means that if opposition parties in countries with despotic governments today were to monitor and make public the potential problems with debt issuances by their despotic rulers under their own local laws, it would raise the cost of capital for those despots. To support our argument, we use both the concrete example of the debt issuance shenanigans of the Maduro government in Venezuela and a more general analysis of the relationship between corruption, democracy and a nation’s borrowing costs.
K34|Corporate tax evasion and unreported wages: The effect of compulsory staff registers|One way to decrease corporate tax evasion is to introduce a reform that makes it easier for the tax authorities to detect and punish firms that evade taxes. Such a reform was implemented by the Swedish policymakers in 2007 when they launched a law that required restaurants and hairdressers to introduce staff registers with detailed information on when their employees were present at the workplace. The Swedish Tax Authority was also given the opportunity to perform unannounced control visits, and firms that had not correctly completed their staff registers had to pay a fine. To evaluate the effects of this reform on reported wages, we first identify control industries that resemble the counterfactual outcome of the treated industries using a Propensity Score Matching model. Next, we compare how wage reporting has evolved among the treated and control firms using firm-level difference-in-difference analysis. We find no statistically significant effects of staff registers on wage reporting up to three years after the reform was implemented. Our findings suggest that the staff register requirement has led to at best minor increases in wage reporting after four years. We conclude that the introduction of staff registers has been an inefficient way of addressing corporate tax evasion and reducing unreported wages, especially considering the substantial administrative costs and the increased regulatory burden for the treated firms.
K34|The Rise of Private Foundations as Owners of Swedish Industry: The Role of Tax Incentives 1862–2018|The tax system has at times favoured firm control through private foundations, which has been argued to inhibit high-impact entrepreneurship and economic growth. However, research has been hampered due to a lack of systematic historical tax data. The purpose of this study is threefold. First, we describe the evolution of tax rules for private foundations in Sweden between 1862 and 2018. Second, we calculate the marginal effective tax rate on capital income. Third, we examine the incentives to use private foundations as a means for corporate control by comparing the taxation of private foundations and of high-impact entrepreneurs. Tax incentives help explain why economically significant private foundations were founded between World War I and the 1960s.
K34|The Taxation of Private Foundations in Sweden 1862–2018|It has been argued that the Swedish tax system has favored firm control through private foundations, which should have inhibited entrepreneurship and economic growth. However, research has been hampered due to a lack of systematic historical tax data. The purpose of this study is to describe the evolution of tax rules for private foundations in Sweden between 1862 and 2018 and to calculate the marginal effective tax rate on capital income (METR). The calculations show that the METR for an equity financed investment is below 20 percent most of the time and occasionally peak at about 40 percent. Treating the requirement that private foundations have to donate the bulk of capital income (less capital gains) to charitable purposes as a tax, the METR seldom is below 50 percent when financing investments with new share issues, and often exceeds 100 percent.
K34|Should there be lower taxes on patent income?| A “patent box” is a term for the application of a lower corporate tax rate to the income derived from the ownership of patents. This tax subsidy instrument has been introduced in a number of countries since 2000. Using comprehensive data on patent filings at the European Patent Office, including information on ownership transfers pre- and post-grant, we investigate the impact of the introduction of a patent box on international patent transfers, on the choice of ownership location, and on invention in the relevant country. We find that the impact on transfers is small but present, especially when the tax instrument contains a development condition and for high value patents (those most likely to have generated income), but that invention itself is not affected. This calls into question whether the patent box is an effective instrument for encouraging innovation in a country, rather than simply facilitating the shifting of corporate income to low tax jurisdictions.
K34|The Multilateral Legal Instrument: A developing country perspective|Action point 15 of the BEPS program mandated developing a Multilateral Legal In-strument (MLI) to modify bilateral tax treaties. A country signing this instrument will be able to modify all treaties, where other contracting parties have also notified the same. This would allow countries to simultaneously and therefore swiftly adopt measures to tackle BEPS in a large number of treaties. Based on the country positions submitted to the OECD as on 30th August 2017, this paper makes an attempt to assess whether this instru-ment has succeeded in bringing about the desired changes. A unique database is con-structed on the basis of these country positions. Using this database, the paper shows that the benefit of the MLI may be limited in so far as the application of the optional articles is concerned. In so far as developing countries are concerned, it is found that the gains to these countries may be limited. The adoption of the minimum standards may be the lim-ited success achieved by the instrument.
K34|Who Understands The French Income Tax? Bunching Where Tax Liabilities Start|Lack of tax transparency may strongly impact taxpayers' behavior. This paper disentangles responses to incentives from attention to taxes at the level where French income tax liabilities start. When reporting their earnings, tax filers may be confused between two potential thresholds: the true Tax Collection Threshold (TCT), a notch, and a wrong Taxation Threshold (TT), which is a kink. Using a comprehensive dataset on individual income tax returns from 2008 to 2015, I highlight significant bunching in the taxable income distribution at both thresholds. Within a model of tax misperception, I estimate that taxpayers are far from paying full attention to the income tax system, yet display strong reactions to the marginal tax rate they perceive. This framework can account for behavioral responses to a rise in the virtual marginal tax rate at the wrong threshold and may prove useful to detect policies improving attention to taxes. Contrasting hard-copy and online tax filers, the misperception model reveals a better understanding of the tax system by the latter.
K34|Implementing corporate tax cuts at the expense of neutrality? A legal and optimisation analysis of fundamental reform in practice|Governments and policy-makers are increasingly faced with the trade-off of protecting their tax revenue bases while maintaining their international competitiveness. This is exemplified by the international trend of jurisdictions reducing their headline corporate tax rates, which is often justified on the basis that these cuts will lead to improved efficiency and integrity outcomes. This article explores whether it is more efficient to implement corporate tax cuts or an alternative reform such as an economic rent tax which may better achieve the tax policy goals of efficiency and integrity. In doing so, this article bridges the gap between applied legal research, economic theory and practical optimisation modelling. Specifically, this research presents a simulation analysis of the behavioural responses of a tax-minimising multinational enterprise to both existing and proposed tax regimes and compares efficiency and integrity outcomes upon implementing corporate tax cuts. This is complemented by a legal comparative analysis featuring case studies of an economic rent tax; namely, the Allowance for Corporate Equity (ACE) as introduced in Belgium and Italy. These case studies will focus on the political hurdles to implementing and sustaining these reforms, which will highlight key lessons learnt from the implementation of the ACE in practice.
K34|Evolutions and tendencies regarding the Romanian transfer pricing legislation: is there a need for change?|In the context of internationalization and globalization of businesses an important attention has been paid to the transfer pricing legislation. Moreover, starting with 2016 Romania has adopted new transfer pricing regulations which have a significant impact on the groups of companies. Therefore, one of the objectives of our research was to analyse the Romanian transfer pricing legislation in order to capture an evolution of it. To achieve this objective we performed a comparison between Order 222/2008 and Order 442/2016. Other objectives of the research were to capture the perception of the tax specialists about the transfer pricing subject and the Romanian related legislation, especially about the new regulations and to identify if there is necessary a change in the Romanian transfer pricing legislation. To achieve these two objectives, the main investigative tool used was a questionnaire distributed to members of the Romanian Chamber of Tax Consultants. The collection of the information based on questionnaire was conducted in the period 11 – 27 June 2016. The study’s results show that the Romanian transfer pricing legislation contains some efficient regulations, but however it needs some changes which would contribute to a better prevention of the base erosion and profit shifting between multinationals and which would avoid any misunderstandings and possible disputes between taxpayers and tax authorities.
K34|The effect of card payments on vat revenue in Greece|The effect of card payments on VAT revenue performance in Greece is investigated using quarterly observations on card transactions during 2002q1-2016q2. Time-varying-coefficient methods are employed, in order to study the role of increasing card payments after the imposition of cash restrictions in July 2015. We find that (i) a 1pp increase in the share of card payments in private consumption results in approximately 1% higher revenue through increased compliance; (ii) lowering the VAT rate can generate revenue gains; (iii) card transactions may facilitate tax buoyancy. It is argued that stronger incentives for using card payments in tax evading industries can help lock-in the recent strong revenue performance when cash restrictions are lifted.
K34|Mining taxation in Africa: the gold mining industry in 14 countries from 1980 to 2015|The lack of information about the sharing of mining resource rent between governments and investors is an easy statement to make for Africa. The existing datasets are often insufficient for a deep analysis of African tax law as applied to the natural resource sectors, which has limited the academic and operational approaches. This paper describes the first legal and tax database which specifies the tax regime applied to industrial gold mining companies in 14 African gold-producing countries from 1980 to 2015. The database has three major innovations: (i) an inventory of taxes and duties (rate, base and exemptions) payable during the prospecting phase and mining phase of a gold project; (ii) a new detailed historical record covering 1980 to 2015; (iii) the link between each piece of tax information and its legal source. This database is used to make a first analysis of mining tax regimes and rent sharing in the main gold-producing countries. The first results highlight the heterogeneity of tax regimes between English-speaking and French-speaking countries. There has been a convergence of the average effective tax rates across most of the countries, the effective tax rate has increased in most countries following the tax reforms undertaken since 2010.The database is downloadable following the link : http://www.ferdi.fr/en/indicator/minining-tax-database-africa.Keywords: Mining sector, Gold, Taxation of natural resources, DatabaseJEL: Q38, K34, C80
K34|Cautionary tales: Celebrities, the news media, and participation in tax amnesties|This study investigates whether press coverage on celebrities with tax issues affects the behavior of other tax payers. We compile an original data set for Germany, including regional information on the amount of tax payers using amnesty regulations to voluntarily disclose taxes they have evaded. The data set also includes counts of news reports published by 6 national and 54 local newspapers that address celebrity tax evaders who were publicly tried between January 2010 and June 2016. We find a strong correlation between the amount of self-denunciations and the news coverage. To identify the causal effect, we use exogenous variation in the reporting, resulting from disasters and terrorist attacks that coincide with the celebrity trials. Instrumental variable estimates suggest that an increase in news coverage by the amount of an average trial raises participation in the tax amnesty program by approximately 22.5%. This finding helps to better understand the effectiveness of tax amnesties, and it illustrates the economic implications of publicly trying famous personalities.
K34|Tributación sobre las utilidades empresariales en Colombia: una comparación de los regímenes impositivos de antes y después de la ley 1819 de 2016|Este ensayo examina los principales cambios en la tributación empresarial en Colombia derivados de la Ley 1819 de 2016. La carga tributaria sobre las utilidades de las sociedades y sobre los dividendos recibidos por sus dueños se estima utilizando un enfoque de tarifas potenciales marginales, que permite valorar el efecto global de la reforma impositiva y los efectos de medidas individuales contenidas en ella, en comparación con lo que presumiblemente habría ocurrido si el régimen tributario precedente se hubiera mantenido vigente. En contra de la interpretación predominante en la teoría económica neoclásica, esas tarifas se describen como potenciales y no como efectivas debido a que no incorporan los efectos de la evasión y la traslación impositivas y a que están sujetas a las contingencias propias de los negocios. Los resultados indican que la carga tributaria potencial empresarial se reducirá de manera notoria en el período 2016-2022 como consecuencia de la reforma, anticipando la reducción que también se habría presentado bajo la legislación anterior. ****** This essay examines the main changes in business taxation in Colombia derived from Law 1819 of 2016. The tax burden on corporate profits and on dividends received by the stockholders is estimated using a marginal potential tax rates approach, which allows assessing the overall effect of the tax reform and the effects of individual measures contained therein, compared with what presumably would have occurred had the previous tax regime been maintained. Contrary to the prevailing interpretation in neoclassical economic theory, such rates are described as potential rather than as effective because they do not incorporate the effects of tax evasion and shifting, and are subject to a variety of business contingencies. The results indicate that the potential business tax burden will be noticeably reduced in the period 2016-2022 as a result of the reform, anticipating the reduction that would also have occurred under the previous legislation.
K34|Mining taxation in Africa: The gold mining industry in 14 countries from 1980 to 2015|The lack of information about the sharing of mining resource rent between governments and investors is an easy statement to make for Africa. The existing datasets are often insufficient for a deep analysis of African tax law as applied to the natural resource sectors, which has limited the academic and operational approaches. This paper describes the first legal and tax database which specifies the tax regime applied to industrial gold mining companies in 14 African gold-producing countries from 1980 to 2015. The database has three major innovations: (i) an inventory of taxes and duties (rate, base and exemptions) payable during the prospecting phase and mining phase of a gold project; (ii) a new detailed historical record covering 1980 to 2015; (iii) the link between each piece of tax information and its legal source. This database is used to make a first analysis of mining tax regimes and rent sharing in the main gold-producing countries. The first results highlight the heterogeneity of tax regimes between English-speaking and French-speaking countries. There has been a convergence of the average effective tax rates across most of the countries, the effective tax rate has increased in most countries following the tax reforms undertaken since 2010.The database is downloadable following the link :http://www.ferdi.fr/en/node/3198.
K34|Does dividend tax impede competition for corporate charters?|We develop a model of jurisdictional competition for corporate charters among the states in which a firm’s agency cost depends on the federal dividend income tax rate and the takeover regulations of its domicile state. When firms are mobile across states, the federal dividend income tax rate affects both the intensity of competition among the states and the equilibrium level of state takeover regulations. Our model shows that increasing dividend tax rate weakens the competition for corporate charters under a condition: dividend-paying and the market for corporate control are complementary corporate governance mechanisms. This condition holds empirically, suggesting that dividend tax not only discourages firms from paying dividends but also weakens their corporate governance by disincentivizing states to improve their corporate laws.
K34|The Role of Taxes in the Disconnect between Corporate Performance and Economic Growth|We investigate the relation between the growth in corporate profits and the overall U.S. economy, focusing on the impact of the U.S. corporate tax regime on this relation. We document that the growth of corporate profits, on average, has outpaced the growth of the economy and this disconnect increases as the difference between the corporate income tax rate of the U.S. and the other OECD countries increases. The underlying mechanism is fewer corporate profits being channeled into subsequent domestic investments when the U.S. tax rate is relatively higher, leading to lower economic growth. Our findings have implications for policy setters.
K34|Stock option taxation: a missing piece in European innovation policy?|Abstract Europe continues to lag behind the USA in venture capital (VC) activity and in the creation of successful startups, and has recently been surpassed by China. This is despite the fact that many European countries have deep financial markets, strong legal institutions, and high R&D spending. We point to the tax treatment of employee stock options as an explanation for the stronger growth of the US VC sector. As a response to high uncertainty and transaction costs, VC financiers have developed a model in which founders and key recruitments are compensated with stock options under complex contracts. Low tax rates on employee stock options further raise the relative returns of working and investing in innovative entrepreneurial firms, and shift financial capital and talent to that sector. We measure the effective tax on stock options in VC-backed entrepreneurial firms in a number of developed economies. Countries with lower stock option taxation have higher VC activity and more high-growth expectation entrepreneurial activity. Based on these associations and the theoretical and empirical literature, we argue that more lenient taxation of gains on employee stock options can be a strategy for European countries to catch up in entrepreneurial finance. This tax policy would narrowly target entrepreneurial startups without requiring broad tax cuts. The favorable tax treatment of stock options allows the state to promote firms that rely on entrepreneurial finance and make use of these types of contracts without lowering taxes for other sectors of the economy.
K34|The Integral Nature Of Tax Laws For Tax Payer’S In Mexico, Las Leyes Tributarias Forman Parte Integral De La Vida Del Gobernado En Mexico|This research was conducted in the city of Monclova, Coahuila, in 2015. The research identifies rules that direct taxes and indirect taxes and tax laws are a part of life. Humanity over time has experimiented with different systems of government where lawmakers are out of control. The phenomenon arises when there are tax laws are complex and difficult to understand. The sample is calculated for 74 respondents and obtained the result that the Mexican tax burden is excessive when compared with other European countries such as Denmark
K34|Taxing high-income earners: tax avoidance and mobility| The taxation of high-income earners is of importance to every country and is the subject of a considerable amount of recent academic research. Such high-income earners contribute substantial amounts of tax and generate signifi cant positive spillovers, but are also highly mobile: a 1% increase in the top marginal income tax rate increases out-migrations by around 1.5 to 3%. We review research into taxation of high-income earners to provide a synthesis of existing theoretical and empirical understanding. We o ffer various avenues for potential future theoretical and empirical research.
K34|Effectiveness of Fiscal Incentives for R&D: Quasi-experimental Evidence|We exploit a 2008 UK policy reform that increased the tax incentives for R&D in medium-sized enterprises relative to large ones, to overcome the endogeneity of exposure to such tax credits. We estimate a difference-in-difference design on the universe of corporation tax filings in the United Kingdom, combined with other datasets. We find a positive and significant impact of tax credits for R&D, implying a user-cost elasticity estimate of around −1.6. This magnitude implies around $1 in additional private R&D spending per dollar foregone in tax revenue.
K34|Taxing multinationals beyond borders: financial and locational responses to CFC rules|Using a large panel dataset on worldwide operations of multinational firms, this paper studies one of the most advocated anti-tax-avoidance measures: Controlled Foreign Corporation rules. By including income of foreign low-tax subsidiaries in the domestic tax base, these rules create incentives for multinationals to move income away from low-tax environments. Exploiting variation around the tax threshold used to identify low-tax subsidiaries, we find that multinationals redirect profits into subsidiaries just above the threshold and place more new subsidiaries just above compared to just below the threshold. The resulting increase in global corporate tax revenue partly accrues to the rule-enforcing country.
K34|A Step Change in Tax Transparency? An Event Study on How the Automatic Exchange of Information Did Not Affect Swiss Banks|For decades the Swiss banking secrecy has made it a criminal act for banks in Switzerland to reveal information about their customers' identities. As of 2018, Switzerland will exchange banking information on foreign bank customers with the respective home countries on an automatic basis. This event study estimates the abnormal returns in the stock prices of Swiss banks around important milestones toward the automatic exchange of information. There is no evidence of significant or sizeable decreases in the market value of Swiss banks due to the new tax transparency. The minimum detectable eÂ¤ect sizes are moderate and suggest a high statistical power. The null results stand in reasonable contrast to a significant increase in the level of tax compliance among the owners of Swiss bank accounts.
K34|The Performance of VAT in DGD-partner countries|This study presents a case study on the value added-tax (VAT) with the objective to design appropriate policies aiming to improve domestic-resource mobilization in developing countries. Data from 18 DGD-partner countries (past and present) over the 1990-2012 period show that, although the performance of VAT has inproved in recent years, many of these countries can close their resource gap by implementing reforms that improve the efficiency of their VAT system. We present an in-depth analysis on Bolivia to illustrate how such reforms could be designed. Bolivia is also an interesting case since the country was one of the first developing countries to adopt VAT in a context characterized by socio-economic and political challenges. We argue that the credibility of the Bolivian government as well as the institutional design of its tax system were very important for the success of their tax reforms. Moreover, we show that the improvement of both the policy and compliance gaps have contributed to the reduction of Bolivia’s VAT gap in recent years, but improvements in compliance gap are the main deriver.
K34|Regressive Sin Taxes|A common objection to “sin taxes”—corrective taxes on goods like cigarettes, alcohol, and sugary drinks, which are believed to be over-consumed—is that they fall disproportionately on low-income consumers. This paper studies the interaction between corrective and redistributive motives in a general optimal taxation framework. On the one hand, redistributive concerns amplify the corrective benefits of a sin tax when sin good consumption is concentrated on the poor, even when bias and demand elasticities are constant across incomes. On the other hand, a sin tax can generate regressivity costs, raising more revenue from the poor than from the rich. Sin tax regressivity can be offset by targeted transfers or income tax reforms if differences in sin good consumption are driven by income effects, but not if they are driven by preference heterogeneity, and not if the indirect incentives the sin tax generates for labor supply decisions are not salient. The price elasticity of demand determines the extent to which corrective benefits versus regressivity costs determine the size of the optimal tax. We implement our optimal tax formulas in a calibrated model of sugar-sweetened beverage consumption for a range of parameter values suggested by empirical work.
K34|Anti-avoidance rules against international tax planning: A classification|This paper describes the main anti-avoidance rules against international tax planning by multinational enterprises in OECD and G20 countries. Building on this information and on previous classification efforts in the literature, a new classification of anti-avoidance strength is compiled. It takes into account five key dimensions of anti-avoidance: (i) transfer price rules and documentation requirements; (ii) rules on interest deductibility such as thin capitalisation and interest-to-earnings rules to prevent the manipulation of debt location; (iii) controlled foreign company (CFC) rules; (iv) general anti-avoidance rules (GAARs); and (v) withholding taxes on interest payments, royalties and dividends, taking into account bilateral tax treaties. The classification is based on a simple framework aiming to capture the main features of anti-avoidance rules in a harmonised way across countries, although it inevitably leaves aside certain country-specific characteristics as well as the enforcement of existing rules. The empirical analysis in Johansson et al., (2016), which is based on this classification, suggests that strong anti-avoidance rules can reduce profit shifting. Règles anti-évitement contre la planification fiscale internationale : une classification Ce document décrit les principales règles anti-évitement contre la planification fiscale internationale par les entreprises multinationales dans les pays de l'OCDE et du G20. En s’appuyant sur cette description et sur les efforts de classification précédents dans la littérature, une nouvelle classification de la force des règles anti-évitement est compilée. Elle prend en compte cinq dimensions clés de l'anti-évitement: (i) les règles de prix de transfert et les exigences en matière de documentation ; (ii) les règles sur la déductibilité des intérêts pour empêcher la manipulation de l'emplacement de la dette, telles que les règles relatives à la sous-capitalisation ou portant sur les ratios intérêt-bénéfice ; (iii) les règles CFC sur les sociétés étrangères contrôlées ; (iv) les règles générales anti-évitement (GAAR) ; et (v) les impôts retenus à la source sur les paiements transnationaux d'intérêts, de redevances et de dividendes, en tenant compte des conventions fiscales bilatérales. Le classement est basé sur un cadre simple visant à capturer les principales caractéristiques des règles anti-évitement d'une manière harmonisée dans tous les pays, même si elle laisse inévitablement de côté certaines caractéristiques propres à chaque pays, ainsi que l'application des règles existantes. L'analyse empirique de Johansson et al., (2016), qui est basée sur cette classification, suggère que des règles anti-évitement fortes peuvent réduire les transferts de bénéfices des entreprises multinationales.
K34|Neutralnosc podatkowa przy dzierzawie gospodarstwa rolnego lub jego skladnikow na cele rolnicze|Jedna z form lokowania wolnych srodkow pienieznych przez osoby fizyczne sa nieruchomosci. Zainteresowanie wzbudzaja zarowno nieruchomosci lokalowe jak i gruntowe. Zakresem przedmiotowym przytaczanej tresci objeto nieruchomosci wystepujace w postaci gruntow rolnych. Do pierwszego maja 2016 r. kazda osoba fizyczna mogla stac sie wlascicielem gruntow rolnych. Swobodny zakup ziemi rolnej ograniczono restrykcyjnymi przepisami ustawy z 11 kwietnia 2003 r. o ksztaltowaniu ustroju rolnego (Dz.U. Z 2012 r. poz. 803 ze zm.) . Zmiana przepisow dotyczaca swobodnego obrotu nieruchomosciami rolnymi nie spowodowala tego, (chociaz ku temu zmierza), ze grunty rolne pozostaja jedynie w rekach rolnikow. Osoby fizyczne, ktore nabyly ziemie przed 1 majem 2016 r., a nie sa zwiazane z rolnictwem udostepniaja ja innym w drodze umowy najmu czy tez dzierzawy. Otrzymywany czynsz jest korzyscia majatkowa, ktora prawo podatkowe traktuje w szczegolny sposob. Pozytki osiagane w drodze dzierzawy przez osobe fizyczna niezwiazana z rolnictwem sa traktowane w swietle podatku dochodowego od osob fizycznych na preferencyjnych zasadach. Celem artykulu jest analiza opodatkowania dochodow uzyskiwanych przez osoby fizyczne z tytulu udostepniania nieruchomosci rolnych osobom trzecim. W opracowaniu zastosowano analize regulacji prawnych dotyczacych dzialalnosci rolniczej i podatku dochodowego od osob fizycznych. Dla okreslenia rozbieznosci w opodatkowaniu czynszu z dzierzawy nieruchomosci rolnej na cele rolnicze i nierolnicze posluzono sie analiza porownawcza i dedukcja. Wynagrodzenie otrzymywane z dzierzawy gospodarstwa rolnego lub jego skladnikow na cele rolnicze nie stanowi zrodla przychodow w rozumieniu podatku dochodowego od osob fizycznych. Przychody uzyskiwane z udostepniania osobom trzecim innych nieruchomosci lub gospodarstw rolnych na cele nierolnicze podlegaja opodatkowaniu podatkiem dochodowym od osob fizycznych. Tutaj otrzymywany czynsz stanowi zrodlo przychodow w podatku dochodowym od osob fizycznych i podlega zgloszeniu do wlasciwego urzedu skarbowego.
K34|Forming Of Local Budgets: Between Fiscal Decentralization And Social Solidarity|Financial decentralization is an essential part of the administrative and financial decentralization process, because it represents the most important source that fuels the public budgets. The transfer of administrative competences from the center towards the periphery, meaning from the central public administration to the local ones, must be accompanied by the increase of the local budget revenues, which is in direct dependence of financial decentralization, by increasing the amount of taxes entering the local budgets (without increasing the tax burden). Increasing the local budget revenues is also possible by allocation of additional amounts from the national budget, but this doesn’t represent a real decentralization, rather a disguised centralization, where the state decides how much, from where and under what form they are allocated to the local authorities, and this last one is in a continuous uncertainty and dependency to the center. This study proposes a modern conception on the financial decentralization in Romania, in accordance with the majority of the direct financial revenues (income tax and profit tax) that must enter in the budget of the localities, from where these will turn – in order to respect the financial equality and solidarity principle – odds to the county budget and to the state budget.
K34|Assessing the Importance of Taxation on FDI: Evidence from South-East Asian Developing Countries|This study examines the influence of taxation on FDI using data from South-East Asia. It employs the quantile regression approach with fixed effects that provides a comprehensive view of the tax sensitivity across the FDI distribution. Estimates confirm the significantly negative impact of the bilateral effective average tax rate but its effect is heterogeneous across the distribution. This stresses the importance of understanding the effect of taxation across the distribution rather than only at the mean. Also, the economic significance of the tax is relatively smaller than that of other fundamental factors such as labor quality and governance.
K34|Tax Amnesty For Social Contribution In Romanian Legal Framework|When the state representatives realise that the fiscal liabilities are too hard to comply with and the taxpayers are very temped to avoid the payments, alternative solutions might be used. In order to move on with their daily activities, the taxpayers need to ease tax burden and a solution to rebalance the general budgetary collect/spend mechanism is to consider an amnesty regulation. Some legally stated fiscal liabilities are to be cancelled, in order to facilitate the continuity of the activity of the taxpayers and to insure further payments to the budget, despite the present diminish of the budgetary incomes. The recent Romanian fiscal amnesty is analyzed, starting with its motivations, the applicable procedures and the possible misinterpretations. The fiscal authority role and actions are presented, in comparison with the action of the beneficiaries of the law. Also, the results amnesty generated and the influence on the taxpayers? activity are analyzed, through the relevant case law already generated on the topic. The negative influence of the tax amnesty is pointed out as a result of the research.
K34|The effects of a tax allowance for growth and investment: Empirical evidence from a firm-level analysis|We contribute to the empirical literature on the debt bias of corporate income taxation through a firm-level evaluation of the European Commission's recent proposal of an Allowance for Growth and Investment (AGI). We use the introduction, the application and the repeal of a similar allowance in Austria during the early 2000s to evaluate the effects of the AGI on corporate equity and profit distribution. Our analysis provides evidence that such an allowance could increase corporate equity ratios by 5.5 percentage points and reduce profit distributions by 7.6 percentage points. These effects are stronger than those the previous literature for traditional Allowance for Corporate Equity (ACE) tax systems has identified. Additionally, we contribute to the recently expanding literature on the influence of ownership on tax planning as we find significant differences in the utilization of the AGI depending on individual specifics of the majority shareholder as well as depending on the number of shareholders of the respective firms
K34|Arbeitsprogramm zum UZK 2016 – Beschluss (EU) 2016/578|Der Unionszollkodex – die VO (EU) Nr. 952/2013 – (UZK) hat am 1. Mai 2016 vollständige Geltung erlangt. Viele vorgesehene IT-Systeme zur einheitlichen Abwicklung des Zollrechts in der EU sind jedoch zu diesem Zeitpunkt noch nicht verfügbar und funktionsfähig gewesen. Die Kommission ist mit Artikel 280 UZK im Rahmen eines „Arbeitsprogrammes“ zum Unionszollkodex beauftragt worden, die weitere Entwicklung der IT-Systeme zur Zollabwicklung voranzutreiben und zeitnah abzuschließen. Das Arbeitsprogramm zum UZK soll jährlich aktualisiert werden. Das erste UZK-Arbeitsprogramm – der Durchführungsbeschluss 2014/255/EU – ist nach nunmehr zwei Jahren durch den Durchführungsbeschluss (EU) 2016/578 neu gefasst worden. Dieser Beitrag stellt das überarbeitete UZK-Arbeitsprogramm 2016 vor und gibt einen Überblick über IT-Verfahren und Zeiträume der Umsetzung/Einführung.
K34|Das Zollverfahren der Ausfuhr nach dem Unionszollkodex in grafischen Übersichten|Der Unionszollkodex (VO [EU] Nr. 952/2013) des Europäischen Parlaments und des Rates vom 9.10.2013 hat seit dem 1.5.2016 den bisher geltenden Zollkodex der Gemeinschaften (VO [EWG] Nr. 2913/92) vollständig ersetzt. Das bisherige Ausfuhrverfahren für Gemeinschaftswaren (ein Zollverfahren nach Art. 4 Nr. 16 ZK) war v. a. in den Art. 161, 162, 183 ZK und vielen Vorschriften der ZK-DVO geregelt. Die Wiederausfuhr für Nicht-Unionswaren war eine zollrechtliche Bestimmung (Art. 4 Nr. 15 ZK), die in den Art. 182 ZK und Art. 842 ZK-DVO geregelt gewesen ist. Das nationale Außenwirtschaftsrecht ergänzte dabei die Vorschriften des Europarechts. Mit dem UZK ist das Zollverfahren der Ausfuhr eines von drei Zollverfahren geworden, das sowohl die Ausfuhr von Unionswaren als auch die Wiederausfuhr von Nicht-Unionswaren umfasst. Die wesentlichen Regelungen des Zollverfahrens der Ausfuhr sind in den Art. 263–277 UZK enthalten. Daneben treten – wie bisher – die Regelungen der Abgabe einer Zollanmeldung (Art. 158–167 UZK) sowie der §§ 12–20 AWV. Alle Anwender werden auch diese Fundstellen und z. T. neuen Inhalte der Artikel neu lernen müssen. Bislang gibt es erste systematische Überblicke und Umschlüsselungshilfen, doch die Detailarbeit und insbesondere die Verknüpfung von UZK zu den ergänzenden UZK-DVOen sind nicht einfach in einer Umschlüsselungshilfe darstellbar. Neben den UZK treten die beiden Delegierenden Verordnungen – Delegierender Rechtsakt, VO (EU) 2015/2446 (UZK-DA) und Implementierender Durchführungsrechtsakt (UZK-IA), VO (EU) 2015/2447 – und die Verknüpfung der UZK-Normen zu den DVOen ist komplex und muss neu erlernt werden.
K34|Potentielle Risikofaktoren für die Erhöhung der Betriebsprüfungswahrscheinlichkeit - Eine analytische und empirische Untersuchung auf Basis der E-Bilanz-Taxonomie 6.0 -|Das Gesetz zur Modernisierung des Besteuerungsverfahrens (StModernG) gestattet es der deutschen Finanzverwaltung die Daten der sog. E-Bilanz (§ 5b EStG) in ihrem fiskalischen Risikomanagement-System auszuwerten. Dies kann zur gezielten Auswahl von Unternehmen für eine spätere Betriebsprüfung genutzt werden. Details zur Ausgestaltung des Risikomanagement-Systems auf Basis der E-Bilanz-Datensätze sind bislang nicht bekannt. Der Beitrag identifiziert mögliche Risikofaktoren, deren Auftreten in einer vom Steuerpflichtigen einge¬reichten E-Bilanz dazu führen könnte, dass sein Unternehmen im Risikomanagement-System der Finanzverwaltung als risikoreich eingestuft wird. Als Risikofaktoren gelten dabei Sachverhalte oder Umstände, die Indizien für eine erhöhte Fehleranfälligkeit oder für aggressive Steuervermeidungsstrategien sind. Alle XBRL-Tags der E-Bilanz Taxonomie 6.0 werden in Hinblick auf solche Risiken analysiert und klassifiziert. Die Ergebnisse werden durch strukturierte Expertenbefragungen auf ihre Relevanz für die Praxis der Betriebsprüfung hin validiert.
K34|Do tax information exchange agreements curb transfer pricing-induced tax avoidance?|"We propose a game theoretical model where a multinational company with divisions in two countries and the respective tax authorities interact with each other. Prior to an audit the functional profile of the divisions is unknown to the tax authorities. In equilibrium, tax avoidance emerges in both countries. It turns out that the audit pressure is highest for firms with a hybrid functional profile, dampening their production and reducing their after-tax profit. We find that introducing a bilateral Tax Information Exchange Agreement reduces tax avoidance by aggressive transfer pricing in the high-tax (""domestic"") country and precludes tax avoidance in the lowtax (""foreign"") country. The volume of production increases. The foreign tax authority discontinues its audit activities, while the domestic tax authority audits less often at least if the foreign division is a toll manufacturer (""routine function""). While the expected net tax revenues increase in the foreign country, they may decrease in the domestic country."
K34|Tax consultants' incentives: A game-theoretic investigation into the behavior of tax consultants, taxpayers, and the tax authority in a setting of tax complexity|We propose a game-theoretic investigation to capture the interplay between the behavior of tax consultants, taxpayers, and the tax authority in a setting of tax complexity. Our purpose is to provide answers to two research questions: Which aspects of the strategic interaction between the players induce tax consultants to provide inaccurate consulting services? How can we change the incentive structure in order to improve tax consulting quality? We find that tax consultants can be best motivated to work accurately by exogenously increasing the probability of tax underpayment and by ensuring that the tax authority corrects both tax underpayment and tax overpayment.
K34|Population dynamics of tax avoidance with crowding effects|There are two ways for taxpayers to avoid paying taxes: legally, through tax optimization and illegally, through tax evasion. The government reacts by altering the law, and by conducting audits, respectively. These phenomena are modeled as a population game, a strategic interaction between all taxpayers: the more taxpayers optimize, the lower the optimization result as a consequence of the government tightening the tax law. The more taxpayers evade, the higher the risk of detection because of the tax agencies increasing the audit probability. If the government reacts to changed optimization behavior with too large a delay, an equilibrium tax law cannot be reached. Tax codes should be updated rapidly in order to avoid a permanent change of the tax law, which is costly both for the legislator and the taxpayers facing legal uncertainty.
K34|The implications of book-tax differences: A meta-analysis|Over the last decade, a large body of tax accounting literature on the association between book-tax conformity (BTC)/book-tax differences (BTD) and firms' opportunistic reporting behavior has emerged. Yet, existing empirical evidence on the questions whether increased book-tax conformity actually reduces Earnings Management (EM) and/or Tax Sheltering (TS) and whether book-tax differences are really indicative of such opportunistic reporting behavior is not yet clear. We therefore conduct a meta-analysis aimed at identifying the sources of heterogeneity in primary studies and at providing a consensus estimate with respect to the sign and the statistical significance level for the examined association. Our qualitative literature review reveals that major sources of heterogeneity in the study design include differences in the proxies for EM and TS and in the measures used to determine BTD and BTC. Our meta-regression results show that BTD are indeed indicative of opportunistic reporting behavior, and even more so of EM. These results are, however, weaker for studies that determine BTD only roughly as the difference between book and estimated taxable income instead of using more specific BTD proxies. Moreover, examining actual BTD computed from tax returns instead of only approximating these from financial statements strongly increases the effects. Hence, efforts taken to accurately determine BTD seem to be worth wile when it comes to the explanatory power for opportunistic reporting. Furthermore, our results suggest a negative association between book-tax conformity and EM/TS, which we interpret as an indicator for higher conformity indeed being effective in reducing aggressive reporting.
K34|Country-by-country reporting: Tension between transparency and tax planning|Aggressive tax planning efforts of highly profitable multinational companies (Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS)) have become the subject of intense public debate in recent years. As a response, several international initiatives and parties have called for more transparency in financial reporting, especially by means of a Country-by-Country Reporting (CbCR). In line with that, the OECD and the European Commission have recently presented proposals for a comprehensive disclosure of country-specific tax-related information for companies in all industry sectors. In our paper, we demonstrate that neither consolidated or individual financial statements nor other existing data sources seem to be an appropriate basis for providing such country-specific information. Instead, it would be necessary to define detailed and harmonized definitions and regulations to ensure comparability. The discussion on benefits and costs of a CbCR reveals that benefits (at least partially) lack a theoretical foundation and, overall, do not seem to outweigh associated costs. This holds true, in particular, since current tax planning activities are mainly based on the legal exploitation of gaps and loopholes in national and international tax law. Instead, we argue that tax legislators should limit profit shifting by enforcing tax rules and by closing gaps in tax law. In particular, we call for more tightened and standardized transfer pricing regulations and thin-cap rules to be adopted at an international level.
K34|Entwicklung eines Indifferenzsteuersatzes für den European Tax Analyzer|Zur Messung von Effektivsteuerbelastungen hat sich in den vergangenen Jahren ein umfassendes Instrumentarium entwickelt, das auf unterschiedlichen Methoden basiert. Der European Tax Analyzer verwendet vollständige Finanzpläne und besitzt insbesondere Stärken durch eine sehr detaillierte Abbildung von steuerlichen Vorschriften. Als Maßgröße werden bisher absolute Steuerbelastungen verwendet, die lediglich eine ordinale Rangordnung alternativer Investitionsstandorte ermöglichen. Aufbauend auf den Arbeiten von Schreiber/Ruf (2004) und Ruf (2005) wird im Rahmen der Untersuchung ein sogenannter Indifferenzsteuersatz für den European Tax Analyzer entwickelt. Diese zusätzliche relative Maßgröße erlaubt einen unmittelbaren Vergleich mit dem tariflichen Körperschaftsteuersatz eines Landes. Eine erste Anwendung des Konzepts zeigt, dass der neue Indifferenzsteuersatz insbesondere in Ländern, in denen die Effektivsteuerbelastung nicht nur von der Körperschaftsteuer bestimmt wird, eine genaue und zugleich leicht verständliche Abschätzung der zu erwartenden Steuerbelastung erlaubt.
K34|The development of corporate tax structures in the European Union from 1998 to 2015 - Qualitative and quantitative analysis|Ongoing tax reform processes, competitive pressures and the consequences of the financial and sovereign debt crisis have considerably shaped the tax systems of the Member States of the European Union in the last two decades. Our paper combines a qualitative and quantitative analysis of the development of European tax structures based on a unique and comprehensive dataset for the EU-25 Member States between 1998 and 2015. Especially among the EU-15 Member States, we still find evidence for the often-cited trend of tax rate cut cum tax base broadening. In this context, we identify interest deduction limitation rules and loss provisions as main drivers of tax base broadening. Furthermore, the quantitative analysis of effective tax burden scenarios shows that Member States seem to additionally rely on an increased taxation of dividends to balance possible revenue losses associated with reduced corporate income tax rates.
K34|The Italian Blitz: a natural experiment on audit publicity and tax compliance|Tax evasion is a major problem faced by governments across the world, and many strategies have been attempted to minimize its extent. One such strategy is the “fiscal blitz”, consisting in clusters of unexpected tax verification activities targeting businesses. Blitzes have been widely implemented in Italy: the ones taking place in the last years shared many common features, but differed in the level of publicity they received on the media. We use confidential data on Value Added Tax payments at the sector level in two cities to estimate the effect of such publicity on tax compliance of local sellers. By employing a Difference-in-Differences identification strategy, we find that the publicity of the blitz has a positive effect on fiscal declarations made shortly after. The results suggest that increasing awareness on future audits via the media can be an important instrument in the hands of tax authorities.
K34|Tax reforms with vector autoregression analysis: Ecuador case|In this article, the authors show how, in the short and long term, changes in Ecuador’s economic growth, management of tax administration, price levels and taxpayer behavior, affected to the collection of Income tax for the period 2000-2013. They considered the possibility of a structural break because of the tax reform of 2008. They then used an auto-regressive vector model complemented with impulse-response functions and they found that tax reforms did not generate a statistically significant increase of the Income tax collection; but economic growth did it, as well as the number of people registered as taxpayers at the Internal Revenue Service and the retained taxes. Therefore, strategic planning of tax policy (long-term) is suggested.
K34|Financing sustainable development with enhanced domestic resource mobilization: transitional role of international cooperation|The Sustainable Development Goals are very comprehensive, reflecting the increased diversification and complication involved with the development challenges the world is facing in the post-2015 period. Also taking place is a dramatic change in the global landscape of development finance, in which domestic public revenues have risen rapidly to become the largest source of finance. Official development assistance (ODA) for domestic resource mobilization (DRM) will remain essential to accelerate economic growth and lift people from extreme poverty, particularly in the low-income countries. The combination of technical assistance and increased financing for capacity-building can play a vital role in strengthening DRM and lead to more effective and efficient use of public expenditure. The present report first reviews the latest literature on the rationale for this path and the emphasis on public domestic resource mobilization. It then looks at the two-decade experience of the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) with the Mongolian tax authority as an example of international cooperation that supports enhanced DRM. After reviewing the events chronologically from the mid-1990s to the 2010s, key takeaways from JICA are given with a focus on capacity development. Finally, the report discusses the transitional role of international cooperation in this regard. It points out that to effectively carry out capacity development, a long-term commitment and joint concerted efforts from the global community are needed. This, in turn, requires a change in mindset from being oriented towards results management at the individual project level to applying programme-based management, which entails combining different types of operations to meet the national development goals and strategy. In addition, it must go hand-in-hand with strong country ownership to come up with indigenous solutions. In the case involving JICA and the Mongolian tax authority, implementing quick-impact projects and showing the impacts at each stage has convinced the latter of the need for a long-term commitment to the results. The long-term commitment of traditional donors from the North could facilitate the participation of emerging donors in a concerted manner. It could scale up capacity development efforts by facilitating triangular cooperation to promote DRM in many countries.
K34|Implications of Fiscal Policy for Housing Tenure Decisions|Many of the world's wealthy countries provide fiscal incentives to homeowners. Yet, the impact of such tax breaks on housing tenure decision is unclear. Using difference-in-differences approach, this study estimates the effect of mortgage interest deduction on homeownership in the United States. The identification relies on the large changes in income tax rates and standard deduction. The largest of these changes increased income tax rate by as much as 23,9% and decreased standard deduction by 7,2% between 2002 and 2004. The baseline estimates suggest that increase in income tax rate in a state that allows mortgage interest deduction is associated to 3 percentage points increase in homeownership relative to states that didn't change their fiscal policy and to 5 percentage points -relative to states that do not allow mortgage interest deduction but had a comparable increase in tax rates. The results are robust to a range of alternative specifications.
K34|Some Aspects of Local Real Estate Taxes as an Instrument of Land Use Management|Economic and financial instruments are a very important group of tools for supporting local entrepreneurship. The broadest group among them are local taxes. Real estate taxes are considered by local governments, on the one hand, as a tool for promoting the effective development of real estate, and on the other, as a reliable source of income to the local budget.
K34|Identifying firms' tax loss carry-forward status: The accuracy of database-ariven methods|Due to data restrictions, empirical tax research commonly relies on database-driven methods as a means of identifying firms' tax loss carry-forward (TLCF) status. Employing a panel of listed Italian parent companies, I am the first to empirically examine the accuracy of database-driven methods in predicting the availability and the amount of TLCF at single-firm level. In order to assess the accuracy of database-driven identification methods, I compare firms' true TLCF status, as determined based on IFRS statement information, to the TLCF status predictions of the methods examined. I find that database-driven methods do not perform well in predicting the availability of TLCF. They perform poorly in predicting the amount of TLCF available to firms. Empirical studies that rely on database-driven identification methods might thus not be able to derive reliable results regarding the impact of TLCF. My findings thus indicate that there is a strong need for firm-specific TLCF information provided by local authorities in empirical tax research.
K34|Warum es keine Ergänzungsbilanz des KGaA-Komplementärs gibt und vor einer Reform der KGaA-Besteuerung ausdrücklich zu warnen ist|Der Beitrag zeigt, dass es gesetzlich keine steuerliche Ergänzungsbilanz des KGaA-Komplementärs gibt. Weiterhin wird auf das anstehende Revisionsverfahren BFH I R 57/14 eingegangen. Zudem wird aufgezeigt, dass eine Reform der KGaA-Besteuerung ausdrücklich abzulehnen ist.
K34|Sieben Jahre Zugelassener Wirtschaftsbeteiligter (AEO)|Der Zugelassene Wirtschaftsbeteiligte (AEO) wurde mit Wirkung vom 1. Januar 2008 geschaffen. Sieben Jahre sind vergangen, nach denen es nun erneut gilt, eine Zwischenbilanz zu ziehen – wurden die Erwartungen und Antragszahlen erreicht, was gibt es an Neuerungen und welche Tendenzen sind erkennbar? Neue rechtliche Rahmenbedingungen gelten bereits seit dem 1. Januar 2009 – die Kriterien für alle zollrechtlichen Bewilligungen von vereinfachten Anmeldeverfahren und Anschreibeverfahren (Einfuhr und Ausfuhr) werden grundsätzlich an einige AEO-Kriterien angepasst. Das BMF verschärfte alle Prüfungen für neue und bestehende Bewilligungen bei der Wareneinfuhr und Warenausfuhr. Erneut werden auch die Zahlen für Norwegen und die Schweiz dargestellt, obwohl die AEO-Zahlen in beiden Ländern bescheiden sind. Der Unions-Zollkodex (UZK) wurde veröffentlicht und gilt spätestens ab dem 1.5.2016. Der Beitritt Kroatiens zur EU-28 wurde berücksichtigt. 2014 wurden in Kroatien die ersten AEO-Zertifikate erteilt. Die AEO-Zertifikate in einigen Mitgliedstaaten stagnieren, in anderen dagegen steigt die Zahl weiter. Die Entwicklungen in dieser Spätphase der AEO-Zertifizierung sind dynamisch und teilweise überraschend.
K34|Der Unionszollkodex – Übersicht der Neuerungen und Zeitpunkte der Geltungen|Der Unionszollkodex (UZK) (VO [EU] Nr. 952/2013 des Europäischen Parlaments und des Rates vom 9.10.20132 wird mit Wirkung vom 1.5.2016 den bisher geltenden Zollkodex der Gemeinschaften (VO [EWG] Nr. 2913/92) vollständig ersetzen. Viele Vorschriften fallen weg oder werden vollständig neu gefasst. Kaum ein Stein bleibt auf dem anderen. Alle Anwender werden die Fundstellen und Artikel neu lernen müssen. Eine Umschlüsselungshilfe (Synopse) zwischen UZK und ZK zum Auffinden der Norminhalte wurde bereits veröffentlicht. Erste Einführungen in den UZK und kompakte Darstellungen liegen vor. Dieser kleine Beitrag beleuchtet die Frage, ob sofort alles anders wird oder was wann geändert wird – gibt es Übergangsregelungen? Wenn ja, welche? Beide UZK-DVOen wurden am 29.12.2015 im Amtsblatt der EU veröffentlicht und sind Grundlage dieses Beitrags. Ein weiterer Beitrag beleuchtet alle UZK-Übergangsvorschriften der UZK-DVOen (v. a. für Bewilligungen) im Detail. Dieser Beitrag legt sein Augenmerk auf die IT-Verfahren.
K34|Acht Jahre Zugelassener Wirtschaftsbeteiligter (AEO)|Der Zugelassene Wirtschaftsbeteiligte (AEO) wurde mit Wirkung vom 1. Januar 2008 geschaffen. Acht Jahre sind vergangen, nach denen es nun erneut gilt, eine Zwischenbilanz zu ziehen – wurden die Erwartungen und Antragszahlen erreicht, was gibt es an Neuerungen und welche Tendenzen sind erkennbar? Neue rechtliche Rahmenbedingungen gelten ab dem 1. Mai 2016 mit dem Unionszollkodex (UZK) welcher auch große Einflüsse auf die Nachfrage für den AEO haben dürfte. Geltende Bewilligungen müssen bis Ende April 2019 angepasst werden. Erneut werden auch die Zahlen für Norwegen und die Schweiz dargestellt, obwohl die AEO-Zahlen in beiden Ländern bescheiden sind. Die AEO-Zertifikate in einigen Mitgliedstaaten stagnieren, in anderen dagegen steigt die Zahl weiter. Die Entwicklungen in dieser Spätphase der AEO-Zertifizierung sind dynamisch und teilweise überraschend. Aber ist es wirklich die Spätphase? Oder steht uns wegen des UZK eine neue Antragswelle bevor?!
K34|Exploring the characteristics of transfer pricing systems across countries|This paper analyses the characteristics of transfer pricing systems across countries, in order to identify the grouping structures intrinsically related with rules' similarities, and to explore the key characteristics revealed by each group. Applying hierarchical agglomerative technique for comparison of an extensive set of attributes from domestic transfer pricing regulations, we find substantial differences among transfer pricing rules thus to support the segregation of three major groups of countries. The variance across transfer pricing systems refers not only to formal tax provisions, but also to practical requirements and regular actions from authorities, and to governments' openness for discussion of unclear tax positions. Although most regulations follow the main guidelines established by OECD, additional unilateral mechanisms remain, suggesting that countries face distinct profit shifting occurrences and need to create specific measures in attempt to restrain it. It thus implies the existence of gaps in current transfer pricing guidelines, and reinforces the call for new anti-shifting mechanisms to cover a broader set of shifting arrangements.
K34|Erbschaftsteuerreform: Auswirkungen für Unternehmenserben|Die Einigung der Koalition auf eine Änderung des Erbschaft- und Schenkungssteuergesetzes hat lange auf sich warten lassen. Die vom Bundesverfassungsgericht gesetzte Frist wird damit um einige Tage verpasst werden - sofern das Gesetz nach dem Bundestag auch den Bundesrat am 8. Juli passiert. Sollte es so kommen, bedeutet das für Erben großer Unternehmen in der Regel erhebliche Mehrbelastungen. Die effektive Steuerbelastung richtet sich dabei im Rahmen der neu eingeführten Bedürfnisprüfung nach dem bestehenden und mitvererbten Privatvermögen - je größer das Vermögen, desto höher die Steuerzahlung. Das alternative Abschmelzmodell belastet Erben großer Unternehmen in jedem Fall, da eine Verschonung geringer ausfällt und ab einem Wert von 90 Millionen Euro gänzlich ausgeschlossen ist. Insgesamt profitieren Unternehmenserben jedoch von Veränderungen bei den Bewertungsparametern. Die bisherige Überbewertung nicht zuletzt aufgrund der Niedrigzinsphase wird abgemildert. Dadurch entgehen Erben mittlerer Unternehmen gegebenenfalls der Bedürfnisprüfung und kommen unverändert in den Genuss der Verschonungsabschläge. Da der Unternehmenswert die Bemessungsgrundlage darstellt, sinkt die effektive Steuerbelastung sogar im Vergleich zum bisherigen System. Die restriktivere Ausgestaltung der Lohnsummenklausel für kleinere Unternehmen führt dazu, dass potenziell rund 500.000 Unternehmen mehr im Erbfall den Arbeitsplatzerhalt nachweisen müssen. Der Gesetzgeber kommt mit diesen Änderungen einem Urteil des Bundesverfassungsgerichts vom 17. Dezember 2014 nach, das die Verschonung von Betriebsvermögen als zu weitgehend eingestuft hatte. Es ist umstritten, ob das reformierte Erbschaft- und Schenkungssteuerrecht den Anforderungen des Urteilsspruchs genügt.
K34|Harmonisierung der heterogenen Unternehmensteuern in Europa? Plädoyer für einen Mittelweg|Harmonisierung der heterogenen Unternehmensteuern in Europa? Der vorliegende Pforzheimer Beitrag möchte für Europa einen Mittelweg der Harmonisierung der Besteuerung von Unternehmensgewinnen aufzeigen. Es geht um eine gemeinsame körperschaftsteuerliche Bemessungsgrundlage und ihre steuer- und ordnungsökonomische Einordnung. In der Literatur stehen sich totaler Wettbewerb und totale Harmonisierung scheinbar unversöhnlich gegenüber, während ein Mittelweg der Minimalharmonisierung in einem gemeinsamen Wirtschafts- und Währungsraum weitgehend vernachlässigt wird. Um steuerlichen Hindernissen für grenzüberschreitendes Wirtschaften und Gewinnverlagerungen von Hoch- in Niedrigsteuerländer wirksam zu begegnen, wäre ein Umdenken wünschenswert: Wettbewerb und Harmonisierung der Besteuerung von Unternehmensgewinnen können Komplemente statt Substitute einer effizienten Koordination sein.
K34|Immobilizing corporate income shifting: Should it be safe to strip in the harbor?|Many subsidiaries can deduct interest payments on internal debt from their taxable income. By issuing internal debt from a tax haven, multinationals can shift income out of host countries through the interest rates they charge and the amount of internal debt they issue. We show that, from a welfare perspective, thin capitalization rules that restrict the amount of debt for which interest is tax deductible (safe harbor rules) are inferior to rules that limit the ratio of debt interest to pre-tax earnings (earnings stripping rules), even if a safe harbor rule is used in conjunction with an earnings stripping rule.
K34|Book-tax conformity and reporting behavior: A quasi-experiment|We examine how a comprehensive change in book-tax conformity affects firms' reporting behavior. To this end, we exploit a Reform Act as a quasi-natural experiment which implied a decrease in book-tax conformity in Germany in 2010. In particular, this reform allows firms to exercise tax accounting options independently from financial accounting. Our study builds on a unique dataset of linked individual financial statements and actual tax return data. It covers roughly 150 incorporated firms for the years 2008 to 2012. Exploiting the exceptional change in conformity, we contribute to the ongoing debate on the impact of booktax conformity. Our results show that profitable companies, which have a clear tax sheltering incentive, actually use the newly introduced reporting leeway to manage taxable income downwards. This is especially attributable to companies exploiting favorable tax depreciation rules. Moreover, we find larger opportunistic tax reporting responses for small companies with less complex and predominantly domestic group structures. In addition, we observe that a decrease in book-tax conformity induces a decrease in the general persistence of taxable income, but at the same time gives rise to higher financial earnings persistence. This corroborates our finding of increased tax sheltering activity in post reform years.
K34|Estimating the Top Tail of the Wealth Distribution|This paper uses the Household Finance and Consumption Survey to construct new estimates of top wealth shares in Germany, France, Spain, Italy, Belgium, Austria, Finland and The Netherlands. It provides a methodology to address simultaneously non-response and underreporting in wealth surveys.
K34|Extrinsic and Intrinsic Motivations for Tax Compliance: Evidence from a Field Experiment in Germany|We study extrinsic and intrinsic motivations for tax compliance in the context of a local church tax in Germany. This tax system has historically relied on zero deterrence so that any compliance at baseline is intrinsically motivated. Starting from this zero deterrence baseline, we implement a field experiment that incentivized compliance through deterrence or rewards. Using administrative records of taxes paid and true tax liabilities, we use these treatments to document that intrinsically motivated compliance is substantial, that a significant fraction of it may be driven by duty-to-comply preferences, and that there is no crowd-out between extrinsic and intrinsic motivations.
K34|Considerations regarding the constitutional obligation determining the financing source for budgetary expenditures|This study examines the relation between constitutionality and opportunity in order to adopt regulations in matters of economy and finance. The analysis concerns in particular the regulation process on budgetary expenditures, respectively the constitutional obligation to indicate the source of financing for these expenses. The legal and jurisprudential landmarks identified are likely to reveal the delicate issues of balancing the concurring interests, as well as the constitutionalisation tendency of certain obligations imposed by the law of public finances and, respectively, the Fiscal Responsibility Law in the sense of transforming them into “constitutional criteria” through the application of Article 138 (5) of the Constitution.
K34|Application of international double taxation conventions in Romania|In this article we sought to address the international double taxation phenomenon from two different standpoints. To begin with, in the first part we analysed the framework of international double taxation, and how this topic was tackled in both Romanian and international literature.International double taxation has been analyzed, mutatis mutandis, from an economic perspective, more precisely in terms of the implications that it generates on economies, on added value, on capital flows, on the internationalisation of business. Second, I believed it was important to analyse international double taxation from a legal perspective, through the jurisdictional effects of obtaining income or holding property at the European or international level. Romania's case is carefully approached in this paper, aiming to highlight the issues Romania is facing concerning cooperation in tax matters with authorities from other countries, how the more than 80 double taxation conventions are applied and interpreted, but also other aspects that should be considered by the Romanian tax authorities, based on the provisions of the Fiscal Code and the Fiscal Procedure Code. The article ends by presenting, commenting on and analysing two test cases in international double taxation, of remarkable importance and actuality for Romanian jurisprudence to observe how complex double taxation mechanisms operate in practice. The conclusion of this article emphasises the importance ofsignificant “steps” achieved by Romania on the path to creating a true “fiscal area” in the European Union, as well as the “corridors” that should be inserted to correct economic – legal and economic deficiencies and gaps, in order to strengthen the fiscal area.
K34|A Glimpse Into The Offshore World After “Panama Papers”|In the light of the latest leak of offshore documents, Panama Papers, the purpose of this article is to analyse a set of data made available, that reveals important information on the offshore world and the mechanisms by which it functions. There are identified the main business structures and tax benefits that are offered under the Panamanian legislation, as well as that of other offshore jurisdictions that are being used in the construction of tax planning schemes aimed at obtaining important tax benefits. The results of the analysis present interesting findings regarding the offshore financial services industry, the intermediaries involved in the structuring of tax planning schemes and the most commonly used offshore jurisdictions in tax structuring plans.
K34|The tax burden on banks over the period 2006-2014|Following the establishment of the Single Supervisory Mechanism (SSM), concerns about having a level playing field become more important due to the heterogeneity in bank taxation rules across Europe: measuring the tax burden can provide a first rough measure of the extent of heterogeneity across countries. After a review of the main differences in banks taxation between Italy, France, Germany, Spain and the UK, the paper provides estimates for the tax burden and deferred tax assets in these countries over the years 2006-2014; the impact of differences in taxation on bank profitability is also examined. Moreover, the paper carries out a more in-depth analysis of Italian banks by considering both individual balance sheet data and aggregate tax return data. The impact of tax measures on financial stability and on profitability is further analysed. The comparative analysis points to a wide heterogeneity across countries in the tax treatment of the banking sector. This suggests that it would be advantageous to explore possible ways to make the tax systems of the countries participating in the SSM more homogeneous; a first step could be to harmonize tax bases.
K34|Inheritance taxation in Sweden, 1885–2004: the role of ideology, family firms, and tax avoidance|This paper studies the evolution of Swedish inheritance taxation since the late nineteenth century to its abolition in 2004. Our contribution is twofold. First, we compute the annual effective inheritance tax rates for different sizes of bequests, if the inherited assets were family firm equity or not, accounting for all relevant exemptions, deductions and valuation discounts. Second, we attempt to explain changes in inheritance taxation over time. Ideology appears to be the main driver of the sharp tax increases of the 1930s through the 1960s. Wartime economies with higher pressures on the people induced politicians to raise inheritance taxes on the wealthy, primarily during the First World War. We also document increased opportunities for tax planning for the wealthy, most notably a series of tax cuts on inherited family firms in the 1970s. This rise in avoidance opportunities for the rich while middle-class heirs face growing inheritance tax rates undermined the legitimacy of the tax and led to its repeal.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
K34|Considerations On The Causes Of Tax Evasion In Romania|Tax evasion is the result of an imperfect legislation, which has not been well assimilated. One of the causes of tax evasion is excessive taxation. The emergence of tax evasion arises from the simple game of interest. Given the context of the current mentality, committing an act of tax evasion is a proof of ability rather than dishonesty. The anti-taxation reaction in our country came together with the democratisation of public finances. The people who have highly sided with this direction were the ones who before the introduction of the tax reforms were exempt or enjoyed the privileges regarding their tax obligations. Evading the ??tax obligations can be achieved through a variety of means, the most important ones being the illicit processes and the exploitation of loopholes.
K34|The Sale Of The Mortgaged Asset And Property Taking In The Account Of The Claim|The mortgage lender may petition the court for enforceability the mortgage securities by selling the mortgaged movable asset. At the request for the approval there will be attached documents proving the existence mortgages and of the mortgage securities along with proof of drawing up the mortgage. The court will consider the existence of debt, and of the mortgage legally executed and will approve the sale, summoning the interested parties. Application for a declaration of enforceability of the mortgage securities by selling the mortgaged movable asset interrupt the prescription right to obtain enforcement. The mortgage lender can sell mortgaged movable property in the state in which they are, or after taking commercially reasonable measures to their recovery. The lender may sell the mortgaged movable property by public auction or by private treaty through one or more contracts, in bulk or separately in any time or place, on reasonable commercial terms. The creditor may take for itself the mortgaged asset to settle the claim, unless the law provides otherwise, the settler consents and those mentioned, do not oppose. The consent of the settlor to take over the property by the creditor in the account of the claim must be expressed in writing and be subsequently non-performance. The lender who wants to take over the mortgaged asset to settle his claim, will score in the archive, a notice of taking in the account of the claim and notify the persons referred to, this offer.
K34|Affirmation of the Legal Status of Taxpayers in Montenegro|Public needs cannot be adequately funded without a clear and legally based affirmative legal status of taxpayers. The promotion and protection of their rights and regular fulfilment of tax obligations by taxpayers is the basis of fiscal and financial stability of the country and other public collectivities. It is essential for Montenegro to overcome the traditional gap between taxpayers and tax administration through their partnership. At the same time, we must not jeopardize the basic purpose of taxation - legal and timely payment of taxes. Simple and stable tax regulations and a non-discriminating and subtle approach to building tax discipline and development of tax morale should serve that purpose.
K34|La fiscalité minière en Afrique : un état des lieux du secteur de l’or dans 14 pays de 1980 à 2015|The lack of information about the mining resource rent sharing between governments and investors is an easy statement in Africa. Existing public databases are often insufficient for a deep analysis of the African tax law applied to natural resource sectors, which limits the academic and operational work. The FERDI publishes the first tax and legal database which specifies the tax regime applied to industrial gold mining companies in 14 African countries from the 1980s to 2015. The database featuring three major innovations: (i) an inventory of taxes and duties (rate, base and exemptions) payable during the prospecting phase and mining phase of a gold mining project; (ii) an entirely new level of historical depth; (iii) the link between each piece of tax information and its legal source. This database is used to make a first analysis of tax regimes and rent sharing in gold producer countries. The first results emphasize heterogeneity of tax regimes between English-speaking and French-speaking countries with a convergence of the average effective tax rates that increase in most countries following the tax reforms undertaken since 2010.
K34|Panama Papers: Steueroasen im Visier – was ist noch legal, welche Mittel wirken gegen Missbrauch?|Im April 2016 veröffentlichte das »International Consortium of Investigative Journalists« die sogenannten »Panama Papers«, die Einblicke in ein System von Steueroasen und Briefkastenfirmen boten. Alfons J. Weichenrieder, Goethe-Universität Frankfurt, sieht den politischen Druck auf die internationalen Steueroasen erhöht. Im Vordergrund stünden dabei bi- und multilaterale Abkommen zum Informationsaustausch. Es bleibe abzuwarten, ob die ausgetauschten Informationen tatsächlich verwertbar seien. Friedrich Schneider, Universität Linz, betont, dass die Gründung einer Briefkastenfirma zwar grundsätzlich legal sei, sie aber häufig zum Steuerbetrug oder zur Geldwäsche benutzt werden. Wichtig wäre unter anderem, dass Länder wie Panama den internationalen Standard zum automatischen Informationsaustausch über Finanzkonten und die Geldwäscherichtlinie, die in Europa entwickelt wurde, verabschieden. Für Norbert Walter-Borjans, Finanzminister des Landes Nordrhein-Westfalen, gilt es, international für einen Transparenzstandard einzutreten und die Verhandlungspartner, bei denen Vorbehalte bestehen, zu überzeugen. Auch Michael Meister, Staatssekretär beim Bundesministerium der Finanzen, sieht in einer erhöhten Transparenz einen Schlüssel zur Lösung des Problems einer ausufernden Nutzung von Briefkastenfirmen zur Verschleierung von Vermögensverhältnissen. Lukas Hakelberg, Europäisches Hochschulinstitut, Florenz, und Thomas Rixen, Universität Bamberg, sehen in der Beschränkung des Marktzugangs ein Instrument zur Bekämpfung finanzieller Intransparenz. So sollten die Regierungen der großen Industrieländer den Zugang zu ihren Finanzmärkten von der Teilnahme an den Transparenzinitiativen abhängig machen. Für Jörg R. Werner, Frankfurt School of Finance & Management, liegt eine Gefahr der Reformbemühungen darin, dass die Sanktionierung von Steuersparmodellen nicht mehr nur auf illegale Steuerhinterziehung, sondern auch auf legale Steuervermeidung abzielt.
K34|La carga tributaria sobre los ingresos laborales y de capital en Colombia: el caso del impuesto sobre la renta y el IVA|En este artículo se estima el tamaño y la incidencia de la carga tributaria sobre los trabajadores y los propietarios de capital en Colombia durante el periodo 2000-2014. La carga tributaria se determina mediante tarifas efectivas agregadas, que relacionan el recaudo, en este caso del impuesto sobre la renta y el IVA, con la capacidad de pago de trabajadores y propietarios. Los resultados indican que durante casi todo el periodo de análisis los ingresos laborales soportaron una tarifa efectiva superior a la que recayó sobre los ingresos de capital, aunque la brecha ha tendido a cerrarse. Por lo general, el efecto redistributivo habría sido contraproducente para propósitos de equidad (en una ocasión, nimio). El ejercicio sugiere que para mejorar la distribución de la carga tributaria es más importante prestar atención a la capacidad gravable de los contribuyentes, antes que dar trato desigual a las fuentes factoriales de ingreso. ****** This paper estimates the size and incidence of the tax burden on workers and owners of capital in Colombia during the period 2000-2014. The tax burden is measured by aggregate effective rates, which relate tax revenue, in this case from the income tax and the VAT, to the workers’ and owners’ ability to pay. The results indicate that, for most of the period of analysis, labor income bore a higher effective rate than capital income, although the gap has tended to close. Generally, the redistributive effect would have been counterproductive for equity purposes (on one occasion, insignificant). The exercise suggests that in order to improve the distribution of the tax burden, it is more important to pay attention to the taxpayers’ ability to pay, rather than giving unequal treatment to the factorial sources of income.
K34|The impact of social pressure on tax compliance: A field experiment|We study the effect of social pressure on tax compliance, focusing on the compliance of shop sellers to the legal obligation of releasing tax receipts for each sale. We carry out a field experiment on bakeries in Italy, where a strong gap exists between the legal obligation and the actual behavior of sellers. Social pressure is manipulated by means of an explicit request for a receipt when not released. We employ an innovative approach to the identification of the treatment effect. We find that a single request for a receipt causes a 17 per cent rise in the probability of a receipt being released for a sale occurring shortly thereafter, causing on average more than two receipts to be released. We also find strong evidence of persistence in compliance decisions.
K34|Allowing firms to choose between separate accounting and formula apportionment taxation|This paper analyzes the effect on firm behavior and national tax revenues of allowing multinational firms to choose to be taxed under separate accounting rules or an apportionment formula. Separate accounting always generates more profitable output and conditional labor demand distortions from tax differentials while either method can generate a more profitable income-shifting distortion. Both low-cost and high-cost firms can prefer separate accounting while medium-cost firms prefer formula apportionment. With symmetric countries, a firm's preferred method generates greater tax revenues in the country with the lower tax rate. With asymmetric countries, a firm's preferred method need no longer generate greater tax revenues in the lower-tax-rate country due to the fact that countries and firms now value tax base distortions differently. With this misalignment of preferences, some firms can choose the preferred method of both countries at fixed tax rates.
K34|Measuring tax treaty negotiation outcomes: the Actionaid tax treaties dataset|This paper introduces a new dataset that codes the content of 519 tax treaties signed by low- and lower-middle-income countries in Africa and Asia. Often called Double Taxation Agreements, bilateral tax treaties divide up the right to tax cross-border economic activity between their two signatories. When one of the signatories is a developing country that is predominantly a recipient of foreign investment, the effect of the tax treaty is to impose constraints on its ability to tax inward investors, ostensibly to encourage more investment. The merits of tax treaties for developing countries have been challenged in critical legal literature for decades, and studies of whether or not they attract new investment into developing countries give contradictory and inconclusive results. These studies have rarely disaggregated the elements of tax treaties to determine which may be most pertinent to any investment-promoting effect. Meanwhile, as developing countries continue to negotiate, renegotiate, review and terminate tax treaties, comparative data on negotiating histories and outcomes is not easily obtained. The new dataset fills both these gaps. Using it, this paper demonstrates how tax treaties are changing over time. The restrictions they impose on the rate of withholding tax developing countries can levy on cross-border payments have intensified since 1970. In contrast, the permanent establishment threshold, which specifies when a foreign company’s profits become taxable in a developing country, has been falling, giving developing countries more opportunity to tax foreign investors. The picture with respect to capital gains tax and other provisions is mixed. As a group, OECD countries appear to be moving towards treaties with developing countries that impose more restrictions on the latter’s taxing rights, while non-OECD countries appear to be allowing developing countries to retain more taxing rights than in the past. These overall trends, however, mask some surprising differences between the positions of individual industrialised and emerging economies. These findings pose more questions than they answer, and it is hoped that this paper and the dataset it accompanies will stimulate new research on tax treaties.
K34|Audit publicity and tax compliance: a quasi-natural experiment|We use confidential data on Value Added Tax payments at the sector level, in two large Italian cities, to estimate the effect of audits publicity on tax compliance of local sellers. By employing a Difference-in-Differences identification strategy, we find that such publicity has a positive effect on fiscal declarations made shortly after. The results suggest that increasing awareness on future audits via the media can be an important instrument in the hands of tax authorities.
K34|La fiscalité minière en Afrique : Un état des lieux sur le secteur de l’or dans 14 pays de 1980 à 2015|Le manque d’information concernant le partage de la rente minière entre les Etats et les investisseurs est un constat aisé en Afrique. Les bases de données existantes sont souvent insuffisantes pour mener une analyse détaillée des règles constituant les systèmes d’imposition africains appliqués aux secteurs des ressources naturelles ce qui limite les travaux académiques et opérationnels. Cet article présente la première base de données juridiques et fiscales qui précise le régime fiscal s’appliquant aux mines industrielles d’or dans 14 pays africains producteurs des années 1980 à 2015. La base de données présente trois innovations majeures : (i) un recensement par pays des impôts, droits et taxes (taux, assiette, exonérations) dus en phase de recherche et en phase d’exploitation d’un projet aurifère ; (ii) une profondeur historique inédite 1980 à 2015 ; (iii) l’association de chaque information fiscale à sa source juridique. Cette base de données est utilisée pour formuler une première analyse des régimes d’imposition des entreprises minières et du partage de la rente qui en découle dans les principaux pays producteur d’or. Les premiers résultats soulignent une hétérogénéité des régimes fiscaux entre pays anglophones et pays francophones, avec toutefois une convergence des taux effectifs moyens d’imposition, qui augmentent dans la plupart des pays suite aux réformes fiscales engagées depuis 2010. (La base de données est téléchargeable ici)Mots clés : Secteur minier, Or, Fiscalité des ressources naturelles, Base de données
K34|La fiscalité minière en Afrique : un état des lieux du secteur de l’or dans 14 pays de 1980 à 2015|The lack of information about the mining resource rent sharing between governments and investors is an easy statement in Africa. Existing public databases are often insufficient for a deep analysis of the African tax law applied to natural resource sectors, which limits the academic and operational work. The FERDI publishes the first tax and legal database which specifies the tax regime applied to industrial gold mining companies in 14 African countries from the 1980s to 2015. The database featuring three major innovations: (i) an inventory of taxes and duties (rate, base and exemptions) payable during the prospecting phase and mining phase of a gold mining project; (ii) an entirely new level of historical depth; (iii) the link between each piece of tax information and its legal source. This database is used to make a first analysis of tax regimes and rent sharing in gold producer countries. The first results emphasize heterogeneity of tax regimes between English-speaking and French-speaking countries with a convergence of the average effective tax rates that increase in most countries following the tax reforms undertaken since 2010.
K34|Stock Option Taxation and Venture Capital Activity: A Cross-Country Comparison|The VC sector is interesting both in its own right and as a proxy for entrepreneurial finance in a broader sense. We highlight the tax treatment of stock options as an important factor for variations in the size of the VC sector. VC often relies on complex mechanisms and option-based contracts to mitigate incentive problems. Granting stock options to founders and key employees also allows credit-constrained start-ups to attract and retain top talent. This type of compensation cannot be unambiguously classified as either capital or labor income. Some tax systems treat stock options in VC-funded firms as employee compensation, which is subject to payroll taxes with high progressive rates, whereas others treat them as capital gains with low flat tax rates. The effective rate depends on tax practices and is not readily indicated by statutory taxes. The tax consultancy firm PwC calculated the effective tax rate for a standardized entrepreneurial case in 22 countries, which is supplemented with our own calculations for 16 additional countries. In this sample of 38 countries, we find a negative cross-country relationship between the effective tax rate on employee stock options and the rate of VC activity. This negative effect is stronger for countries with high R&D investments and weaker in countries with low R&D spending.
K34|Substantial Authority Update: Tax Penalty Avoidance By Good Faith Reference To Judicial, Administrative And Legislative Authorities|Internal Revenue Code (IRC) 6662(b) authorizes the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to impose a penalty if an underpayment of income tax by a taxpayer exceeds a computational threshold called a substantial understatement. An understatement is reduced, however, by the portion attributable to an item for which the taxpayer had substantial authority. Substantial authority is defined in Treasury Regulation Â§1,66624(d)(2), but taxpayers are required to recognize and take into account the relative weight of various authorities such as regulations, revenue rulings, legislative histories, court cases and IRS pronouncements. Alternatively, taxpayers may make a reasonable cause argument for the waiver of underpayment penalties, claiming that they made a good faith effort to comply with the IRC requirements. We examine the manner and extent to which courts have been willing to waive penalties based on substantial authority cited by taxpayers. We also analyze cases in which taxpayers have claimed reasonable cause. We draw conclusions about judicial responses to these two penalty avoidance arguments
K34|A Review Of Hobby And Business Loss Rules: Evidence From Recent Developments|When we think of a hobby, we think of something that is engaged in for recreational or pleasure purposes such as painting, writing, coaching, golfing, horse farming, film producing, developing athletic abilities to win say an Olympic Metal, working on arts and crafts, creating music, opening a bed and breakfast or a country estate, to name a few. These recreational activities are expensive to pursue but may also have a money making aspect as well. On the other hand, strictly speaking a business is an economic activity engaged primarily to generate a profit. One can see where a hobby could be pursued for pleasure and profit. Also one could see where there could be a tax motivation to deduct the losses from a hobby operation by having it categorized as a business to offset other taxable income. So how to distinguish? Or rather, where is the line drawn in the sand that distinguishes between a hobby and a business is here explored as the lines may be blurred from the interpretation of the Internal Revenue Service and from Tax Court Case tried. Also, from the literature review, what is the unofficial interpretation that seems to emerge
K34|Reliability Or Tax Captivity By Tax Microentrepreneurs In Mexico, Formalidad O Cautividad Fiscal Mediante El Regimen De Incorporacion Fiscal En Mexico|This research is based on the new scheme of taxation for individuals earning less than two million pesos to develop business and nonprofessional services. The inclusion of this scheme aims to establish an entry point to the formality through the granting of discounts which decrease taxes during the first years of participation. The aim of this study is to identify the financial, administrative and tax damages caused in Baja California by entry of the new tax for microentrepreneurs, and to know whether the benefits of formality are a reality or myth
K34|No progressive taxation without discrimination? On the generality of the law in the classical liberal tradition|Abstract Any liberal theory that would take seriously the question of equality before the law is bound to engage with discrimination-related matters, and so long as one is a liberal one should oppose all discrimination coming from the state. This, however, may be a double-edged sword since many classical liberals have quite readily opposed progressive taxation by invoking its discriminatory nature. Some liberals will therefore conclude that one cannot establish different tax brackets, lest taxation be illiberal. This paper endeavours to refute this assumption. Progression may be compatible with the classical liberal concern for the rule of law, provided legislative discretion on tax-related matters is duly limited by the principle of generality, as well as by a certain standard of reasonable lawmaking. Through a careful distinction between four concepts of differential treatment, this paper demonstrates that progressive tax arrangements do not necessarily discriminate against the well-off, and that it can efficiently fulfill some legitimate classical liberals objectives.
K34|Eine ökonomische Analyse der Erbschaftsteuerreform|No abstract is available for this item.
K34|A Distribution-Neutral Perspective on Tax Expenditure Limitations|A recent wave of literature, partly motivated by presidential campaign tax reform plans, analyzes tax expenditure limitation proposals. These reforms are often advanced not only, or even primarily, because they reduce distortions caused by favoritism for some types of expenditures over others. Largely they are urged for a number of other reasons: on distributive grounds, because the resulting broader base enables lower marginal tax rates and hence less distortion of labor effort and other margins, and to raise revenue without requiring higher marginal tax rates. It is generally recognized that the particular results on these dimensions are heavily dependent on what sorts of rate adjustments are used to return the proceeds to taxpayers. Often, revenue neutrality is assumed. This essay advances a complementary, distribution-neutral perspective on the analysis of tax expenditure limitations. Distribution-neutral implementation provides an illuminating benchmark against which to understand prior analysts’ large number of results and, more importantly, clarifies the analysis, particularly of the distribution-distortion tradeoff. The central lessons contradict the common belief that one can have less distortion of labor supply through lower marginal tax rates while also maintaining or enhancing progressivity.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
K34|Measuring “Schmeduling”|What mental models do individuals use to approximate their tax schedule? Using incentivized forecasts of the U.S. Federal income tax schedule, we estimate the prevalence of the “schmeduling” heuristics for constructing mental representations of nonlinear incentive schemes. We find evidence of widespread reliance on the “ironing” heuristic, which linearizes the tax schedule using one’s average tax rate. In our preferred specification, 43% of the population irons. We find no evidence of reliance on the “spotlighting” heuristic, which linearizes the tax schedule using one’s marginal tax rate. We show that the presence of ironing rationalizes a number of empirical patterns in individuals’ perceptions of tax liability across the income distribution. Furthermore, while our empirical framework accommodates a rich class of other misperceptions, we find that a simple model including only ironers and correct forecasters accurately predicts average underestimation of marginal tax rates. We replicate our finding of prevalent ironing, and a lack of other systematic misperceptions, in a controlled experiment that studies real-stakes decisions across exogenously varied tax schedules. To illustrate the policy relevance of the ironing heuristic, we show that it augments the benefits of progressive taxation in a standard model of earnings choice. We quantify these benefits in a calibrated model of the U.S. tax system.
K34|Corruption as a Governance Challenge and the Role of Civil Society|A first step towards a sustainable anti-corruption policy is to view corrupt practices as symptoms of a deeper problem in the relationship between state and society in general and in the function of democratic institutions in particular. These considerations bring us closer to conceptualising an anti-corruption strategy as an axis of a systematic reform policy towards social accountability. To implement effective strategies we need to pursue a more focused anti-corruption policies and to get away from a conventional minimalist approach of combating the phenomenon, mainly by choosing broader perspectives with the emphasis on accountability and the role of civil society in the consolidation of good governance. In this context, anti-corruption policy is a policy of accountability towards protecting human rights and in relation to any kind of development. Accountability supports good governance as is a co-creator of the active citizens' participation in a (transparent) decision making process.
K34|Making Promises Good: The Anti-Money Laundering Regime as a Multi-Purpose Tool for Governance|The creation of this international anti-money laundering regulatory regime is, contrary to itsneglect by the literature, important in two ways. First, it provides us with a second example -alongside the Basle Accord â€“ with which we can examine how political barriers to regulatorycooperation and coordination might be overcome; without overstating the success of the antimoneylaundering regime the paper argues that a lot of the political circumstances that enabledcooperation and coordination to develop in this case can be applied in facing other economiccrime forms. The FATF case may help us to identify important political conditions that can fostercollective regulatory initiatives in the international financial area and especially in South EasternEurope. Additionally the anti-money laundering regime may be useful more directly in pursuingsome other regulatory and security goals of particular interest for the Balkan region. Specifically,the kinds of international cooperation and coordination that have been introduced to combatmoney laundering may help to strengthen international regulatory initiatives aimed at curbingcorruption, tax evasion and capital flight and fighting the threat deriving from internationalorganised crime and global terrorism.
K34|Concrete Aspects Regarding the Imputation of Current Tax Receivables in Insolvency Proceedings|This paper captures the practical aspects in terms of tax treatment of the receivables arising subsequent to the initiation of insolvency proceedings, during the observation period, in judicial reorganization or bankruptcy proceedings. These issues are treated from a fiscal perspective, as new periods. During the observation, reorganization or bankruptcy period, an insolvent company is subject to the Law on insolvency prevention and insolvency proceedings. On the other hand, the provisions of the Fiscal Procedure Code, as applied by the tax creditor, govern an individual procedure for the recovery of receivables while the Law on insolvency prevention and insolvency proceedings refers to a collective procedure for the recovery of receivables.
K34|Bitcoin as an example of a virtual currency|Virtual currencies have recently become one of the most popular topics in the media. This paper focuses on economic aspects of Bitcoin, being an attempt to answer the question if Bitcoin can be considered money in the light of economic theories of money. On the basis of the reports published by the European Central Bank and the Financial Action Task Force, as well as the available Internet and primary sources, there have been presented the types, history and functioning of virtual currencies. The knowledge of virtual currencies makes it possible to foresee the problems arising from their existence, such as possible threats to international security, difficulties with taxation etc. The growing popularity of virtual currencies and cryptocurrencies is linked with the increase of importance of non-cash payments on global scale. Thus, Bitcoin may be considered next step in the evolution of digital money.
K34|Fiscal burden differentiation between European Union countries as a source of opportunism, moral hazard and unproductive entrepreneurship|Free movement and freedom of establishment existing within the European Union institutions are the main factors which make European Union open for business activities. However, it should be noted that all EU countries have their own tax systems and fiscal policy. This, in turn, differentiates fiscal burden of government imposed onto its taxpayers in each Member State. These differences frequently distort the conditions of establishment. As every entrepreneur is willing to minimize costs, especially when their source are compulsory taxes, mass tax migration between Member States might be expected. Tax avoidance and tax evasion, being a form of tax migration, imply numerous economic, social and legal problems. The aim of this paper is to identify these problems along with their causes and effects in terms of fiscal burden differentiation between Member States. Descriptive, qualitative and quantitative analyses have been applied in order to explain the abovementioned phenomena. Additionally, the analyses have been accompanied by case studies.
K34|The Challenges Of The Recent Financial Crisis: An Analytical Approach Of Poland Experience|When looking back to the global financial crisis which has been over for a few years now, we can see both, European Union Member states which were profoundly affected by it and others which were relatively unscathed. The core of the last scenario is represented by Poland that unlike the majority of European countries has actually faired very well in the face of this recession. A lot of literature discusses its success, emphasizing the internal strength of the economy, and partly the impact of several external factors which helped Poland to deal with the global crisis. Although, from an outsider perspective, Poland appears to have had a certain level of immunity to financial crisis, in reality the crisis has had an impact on its economy and public administration structures. Taking into account that, the biggest challenges may still lie ahead, and the fact that certain member states of the European Union still try to recover from global crisis, this paper aims to look closer to Poland, and to evaluate its responses to the global financial crisis for identifying some mechanisms or public policies and institutions which can be considered as benchmarking or good practice for other countries. The main concern is outlining various measures were taken or are currently being taken to stem any further effects of the crisis. The unit analysis consists on reforms of public administration and economic policies of Polish Government and European Union strategies. As research methodology, the study adopts a case-oriented approach to advance its arguments using both quantitative and qualitative data, published by European and national institutions.
K34|Le Role Du Mediateur Fiscal Pour Maintenir La Confiance Du Contribuable Dans L’Administration Fiscale: Approche De Droit Comparè|"The consent to pay taxes is an essential foundation of democracy, solemnly enunciated in the Declaration of human and civic rights of 26 august 1789, along with the principle of imposing everyone to contribute to the security of all and the common administration. The relationship between the citizen and public administration should be based on the confidence. In France, the Ombudsman of the Ministries of Economy and Budget sometimes designated as ""le Médiateur de Bercy"", established since 2002, is the correspondent of the Defender of Rights, but in the tax area and subordinated to the minister. He receives individual complaints concerning the operation of services of the Ministry in their relations with users and to rule on disputes solution. Defender of the taxpayer face of maladministration, he also intervenes in cases of flagrant inequity and can propose reforms hi considers necessary, with the objective of maintaining the confidence between the taxpayer and the tax administration. In Romania, the institution of tax Ombudsman and conciliation in tax matters does not exist. There are only Ombudsman, an independent and autonomous institution and aims to protect the rights and freedoms of individuals in their relations with the administration. In the Ombudsman powers enter the petitions concerning cases of maladministration of public authorities, one of his areas being the property, labor, social security and taxes. This paper presents some aspects concerning institution of tax Ombudsman, underlining its useful role in defending the rights of taxpayers, by presenting it as a model of strong fiscal governance and also as a proposal to establish in Romania."
K34|Exploring the characteristics of transfer pricing systems across countries|This paper analyses the characteristics of transfer pricing systems across countries, in order to identify the grouping structures intrinsically related with rules' similarities, and to explore the key characteristics revealed by each group. Applying hierarchical agglomerative technique for comparison of an extensive set of attributes from domestic transfer pricing regulations, we find substantial differences among transfer pricing rules thus to support the segregation of three major groups of countries. The variance across transfer pricing systems refers not only to formal tax provisions, but also to practical requirements and regular actions from authorities, and to governments' openness for discussion of unclear tax positions. Although most regulations follow the main guidelines established by OECD, additional unilateral mechanisms remain, suggesting that countries face distinct profit shifting occurrences and need to create specific measures in attempt to restrain it. It thus implies the existence of gaps in current transfer pricing guidelines, and reinforces the call for new anti-shifting mechanisms to cover a broader set of shifting arrangements.
K34|International tax planning by multinationals: Simulating a tax-minimising intercompany response to the OECD's recommendation on BEPS Action 4|In October 2015, the OECD/G20 presented their final report on the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) Project. This article presents a unique analysis of the OECD/G20’s recommendation on Action 4 by utilising tax optimisation modelling to simulate and examine a hypothetical multinational enterprise’s (MNE’s) behavioural response to this recommendation. The literature to date has primarily focused on the “debt bias”, which arises from the distortion in the tax treatment between debt and equity financing. The BEPS Project is no exception, despite acknowledging that the “mobility and fungibility of money makes it possible for multinational groups to achieve favourable tax results”, the focus has remained on the debt bias. Prior work by the author introduced a broader conception of funding biases; specifically, the tax‑induced cross‑border “funding bias”. The funding bias includes intercompany licensing and leasing activities in addition to debt and equity financing. These four forms of fungible intercompany financing are built into the tax optimisation model developed by this article. This model presents a unique contribution to the literature by simulating complex cross‑border intercompany tax planning strategies. This facilitates a formal analysis of one of the most significant challenges presented by the mobility and fungibility of capital, namely, anticipating how an MNE structures its internal affairs in a tax‑minimising manner given the current tax regime — and designing improvements to tax laws accordingly. The model developed by this article shows that the OECD’s fixed ratio rule is more effective than the current regime of thin capitalisation rules at protecting the tax revenue base from the most tax‑aggressive MNEs. However, the model also indicates that it is ultimately more effective to equalise the tax treatment among otherwise fungible intercompany funding activities. This outcome is consistent with the principle of tax neutrality, which suggests that, ceteris paribus, all like income should be treated alike for tax purposes. This shows that rules eliminating the “underlying disease” (the tax incentive for thin capitalisation) are more effective at targeting BEPS than rules which mitigate the “symptom” (such as thin capitalisation rules or the OECD’s fixed ratio rule).
K34|What's BEPS got to do with it? Exploring the effectiveness of thin capitalisation rules|In October 2015, the OECD made a best practice recommendation in Action 4 of its BEPS project, suggesting a Fixed Ratio Rule in place of thin capitalisation rules. This review was almost 3 decades in the making, with the most recent OECD report on thin capitalisation rules published in 1986, which omitted guidance on how these rules could best be designed. Thin capitalisation rules’ strong emphasis on revenue base protection has resulted in their exponentially increasing popularity internationally since the 1960s. However, there is a growing body of literature critiquing the effectiveness of thin capitalisation rules. Accordingly, this paper approaches the issue of thin capitalisation from a novel perspective by conceptualising the cross-border debt bias as the ‘disease’ and thin capitalisation as merely the ‘symptom’. Grounded in the tax principle of efficiency, the overarching question guiding this paper is whether, given the opportunity to start over, the tax-induced cross-border debt bias would be better addressed by retaining thin capitalisation rules in their current form or whether an alternative reform would be more suited to dealing with this ‘disease’. The optimisation model developed in this paper shows that the OECD’s Fixed Ratio Rule is more effective than the current regime of thin capitalisation rules at protecting the tax revenue base from the most tax-aggressive multinational enterprises (MNEs). However, the model also indicates that it is ultimately more effective to align the tax treatment of intercompany funding to eliminate the ‘underlying disease’ (the tax incentive for thin capitalisation), rather than adopting rules that mitigate the ‘symptom’ (such as the OECD’s Fixed Ratio Rule). This research presents a unique contribution to the literature by simulating complex cross-border intercompany tax planning strategies. This facilitates a formal analysis of one of the most significant challenges presented by the mobility and fungibility of capital; namely, anticipating how an MNE structures its internal affairs in a tax-optimal manner given the current tax regime and suggesting tax administrative responses to BEPS accordingly.
K34|Untaxed Social-Media Problem and Potential Solutions|Advancement of internet innovation brings both pros and cons by changing the rules and dynamics of fields as trade, public service, education, entertainment, intelligence, and defense. The developments in web technology provided a lot of conveniences. On the other hand, this situation brought many problems because of lack of laws and rules in this field. One example of these challenges is those websites do not have branches in every country are not subject to taxation. This situation is directly related to the sovereign rights of the countries. Major international internet companies are only subject to tax in the countries where their headquarters are located and do not pay taxes in other nations where they earn money. Particularly in the developing countries, the tax loss reaches serious dimensions. This study will focus on the problem of social media taxation. Also, solution proposals will be presented especially for developing countries.
K34|Assessing Tax Incentives for Investment: Case Study of Thailand|Tax incentives for investment are very popular among developing countries but they are costly and unlikely to compensate for other shortcomings. One of the reasons many governments often uses when expanding the tax incentives is that their tax incentives are inferior relative to those of competitors. This study examines the impacts of those tax incentives on the tax competitiveness using the case study of Thailand. It takes into account important tax provisions under both standard and preferential tax treatments, and computes effective average tax rates (EATRs) applied to the country's focused industries. It then compares Thailand's EATRs with those of ASEAN peers. Such industry-specific lens is crucial since the tax benefits offered as well as the composition of investment assets can vary substantially between industries. It finds that, Thailand's investment incentives are broadly comparable to those offered by its ASEAN peers. Under the maximum incentives, the EATRs range from 6-9% depending on the investment intensity in each industry. This suggests that, with the exception of targeted incentives for the biotec industry, the government should refrain from throwing any more tax or monetary incentives and focus on fixing structural shortcomings. The results also indicate that accelerated depreciation and investment tax allowance are two options that may perform better than the tax holiday in term of minimizing the incentive redundancy.
K34|Possible Ways of Further Evolution of Tax Systems in the EAEU Countries<BR>[Пути Гармонизации Систем Налогообложения В Странах Евразийского Экономического Союза]|In the article in detail is studied the process of tax harmonization in the EAEU by analyzing the main economic indicators, as well as the legal aspects of the tax systems in order to identify similarities and differences in the EAEU and the impact of harmonization of tax policy on the EAEU Member Countries. There are general regulation for indirect taxes such as VAT and duty taxes which defines the main principles of using these taxes during the export and import processes. However, there are not any regulations on EAEU level for direct taxes, although some main features such as tax rates and base of PIT and CIT in EAEU Member States have lots of common features. Also, it was found out that the structure of EAEU Member States’ economics differs a lot which leads to a huge difference between the amount and share of tax revenue and tax burden in Member Countries. In the end of the article the main principles and methods for tax harmonization in EAEU are suggested based on the results of the analysis and the experience of tax harmonization in EU.
K34|Improvement in Quality of Sales Tax Assessments in West Bengal: A Study|The major source of own tax revenue of a State in India is Sales Tax. The Sales Tax administration in the State of West Bengal has undertaken a paradigm shift in last five years. Discretionary assessment of the tax-payers has been replaced by intelligent, objective and risk-based selection method. Replacement of unilateral discretionary demand by adjudication through introduction of draft order has established transparency and equity in the system. Distribution of hearing cases over the periods instead of completing them towards the end of the limitation has increased the quality of assessment. Electronic storage of records and electronic service of notices has increased efficiency of the tax administration. Use of data analytics in assessment and audit has resulted in growth in per cent of collection of assessed demand compared to previous years. JEL Classification: H21, H71, M48, K34
K34|Self-Concept Maintenance and Tax Evasion|I analyze quasi-experimental data on tax evasion reports collected by the Italian webpage evasori.info. I find that a bigger number of reports per unit of irregular activity, which indicates a stronger tax morale, is negatively correlated with the median reported amount. I show that this evidence is consistent with a model of self-concept maintenance, where illegal actions are categorized more easily, in the sense that they are consistent with a positive self image of honesty, if they involve small amounts of money. The data suggest that a stronger individual and social attitude towards evasion makes this categorization more difficult, lowering the threshold below which evasion is acceptable. The result is tax evasion reports of smaller amount. I also propose a Montecarlo exercise to estimate this threshold and its dependence on tax morale.
K34|Designing Tax Policy to Promote Agricultural Cooperatives and Environmental Protection in China|The Chinese government has among its critical policies two clear policy imperatives ? 1. to protect and improve its natural environment and 2. to encourage membership of agricultural cooperatives and ensure their development. On one hand, there can be a tension between these two objectives, as an increase in agricultural cooperatives could lead to greater environmental degradation through more damaging farming methods such as greater mechanisation and increased use of chemical fertilisers. On the other hand, there are potential synergies between the two goals as well-operated cooperatives can bring environmental benefits through such improvements as efficiencies of scale, more sophisticated farming practices and greater education on soil and water conservation. This paper examines, with a primary focus on tax policy, the Chinese government?s role in setting where the balance between these two potential outcomes ? tension or synergy - will ultimately fall. The paper describes the history of agricultural cooperatives in China and considers why the Chinese government would wish to encourage their development. It then, with a view to identifying what incentives the government might offer, considers what factors motivate farmers to join cooperatives. It considers the role of tax policies, drawing on case studies from three provinces at different stages of development for insights on the impact of local variations, and examines the recently introduced draft Environmental Tax Law and considers what part it could play in the role of agricultural cooperatives in environmental protection.
K34|Provisions for Future Liabilities and Effective Corporate Income Tax Rate|The paper quantifies the impact of timing differences that emerge in the case of discrepancies between accounting and tax rules on the corporate tax burden. The objective of the paper is to investigate the effect of the accelerated deductibility of company expenses via provisions for future liabilities on the multi-period effective average corporate tax rate (EATR). In the investigation, pension provisions and so-called “other provisions” are taken into account and a multi-period backward-looking measure of the tax burden based on corporate cash flows is developed. The investigated companies are divided into several subgroups according to their size and multi-period cash flow. Under the current tax law, the highest tax burden among companies with positive cash flows is observed for medium-sized firms, at 33%. For small and large enterprises, the burden takes values of 24% and 25% respectively. A different situation is observed among firms with negative cash flows: in general, the EATRs are noticeably higher in this case. Under the current tax law, the average effective tax rates are 60% for all firms and 38%, 45% and 51% for medium-sized, small and large corporations respectively.If changes are made to the ways provisions for future payments are treated under tax regulations, a slight reduction may be observed in the multi-period average effective tax burden. In general, the timing effects of the deductibility of provisions lead to an average change in the effective tax rate from –1 percentage point (in the case of small companies with positive cash flows) to –4 percentage points (in the case of small entities with negative cash flows and medium-sized entities with positive cash flows). Although the differences in the median tax burden may seem to be slight, they are statistically significant.
K34|The Principle Of Non-Retroactivity Of Civil Law - Deviations Identified In The Matter Of Tax Legislation|This article aims to examine the effects of the principle of non-retroactivity of law. While the first section deals with the principle of non-retroactivity of the law in terms of Romanian civil law, the next section presents cases of compliance, but also several cases of violation/breach of the principle enunciated, identified in the tax matter. By researching the date when legal acts or deeds are concluded or, as the case may be, committed or produced, in relation to the effects of the new law over them, we are submitting to a non-retroactivity test some texts from tax laws governing the obligation of the taxpayers to pay tax on profit when no longer meet the conditions to be micro-enterprises, obligation of the individuals without revenue to pay social health insurance contributions, the obligations of the persons carrying out transactions with related parties to draw up transfer pricing file. The effect of the facta pendentia situation is presented and analyzed on a specific case of transfer pricing, which may be misinterpreted as a breach of the principle of non-retroactivity of the law. Precisely for this reason the conclusions present utility both for law theorists and practitioners.
K34|Bütçe Kanununa Ekli Vergi Harcamaları Listesinin Mevzuatla Ücret Gelirlerine İlişkin Getirilen Muafiyet, İstisna ve İndirimler Bağlamında Analizi|Tax is the most important resource used in order to finance public expenditures. From time to time, states abondon public financing preference and interviene in the economical and social life through tax. This interference happens through the tax expenditures consisting of tax exceptions, exemptions and discounts which result in loss of revenue for the state and which have, in reality, a similar impact on the public expenditures but these tax expenditures are different in their manner of execution. This study examines, in a comparative manner, the exceptions, exemptions and discounts applicable to wages under the relevant legislation and the list of tax expenditures annexed to the budget act and analyses whether the exceptions and privilages applicable to wages and which are not mentionned in the tax expenditures list represent a standard tax practice.
K34|Vergilendirilebilir Gelir ve Gelir Vergisinde Üniter Yapıyı Bozan Uygulamalar|Taxable income is the essence of the tax system. Determining the scope of taxable income is one of the important subject to be emphasized for providing the efficiency in taxation. There are two theories deal with determination of taxable income: “Source Theory” and “Net Increasing Theory”. In practice, countries base on different theories in determining taxable income. Income tax systems are classified as global, schedular and mixed income tax systems. Taxable income is determined basis of source and net increasing theories in income tax systems. Although the global tax system is applied in Turkey, it is observed that some practices cause deviations from the system and contrary to global structure. The excessive expansiyon of the scope of this practices cause damage the tax system, decline in tax revenues, reduce the desire about voluntary tax compliance and violate the rights of taxpayers. In this study, it is focused on the concepts of income and taxable income. Besides, it is examined the practices caused deviations from global tax system for determining the ideal limits of taxable income and it is focused on the results of the deviations from global tax system and it is offered the solutions in this study.
K34|Who benefits from the preferential treatment of business property under the German inheritance tax?|Abstract This paper contributes to the recent debate on the tax privilege for business property introduced by the German Inheritance Tax Act of 2009. We shed light on the tax effects of the preferential treatment based on micro-level data of realized business transfers from the German Inheritance Tax Statistic. As the tax exemptions are tied to employment expenses of the transferred business, we combine information from the tax statistic with a simulation of future employment expenses. We then compare the effective tax rates under a preferential treatment to the ones under a non-preferential treatment alternative. Results show that a large portion of business successions is untaxed under the current German inheritance tax law and that average effective tax rates approach zero. Moreover, the preferential treatment levels the differences between the effective taxation of small and large transfers and leads to an almost equal effective tax rate across all tax brackets. We also demonstrate that tax reductions are considerably larger in times of economic growth where the requirements for a preferential treatment are more likely to be met.
K34|Abschaffung der Abgeltungsteuer — gerechter und steuersystematisch einheitlicher?|There is a rising political discussion in Germany around abolishing the final withholding tax on capital income. The German tax reforms that introduced this tax lowered tax rates, in particular on interest income. According to some authors, the growing inequality of income and property is a strong argument for the higher taxation of capital income. However, other authors argue that the neutrality aspects concerning private investment are inadequate. An abolishment of the final withholding tax would not solve these problems and, moreover, would turn back the achieved improvements. Therefore, the German Council of Economic Experts suggests complementing the previous reforms by introducing an allowance for corporate equity. Copyright ZBW and Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2016
K34|Abschaffung der Abgeltungsteuer — gerechter und steuersystematisch einheitlicher?<BR>[Abolition of the Withholding Tax — Fairer and Systematically More Consistent?]|Zusammenfassung Verschiedene politische Parteien fordern, die Abgeltungsteuer abzuschaffen — selbst Bundesfinanzminister Schäuble scheint dies zu erwägen. Ursprünglich sollte sie dazu dienen, Steuerflucht weniger attraktiv zu machen. Nachdem aber die OECD-Länder Informationen über Kapitaleinkünfte automatisch austauschen werden, fällt diese Begründung weg. Tatsächlich wurde bei ihrer Einführung 2009 das Prinzip einer einheitlichen Besteuerung aller Einkommensarten aufgegeben und Kapitaleinkommen einer proportionalen Besteuerung unterworfen. Die wachsende Ungleichverteilung von Einkommen und Vermögen könnte aber ein Argument für eine höhere und progressive Besteuerung von Kapitaleinkommen sein. Darüber hinaus stellt die Abgeltungsteuer Investitionen aus Fremdkapital gegenüber Eigenkapital besser. Die Argumente für und wider eine Abschaffung der Abgeltungsteuer und die Ausgestaltung alternativer Modelle sind Gegenstand dieses Zeitgesprächs.
K34|EU: Umsetzung des OECD-Aktionsplans gegen unerwünschte Steuergestaltungen<BR>[European Commission: Implementation of OECD’s Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Actions]|Zusammenfassung Die Arbeiten an der Gemeinsamen konsolidierten Körperschaftsteuer-Bemessungsgrundlage GKKB gehen weiter. Allerdings dient der am 28. Januar 2016 von der Kommission veröffentlichte Richtlinienentwurf primär der Einschränkung von als unerwünscht angesehenen Steuergestaltungen. Das ursprüngliche Ziel der GKKB, die steuerlichen Nachteile für grenzüberschreitende Geschäftstätigkeiten zu beseitigen, ist in den Hintergrund getreten. Der Entwurf beinhaltet eine allgemeine Missbrauchsvorschrift, Einschränkungen beim Zinsabzug, Regelungen zu hybriden Gestaltungen, eine Switch-over-Clause (Übergang von der Freistellungsmethode zur Anrechnungsmethode), Regelungen zur Hinzurechnungsbesteuerung sowie zur Exit-Besteuerung. Viele der vorgeschlagenen Maßnahmen weisen eine starke Übereinstimmung mit den im deutschen Steuerrecht geltenden Normen auf.
K34|EU: Umsetzung des OECD-Aktionsplans gegen unerwünschte Steuergestaltungen|This article describes the most current developments in the progress of the European Union’s CCCTB project. The published draft directive of 28 January 2016 focuses on rules against tax avoidance practices. The original intention of the CCCTB, the elimination of tax obstacles for cross-border business activities, had receded into the background. The Anti-BEPS Directive lays down rules for the following areas: a general anti-abuse rule, limitations to the deductibility of interest, hybrid mismatch rules, a switch-over clause, controlled foreign company rules and exit taxation. There is a high degree of conformity between the proposed rules and the existing German tax law regulations. Copyright ZBW and Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2016
K34|No Taxation without Information: Deterrence and Self-Enforcement in the Value Added Tax|Claims that the VAT facilitates tax enforcement by generating paper trails on transactions between firms contributed to widespread VAT adoption worldwide, but there is surprisingly little evidence. This paper analyzes the role of third-party information for VAT enforcement through two randomized experiments among over 400,000 Chilean firms. Announcing additional monitoring has less impact on transactions that are subject to a paper trail, indicating the paper trail's preventive deterrence effect. This leads to strong enforcement spillovers up the VAT chain. These findings confirm that when taking evasion into account, significant differences emerge between otherwise equivalent forms of taxation. (JEL D83, H25, H26, K34, O17)
K34|Taxpayer Search for Information: Implications for Rational Attention|We examine data on capital-gains-tax-related information search to determine when and how taxpayers acquire information. We find seasonal increases in information search around tax deadlines, suggesting that taxpayers seek information to comply with tax law. Positive correlations between stock market activity and search as well as year-end spikes in information search on capital losses when the market performs poorly suggest that taxpayers seek information for tax planning purposes. Policy changes and news events cause information search. These data suggest that taxpayers are not always fully informed, but that rational attention and exogenous shocks to tax salience drive taxpayer information search. (JEL D12, D83, H24, H31, K34)
K34|Hungarian Small Business Tax and Possibilities to Minimize Distortions from Capital Income Taxation|Governments throughout the EU and OECD countries rely on revenues raised on capital income. Albeit several arguments can be made for keeping these taxes, in their widespread form they hinder capital accumulation and significantly lower potential growth due to their savings and investment distorting nature. At the same time, the actual economic impact of tax types is largely influenced by their structure. An elegant method, which is also simple in its concept, for eliminating the economic distortions of profit taxes is cash-flow taxation which moves income taxes closer to the more growth-friendly value-added taxes. The small business tax, which was introduced in Hungary in 2013, was designed along these principles. In this paper we review the theoretical literature on cash-flow taxation and discuss the main regulatory elements of the small business tax, as well as the solutions elaborated for working out the challenges related to its implementation.
K34|Comparison between the legal regime of the extinctive prescription in Romanian civil law and fiscal law|This article analyses the institution of the extinctive prescription, first synthesizing the common law stated by the Romanian Civil Code (Section I) and then the special regulation given by the Romanian Code of Fiscal Procedure (Section II) in which we differentiate between the particular legal regime of the extinctive prescription in the area of the rights of claim (Section 2.1-2.2), in the area of the right to initiate the foreclosure (Section 2.3), and in that of the right to ask for compensation and restitution (Section 2.7). The comparison between the legal regime of the extinctive prescription in civil law and its regulation given by the fiscal law it is stated by the last section, structured into similarities and differences.
K34|A nation without a corporate income tax: Evidence from nineteenth century Japan|This study provides evidence on tax distortion to organizational choices of firm using historical data. We utilize the 1887 introduction of a personal income tax (PIT) in Japan as a quasi-experiment to examine tax-motivated incorporation. We circumvent the data limitation in the 19 th century by drawing on a firm-level dataset constructed from genealogies of Japanese corporations. The sample is 3,203 firm- year observations spanning 1880-1892. We find that the introduction of PIT affected the adoption of simpler types of corporations and increased the corporate share of establishments by about 3 percentage points. The evidence indicates the role of a corporate income tax as a backstop to maintain revenue performance of PIT.
K34|La fiscalité minière en Afrique : le secteur de l’or dans 14 pays de 1980 à 2015|The lack of information about the mining resource rent sharing between governments and investors is an easy statement in Africa. Existing public databases are often insufficient for a deep analysis of the African tax law applied to natural resource sectors, which limits the academic and operational work. The FERDI publishes the first tax and legal database which specifies the tax regime applied to industrial gold mining companies in 14 African countries from the 1980s to 2015. The database featuring three major innovations: (i) an inventory of taxes and duties (rate, base and exemptions) payable during the prospecting phase and mining phase of a gold mining project; (ii) an entirely new level of historical depth; (iii) the link between each piece of tax information and its legal source. This database is used to make a first analysis of tax regimes and rent sharing in gold producer countries. The first results emphasize heterogeneity of tax regimes between English-speaking and French-speaking countries with a convergence of the average effective tax rates that increase in most countries following the tax reforms undertaken since 2010. Codes JEL : Q38, K34, C80.
K34|Tax Evasion and Economic Crime. Empirical Evidence for Italy|This paper examines the impact of tax evasion on criminal activities in Italy. Precisely, we consider three types of crime particularly related to economic determinants: property crimes (including robberies, thefts and car thefts), frauds and usury. By using annual data for the Italian provinces (NUTS-3) over the period 2006 to 2010 to estimate a dynamic panel, we show that tax evasion substitutes both, frauds and usury, whereas crimes against the property are positively affected by tax evasion. Interestingly, the degree of substitution for fraud and usury is related to the size of tax burden. Moreover, the estimates indicate that these crimes show a different persistency over time, reflecting different adjustment costs. Finally, we find statistical significance and the expected sign for deterrence only for property crimes whereas frauds and usury are not influenced by any deterrence or clearing-up variable.
K34|EU-Aktionsplan zur Unternehmensbesteuerung: Ein Weg zu größerer Fairness und Effizienz in der Steuerpolitik?|Die EU-Kommission hat einen Aktionsplan zur grundlegenden Reform der Unternehmensbesteuerung vorgelegt, der missbräuchlicher Steuergestaltung entgegenwirken und nachhaltige Einnahmen gewährleisten soll. Die Maßnahmen sollen die steuerlichen Rahmenbedingungen für Unternehmen in Europa gerechter, effizienter und wachstumsfreundlicher gestalten. Für Wolfgang Schön, Max-Planck-Institut für Steuerrecht und Öffentliche Finanzen, München, und Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, enthält der Aktionsplan wenige Positionen, die nicht bereits vorher diskutiert oder angekündigt waren. Der Gesamttext mache jedoch deutlich, wie stark sich die Kommission von ihren ursprünglichen Zielen europäischer Steuergesetzgebung entfernt habe. Dennis Klein, Leibniz-Fach¬hochschule Hannover, warnt vor zu hohen Erwartungen an den Aktionsplan. Er sei wenig mehr als bloßer Aktionismus der EU-Kommission. Für Markus Kerber, Bundesverband der Deutschen Industrie, ist es nachvollziehbar, dass die Kommission verstärkt gegen Steuervermeidung vorgehen möchte. Es dürfe jedoch nicht bei einer vordergründigen Diskussion bleiben: Im Zentrum des EU-Projekts stand zu Beginn das Ziel der steuerpolitischen Flankierung des europäischen Binnenmarktes. Eine Verschiebung des Brennpunktes auf die Vermeidung von Steuergestaltungen vermag, seiner Meinung nach, ein solch umfangreiches Projekt nicht zu tragen. Der Fokus sollte auf die Harmonisierung gerichtet sein, um die Attraktivität des europäischen Wirtschaftsstandorts zu erhöhen. Martin Ruf und Tanja Kroh, Universität Tübingen, sehen in dem EU-Aktionsplan nur punktuelle Lösungsansätze für das altbekannte Problem der »Steuerplanung unter Ausnutzung des internationalen Steuersatzgefälles«. Nach Ansicht von Katharina Finke, Universität Mannheim und Zentrum für Europäische Wirtschaftsforschung (ZEW), Mannheim, und Christoph Spengel, Universität Mannheim, gehen von dem Aktionsplan neue Impulse zur Weiterentwicklung der Unternehmensbesteuerung in Europa aus. Die EU-Kommission sollte ihr Hauptaugenmerk auf die Arbeiten an einer gemeinsamen Körperschaftsteuer-Bemessungsgrundlage richten. Andreas Oestreicher, Universität Göttingen, betont, dass das Konzept der GKKB (gemeinsame (konsolidierte) Körperschaftsteuer-Bemessungsgrundlage) Schutz gegen Gewinnverlagerungen in der EU bietet. Für die Mitgliedstaaten reduziere sich der Spielraum für schädlichen Steuerwettbewerb im Binnenmarkt.
K34|Impuesto sobre la renta: dime cómo opera y te diré cómo redistribuye|Este artículo examina las características del impuesto sobre la renta colombiano y la manera en que ellas moldean su potencial distributivo. El escrito llama la atención sobre la importancia de distinguir entre la distribución de la carga tributaria y el efecto de la misma sobre la distribución del ingreso. Muestra que la versión del impuesto mínimo alternativo instaurada en el país discrimina entre categorías de ingresos laborales y de capital. También explora los rasgos distributivos de diferentes sistemas de integración entre el impuesto personal y el de sociedades, en condiciones de elevada concentración del ingreso. Las repercusiones probables del llamado impuesto plano, cuya adopción promovió el gobierno nacional en la primera década del siglo XXI, son objeto de discusión. Las tarifas nominales son vistas ante todo como parte del engranaje impositivo estatutario, pero no se desconoce su dimensión de señales institucionales. El artículo ofrece algunas estimaciones de las tarifas efectivas, contrastándolas con las obtenidas por otros estudios. ****** This paper examines the characteristics of the Colombian income tax and the way they shape its distributive potential. It draws attention to the importance of distinguishing between the distribution of the tax burden and the effect thereof on the distribution of income. It shows that the version of the alternative minimum tax introduced in the country discriminates between categories of labor and capital incomes. It also explores the distributional features of different integration systems between the personal and corporate income tax, in a situation where income is highly concentrated. The likely repercussions of the so-called flat tax, whose adoption was promoted by the national government in the first decade of the 21st century, are discussed. The nominal rates are seen primarily as part of the statutory tax machinery, but their role as institutional signals is not overlooked. The paper provides some estimates of effective tax rates, contrasting them with those obtained by other studies.
K34|A influência das políticas públicas quanto a aplicação do imposto predial e territorial urbano progressivo no tempo como instrumento do estatuto da cidade|Este artigo tem como objetivo principal, uma breve análise da influência das políticas públicas no que se refere à aplicaçâo do instrumento legal do Estatuto da Cidade, o Imposto Predial e Territorial Urbano Progressivo no Tempo. A Constituiçâo Brasileira, pautada na participaçâo democrática, dedica um capítulo à Política Urbana cuja finalidade é regular o desenvolvimento urbano. O artigo salienta a relevância do Capítulo III (artigos 39, 40 e 41), que se refere ao Plano Diretor e comenta sobre a interrelaçâo das políticas de governança urbana e a participaçâo pública democrática na elaboraçâo do Plano Diretor. O artigo ressalta ainda a importância das avaliações de políticas públicas no Brasil acerca de três aspectos fundamentais: direito de cidadania e moradia, funçâo social da propriedade e do Imposto Predial e Territorial Urbano Progressivo no Tempo, assim como também dos movimentos sociais que demandam políticas universalizadas em busca da garantia da governança.
K34|Dance Participation and Attendance in Denmark|Dancing may be one of the most competitive professions available career-wise. The lack of job opportunities and the competitiveness, the inherent expense in costumes and training and the high risk of injuries mean that only few dancers are able to make it their profession. However, dancing is an activity that comes with positive externalities, as various socio-economic benefits are experienced by those who practice dance non-professionally. Despite the importance of dancing, very little is known with respect to the profiles of dancers. This chapter, by availing of an information database on cultural preferences and habits in Denmark for 2004, illustrates the profiles of dancers and dance audiences and so deepens the current knowledge on the functioning of the dance market. We show that there exists a very strong positive correlation between cultural participation and the well-being of a society. These links are carefully described in the chapter.
K34|Fiscal and economic aspects of book consumption in the European Union|Abstract One of the available and yet controversial tools in cultural policy at the national level is the reduction of VAT rates for cultural goods and services. We document the standard and reduced VAT rates in EU-28 countries in the period from 1993 to 2013 and explore the underlying determinants. We further introduce a simple theoretical framework to explain how reduced fiscal rates are expected to decrease prices and increase quantities of the consumed cultural goods and services. We then estimate quantitatively that a decrease in the VAT rate for books by one percentage point is associated with an economically significant drop in the price by 2.6%. Finally, we show the positive effect of a fiscal rate reduction on the book expenditure, where a one percentage point decrease in the VAT rate for books leads to an increase in expenditure by 2.7%.
K34|Contribution à l'amélioration de la performance en matière d'imposition sur le revenu en République de Guinée|Income tax in the Republic of Guinea as inherited from the French fiscal regime is one of the most important elements of the Guinean fiscal structure. But paradoxically, this tax, with regard to the VAT, remains less profitable in terms of state budget revenues. Despite the huge fiscal potential, taking into account all revenues from commercial, industrial, handcraft, agricultural and professional activities undertaken by taxpayers, it is yet not judiciously exploited. Indeed, talking about income tax will lead to focus on the two basic dimensions of the notion: Private Income tax (IT) and companies income tax the contributive challenges of which truly characterizing the problem of this tax to be expressed in variety of complex realities of political, social, economical and environmental natures, varying from a country to another and from a community to another.The goal of this dissertation is to proceed to a relevant diagnosis finding in order to be able to retrace the causes and effects of the low contribution share of the income tax in the internal fiscal revenue and to propose efficient solution with a view to improving the profitability of said tax on companies profits, which will impact the performances of fiscal services, state budget, national economy as well as the fiscal system in the Republic of Guinea.
K34|Les paradis fiscaux dans la concurrence fiscale internationale|In the framework of the growth and the internationalisation of the financial flows since the beginning of the twentieth century, Tax havens leading positions in the economic and financial environment have become so much important, that many political actors of the well developed countries have tried to assess this phenomenon through the international tax competition studies. Going further in the tax optimisation and tax planning process of the offshore sphere of activity, we can consider that far from being isolated in the sovereignty of a few countries, the offshore financial model is far integrated in the worldwide economic system, which can explain the difficulty and the different means used by the political authority to manage and stop the offshore mechanism through a by territory approach.
K34|Corporate Governance, Incentives, and Tax Avoidance|We examine the link between corporate governance, managerial incentives, and corporate tax avoidance. Similar to other investment opportunities that involve risky expected cash flows, unresolved agency problems may lead managers to engage in more or less corporate tax avoidance than shareholders would otherwise prefer. Consistent with the mixed results reported in prior studies, we find no relation between various corporate governance mechanisms and tax avoidance at the conditional mean and median of the tax avoidance distribution. However, using quantile regression, we find a positive relation between board independence and financial sophistication for low levels of tax avoidance, but a negative relation for high levels of tax avoidance. These results indicate that these governance attributes have a stronger relation with more extreme levels of tax avoidance, which are more likely to be symptomatic of over- and under-investment by managers.
K34|Income taxation, wealth effects, and uncertainty: Portfolio adjustments with isoelastic utility and discrete probability|Assuming isoelastic utility and binomial probability, the optimal adjustment to income taxation of portfolio returns is to scale up the holding of the risky asset by just [1+r(1−t)/(1+r)(1−t)], not 1/(1−t), as the literature classically maintains.
K34|The wealth effects of premium subsidies on moral hazard in insurance markets|Insurance premium subsidies are present in many insurance markets. The Swiss government, for example, paid out CHF 4.26 billion or 0.72% of the Swiss GDP for health insurance premium subsidies in 2011. Analyses of premium subsidies have often highlighted that the increased insurance demand due to premium subsidies increases the effects of moral hazard in the market. Other consequences of premium subsidies, however, have mostly been neglected by the literature. We show in our theoretical model that the wealth effects of premium subsidies decrease the sensitivity of the insured towards the monetary consequences of losses. This leads to less prevention efforts by the insured and thus increases moral hazard in the market. The effect is preserved if the subsidy is financed through proportional taxation. Using two alternative models, we show that providing state-dependent subsidies can either increase or reverse this effect, depending on which state subsidies are paid. We argue that whether demand effects or wealth effects of premium subsidies will dominate the insured׳s behavior depends on the market structure.
K34|Corporate governance, incentives, and tax avoidance|We examine the link between corporate governance, managerial incentives, and corporate tax avoidance. Similar to other investment opportunities that involve risky expected cash flows, unresolved agency problems may lead managers to engage in more or less corporate tax avoidance than shareholders would otherwise prefer. Consistent with the mixed results reported in prior studies, we find no relation between various corporate governance mechanisms and tax avoidance at the conditional mean and median of the tax avoidance distribution. However, using quantile regression, we find a positive relation between board independence and financial sophistication for low levels of tax avoidance, but a negative relation for high levels of tax avoidance. These results indicate that these governance attributes have a stronger relation with more extreme levels of tax avoidance, which are more likely to be symptomatic of over- and under-investment by managers.
K34|Novi Zakon O Raèunovodstvu - Usporedni I Kritièki Prikaz|Buduæi da se Zakonom o raèunovodstvu (ZOR) ureðuje i regulira raèunovodstvo, svaku suštinsku promjenu koju donese novi Zakon o raèunovodstvu potrebno je uskladiti i primijeniti. Ovaj èlanak upravo objašnjava temeljne promjene u novom Zakonu o raèunovodstvu koji se primjenjuje od 01.sijeènja 2016.godine i to kod tri kljuèna podruèja raèunovodstva: ureðenje raèunovodstvenog procesa, izvještajni zahtjevi i proces izvještavanja te unapreðenje elektronièkog poslovanja. Èlanak ujedno daje i kritièki osvrt na neke odredbe novog Zakona : kod zakonskog odreðenja sadržaja kontnog plana, obvezne revizije GFI koji nisu na kotaciji, propisivanje primjene MSFI za nekonsolidirane financijske izvještaje, obvezno licenciranje knjigovodstvenih servisa, nadležnost Porezne uprave za kontrolu primjene ZOR-a, ne reguliranje raèunovodstvenih pravila društva u likvidaciji, u predsteèaju i steèaju te definiranje svrhe GFI.
K34|Porez Na Dohodak U Republici Hrvatskoj|Ovaj clanak obraduje porez na dohodak kao neposredni (izravni) porez u poreznom sustavu Republike Hrvatske kojim su obuhvaæeni fizicke osobe, obveznici poreza na dohodak. Definiranje i pojašnjenje vrste dohodaka s obzirom na izvor dohotka i to: dohodak od nesamostalnog rada, dohodak od samostalne djelatnosti, dohodak od imovine i imovinskih prava, dohodak od kapitala, dohodak od osiguranja, drugi dohodak, te metodologija utvrdivanja porezne obveze i poreznih stopa i utvrdivanje poreznog razdoblja. Navedeni su primici koji se ne smatraju dohotkom, što je to porezni gubitak te osobni odbitak kao neoporezivi dio dohotka.
K34|Novi Zakon O Računovodstvu – Usporedni I Kritički Prikaz|Budući da se Zakonom o računovodstvu (ZOR) uređuje i regulira računovodstvo, svaku suštinsku promjenu koju donese novi Zakon o računovodstvu potrebno je uskladiti i primijeniti. Ovaj članak upravo objašnjava temeljne promjene u novom Zakonu o računovodstvu koji se primjenjuje od 01.siječnja 2016.godine i to kod tri ključna područja računovodstva: uređenje računovodstvenog procesa, izvještajni zahtjevi i proces izvještavanja te unapređenje elektroničkog poslovanja. Članak ujedno daje i kritički osvrt na neke odredbe novog Zakona : kod zakonskog određenja sadržaja kontnog plana, obvezne revizije GFI koji nisu na kotaciji, propisivanje primjene MSFI za nekonsolidirane financijske izvještaje, obvezno licenciranje knjigovodstvenih servisa, nadležnost Porezne uprave za kontrolu primjene ZOR-a, ne reguliranje računovodstvenih pravila društva u likvidaciji, u predstečaju i stečaju te definiranje svrhe GFI.
K34|Porez Na Dohodak U Republici Hrvatskoj|Ovaj članak obrađuje porez na dohodak kao neposredni (izravni) porez u poreznom sustavu Republike Hrvatske kojim su obuhvaćeni fizičke osobe, obveznici poreza na dohodak. Definiranje i pojašnjenje vrste dohodaka s obzirom na izvor dohotka i to: dohodak od nesamostalnog rada, dohodak od samostalne djelatnosti, dohodak od imovine i imovinskih prava, dohodak od kapitala, dohodak od osiguranja, drugi dohodak, te metodologija utvrđivanja porezne obveze i poreznih stopa i utvrđivanje poreznog razdoblja. Navedeni su primici koji se ne smatraju dohotkom, što je to porezni gubitak te osobni odbitak kao neoporezivi dio dohotka.
K34|Servet Vergilerinden Veraset ve Intikal Vergisi Üzerine Degerlendirmeler|Veraset ve intikal vergisi, servet vergileri içinde yer alan ve servet transferi üzerinden alýnan bir vergidir. Ülkemizde, toplam vergi gelirleri içinde çok düþük bir paya sahip olan veraset ve intikal vergisi, toplumsal iþleve sahip bir vergidir. Bu özelliði nedeniyle, verginin mali iþlevi daha geri planda kalmaktadýr. Veraset ve intikal vergisi, ülkemizde ilk defa 1926 yýlýnda 797 sayýlý Kanun ile uygulanmýþ, 1959 yýlýnda 7338 sayýlý Kanun ile deðiþiklikler yapýlmasýna raðmen, esaslý bir deðiþiklik söz konusu olmamýþtýr. Mali güç ilkesi gereðince veraset ve intikal vergisi, alýnmasý gerekli bir vergidir. Çünkü mali gücün göstergeleri arasýnda gelir ve harcamanýn yanýnda servet de yer almaktadýr. Bu ilkenin varlýðý, Anayasa’ nýn 2. maddesinde yer alan “sosyal devlet” kavramýnýn yaný sýra, 73. maddede yer alan “ödeme gücüne göre vergilendirme” tabirinde de kendini göstermektedir.
K34|El fraude fiscal en la CAPV. Cuantificación, efectos y medidas para reducirlo|Tax fraud is seen as an essential problem from the viewpoint of public revenue and the capacity of the tax system to collect revenue. Also, it may be even more important from the viewpoint of fairness and the entitlement of the public sector legitimately to require honest taxpayers to pay taxes. There are no precise measurements of the extent of fraud in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country (ACBC), but the indicators available suggest that it may be around 20%, which would make it similar to that in the rest of Spain. The population of the ACBC consider the level of fraud to be very high, and feel that the tax authorities are not doing enough to bring it down. Combating fraud must clearly be a priority goal for any tax authority, even though it may be a costly exercise and is likely to produce revenue only in the medium and long-term. The fact that immediate results may not be achieved does not make the struggle against fraud any less important, because it results in gains in fairness and, sooner or later, in increases in taxes collected. In that context, this paper sets out to analyse the situation regarding tax fraud in the ACBC and the measures that should be introduced to reduce it.
K34|Planificación fiscal y Gobierno Corporativo en las empresas cotizadas españolas|El presente trabajo tiene por objeto analizar en qué medida los incentivos económicos de los gerentes y las prácticas de gobierno corporativo influyen en las estrategias de planificación fiscal de las compañías españolas cotizadas. Con base en los datos fiscales reales extraídos de las memorias de las cuentas anuales, los resultados obtenidos ponen de manifiesto que los esquemas retributivos de la alta dirección y el grado de independencia del consejo de administración ejerce una influencia significativa sobre la estrategia fiscal de las compañías cotizadas, manifestada en términos de una menor carga fiscal soportada. Nuestros hallazgos son robustos y se mantienen ante diferentes pruebas y especificaciones alternativas de las variables.
K34|Transfer Pricing: Increasing Tension Between Multinational Firms And Tax Authorities|Transfer pricing taxation is a significant source of tension between Multinational Firms (MNFs) and tax authorities. The tension relates to the different perspectives of MNFs and tax authorities. MNFs view taxes related to transfer prices as costs to avoid. On the other hand, regulators and tax authorities view taxes related to transfer pricing from the perspective of making sure that MNFs pay their fair share of taxes to the country or territory where MNFs generate profits. Previously, the U.S. was the primary world leader in the area of transfer pricing taxation. The Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) have replaced the U.S in this role. The new OECD project titled Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) will dramatically change transfer pricing taxation, on a worldwide basis. It also has the potential to affect change in foreign direct investment (FDI). These changes will take place in both developed and underdeveloped countries. This article informs regulators, tax authorities, MNF management, academics, and tax professionals about several major emerging issues related to BEPS. The article also informs accounting and taxation academics about future research needs in this area.
K34|Enhanced Relationship Participation Incentives For (Dutch) Multinational Organizations|This paper deals with enhanced relationship participation in an international context. The purpose of this study has been to offer insight into the essentials for implementing a Tax Control Framework (TCF) and identify organizationsâ€™ incentives to participate in an enhanced relationship. First, the common guidelines for implementing a TCF are described. Second, we investigate organizationsâ€™ incentives to participate in an enhanced relationship on the basis of a survey conducted among the tax directors of the largest Dutch multinational organizations quoted on the Dutch stock exchange. Our analysis identifies two important incentives for organizations to participate in an enhanced relationship.
K34|"The OECD's ""Action Plan"" to Raise Taxes on Multinational Corporations"|"Hufbauer and colleagues critically evaluate the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development's ambitious multipart project titled Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS), which contains 15 ""Actions"" to prevent multinational corporations (MNCs) from escaping their ""fair share"" of the tax burden. Spurred by G-20 finance ministers, the OECD recommends changes in national legislation, revision of existing bilateral tax treaties, and a new multilateral agreement for participating countries. The proposition that MNCs need to pay more tax enjoys considerable political resonance as government budgets are strained, the world economy is struggling, income inequality is rising, and the news media have publicized instances of corporations legally lowering their global tax burdens by reporting income in low-tax jurisdictions and expenses in high-tax jurisdictions. Given that the US system taxes MNCs more heavily than other advanced countries and provides fewer tax incentives for research and development (R&D), implementation of the BEPS Actions would drive many MNCs to relocate their headquarters to tax-friendly countries and others to offshore significant amounts of R&D activity."
K34|In pursuit of tax equity: lessons from VAT rate structure adjustment in Poland|In 2011, in the aftermath of the economic crisis, Poland increased its value added tax rates. Despite an already large VAT policy gap, further rate differentiation was used to address distributional concerns and to protect the most vulnerable households. We find that the changes to the VAT rate structure hardly improved the overall progressivity of the VAT and the tax system as a whole. While providing only minimal relief to the poor, taxation of food products at a super reduced rate greatly subsidized the richer households. With a small change to the income tax structure, the government could have secured more progressivity at a lower cost in terms of revenue foregone.
K34|Taxation Of Per Diem. Romanian Current Liabilities For Employers And Employees|The accession to EU opened new opportunities in the area of transnational services, by using Romanian employees abroad. The general principle of free movement of labor allowed the employers to send their workers in another member states, under the domestic working contract. The cost for the human capital in the home country in comparison with this cost in the destination country determined fiscal implication, which were not addressed immediately by legislation. Therefore, disputes on doctrinarian level and also in practice evolved until a precise change in the legal framework became mandatory. The paper analyses these changing of the regulation, showing the limits of the regulation in force.
K34|Intellectual property box regimes: effective tax rates and tax policy considerations|In 2014, 12 European countries are operating Intellectual Property (IP) Box regimes that provide substantially reduced rates of corporate tax for income derived from important forms of intellectual property. We describe the key features of the policies and incorporate them into forward-looking measures of the cost of capital and the effective average tax rate. We show that the treatment of expenses relating to IP income is particularly important in determining the effective tax burden. A key finding is that regimes that allow expenses to be deducted at the ordinary corporate income tax rate, as opposed to the lower IP Box tax rate, may result in negative effective average tax rates and can thereby provide a subsidy to unprofitable projects. We discuss the ways in which IP Boxes are likely to affect firms’ decisions and relate this to possible policy aims. While some regimes attempt to link the tax benefit to real activities, others have designed a policy targeted at the income streams associated with intellectual property. A key concern is the role that IP Boxes may play in increased tax competition between European countries. Copyright The Author(s) 2015
K34|Income splitting and anti-avoidance legislation: evidence from the Canadian “kiddie tax”|We examine whether “kiddie tax” legislation in Canada, effective as of 2000, deters income splitting between parents and minor children by taxing at the top marginal rate certain types of non-labor income received by children. OLS estimates based on cross-province and time-series data reveal that the share of dividend income reported by children aged 19 and under declines by 86 % after the introduction of this anti-avoidance rule. The estimates also reveal that the share of capital gains (income not covered by the legislation) reported by minor children increases by 70 % in the post-legislation period, suggesting that parents are switching to an alternative income splitting technique. However, the latter percentage effect is on a small base, and thus, the decrease in dividend income is much larger than the increase in capital gains income. Hence, our analysis suggests that the “kiddie tax” is an effective method to deter income splitting. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
K34|General Remarks on Collecting Stamp Duties|This paper exposes the conceptual and jurisprudential approaches on stamp duty adjustment system, as well as the procedures regarding the whole process of calculation and collection thereof. We underline that the new adjustments of the judicial stamp duties shall apply to actions falling under New Civil Code, and with respect to the new Code of Penal Procedure, it should be noted that: although it applies to processes started after the date of February 15, 2013, to deeds and documents signed prior to the entry of these codes into force, the provisions of the Law No. 146/1997 - now repealed, shall apply. Presently, High Court of Cassation and Justice- Civil Procedure, Section II, has decided that Law no. 146/1997, republished, shall apply to the disputes falling under the old civil codes, as well as the stamp duties referring to summons and remedies at law.
K34|Controversies in Connection with the Definition of a Building Structure in the Polish Property Tax|The fact of linking the annual rate of property tax with the value of a building structure results in a constant, significant financial burden in the budgets of companies. Simultaneously, the definition of a building structure is vague, which causes difficulties for taxpayers and leaves space for open-ended interpretations of tax authorities. The size of the problem is represented by numerous legal cases in relation to the building structure definition and in particular, by the definition analysis conducted by the Constitutional Tribunal. Presently, the change of the definition of the building structure is postulated.
K34|Tax Aggressiveness of Taxpayers with Heterogeneous Income and Uncertainty about Taxable Income|We propose a tax aggressiveness game that deals with the strategic interaction between taxpayers and the tax authorities. Although aware of their true income, taxpayers face uncertainty concerning their taxable income. We distinguish three settings where differences between reported income and taxable income are either not punished, punished symmetrically, or punished asymmetrically, respectively. We find that tax aggressiveness can be best reduced by introducing an asymmetric penalty scheme. In this case increasing tax uncertainty increases tax compliance further. The fiscal authority benefits from uncertainty to the detriment of the taxpayer. Taxpayers with low income suffer more from an increase in uncertainty than taxpayers with high income.
K34|The Sheriff of Nottingham Hypothesis: A Tribute to Theodore Eisenberg|We consider what we call the Sheriff of Nottingham hypothesis : that the government of Brazil, which at the same time is party to litigated cases and the enforcer of tax laws, constantly enacts norms that seek to strengthen its side. We test this hypothesis and observe that litigants adapt to new proportions of decisions favoring tax authorities, with more sophisticated litigants seizing profits beyond those of ordinary citizens. Our proposal is that this dynamic adaptation takes considerable time; therefore, it is possible to detect the effect of changes in the law, despite the selection effect explored by, among others, Theodore Eisenberg.
K34|Insuring Your Donation – An Experiment|An increasing fraction of donations is channeled through donation intermediaries. These entities serve multiple purposes, one of which seems to be providing donors with greater certainty: that the donation reaches its intended goal, and that the donor may be sure to get a tax benefit. We interpret this function as insurance and test the option to insure donations in the lab. Our participants indeed have a positive willingness to pay for insurance against either risk. Yet the insurance option is only critical for their willingness to donate to a charity if the uncertainty affects the proper use of their donation.
K34|Cross-Country Evidence on the Preliminary Effects of Patent Box Regimes on Patent Activity and Ownership|This paper evaluates the initial impacts of patent box regimes in light of their primary stated objectives: stimulating domestic innovation and retaining mobile patent income to limit base erosion. Despite their lack of nexus requirements, we find that patent box regimes yield a 3 percent increase in new patent applications for every percentage point reduction in the tax rate on patent income. We find no significant impact of these regimes on deterring outward cross-border attribution of patent ownership, or on attracting ownership of foreign inventions. Increased patenting activity hence appears focused on inventions involving co-located (domestic) patent owners and inventors.
K34|A nation without a corporate income tax: Evidence from nineteenth century Japan|This study provides evidence on tax distortion to organizational choices of firm using historical data. We utilize the 1887 introduction of a personal income tax (PIT) in Japan as a quasi-experiment to examine tax-motivated incorporation. We circumvent the data limitation in the 19th century by drawing on a firm-level dataset constructed from genealogies of Japanese corporations. The sample is 3,203 firm-year observations spanning 1880-1892. We find that the introduction of PIT affected the adoption of simpler types of corporations and increased the corporate share of establishments by about 3 percentage points. The evidence indicates the role of a corporate income tax as a backstop to maintain revenue performance of PIT.
K34|Microsimulation as an instrument for tax policy analyses|The paper deals with microsimulation – an increasingly popular instrument used for policy analysis, especially in the field of individual and corporate income taxation. The aim of the paper is twofold. First, it discusses some key aspects of microsimulation with a particular focus on its types and implementations in tax policy research. Secondly, it presents a microsimulation analysis of the effects of unlimited inter-period loss offset in corporate income tax. The investigation is based on a panel of 222 corporations active in Poland, which was derived from the InfoCredit database. The microsimulation is carried out in a multi-period setting (2007-2012). It considers a perspective of taxpayers with a particular focus on individual tax burden and distributional effects of taxation. The analysis shows that the expected overall consequences of the tax reform in question would be rather moderate, however the size of the effects would vary strongly across firms.
K34|Un “Code Européen Du Contribuable” Pour Renforcer La Lutte Contre La Fraude Et L’Évasion Fiscales|Le Code européen du contribuable est l’une des 34 mesures contenues dans le Plan d'action de la Commission européenne pour lutter contre la fraude et l'évasion fiscales qui a été adopté le 6 décembre 2012. Il s'agit d'une mesure qui pourrait améliorer la perception de l'impôt et garantir un meilleur respect des obligations fiscales dans l'ensemble de l'Union européenne. La nécessité de ce code est justifiée par la mobilité accrue des citoyens et du caractere transfrontiere de l’activité économique. Un code européen du contribuable clarifierait les droits et obligations des contribuables comme des administrations fiscales, destiné a améliorer les relations entre l'administration fiscale et les contribuables. Ce travail présente quelques aspects relatifs a cette proposition sur le code européen du contribuable, dans le cadre des mesures prises dans la lutte contre la fraude et l’évasion fiscales. Nous cherchons aussi une réponse a la question de savoir si cette approche est une atteinte a la souveraineté fiscale des États membres.
K34|Taxpayers’ Rights In Relation To An Italian Tax Audit|"In this paper we will examine the meaning and the scope of the checks conducted by the tax authorities of Italy. In particular we will analyze the rights of the taxpayer during the tax audit governed by Law 212 of 27 July 2000, commonly called the ""Status of the rights of the Taxpayer"". In addition, we wish to clarify the Supreme Court’s position with regard to the effects of the lack of contestation of the immediate tasks of tax audit by the taxpayer."
K34|Why Eu Migration Law Matters? Legal Perspectives On Eu Migration Law|In this paper, I will present some interesting points of reflection with regards to illegal immigration, external border controls, Human trafficking and Human smuggling. Smugglers and traffickers are indeed part of criminal organizations that are making money on migrants’ damage, and it constitutes a problem for the European Union and the single Member States. I will analyze this challenge and the efforts undertaken by the International and European Community to solve this problem. Also, I wish to clarify some laws of the EU systems regardings the rights of the migrants, proposing alternatives to the migrants’ protection.
K34|Tax evasion and tax fraud in the bankruptcy process: empirical evidence from Portugal|This article aims to analyze the taxation of insolvent companies and how this process can lead to more tax evasion and tax fraud, in Portugal. Thus, this paper intends to explore how the complexity of the tax system allows tax evasion and tax fraud in insolvency proceedings. This paper is divided in two parts. At first, a review of major studies in national and international context, analyze and debate the issues raised by taxation of insolvent companies from the perspective of tax evasion and fraud. In this regard, the complexity of business insolvency, which becomes even more controversial when embracing the taxation of insolvent companies. Many of the problems that arise for the correct identification of the tax treatment applicable to processes happen to set between tax law and bankruptcy law. Second, we present the results of a study conducted in Portugal in 2013, which qualitatively assesses the perceptions of the Insolvency Administrators (AI), in relation to the taxation of insolvent companies. The technique used for gathering information was the use of questionnaires administered to the entire population of AI. A response rate of 15.48% was obtained. It was concluded that the Portuguese tax system do not make taxation of insolvent companies a clear process, raising many questions about the subject of insolvent companies to tax. Furthermore, the CIRE by giving primacy to the insolvency, for the sake of business recovery, leads to the possibility of tax evasion and fraud. To sum up, it is deemed indispensable the harmonization of procedures, legal and tax, the CIRE and the CIRC in order to a more consistent treatment of tax in insolvency proceedings, in order to annul the tax evasion and tax fraud case insolvency and also allow business recovery.
K34|Perception of tax evasion and tax fraud in Portugal: a sociological study|This article aims to analyze the perception of individual taxpayers on tax evasion, in Portugal. The international literature emphasizes the existence of several determinants that influence the taxpayers’ decision in comply or not comply with their fiscal obligations. We highlight the economic, cultural, sociological, psychological and technical determinants (Allingham, 1972; Torgler, 2006; Tsakumis, 2007; McGee, 2009). This paper intends to study the relationship between sociological factors and the behavior of taxpayers in relation to tax compliance. To achieve these objectives, we use, as a technique of gathering information, interviews using a questionnaire - survey, which we have applied to a heterogeneous sample of the Portuguese population of individual taxpayers. We have Inquired 134 individual taxpayers, in the city of Coimbra. We conclude, by using a regression model, that tax evasion in Portugal, is justifiable, in certain circumstances, for some taxpayers respondents. The main arguments justifying tax evasion are associated with the unfairness of the tax system, the high tax burden, and the waste or misuse of taxpayers’ money and finally the corruption among the political class. Furthermore, the possibility of taxpayers to be discovered by the tax authorities is not presented as an argument justifying tax evasion, thus we verified this is not a deterrent to the practice of tax evasion and tax fraud in Portugal.
K34|Thin capitalisation rules: A second-best solution to the cross-border debt bias?|One of the most significant trends in the evolution of global tax systems has been the rise from relative obscurity of thin capitalisation rules, which are perceived as anti-avoidance rules which limit tax base erosion from cross-border interest deductions. However, over the same timeframe, innovations to financial instruments have challenged the traditional financial and legal distinctions between debt and equity, which in the cross-border setting has exposed the prevalence of economic inefficiencies in the design of the international tax system. This paper approaches the issue of thin capitalisation from a novel perspective by conceptualising the cross-border debt bias as the ‘disease’ and thin capitalisation as merely the ‘symptom’. Despite their prevalence, it is unclear whether thin capitalisation rules: (1) attain tax neutrality (specifically, do these rules mitigate the debt bias); (2) are effective in both theory and practice. This provides the basis to examine whether a cross-border manifestation of a fundamental reform could eliminate the need for existing thin capitalisation rules, which are presently a second-best solution to the tax-induced cross-border debt bias. Accordingly, this paper: (1) considers reforms traditionally designed to address the domestic debt bias; specifically, the allowance for corporate equity (ACE), comprehensive business income tax (CBIT), combined ACE-CBIT and allowance for corporate capital; (2) examines the literature and implementation experience of the ACE, the only one of these fundamental reforms which has been experimented with in practice, to consider whether it is effective in both theory and practice; (3) presents the possibility of extending the combined ACE-CBIT to the cross-border context as an alternative to thin capitalisation rules.
K34|Property Tax in Prague: Quantifying the current Situation and potential Changes on the Basis of Data from Tax Returns|The relatively low property tax in the Czech Republic is determined partly by the respective law and partly by coefficients set by municipalities. Only some municipalities take advantage of their power to change these coefficients; this is partly due to insufficient information about the possibilities and their impacts. The objective of this article is to quantify the impacts of the current situation as well as of selected changes and thus provide a basis for public discussion about the design and rate of property tax in the Czech Republic. In the empirical part, based on detailed anonymised data from tax returns, we focus on the capital city Prague. Prague provides an interesting case to study because of its diversity of property, its size and the extent of its possibilities for altering its property tax. We contribute to the so far limited empirical research on property tax in the Czech Republic by quantifying the impact of property tax on various groups of tax payers, the time development of property tax revenues for municipalities, and the impact of changes in the design of property tax.
K34|Deductibility of Provisions under the CCCTB Proposal and Its Effects on Companies: The Case of Poland|The aim of the paper is to empirically examine the scale and the distribution of the tax advantage which emerges when provisions for future liabilities are deductible from taxable earnings, as proposed in the CCCTB concept. The paper concentrates on Poland - a country for which the expected economic effects of this proposal are still controversial and ambiguous. The results are also relevant for other European countries in which provisions are currently treated in a different way for financial and for tax accounting purposes. The analysis is based on the information from financial statements of 250 companies from the period 2007 - 2012. The microsimulation method in a multi-period setting is implemented. The results show that in case provisions are deductible for tax purposes the tax due decreases by 5,6 % or and by 9,8 % on average, depending on the liquidity situation of companies. The tax advantage is distributed differently among companies. The majority of taxpayers is expected to gain from the reform. Only for single companies there is an increase in tax, induced by the existing, restricted tax loss carry forward rules. The median change in CIT amounts to -1 % and -2 %.
K34|Tax Policy Response to Market Changes: The Case of the Gaming Services Sector. - L’adeguamento della politica fiscale ai cambiamenti di mercato: il caso del settore del gioco pubblico|ABSTRACT Beginning with the 1990’s, the gaming services sector has undergone several changes that have induced governments to review gambling taxes. We examine the economic rationale behind actual and prospected reforms, analysing the effects of gambling taxes on profits and extending existing industrial organisation results on the effects of cost changes in oligopolistic industries to different types of taxation instruments. - I cambiamenti che hanno interessato il settore del gioco pubblico in Italia nell’entità e nella struttura della spesa dei giocatori hanno indotto i governi a ripensare profondamente la modalità di imposizione. Questo articolo prende in esame le motivazioni economiche alla base degli interventi riformatori, estendendo alcuni risultati tipici dell’organizzazione industriale relativi agli effetti dei cambiamenti nei costi di produzione di industrie oligopolistiche alle diverse regole di tassazione.
K34|„Wie hat sich die Steuerberatervergütungsverordnung (StBVV) auf die Honorarpolitik der Steuerberater in Einzelkanzleien ausgewirkt? Ergebnis einer Umfrage an Steuerberatern in Einzelkanzleien“|Die Einführung der Steuerberater Vergütungsverordnung hat den Berufsstand vor viele neue Anforderungen in der Honorarpolitik gestellt. Der Aufsatz beschreibt den Werdegang der Steuerberatergebühren bis zur aktuellen Steuerberatervergütungsverordnung und die Veränderungen, die sich durch die Ablösung der Steuerberatergebührenverordnung ergaben. Mithilfe einer Umfrage in Steuerberatungskanzleien werden die Auswirkungen der Steuerberatervergütungsverordnung auf die Honorarpolitik in Steuerberatungseinzelkanzleien analysiert. Es wird erforscht, wie die Steuerberater bei der Umsetzung hinsichtlich der Mandanteninformationen und der Transparenz vorgegangen sind. Die Arbeit gliedert sich in fünf Kapitel. Im 1. Kapitel werde ich meine Motivation für die Umfrage darlegen, Kapitel 2 enthält einen Überblick über die Geschichte der Gebührenabrechnung der steuerberatenden Berufe. Kapitel 3 beschreibt die Methodik und die Durchführung der Umfrage, die Ergebnisse und die daraus resultierenden Schlussfolgerungen werde ich in Kapitel 4 aufzeigen. Kapitel 5 enthält ein kurzes Fazit und einen Ausblick für die Zukunft der Gebührenabrechnung.
K34|Theoretische Fundierung der Gestaltung flexibler Kostenrechnungssystematiken im mittelständischen Industriebetrieb|Der technologische Fortschritt und der damit verbundene stetig ansteigende Automatisierungsund Digitalisierungsgrad, bedingt eine starke Verschiebung der Kostenstrukturen hin zu einem höheren Fixkostenanteil der Produktionskosten. Die Intensivierung des Wettbewerbs erfordert eine schnelle Reaktionsfähigkeit des Unternehmens auf schwankende Nachfragestrukturen und bewirkt zusammen mit einer zunehmenden Verkürzung der Produktlebenszyklen eine Intensivierung der Kosten, die der Produktion vor- und nachgelagert sind. Die Gestaltung der Kostenrechnung befindet sich dabei in einem Spannungsfeld konkurrierender Anforderungen. Soll die Kostenrechnung ihrer Zweckausrichtung, mit der notwendigen Prägnanz entsprechen, ist eine tragfähige theoretische F u n d i e r u n g s o w i e d e r e n k o n s e q u e n t e Weiterentwicklung notwendig. Die Betrachtung der Kostenrechnung aus dem Blickwinkel einer bewussten, unternehmensindividuellen Gestaltung zeigt, dass die in der betriebswirtschaftlichen L i t e r a t u r i m p l i z i e r t e Allgemeingültigkeitshypothese anwendbarer Kostenrechnungssystematiken zu Gunsten einer situativen Adaptionsfähigkeit aufzugeben ist. Soll die Kostenrechnung, unter Beachtung der erwerbswirtschaftlichen Effizienzhypothese den v e r f o l g t e n R e c h e n z w e c k e n b e s t m ö g l i c h entsprechen, ist diese an die spezifischen situativen G e s t a l t u n g s p a r a m e t e r d e s U n t e r n e h m e n s anzupassen.
K34|Value Added Tax and its place in the fiscal system of the Republic of Croatia during the financial crisis|Value added tax was introduced in the fiscal system of the Republic of Croatia in 1998 as a flat rate system with a rate of 22 %. Shortly thereafter zero rate and reduced rate of 10% were introduced. Tax rates and their scope have been changing periodically until nowadays when rates are 5%, 13 % and 25% by which the Republic of Croatia takes a leading position regarding the amount of standard rate applicable in the Member States of the European Union.At the beginning of 2015 value added tax legislation is going to be harmonized with the EU legislation completely and will create a basis for a stable and plentiful form of sales taxation, with respect to the fact that Value added tax is the most plentiful taxation revenue of Government Budget of the Republic of Croatia.Latest reforms of the Value Added tax system in the Republic of Croatia concern changes in several areas: tax rate levels, threshold for compulsory registration in the Value added tax system, tax exemptions (by selecting functional principles for certain categories of exemptions), modalities of Value Added tax computation (according to collected or issued invoices) and new control methods of cash turnover. The greatest effect was expected in the area of its buoyancy and resilience during the financial crisis whether there was attempt to indirectly influence its regressive nature. Regardless of changes in the taxation system by the Value added tax, developments in economy and changes in social and economic sphere, Value added tax revenue in the last ten years has been in relatively narrow limits. However, its buoyancy, cheapness of collection and resilience during the financial crisis as advantages of this form of taxation cannot be considered separately but must be placed in the context of current economic conditions.According to the recent efforts of raising the standard rate of Value added tax there is a question of reaching the limits of Croatian tax capacity and real possibilities of setting its goals. Therefore, cheapness and efficiency of tax collection, the stability of tax policy and the balance between scope of tax base and provided exemptions should be an imperative of fiscal policy of the Republic of Croatia, which has to aim at the effectiveness of the implementation of legislation in relation to the tax system as a whole.
K34|The fiscal implications of mobile applications: The case study of UBER in Romania|"The development of information technology has brought about massive change in the way people conduct their daily activities. These changes are reflected in both in economics and consumer behavior. Mobile applications come to support consumers in their daily activities, but it also implies new challenges in national and international legislation. One of these applications is the Uber, application that changed the way transportation is perceived. This application provides consumers the possibility to find a convenient mean of transportation available even during peak hours. But what are the implications in terms of taxation? Would the Uber standard operating model effectively work in any country? This paper provides information regarding the tax implications that may arise in the case of mobile business model, analyzing the Uber mobile application. The paper also provides information about consumer?s perception on this type of mobile application.AcknowledgementThis paper was co-financed from the European Social Fund, through the Sectorial Operational Programme Human Resources Development 2007-2013, project number POSDRU/159/1.5/S/138907 ""Excellence in scientific interdisciplinary research, doctoral and postdoctoral, in the economic, social and medical fields -EXCELIS"", coordinator The Bucharest University of Economic Studies"
K34|The Legality Principle Of Taxes In The Constitution Of Republic Of Turkey|The legality principle of taxes is arranged in the 73rd article of Turkish Constitution: ?Taxes, dues, fees and similar charges shall be enacted, amended and repealed by the law?. By this provision, it has been stressed that the basic authority on taxation appertains to national assembly. The provision granting the authority about taxation to Council of Ministers is set at the 4th (the last) paragraph article 73 of Turkish Constitution: ?Council of Ministers may be empowered to make amendments within the lower and upper limits prescribed by the law on provisions of exemptions, exceptions, reductions and rates related to taxes, duties, fees and similar charges?.In this study, we try to explain the scope of the legality principle of taxes in Turkish Constitution. Also the authority about taxation given to the Cabinet is also examined in this presentation.
K34|Economic Crime And Punishment In Turkish Tax System: A Comparative Analysis|Turkey, always in a process of transition in many areas, and a vicious cycle may not exceed beyond this process has been a long time in an effort to take its place in the globalized world. Our economy has entered a transition to a free market economy in the 1980s and has taken important steps in this process. The share of economic crime has increased while the crime has changed dimension after the accrete of the settlement of the free market economy. In our study, we made a brief introduction to the concept of economic crime, especially of Turkish tax system are evaluated in terms of economic crimes and punishments. Then, by making comparison with the legislation of some developed countries, one of the reforms in the Process of the European Union, the new Turkish Penal Code has been assessed the effects on the Turkish Tax System and problems and solutions are listed.
