K35|Macroeconomic Effects of Debt Relief: Consumer Bankruptcy Protections in the Great Recession|This paper argues that the debt forgiveness provided by the U.S. consumer bankruptcy system helped stabilize employment levels during the Great Recession. We document that over this period, states with more generous bankruptcy exemptions had significantly smaller declines in non-tradable employment and larger increases in unsecured debt write-downs compared to states with less generous exemptions. We interpret these reduced form estimates as the relative effect of debt relief across states, and develop a general equilibrium model to recover the aggregate employment effect. The model yields three key results. First, substantial nominal rigidities are required to rationalize our reduced form estimates. Second, with monetary policy at the zero lower bound, traded good demand spillovers across states boosted employment everywhere. Finally, the ex-post debt forgiveness provided by the consumer bankruptcy system during the Great Recession increased aggregate employment by almost two percent.
K35|Macroeconomic Effects of Debt Relief: Consumer Bankruptcy Protections in the Great Recession|This paper argues that the debt forgiveness provided by the U.S. consumer bankruptcy system helped stabilize employment levels during the Great Recession. We document that over this period, states with more generous bankruptcy exemptions had significantly smaller declines in non-tradable employment and larger increases in unsecured debt write-downs compared to states with less generous exemptions. We interpret these reduced form estimates as the relative effect of debt relief across states, and develop a general equilibrium model to recover the aggregate employment effect. The model yields three key results. First, substantial nominal rigidities are required to rationalize our reduced form estimates. Second, with monetary policy at the zero lower bound, traded good demand spillovers across states boosted employment everywhere. Finally, the ex-post debt forgiveness provided by the consumer bankruptcy system during the Great Recession increased aggregate employment by almost two percent.
K35|The Economic Consequences of Bankruptcy Reform|A more generous consumer bankruptcy system provides greater insurance against financial risks, but it may also raise the cost of credit to consumers. We study this trade-off using the 2005 Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act (BAPCPA), which raised the costs of filing for bankruptcy. We identify the effects of BAPCPA on borrowing costs by exploiting variation in the effects of the reform on bankruptcy risk across credit-score segments. Using a combination of administrative records, credit reports, and proprietary market-research data, we find that the reform reduced bankruptcy filings, and reduced the likelihood that an uninsured hospitalization received bankruptcy relief by 70 percent. BAPCPA led to a decrease in credit card interest rates, with an implied pass-through rate of 60–75 percent. Overall, BAPCPA decreased the gap in offered interest rates between prime and subprime consumers by roughly 10 percent.
K35|Credit, Default, and Optimal Health Insurance|How do defaults and bankruptcies affect optimal health insurance policy? I answer this question using a life-cycle model of health investment with the option to default on emergency room (ER) bills and financial debts. I calibrate the model for the U.S. economy and compare the optimal health insurance in the baseline economy with that in an economy with no option to default. With no option to default, the optimal health insurance is similar to the health insurance system in the baseline economy. In contrast, with the option to default, the optimal health insurance system (i) expands the eligibility of Medicaid to 22 percent of the working-age population, (ii) replaces 72 percent of employer-based health insurance with a private individual health insurance plus a progressive subsidy, and (iii) reforms the private individual health insurance market by improving coverage rates and preventing price discrimination against people with pre-existing conditions. This result implies that with the option to default, households rely on bankruptcies and defaults on ER bills as implicit health insurance. More redistributive healthcare reforms can improve welfare by reducing the dependence on this implicit health insurance and changing households’ medical spending behavior to be more preventative.
K35|Credit, Default, and Optimal Health Insurance|How do defaults and bankruptcies affect optimal health insurance policy? I answer this question using a life-cycle model of health investment with the option to default on emergency room (ER) bills and financial debts. I calibrate the model for the U.S. economy and compare the optimal health insurance in the baseline economy with that in an economy with no option to default. With no option to default, the optimal health insurance is similar to the health insurance system in the baseline economy. In contrast, with the option to default, the optimal health insurance system (i) expands the eligibility of Medicaid to 22 percent of the working-age population, (ii) replaces 72 percent of employer-based health insurance with a private individual health insurance plus a progressive subsidy, and (iii) reforms the private individual health insurance market by improving coverage rates and preventing price discrimination against people with pre-existing conditions. This result implies that with the option to default, households rely on bankruptcies and defaults on ER bills as implicit health insurance. More redistributive healthcare reforms can improve welfare by reducing the dependence on this implicit health insurance and changing households’ medical spending behavior to be more preventative.
K35|Does the Relative Income of Peers Cause Financial Distress? Evidence from Lottery Winners and Neighboring Bankruptcies|SUPERSEDED BY WP 18-22 We examine whether relative income differences among peers can generate financial distress. Using lottery winnings as plausibly exogenous variations in the relative income of peers, we find that the dollar magnitude of a lottery win of one neighbor increases subsequent borrowing and bankruptcies among other neighbors. We also examine which factors may mitigate lenders’ bankruptcy risk in these neighborhoods. We show that bankruptcy filers can obtain secured but not unsecured debt, and lenders provide secured credit to low-risk but not high-risk debtors. In addition, we find evidence consistent with local lenders reducing bankruptcy risk using soft information.
K35|Peers’ Income and Financial Distress: Evidence from Lottery Winners and Neighboring Bankruptcies|SUPRSEDES WP 18-16 We examine whether relative income differences among peers can generate financial distress. Using lottery winnings as plausibly exogenous variations in the relative income of peers, we find that the dollar magnitude of a lottery win of one neighbor increases subsequent borrowing and bankruptcies among other neighbors. We also examine which factors may mitigate lenders’ bankruptcy risk in these neighborhoods. We show that bankruptcy filers obtain more secured but not unsecured debt, and lenders provide additional credit to low-risk but not high-risk debtors. In addition, we find evidence consistent with local lenders taking advantage of soft information to mitigate credit risk.
K35|Insolvency after the 2005 bankruptcy reform|Using a comprehensive panel dataset on U.S. households, we study the effects of the 2005 Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act (BAPCPA), the most substantive reform of personal bankruptcy in the United States since the Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978. The 2005 legislation introduced a means test based on income to establish eligibility for Chapter 7 bankruptcy and increased the administrative requirements to file, leading to a rise in the opportunity cost and, especially, the financial cost of filing for bankruptcy. We study the effects of the reform on bankruptcy, insolvency, and foreclosure. We find that the reform caused a permanent drop in the Chapter 7 bankruptcy rate relative to pre-reform levels, owing to the rise in filing costs associated with the reform, which can be interpreted as resulting from liquidity constraints. We find that the decline in bankruptcy filings resulted in a rise in the rate and persistence of insolvency as well as an increase in the rate of foreclosure. We find no evidence of a link between the decline in bankruptcy and a rise in the number of individuals who are current on their debt. We document that these effects are concentrated at the bottom of the income distribution, suggesting that the income means tests introduced by BAPCPA did not serve as an effective screening device. We show that insolvency is associated with worse financial outcomes than bankruptcy, as insolvent individuals have less access to new lines of credit and display lower credit scores than individuals who file for bankruptcy. Since bankruptcy filings declined much more for low-income individuals, our findings suggest that, for this group, BAPCPA may have removed an important form of relief from financial distress.
K35|Design of insolvency regimes across countries|This paper explores cross-country differences in the design of insolvency regimes, based on quantitative indicators constructed from countries’ responses to a recent OECD policy questionnaire. The indicators – which are available for 36 countries for 2010 and 2016 – aim to better capture the key design features of insolvency which impact the timely initiation and resolution of personal and corporate insolvency proceedings. According to these metrics, the design of insolvency regimes varies significantly across countries, with important differences emerging with respect to the treatment of failed entrepreneurs, the availability of preventative and streamlining tools and ease of corporate restructuring. While a comparison of indicator values for 2010 and 2016 imply that recent reform efforts have improved policy design, there remains much scope to reform insolvency regimes in many OECD countries. This is particularly significant in light of complementary analysis which shows that the design of insolvency regimes is relevant for understanding three inter-related sources of contemporary labour productivity weakness: the survival of “zombie” firms, capital misallocation and stalling technological diffusion.
K35|Insights into the Impact of Bankruptcy's Public Record on Entrepreneurial Activity: Evidence from Economic Experiments|Many Anglo-American jurisdictions aim to provide debtors with a ‘fresh start’ after a personal bankruptcy. However, we query the extent to which debtors can achieve a fresh start if records of individual bankruptcies are publicly available, with no restrictions on their use. To inform the legal policy question of whether bankruptcy records should be publicly available, we study the effect of the availability of bankruptcy records, compared to their non-existence, in an economic experiment. The experiment allows us to identify empirically the effect that the exposure of bankruptcy history has on the behaviour of investors and debtors. Our exploratory research shows that the availability of bankruptcy records increases investment. Availability also increases repayment behaviour by debtors, but only if the debtor has no history of bankruptcy (non-return of payments). If, however, a debtor failed to return payments in the past, and this information is available, debtors show lower instances of return behaviour.
K35|Households Debt Restructuring: The Re-default Effects of a Debt Suspension|When facing financial distress, French households can file a case to a “households’ over-indebtedness commission” (HDC). The HDC can order an immediate repayment or grant a debt suspension. Exploiting the random assignment of bankruptcy filings to managers, we show that a debt suspension has a very significant and negative effect on the likelihood to re-default but that this impact is only short-lived. The effect depends not only on the characteristics of the households but also on the nature of their indebtedness. Our results imply that rather than focusing on a specific debt profile, above all a deeper restructuring of the expenditure side is necessary to make the plan sustainable in case of an uniform increase of the HDC severity. They also single out specific banks lending to particular fragile households. They indicate the importance of policy actions on budget counseling, as well as the importance of regulation of credit distribution to avoid both entering into bankruptcy and re-filing for bankruptcy.
K35|Social Influence and the Consumer Bankruptcy Decision|I examine the influence of neighbors on the consumer bankruptcy decision using administrative bankruptcy records linked the 2000 Decennial Census. Two empirical strategies remove unobserved common factors that affect identification. The first strategy uses small geographical areas to isolate neighborhood effects, and the second strategy identifies the effect using past bankruptcy filers who moved states. The findings from both strategies reinforce each other and confirm the role of social influence on the bankruptcy decision. Having a past bankruptcy filer move into the block from a different state increases the likelihood of filing by 10 percent.
K35|Optimal Corporate Taxation under Financial Frictions|We study the optimal design of corporate taxation when firms are subject to financial constraints. We find that corporate taxes should be levied on unconstrained firms, since those firms value resources inside the firm less than financially constrained firms. When the government has complete information about which firms are and are not constrained, this principle is sufficient to characterize optimal corporate tax policy. When the government (and other outsiders) do not know which firms are and are not constrained, the government can use the payout policies of firms to elicit whether or not the firm is constrained, and assess taxes accordingly. Using this insight, we discuss conditions under which a tax on dividends paid is the optimal corporate tax. We then extend this result to a dynamic setting, showing that, if the government lacks commitment, the optimal sequence of tax mechanisms can be implemented with a dividend tax. With commitment, we reach a very different conclusion--a lump sum tax on firm entry is optimal. We argue that these two models demonstrate an underlying principle, that optimal corporate taxes should avoid exacerbating financial frictions, and demonstrate that the structure of the financial frictions can drastically change the optimal policy.
K35|Assessing bankruptcy reform in a model with temptation and equilibrium default|A life-cycle model with equilibrium default in which agents with and without temptation coexist is constructed to evaluate the 2005 bankruptcy law reform. The calibrated model indicates that the 2005 reform reduces bankruptcies, as seen in the data, and improves welfare, as lower default premia allows better consumption smoothing. A counterfactual reform of changing income garnishment rate is also investigated. Interesting contrasting welfare effects between two types of agents emerge. Agents with temptation prefer a lower garnishment rate as tighter borrowing constraint prevents them from over-borrowing, while those without prefer better consumption smoothing enabled by a higher garnishment rate.
K35|Spatial Commitment Devices and Addictive Goods: Evidence from the Removal of Slot Machines from Bars|Commitment device theory suggests that temptations to consume addictive goods could be reduced by the regulatory removal of geographically close environmental cues. We provide new evidence on this hypothesis using a quasi-natural experiment, in which gambling regulators removed slot machines from some, but not all, neighborhood bars. We find that the removal of slot machines reduced personal bankruptcies of close neighbors (within 100 meters) but not neighbors slightly farther away. This is consistent with the removal of neighborhood slots serving as an effective spatial commitment device, which reduced close neighbors’ temptation to gamble, thus allowing them to avoid bankruptcy.
K35|Strategic Default Among Private Student Loan Debtors: Evidence from Bankruptcy Reform|Bankruptcy reform in 2005 restricted debtors’ ability to discharge private student loan debt. The reform was motivated by the perceived incentive of some borrowers to file bankruptcy under Chapter 7 even if they had, or expected to have, sufficient income to service their debt. Using a national sample of credit bureau files, we examine whether private student loan borrowers distinctly adjusted their Chapter 7 bankruptcy filing behavior in response to the reform. We do not find evidence to indicate that the moral hazard associated with dischargeability appreciably affected the behavior of private student loan debtors prior to the policy.
K35|The Impact of Consumer Credit Access on Employment, Earnings and Entrepreneurship|How does consumer credit access impact employment prospects, earnings, and entrepreneurship? We answer this question by merging individual employment records from the Census Bureau with individual TransUnion credit reports, and exploiting the discrete increase in individual credit following exogenous bankruptcy flag removal. We find that flows into self-employment increase, flows out of self-employment increase, flows into formal employment increase. Earnings levels and growth rates rise for individuals who make the transition into formal employment. There are two competing economic forces underlying these results: (i) credit constraints loosen after exogenous bankruptcy flag removal allowing households to start self-employed businesses (ii) households who were self-employed because credit checks precluded them from finding formal sector jobs subsequently return to the formal sector after bankruptcy flag removal.
K35|Personal Bankruptcy, Bank Portfolio Choice and the Macroeconomy|This paper explores the spillover effects from increasing personal bankruptcy protection. Innovatively, the paper shows that the spillover effects can be influenced by the bank portfolio choice. Since a low level of personal bankruptcy protection keeps an insolvent individual liable until her debt is repaid in full, lender's returns on mortgages are less uncertain than returns on other assets ceteris paribus. Risk-averse banks would prefer mortgages over other types of assets such as corporate loans. Corporate lending and thus equilibrium output would fall. In contrary to the popular view that creditor protection smooths credit provision and makes the allocation of resources more efficient, I show that in some cases a low level of personal bankruptcy protection can lead to aggregate consumption losses. Also I show that macroprudential policies (LTV ratios) can successfully complement higher personal bankruptcy protection in ensuring even higher welfare.
K35|Consumer Bankruptcy Pathologies|This paper questions several long-standing descriptions of consumer bankruptcy in the United States. We focus on Chapter 13, which discharges debts after consumers pay disposable income to creditors for up to five years. Many studies document pathologies, including high failure rates, racial disparities, low creditor recoveries, and attorney biases. We observe the same patterns in new data drawn from Cook County, Illinois, but show that these pathologies are central tendencies that ignore substantial heterogeneity across consumers. Several pathologies are driven by subsets of consumers; some disappear once we take account of consumer heterogeneity. We present new evidence that some pathologies reflect biases in nonbankruptcy law, not in the bankruptcy process itself.
K35|Pockets of risk in the Belgian mortgage market : Evidence from the Household Finance and Consumption Survey (HFCS)|This paper complements macroeconomic indicators for macroprudential policy with information from microeconomic survey data from the Household Finance and Consumption Survey (HFCS), to identify pockets of risk in the Belgian mortgage market. It takes into account distributional aspects of debt and assets, with a special focus on the coverage of households’ mortgage debt by (liquid)financial assets. It identifies the share of outstanding mortgage debt that is possibly at risk, and the parts of the population most affected, on the basis of income and assets-related debt indicators. The first finding is that some groups of households have problems servicing their debt out of their income and some lack the financial resources to cope with income loss. The second finding is that Belgian households’ considerable financial wealth is (very) unequally distributed, and that therefore this wealth covers their outstanding mortgage debt only to a limited extent. As a consequence, a severe unemployment shock could hurt many mortgage-indebted households, involving a significant part of total outstanding mortgage debt in Belgium. All in all, this paper shows that survey data can complement macro data for macroprudential policy purposes.
K35|Targeted Debt Relief and the Origins of Financial Distress: Experimental Evidence from Distressed Credit Card Borrowers|We study the drivers of financial distress using a large-scale field experiment that offered randomly selected borrowers a combination of (i) immediate payment reductions to target short-run liquidity constraints and (ii) delayed debt write-downs to target long-run debt constraints. We identify the separate effects of the payment reductions and debt write-downs using variation from both the experiment and cross-sectional differences in treatment intensity. We find that the debt write-downs significantly improved both financial and labor market outcomes despite not taking effect for three to five years. In sharp contrast, there were no positive effects of the more immediate payment reductions. These results run counter to the widespread view that financial distress is largely the result of short-run constraints.
K35|Insolvency regimes, zombie firms and capital reallocation|This paper explores cross-country differences in the design of insolvency regimes and their potential links with two inter-related sources of labour productivity weakness: the survival of “zombie” firms (firms that would typically exit in a competitive market) and capital misallocation. New cross-country policy indicators of insolvency regimes are constructed based on countries’ responses to a recent OECD questionnaire, which aimed to better capture the key design features of insolvency which impact the timely initiation and resolution of insolvency proceedings. According to these metrics, cross-country differences in the design of insolvency regimes are significant. Firm level analysis shows that reforms to insolvency regimes which reduce barriers to corporate restructuring and the personal cost associated with entrepreneurial failure may reduce the share of capital sunk in zombie firms. These gains are partly realised via the restructuring of weak firms, which in turn spurs the reallocation of capital to more productive firms. These findings carry strong policy implications, in light of the fact that there is much scope to reform insolvency regimes in many OECD countries and given evidence that rising capital misallocation and the increasing survival of low productivity firms have contributed to the productivity slowdown.
K35|Insolvency Regimes, Technology Diffusion and Productivity Growth: Evidence from Firms in OECD Countries|This paper explores the link between the design of insolvency regimes across countries and laggard firms’ multi-factor productivity (MFP) growth, using new OECD indicators of the design of insolvency regimes. Firm-level analysis shows that reforms to insolvency regimes that lower barriers to corporate restructuring are associated with higher MFP growth of laggard firms. These results are consistent with the idea that insolvency regimes that do not unduly inhibit corporate restructuring can incentivise experimentation and provide scope to reconfigure production and organisational structures in order to faciliate technological adoption. The results also highlight policy complementarities, with insolvency regimes that reduce the cost of entrepreneurial failure potentially enhancing the MFP gains from lowering administrative entry barriers in product markets. Finally, we find that reducing debt bias in corporate tax systems and well-developed venture capital markets are associated higher laggard firm MFP growth, suggesting that equity financing can also be an important driver of technological diffusion. These findings carry strong policy implications, in light of the fact that there is much scope to reform insolvency regimes in many OECD countries and given evidence that stalling technological diffusion has contributed to the aggregate productivity slowdown.
K35|Confronting the zombies: Policies for productivity revival|Policies that spur more efficient corporate restructuring can revive productivity growth by targeting three inter-related sources of labour productivity weakness: the survival of “zombie” firms (low productivity firms that would typically exit in a competitive market), capital misallocation and stalling technological diffusion. New OECD policy indicators show that there is much scope to improve the design of insolvency regimes in order to reduce the barriers to restructuring of weak firms and the personal costs associated with entrepreneurial failure. Insolvency regime reform can not only address the aforementioned sources of productivity weakness but also enhance the productivity impacts of reducing entry barriers in product markets. As the zombie firm problem may partly stem from bank forbearance, complementary reforms to insolvency regimes are essential to ensure that a more aggressive policy to resolve non-performing loans is effective. Distortions in the banking sector highlight the importance of market-based financing instruments for productivity growth with the inherent debt bias in corporate tax systems emerging as a key barrier to technological diffusion. Finally, well-designed job search and retraining policies are effective at returning workers displaced by firm exit to work, particularly in environments where barriers to firm entry are low.
K35|The Impact of Personal Bankruptcy on Labor Supply Decisions|"The Chapter 7 bankruptcy code was motivated by the notion of a ""fresh start,"" which was justified in part by the Supreme Court on the grounds that it would encourage work incentives. We ask the question, ""how does a fresh start affect labor supply?"" This question is explored in the context of a model with job search and bankruptcy choices. The model takes into account both the endogeneity and interdependence of decisions in labor and credit markets. The structural approach allows direct assessment of individuals' labor supply responses given their bankruptcy decisions. We find that Chapter 7 filers on average increase labor supply by 12.3%. (Copyright: Elsevier)"
K35|Memory and Markets|In many environments, including credit and online markets, past records about participants are collected, published, and erased after some time. We study the effects of erasing past records on trade and welfare in a dynamic market where each seller’s quality follows a Markov process and buyers leave feedback about sellers. When the average quality of sellers is low, unlimited records always lead to a market breakdown. Appropriately deleting records, instead, can sustain trade in the long run. Positive and negative records play very different roles, and welfare is maximized for short positive records and long but bounded negative records.
K35|Consumption Smoothing and Debtor Protections|Protections for debtors are a significant source of consumption insurance. This paper evaluates the insurance created by laws that protect defaulting debtors’ assets. First, I show that households are not fully insured; consumption declines by 3-5% upon default. Second, I estimate the effect of changes in asset protection on the default rate, repayment in default, and interest rates. While additional protection does smooth consumption, the default distortion generates a substantial interest rate cost. Within a sufficient statistics formula, the estimates imply that less asset protection would significantly increase welfare.
K35|Macroeconomic Effects of Bankruptcy and Foreclosure Policies|I study the implications of two major debt-relief policies in the United States: the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act (BAPCPA) and the Home Affordable Refinance Program (HARP). To do so, I develop a model of housing and default that includes relevant dimensions of credit-market policy and captures rich heterogeneity in household balance sheets. The model also explains the observed cross-state variation in consumer default rates. I find that BAPCPA significantly reduced bankruptcy rates, but increased foreclosure rates when house prices fell. HARP reduced foreclosures by 1 percentage point and provided substantial welfare gains to households with high loan-to-value mortgages.
K35|The Impact of Bankruptcy Reform on Insolvency Choice and Consumer Credit|We examine the impact of the 2009 amendments to the Canadian Bankruptcy and Insolvency Act on insolvency decisions. Rule changes steered debtors out of division I proposals and into the more cost-effective division II proposals. This also led to a significant substitution out of bankruptcies and into proposals. Using credit bureau data on credit card limits we test, but do not find, any evidence that this substitution into more creditor-friendly insolvencies had any impact on average lending behavior, either immediately following the amendments or up to six years removed.
K35|Kommunale und private Schulden in Deutschland – Eine Frage der Mentalität?|In diesem Beitrag wird gezeigt, dass kommunale und private Schulden in Deutschland räumlich ähnlich verteilt sind. Der Zusammenhang ist jedoch dann nicht mehr statistisch signifikant, wenn die lokale Arbeitslosenquote berücksichtigt wird. Dieses Ergebnis unterstreicht die Bedeutung des lokalen Arbeitsmarktes für die Solidität öffentlicher und privater Finanzen. Ob hierbei ein direkter Einfluss von prekärer Arbeitsmarktlage auf das kommunale und private Schuldenniveau besteht, oder ob Schulden und Arbeitslosigkeit in einer gemeinsamen Ursache wurzeln, ist im Rahmen der weiteren Forschung zu beantworten.
K35|Modelo para el análisis de la quiebra financiera en pymes agroindustriales antioqueñas|El riesgo de quiebra en el sector agroindustrial antioqueño no ha sido ampliamente explorado a partir de modelación estadística, que puede proveer importantes elementos y tendencias para conocer el comportamiento de este sector determinante en la economía regional. Este análisis se basó en un modelo lineal mixto, que utilizó como variable respuesta el puntaje obtenido con el índice Z de Altman, el cual es un índice latente estimado a partir de variables financieras observables y que, dependiendo de su valor, clasifica las empresas en solventes e insolventes. La metodología utilizada determinó, en primera instancia, el tamaño de muestra por subsector, y luego estimó el índice Z de Altman por empresa y año, para el periodo comprendido entre 2010-2014. Con dichos índices como respuesta por empresa, se estableció un modelo lineal mixto, que permitió identificar la presencia de cambios significativos entre los diferentes subsectores de la agroindustria antioqueña, para evaluar y diagnosticar problemas de insolvencia futuros para el sector.
K35|Courts at work: Bankruptcy statutes, majority rule and private contracting in England (17th–18th century)|Rather than evolving as a platform for renegotiation and debt discharge, as on the Continent, English bankruptcy emerged as a liquidation-only procedure after majority arrangements among creditors were banned in 1621. Over the course of the 17th and 18th centuries, the courts then developed an alternate, private-law set of rules on the basis of the old English trust and the Composition agreement, which belonged of the medieval cross-European Law Merchant. The main advantage of this little-known institution was its perpetual character and the flexibility of its governance, and its main drawback was obviously the requirement of voluntary initial adhesion. Symmetrically, under the Continental model, collective action was easier to obtain but it did not extend beyond the doors of the court. The discussion brings forward two further themes: the symmetry between adjudication and voluntary adhesion to a collective contract; and the capacity of judges to invent new legal concepts out of diverse set of existing rules, rather than through the simple, bottom-up approach usually emphasised by the literature on the Common Law tradition.
K35|Reforming personal insolvency law in India|In India, we have paid more attention to the restructuring and winding up processes for companies. In contrast, the legal framework for insolvency in India is rooted in century old laws. In this paper, we motivate the need for a personal bankruptcy law, and study the existing Indian legal framework in the form of the Presidency Towns Insolvency Act, 1909 (PTIA) for Calcutta, Bombay and Madras and the Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920 (PIA). We also study the system in the UK and Australia, and draw lessons for reform for India.
K35|An Anatomy Of U.S. Personal Bankruptcy Under Chapter 13| We build a structural model that captures salient features of personal bankruptcy under Chapter 13. We estimate our model using a novel data set that we construct from bankruptcies filed in Delaware between 2001 and 2002. Our estimation results highlight the importance of a debtor's choice of repayment plan length on other Chapter 13 outcomes. We use the estimated model to conduct policy experiments to evaluate the impact of more stringent laws that impose restrictions on the length of repayment plans. We find that these provisions would not materially affect creditor recovery rates and would not necessarily make discharge more likely.
K35|Auto credit and the 2005 bankruptcy reform: the impact of eliminating cramdowns|Auto lenders were perhaps the biggest winners of the 2005 Bankruptcy Reform. Cars depreciate quickly, so borrowers often owe more than their car is worth. Prior to the Reform, these borrowers could reduce the principal on their auto loan to the market value of the car through a “cramdown” in Chapter 13 bankruptcy. The Reform prohibited cramdowns during the first two and a half years of an auto loan. This paper is the first to estimate the causal effect of this anticramdown provision on the price and quantity of auto credit. The authors use a novel empirical strategy that relies on the fact that eliminating cramdowns affected only one of the two types of consumer bankruptcy: Chapter 13. They exploit persistent historical variation in states’ usage of Chapter 13 generated by differences in local legal culture. Using difference-in-differences regressions, their empirical strategy compares pre-Reform and post-Reform auto loans across states with persistent historical differences in the share of bankruptcies filed under Chapter 13. They find that eliminating cramdowns decreased interest rates on auto loans in the average state by 15 basis points, with a larger decline in states where Chapter 13 is more common. The decline in interest rates occurs in the exact month that the Reform went into effect, and the authors rule out other aspects of the Reform as possible causes. Next, the authors estimate the effect on the quantity of auto credit. Using quarterly data from the FRBNY Consumer Credit Panel based on Equifax credit reports, they examine the effect of eliminating cramdowns on the number and size of new auto loans. The estimates show a small, negative, and insignificant impact on the number of new auto loans. The authors do find some evidence, however, that loan sizes increased among subprime borrowers.
K35|Does inequality cause financial distress? Evidence from lottery winners and neighboring bankruptcies|Revised Oct 2016. We test the hypothesis that income inequality causes financial distress. To identify the effect of income inequality, we examine lottery prizes of random dollar magnitudes in the context of very small neighborhoods (13 households on average). We find that a C$1,000 increase in the lottery prize causes a 2.4% rise in subsequent bankruptcies among the winners’ close neighbors. We also provide evidence of conspicuous consumption as a mechanism for this causal relationship. The size of lottery prizes increases the value of visible assets (houses, cars, motorcycles), but not invisible assets (cash and pensions), appearing on the balance sheets of neighboring bankruptcy filers.
K35|Success of prediction models in Slovak companies|"""Objective – The issue of bankrupt of company is very actual topic not only in Slovakia but also in abroad. The reason is that many companies have problem with the question of their probability of default or bankrupt and also with their financial health as a whole. This paper deals with the issue of prediction models and captures the applicability of these models in the Slovak conditions. Methodology/Technique – In this paper are applied eight selected prediction models in the sample of 74 companies from Slovak Republic. In addition, this paper calculated one financial ratio from the category of company´s indebtedness. Based on this calculation is done the comparison between results of predictions models and results of indebtedness financial ratio. Findings – They tested eight different prediction models and their findings present that best results were achieved by Fulmer, Poznanski and Zmijewski model. Weak results achieved IN05, CH-index and Sharita model. Novelty – This paper provides explanatory ability and success of individual prediction models in Slovak conditions."""
K35|The Distribution of Debt across Euro-Area Countries: The Role of Individual Characteristics, Institutions, and Credit Conditions|The aim of this paper is twofold. First, we present an up-to-date assessment of the differences across euro-area countries in the distributions of various measures of debt conditional on household characteristics. We consider three different outcomes: the probability of holding secured debt, the amount of secured debt held, and the interest rate paid on the main mortgage. Second, we examine the role of legal and economic institutions in accounting for these differences. We use data from the first wave of a new survey of household finances, the Household Finance and Consumption Survey. Adjusting for household composition, we find substantial cross-country variation in secured debt outcomes and in their distribution across age and income groups. Among all the institutions considered, the length of asset repossession periods best accounts for the differences across countries in the distribution of secured debt. In countries with longer repossession periods, the fraction of people who borrow is smaller, the youngest group of households borrow lower amounts (conditional on borrowing), and the mortgage interest rates paid by low-income households are higher. Regulatory loan-to-value ratios, the taxation of mortgages, and the prevalence of fixed-rate mortgages deliver less robust results.
K35|Strumenti per il sostegno finanziario di famiglie e microimprese: il caso italiano (Policies to help financially vulnerable Italian households and micro-businesses)|This study aims to review and evaluate several policies enacted in the financial field to alleviate the negative consequences of the economic crisis on families and micro-businesses. Two different, yet complementary aspects of the effects of the crisis have been examined: the increased difficulty in gaining access to credit and the increased problems in meeting debt repayment obligations. Firstly the recent regulations governing micro-credit - enacted to facilitate access to credit for families and micro-businesses (the latter in light of the increasing need for self-sufficient entrepreneurial projects, as a response to increased unemployment in the job market) - are evaluated. This is followed by an examination of the efficacy of the law relating to over-indebtedness of families and micro-businesses, with particular focus on the concept of creditor-blame. This study ends with a question: could an interpretation of the new rules governing responsible credit to consumers constitute a legal right to such credit?Classification-JEL: G21, G28, I38, K35, K36
K35|Bankruptcy and Investment: Evidence from Changes in Marital Property Laws in the U.S. South, 1840-1850|We study the impact of the introduction of a form of bankruptcy protection on household investment in the U.S. South in the 1840s, which predated modern bankruptcy laws. During this period, certain southern states passed laws that protected married women's property from seizure in the case of insolvency, amending the common law default which vested a wife's property in her husband and thus allowed it to be seized for the repayment of his debts. Importantly, these laws only applied to newlyweds. We compare couples married after the passage of a law with couples from the same state who married before the passage of a law. Since states passed laws at different points in time, we can exploit variation in protection conditional on state and year of marriage. We find that the effect on household investment was heterogeneous: if most household wealth came from the husband (wife), the law led to an increase (decrease) in investment. This is consistent with a simple model where downside protection leads to both an increase in the demand for credit and a reduction in supply. Demand effects will only dominate if a modest fraction of total wealth is protected.
K35|The Marginal Propensity to Consume Over the Business Cycle|This paper estimates how the marginal propensity to consume (MPC) varies over the business cycle by exploiting exogenous variation in credit card borrowing limits. Ten years after an individual declares Chapter 7 bankruptcy, the record of the bankruptcy is removed from her credit report, generating an immediate and persistent increase in credit score. We study the effects of “bankruptcy flag” removal using a sample of over 160,000 bankruptcy filers whose flags were removed between 2004 and 2011. We document that in the year following flag removal, credit card limits increase by $780 and credit card balances increase by roughly $290, implying an “MPC out of liquidity” of 0.37. We find a significantly higher MPC during the Great Recession, with an average MPC roughly 20–30 percent larger between 2007 and 2009 compared to surrounding years. We find no evidence that the counter-cyclical variation in the average MPC is accounted for by compositional changes or by changes over time in the supply of credit following bankruptcy flag removal. These results are consistent with models where liquidity constraints bind more frequently during recessions.
K35|Bad credit, no problem? Credit and labor market consequences of bad credit reports|Credit reports are used in nearly all consumer lending decisions and, increasingly, in hiring decisions in the labor market, but the impact of a bad credit report is largely unknown. We study the effects of credit reports on financial and labor market outcomes using a difference-in-differences research design that compares changes in outcomes over time for Chapter 13 filers, whose personal bankruptcy flags are removed from credit reports after seven years, to changes for Chapter 7 filers, whose personal bankruptcy flags are removed from credit reports after ten years. Using credit bureau data, we show that the removal of a Chapter 13 bankruptcy flag leads to a large increase in credit limits and economically significant increases in credit card and mortgage borrowing. Using administrative tax records linked to personal bankruptcy records, we estimate a precise zero effect of flag removal on employment and earnings outcomes. We rationalize these contrasting results by showing that, conditional on basic observables, “hidden” bankruptcy flags are strongly correlated with adverse credit market outcomes but have no predictive power for labor market outcomes.
K35|Insolvency Regimes And Productivity Growth: A Framework For Analysis|This paper develops an analytical framework to identify the policies relevant for firm exit and the channels through which they shape aggregate productivity growth. A range of potentially relevant policies are identified, spanning insolvency regimes, regulations affecting product, labour and financial markets, macroeconomic policies, subsidies, taxation and environment regulations. These policies can directly shape aggregate productivity along the exit margin through a variety of channels, including the strength of market selection and the scope and speed at which scarce resources consumed by failing firms can be reallocated to more productive uses. However, since market imperfections often generate obstacles to the orderly exit of failing firms, the efficiency of insolvency regimes emerges as particularly crucial. Thus, the paper analyses corporate and personal insolvency regimes in terms of their goals, optimal design (including trade-offs) and key features relevant for explaining cross-country differences in productivity. Finally, the paper proposes a strategy to obtain policy indicators that better capture cross-country differences in the key design features of corporate and personal insolvency regimes, with a view to facilitate further research on exit policies and productivity growth. Régimes d'insolvabilité et croissance de la productivité : Un cadre d'analyse Ce document établit un cadre d'analyse devant permettre de répertorier les politiques publiques qui interviennent dans les sorties d'entreprises, ainsi que les voies par lesquelles ces politiques influent sur la croissance de la productivité globale. On y recense un éventail de dispositifs publics susceptibles de jouer un rôle à cet égard : régimes d'insolvabilité, réglementations relatives aux marchés de produits, aux marchés du travail et aux marchés de capitaux, mesures macroéconomiques, subventions, fiscalité et réglementation environnementale. Ces instruments de politique publique peuvent avoir un impact direct sur la productivité globale au seuil de sortie, par différents biais tels que la puissance de la sélection par le marché ou encore la rapidité avec lesquels des ressources rares utilisées par des entreprises en difficulté peuvent être réaffectées à des emplois plus productifs, et l’ampleur de ces réaffectations. Cependant, étant donné que les imperfections du marché produisent souvent des obstacles à une sortie en bon ordre des entreprises en difficulté, l'efficacité des régimes d'insolvabilité apparaît comme particulièrement cruciale. Dans ce document, les régimes d'insolvabilité des entreprises et des particuliers sont donc analysés sous trois angles : les objectifs qui leur sont assignés, leur conception optimale (arbitrages compris) et les principales caractéristiques permettant d’expliquer les disparités de productivité entre les pays. Enfin, le document propose une stratégie pour construire des indicateurs permettant de mieux rendre compte des différences nationales dans les éléments clés de la conception des régimes d'insolvabilité des entreprises et des particuliers, afin de faciliter de futures recherches sur les politiques publiques intéressant les sorties d'entreprises et la croissance de la productivité.
K35|The Democratization of Credit and the Rise in Consumer Bankruptcies|"Financial innovations are a common explanation for the rise in credit card debt and bankruptcies. To evaluate this story, we develop a simple model that incorporates two key frictions: asymmetric information about borrowers' risk of default and a fixed cost of developing each contract lenders offer. Innovations that ameliorate asymmetric information or reduce this fixed cost have large extensive margin effects via the entry of new lending contracts targeted at riskier borrowers. This results in more defaults and borrowing, and increased dispersion of interest rates. Using the Survey of Consumer Finances and Federal Reserve Board interest rate data, we find evidence supporting these predictions. Specifically, the dispersion of credit card interest rates nearly tripled while the ""new"" cardholders of the late 1980s and 1990s had riskier observable characteristics than existing cardholders. Our calculations suggest that these new cardholders accounted for over 20% of the rise in bank credit card debt and delinquencies between 1989 and 1998."
K35|Personal Bankruptcy Regulations in Central and Eastern Europe|Countries from Central and Eastern Europe are in different stages of development and implementation of personal bankruptcy legislation. Austria has regulations comparable to those in Western Europe, while the Czech Republic and Poland have recently developed regulations regarding the bankruptcy of individuals. The solutions identified in countries that have followed a similar path, namely the abandonment of a c entrally planned economy and transition to a functioning market economy, which consequently led to the problem of individual bankruptcy, can also be applied selectively in Romania in the next period.
K35|The Models of Personal Bankruptcy in Western Europe|Personal bankruptcy is regulated in all the countries from Western Europe. We selected a group of three countries: France, Ireland and Germany, to analyze the ways in which physical persons are put under bankruptcy law protection, while considering that implementation of the personal bankruptcy law is constantly delayed in Romania. Taking into account some comparative studies, we have found out that in all three countries is applied the principle of “consumer-friendly legislation”.
K35|Debt Relief or Debt Restructuring? Evidence from an Experiment with Distressed Credit Card Borrowers|This paper reports results from a randomized field experiment that offered distressed credit card borrowers more than $50 million in debt forgiveness and over 27,500 additional months to repay their debts. The experimental variation effectively randomized debt write-downs and minimum payments for borrowers at eleven large credit card issuers. Merging information from the experiment to administrative tax and bankruptcy records, we find that the debt write-downs increased debt repayment and decreased bankruptcy ling. The debt write-downs also increased formal sector employment for the most financially distressed borrowers. In contrast, we find little impact of the lower minimum payments on debt repayment, bankruptcy, or employment. We show that this null result can be explained by the positive short-run effect of increased liquidity being o set by the unintended, negative effect of exposing borrowers to more default risk. We conclude that debt relief is more effective than debt restructuring for distressed credit card borrowers, even when these borrowers are liquidity constrained.
K35|Insolvency After the 2005 Bankruptcy Reform|Using a comprehensive panel data set on U.S. households, we study the effects of the 2005 Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act (BAPCPA), the most substantive reform of personal bankruptcy in the United States since the Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978. The 2005 legislation introduced a means test based on income to establish eligibility for Chapter 7 bankruptcy and increased the administrative requirements to file, leading to a rise in the opportunity cost and, especially, the financial cost of filing for bankruptcy. We study the effects of the reform on bankruptcy, insolvency, and foreclosure. We find that the reform caused a permanent drop in the Chapter 7 bankruptcy rate relative to pre-reform levels, due to the rise in filing costs associated with the reform, which can be interpreted as resulting from liquidity constraints. We find that the decline in bankruptcy filings resulted in a rise in the rate and persistence of insolvency as well as an increase in the rate of foreclosure. We find no evidence of a link between the decline in bankruptcy and a rise in the number of individuals who are current on their debt. We document that these effects are concentrated at the bottom of the income distribution, suggesting that the income means tests introduced by BAPCPA did not serve as an effective screening device. We show that insolvency is associated with worse financial outcomes than bankruptcy, as insolvent individuals have less access to new lines of credit and display lower credit scores than individuals who file for bankruptcy. Since bankruptcy filings declined much more for low income individuals, our findings suggest that BAPCPA may have removed an important form of relief from financial distress for this group.
K35|The Impact of Consumer Credit Access on Employment, Earnings and Entrepreneurship|"How does consumer credit access impact job flows, earnings, and entrepreneurship? To answer this question, we build a new administrative dataset which links individual employment and entrepreneur tax records to TransUnion credit reports, and we exploit the discrete increase in consumer credit access following bankruptcy flag removal. After flag removal, individuals flow into self-employment. New entrants earn more, borrow significantly using unsecured and secured consumer credit, and are more likely to become an employer business. In addition, after flag removal, non-employed and self-employed individuals are more likely to find unemployment-insured ""formal"" jobs at larger firms that pay greater wages. These estimates imply that firms believe previously bankrupt workers are 3.8% less productive than non-bankrupt workers, on average. These results suggest that consumer credit access matters for each stage of entrepreneurship and that credit-checks may be limiting formal sector employment opportunities."
K35|Income Inequality, Medical Conditions, and Household Bankruptcy|I study disparities in emergency and non-emergency medical conditions between high and low income individuals and their implications on consumption, savings, and bankruptcy. In the Medical Expenditure Panel Survey (MEPS), two patterns emerge. First, low income individuals are more likely to visit emergency rooms than high income individuals, and this gap is disproportionately larger for working age individuals. Second, although the differences between high and low income individuals in non-emergency medical conditions are little in early life, the gap in non-emergency medical conditions is substantial in middle and late life. To explain these facts, I build an overlapping generations general equilibrium model that features (i) endogenous decisions on default and health insurance, (ii) endogenous health that determines labor productivity, (iii) the existence of emergency (non-discretionary) medical expenditures and non-emergency (discretionary) medical expenditures, and (iv) the endogenous distribution of emergency and non-emergency health shocks. I find that low income individuals spend less on their health in early life, leading to their contacting more severe and more frequent health conditions (emergency and non-emergency) following their middle life onwards. This enforces low income individuals to be sicker and to visit emergency rooms more often, while spending more on health cares from their middle life. Moreover, this model shows that this endogenous distribution of health shocks causes low income individuals to have more precautionary savings and less consumption due to their highly volatile earnings from severe health shocks. The poor default more often due to their lower earnings and more frequent emergency (non-discretionary) medical treatments, which arises from their bad health status.
K35|The New Regulation of Consumer Bankruptcy as an Instrument for the Protection of Consumers’ Economic Rights (Nowa regulacja upadlosci konsumenckiej jako instrument ochrony praw ekonomicznych konsumenta)|The main objective of this paper is to evaluate the implementation in the Polish law of a new consumer bankruptcy model in 2014, as an instrument for the protection of economic rights of honest consumers who are, however, under threat of consumer bankruptcy. The article describes the economic and social consequences of the use of this institution and presents the history of its regulation in our legal system, also indicating the evolution of the legislative policy pursued by the legislature in relation to consumer bankruptcy. It was found that before 2014 lawmakers had failed to create an effective mechanism for debt relief for individuals not engaged in economic activity. Then, the existing regulations were analyzed based on the current state of the law. As a result, it was concluded that the legislator had achieved the primary objective of the regulations to broaden the scope of protection of the economic interests of Polish consumers.
K35|Bankruptcy as Implicit Health Insurance|This paper examines the implicit health insurance that households receive from the ability to declare bankruptcy. Exploiting multiple sources of variation in asset exemption law, I show that uninsured households with a greater financial cost of bankruptcy make higher out-of-pocket medical payments, conditional on the amount of care received. In turn, I find that households with greater wealth at risk are more likely to hold health insurance. The implicit insurance from bankruptcy distorts the insurance coverage decision. Using a microsimulation model, I calculate that the optimal Pigovian penalties are three-quarters as large as the average penalties under the Affordable Care Act. (JEL D14, H51, I13, K35)
K35|Debt Relief and Debtor Outcomes: Measuring the Effects of Consumer Bankruptcy Protection|Consumer bankruptcy is one of the largest social insurance programs in the United States, but little is known about its impact on debtors. We use 500,000 bankruptcy filings matched to administrative tax and foreclosure data to estimate the impact of Chapter 13 bankruptcy protection on subsequent outcomes. Exploiting the random assignment of bankruptcy filings to judges, we find that Chapter 13 protection increases annual earnings by $5,562, decreases five-year mortality by 1.2 percentage points, and decreases five-year foreclosure rates by 19.1 percentage points. These results come primarily from the deterioration of outcomes among dismissed filers, not gains by granted filers. (JEL D14, I12, J22, J31, K35)
K35|Bankruptcy: Is It Enough to Forgive or Must We Also Forget?|"In many countries, lenders are restricted in their access to information about borrowers' past defaults. We study this provision in a model of repeated borrowing and lending with moral hazard and adverse selection. We analyze its effects on borrowers' incentives and credit access, and identify conditions under which it is welfare improving. Our model's predictions are consistent with the evidence on the impact of these credit bureau regulations on borrowers' and lenders' behavior as well as on credit provision. We also show that ""forgetting"" must be the outcome of a regulatory intervention. (JEL D14, D82, G33, K35, L26)"
K35|Personal Bankruptcy And The Romanian Realities|Bankruptcy is defined as the legal situation in which an individual, a company or an institution cannot meet outstanding liabilities, which are superior in value compared to available assets. Personal bankruptcy refers to the situation described above in the case of individuals. This highly important legal and economic institution was long ago settled in the United States of America, United Kingdom, France, Germany, Japan, and recently in former communist countries such as Poland, Latvia, Estonia, and Lithuania, existing throughout the EU, except for Romania, Bulgaria and Hungary. In December 2015, in Romania, the Personal Bankruptcy Law is to come into force and this article focuses on the main aspects of the three steps procedure comprised in it as well as on the advantages and disadvantages from all involved parts perspective, that is: individual debtors, Banks as creditors and state institutions as third parties highlighting the main changes that are to happen both for individuals as well as for the society as a whole.
K35|State bankruptcy laws and the responsiveness of credit card demand|The responsiveness of credit demand to interest rate changes may vary widely by state due to differences in state bankruptcy and insolvency laws. Bankruptcy exemptions and other state laws insulate borrowers against negative consequences from non-repayment, and so lenient regulations may lead to decreased responsiveness to interest rate increases. Lenient laws also decrease creditors’ incentive to lend, and a resulting decrease in loan options will reinforce the inelasticity of credit demand. This paper presents a model that predicts (1) that credit demand is less responsive in states with borrower-friendly, lenient bankruptcy and insolvency laws, and (2) the effects of state laws on demand elasticity will be strongest among borrowers facing credit constraints. Using market experiment data from a large credit card issuer, this paper presents evidence that supports the hypothesis that demand responsiveness and insolvency law leniency are negatively related. Borrowers are more likely to continue using a card in states with lenient exemption and garnishment laws. Borrowers who take up less attractive offers are more likely to be credit constrained; among these borrowers, the impact of exemption laws is much stronger than among the unconstrained group.
K35|Making work pay for the indebted? Assessing the effects of debt services on welfare recipients|This paper investigates the effects of an intervention that was targeted at a specific group of Dutch Social Assistance (SA) recipients with debt problems. Since a large share of the income gains of work resumption is earmarked for creditors, these individuals generally experienced a strong a priori disincentive to resume formal work. The intervention had three aims: restructuring personal debts, preventing the occurrence of new debt problems, and increasing the direct incentives to resume work. The paper uses the Timing-of-Events method to identify the effects of debt programs on SA spells. Our main finding is that the debt program substantially increased the exit out of the SA schemes, but this was mainly due to exits out of the labor force. With a large share of assigned individuals who did not participate in the scheme, it appears that individuals perceived or experienced the program as unpleasant and opted to exit without work. Our results suggest the presence of threat effects, particularly for individuals who were assigned by their caseworkers but did not participate in the debt program.
K35|The Economic Impact of Rescue and Recovery Frameworks in the EU|This paper provides empirical support to the important role of efficient pre-insolvency frameworks in fostering a culture of early restructuring and second chances in EU Member States and the positive impact that this has on entrepreneurship, as well as the timeliness and cost of corporate and household deleveraging. The analysis is based on a set of composite indicators measuring specific efficiency aspects of rescue and recovery frameworks. These were built using principal component analysis applied on a comparison of the legal provisions they encompass. Econometric analysis carried out on the basis of these indicators suggests that, across the EU, efficient pre-insolvency frameworks are positively associated with relatively higher levels of entrepreneurship and deleveraging episodes with a relatively milder impact on financial stability and economic activity.
K35|Do student loan borrowers opportunistically default? Evidence from bankruptcy reform|Bankruptcy reform in 2005 eliminated debtors’ ability to discharge private student loan debt in bankruptcy. This law aimed to reduce costly defaults by diminishing the perceived incentive of some private student loan borrowers to declare bankruptcy even if they had sufficient income to service their debt. Using a unique, nationally representative sample of anonymized credit bureau files, we examine the bankruptcy filing and delinquency rates of private student loan borrowers in response to the 2005 bankruptcy reform. We do not find evidence that the nondischargeability provision reduced the likelihood of filing bankruptcy among private student loan borrowers as compared with other debtors whose incentives were not directly affected by the policy.
K35|Debt Collection Agencies and the Supply of Consumer Credit|I examine the role of third-party debt collectors in consumer credit markets. Using law enforcement as an instrument for the number of debt collectors, I find that higher density of debt collectors increases the supply of unsecured credit. The estimated elasticity of the average credit card balance with respect to the number of debt collectors per capita is 0.49, the elasticity of the average balance on non-credit card unsecured loans with respect to the number of debt collectors per capita is 1.32. I also find evidence that creditors substitute unsecured credit for secured credit when the number of debt collectors increases. Higher density of debt collectors improves recoveries, which enables lenders to extend morecredit. Finally, creditors charge higher interest rates and lend to a larger pool of borrowers when the density of debt collectors increases, presumably because better collections enable them to extend credit to riskier applicants.
K35|Who is screened out of social insurance programs by entry barriers? Evidence from consumer bankruptcies|Entry barriers into social insurance programs will be effective screening devices if they cause only those individuals receiving higher benefits from a program to participate in that program. We find evidence for this by using plausibly exogenous variations in travel-related entry costs into the Canadian consumer bankruptcy system. Using detailed balance sheet and travel data, we find that higher travel-related entry costs reduce bankruptcies from individuals with lower financial benefits of bankruptcy (unsecured debt discharged, minus secured assets forgone). When compared across filers, each extra kilometer traveled to access the bankruptcy system requires approximately $11 more in financial benefits from bankruptcy. {{p}}Supersedes Working Paper 14-18
K35|How Much Should Debtors be Punished in Case of Default?|This study investigates the relationship between debtor punishment and the development of the credit market. We empirically analyze how the level of debtor punishment relates to the credit market expansion. We find evidence that an increase in debtor punishment tends to produce a positive effect on credit markets for states with low level of punishment and a negative effect for states with high level of punishment. Hence, there is an intermediate level of debtor punishment that maximizes the size of the personal credit market. This intermediate level accounts for the need of creditors’ protection to reduce moral hazard, to encourage the supply of credit, and for the need to protect borrowers from a bad state of nature. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
K35|Consumer Bankruptcy and Financial Health|This paper estimates the effect of Chapter 13 bankruptcy protection on financial health using a new data set linking bankruptcy filings to credit bureau records. Our empirical strategy uses the leniency of randomly assigned judges as an instrument for Chapter 13 protection. We find that Chapter 13 protection decreases an index measuring adverse financial events such as civil judgments and repossessions by 0.323 standard deviations and increases the probability of being a homeowner by 13.2 percentage points. Chapter 13 protection has little impact on open unsecured debt but decreases the amount of debt in collections by $1,333.
K35|Labor Market Upheaval, Default Regulation, and Consumer Debt|"In 2005, reforms made formal personal bankruptcy much more costly. Shortly after, the US began to experience its most severe recession in seventy years, and while personal bankruptcy rates rose, they rose only modestly given the severity of the rise in unemployment. By contrast, informal default through delinquency rose sharply. In the subsequent recovery, households have been widely viewed as ""deleveraging"" (Mian and Sufi 2011, Krugman and Eggertson 2012) via the largest reduction of unsecured debt seen in the past three decades. We measure the relative roles of recent bankruptcy reform and labor market risk in accounting for consumer debt and default over the Great Recession. Our results suggest that bankruptcy reform likely prevented a substantial increase in formal bankruptcy filings, but had only limited effect on informal default from delinquencies, and that changes in job-finding rates were central to both. (Copyright: Elsevier)"
K35|Credit, Bankruptcy, and Aggregate Fluctuations|We ask two questions related to how access to credit affects the nature of business cycles. First, does the standard theory of unsecured credit account for the high volatility and procyclicality of credit and the high volatility and countercyclicality of bankruptcy filings found in U.S. data? Yes, it does, but only if we explicitly model recessions as displaying countercyclical earnings risk (i.e., rather than having all households fare slightly worse than normal during recessions, we ensure that more households than normal fare very poorly). Second, does access to credit smooth aggregate consumption or aggregate hours worked, and if so, does it matter with respect to the nature of business cycles? No, it does not; in fact, consumption is 20 percent more volatile when credit is available. The interest rate premia increase in recessions because of higher bankruptcy risk discouraging households from using credit. This finding contradicts the intuition that access to credit helps households to smooth their consumption.
K35|A Measure of Distance and Social Polarization: Political and Historical Roots|We propose a distance measure between religions or other social groups which is based on historical interactions between them. In particular we assume that ruling people from another group drives a wedge between the ruling and ruled groups. Our measure allows for discounting of earlier historical interactions. The measure satisfies the distance axioms. Building on an existing literature on polarization, we use our distance to define an index polarization. We illustrate our index using data on historical religious ruling relations, and current religious composition of countries. The index can be useful for researchers studying conflict and growth.
K35|Better winding up: A proposal for improved winding up of executory contracts|An evaluation problem exists when winding up executory contracts in case of insolvency. The trustee has difficulties in accurately considering the claim for damages that arises if he chooses to reject a contract instead of accepting it. An unequal treatment of creditors and inefficiencies follow. However, a simple reform can solve this problem. If an executory contract is accepted by the trustee, there should be the same claim for damages as if it had been rejected. Only the difference between this claim for damages and the initial claim should be paid directly out of the estate.
K35|The Impact of State Lotteries and Casinos on State Bankruptcy Filings| Over the past half century, there has been an increasing prevalence of legalized gambling in the U.S. At the same time, there is a general recognition, empirically supported in the economics literature, that spending on lottery and gaming products tends to be regressive in nature. In addition, gambling addiction is a widely acknowledged social problem. This raises the question of whether the increased presence of casinos and state lotteries results in relatively more bankruptcy filings in the states that offer them. This paper adds to the existing literature by comparing the relative impact of the presence of lotteries to that of casinos on both personal and business bankruptcies. States that adopted lotteries and casinos prior to 1995 experienced significantly higher personal bankruptcy rates while the effect of lottery and casino adoption on personal bankruptcies has disappeared since that time.
K35|Oddlženie V Kontexte Úvah De Lege Ferenda Na Báze Právnej Komparatistiky (Debt Relief In The Context Of De Lege Ferenda Reasoning On The Basis Of Legal Comparatistics)|Cieľom príspevku je analyzovať súčasný stav riešenia úpadku dlžníka – fyzickej osoby, prostredníctvom inštitútu oddlženia v právnom poriadku SR de lege lata ako aj de lege ferenda. Pri dosahovaní cieľa bola využitá metóda právnej komparatistiky. Ako podstatné nedostatky právnej úpravy bolo detekované najmä obligatórne predchádzanie konkurzného konania konaniu o oddlžení, absencia požiadavky na objektívne dosiahnuteľný príjem pri plnení splátkového kalendára v priebehu oddlženia, absencia určenia minimálnej miery plnenia pre potreby oddlženia, či nejednoznačnosť právnej úpravy vo vzťahu k vymedzeniu pohľadávok, na ktoré sa oddlženie vzťahuje. The aim of the paper is to analyze the current state of the debtor (natural person) bankruptcy solving via the institute of debt relief in the legal order of the Slovak Republic de lege lata and de lege ferenda. In order to fulfill the aim of the paper the method of law comparison is used. The obligation to conclude insolvency proceedings before launching the debt relief process, the absence of a minimum level of fulfillment necessary for the debt relief and the ambiguity of the legislation in relation to the definition of debts included in the debt relief process were identified as significant legislative deficiencies.)
K35|Using Bankruptcy to Reduce Foreclosures: Does Strip-down of Mortgages Affect the Supply of Mortgage Credit?|"We assess the credit market impact of allowing mortgage ""strip-down""--that is, reducing the principal of underwater residential mortgages to the current market value of the property for homeowners in Chapter 13 bankruptcy. Our identification is provided by a series of U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals decisions in the early 1990's that introduced mortgage strip-down in parts of the U.S., followed by a 1993 Supreme Court ruling that abolished it all over the U.S. We find that the Supreme Court decision led to a short-term reduction of 3% in mortgage interest rates and a short-term increase of 1% in mortgage approval rates, but only the approval rate effect persists in longer sample periods. In contrast, the circuit court decisions to allow strip-down did not have consistent effects on mortgage terms. We also show that strip-down had little effect on default rates by homeowners with existing mortgages. Taken together, these results suggest that mortgage lenders responded weakly to both the adoption and abolition of strip-down because strip-down had little effect on their profits from mortgage lending. According to these findings, re-introducing strip-down of mortgages in bankruptcy as a foreclosure-prevention program would have only small and transient effects on the supply of mortgage loans."
K35|Credit access after consumer bankruptcy filing: new evidence|Supersedes Working Paper No. 13-24 This paper uses a unique data set to shed new light on credit availability to consumer bankruptcy filers. In particular, the authors’ data allow them to distinguish between Chapter 7 and Chapter 13 bankruptcy filings, to observe changes in credit demand and credit supply explicitly, and to differentiate existing and new credit accounts. The paper has four main findings. First, despite speedy recovery in their risk scores after bankruptcy filing, most filers have much reduced access to credit in terms of credit limits, and the impact seems to be long lasting (well beyond the discharge date). Second, the reduction in credit access stems mainly from the supply side as consumer inquiries recover significantly after the filing, while credit limits remain low. Third, new lenders do not treat Chapter 13 filers more favorably than Chapter 7 filers. In fact, Chapter 13 filers are much less likely to receive new credit cards than Chapter 7 filers even after controlling for borrower characteristics and local economic environment. Finally, the authors find that Chapter 13 filers overall end up with a slightly larger credit limit amount than Chapter 7 filers (both after the filing and after discharge) because they are able to maintain more of their old credit from before bankruptcy filing. The authors’ results cast doubt on the effectiveness of the current bankruptcy system in providing relief to bankruptcy filers and especially its recent push to get debtors into Chapter 13.
K35|The (Un-) importance of Chapter 7 wealth exemption levels|This paper examines the effects of the Chapter 7 wealth exemption level on welfare, bankruptcy filings, debt, and on asset holdings. I build a heterogeneous agent life cycle model which features uninsurable income and expense shocks. Moreover, households can borrow and save simultaneously. When a borrower defaults on her debt by filing for Chapter 7 bankruptcy, she can keep her assets up to the wealth exemption level. Wealth exemption levels are important for two reasons. First, they explain the extensive and intensive margin of the credit card debt puzzle. Around thirty percent of borrowers, both in the model and in the data, who borrow at high interest rates simultaneously save at low interest rates. However, these borrowers borrow and save only relatively small amounts, a few thousand U.S. Dollars. Second, ignoring the exemption level biases results because it overstates the costs of defaulting. The welfare gains from Chapter 7 compared to the European system, where debt is not discharged, are twice as high when exemption levels are positive compared to when they are ignored. At the same time, wealth exemption levels are unimportant in the sense that they have an impact only at low exemption levels. The effects of increases in the exemption level fade out very quickly. There is no strong positive relationship between exemption levels, which vary across U.S. states, and default rates in the model. This is in contrast to the previous literature, but consistent with the data. The reason is that those borrowers who might default do not own much wealth. Therefore, only very few households are affected by increases in the exemption level.
K35|Effects of the BAPCPA on the chapter composition of consumer bankruptcies|The 2005 Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act limited homestead exemptions and imposed means test to discourage petitioners seeking financial benefits. We find that these restrictions were effective in steering petitioners away from Chapter 7 filings and into Chapter 13.
K35|Bankruptcy resolution capacity and economic fluctuations|In this paper, I build a partial equilibrium model and uncover a relationship between regional macroeconomic fluctuations and bankruptcy resolution capacity that depends on the cyclicality of bankruptcy. If the frequency of bankruptcy is countercyclical, the model predicts that fluctuations are more severe in regions with lower bankruptcy resolution capacity. This is because, in these regions, banks’ bad-loan recovery costs are higher (due to the length of the bankruptcy proceedings) and their lending is more sensitive to macroeconomic shocks that impact the likelihood of bankruptcy. Therefore, shocks that increase the frequency of bankruptcy and decrease output at the same time, for example, are amplified due to a lower level of bank lending. I draw opposite conclusions when bankruptcy is procyclical (i.e., economic fluctuations are less severe in regions with low bankruptcy resolution capacity). In the second half of the paper, I find evidence indicating that bankruptcy is countercyclical and that in the U.S. states with lower bankruptcy resolution capacity, economic fluctuations, consistent with the model’s predictions, are more severe.
K35|Financial benefits, travel costs, and bankruptcy|We are the first to show that the cost of personal bankruptcy filers traveling to their bankruptcy trustees affects bankruptcy choices. We use detailed balance sheet, income statement, and location data from 400,000 Canadian bankruptcies. To control for endogenous trustee selection, we use the location of local government offices as an instrument for the location of bankruptcy trustees (while filers interact with trustees, and trustees interact with local government, filers do not interact with the local government). We find that increased travel costs reduce the number of filings. Furthermore, for those individuals who do file, we find that their increased travel costs need to be compensated by increased financial benefits of bankruptcy. Filers without cars (higher travel costs), as well as those with jobs (higher opportunity costs), receive larger per-kilometer financial benefits from bankruptcy.
K35|Credit Access after Consumer Bankruptcy Filing: New Evidence|This paper uses a unique data set to shed new light on credit availability to consumer bankruptcy filers. In particular, our data allow us to distinguish between Chapter 7 and Chapter 13 bankruptcy filings, to observe changes in credit demand and credit supply explicitly, and to differentiate existing and new credit accounts. The paper has four main findings. First, despite speedy recovery in their risk scores after bankruptcy filing, most filers have much reduced access to credit in terms of credit limits, and the impact seems to be long lasting (well beyond the discharge date). Second, the reduction in credit access stems mainly from the supply side as consumer inquiries recover significantly after the filing, while credit limits remain low. Third, new lenders do not treat Chapter 13 filers more favorably than Chapter 7 filers. In fact, Chapter 13 filers are much less likely to receive new credit cards than Chapter 7 filers even after controlling for borrower characteristics and local economic environment. Finally, we find that Chapter 13 filers overall end up with a slightly larger credit limit amount than Chapter 7 filers (both after the filing and after discharge) because they are able to maintain more of their old credit from before bankruptcy filing. Our results casts doubt on the effectiveness of the current bankruptcy system in providing relief to bankruptcy filers and especially its recent push to get debtors into Chapter 13.
K35|Bankruptcies in 2012-2013: Growth in the Number of Bankruptcies of Financial Institutions and Individual Entrepreneurs and the Introduction of New Regulations|This paper deals with the issues of bankruptcy of financial institutions and individual businesses.
K35|Optimal bankruptcy code: A fresh start for some|What is the optimal consumer bankruptcy law? I answer this question using an incomplete markets life-cycle model with a planner who can choose state-contingent bankruptcy costs. I develop two main theoretical characterizations. First, whenever debt discharge is allowed, it should occur without cost. Second, bankruptcy should always be allowed for highly-indebted households. Quantitatively, the optimal policy can generate a welfare gain as large as 11.6%. However, attractive informal default, asymmetric information, and moral hazard can reduce the welfare gain to as little as 0.7%.
K35|Management in the Field of Insolvency. The Recovery Need of a Bank Company in the Field of The Contemporary Crisis|In this hereby work there is the legal frame regarding the bank companies for the insolvency procedure, as well as the recovery need of a bank for the systemic financial stability. The bank resolution shows up as an alternative to the common insolvency procedures in case of a credit institution under difficulty. The financial crisis has showed that when a bank is affected by problems, they can influence the entire financial-banking sector. Therefore, there is the need of far more firm agreements regarding the management of contemporary crises, as well as of certain proper authorities and mechanisms in the solving of the situations of the banks under difficulty.
K35|Using bankruptcy to reduce foreclosures: does strip-down of mortgages affect the supply of mortgage credit?|We assess the credit market impact of mortgage “strip-down” — reducing the principal of underwater residential mortgages to the current market value of the property for homeowners in Chapter 7 or Chapter 13 bankruptcy. Strip-down of mortgages in bankruptcy was proposed as a means of reducing foreclosures during the recent mortgage crisis but was blocked by lenders. Our goal is to determine whether allowing bankruptcy judges to modify mortgages would have a large adverse impact on new mortgage applicants. Our identification is provided by a series of U.S. Court of Appeals decisions during the late 1980s and early 1990s that introduced mortgage strip-down under both bankruptcy chapters in parts of the U.S., followed by two Supreme Court rulings that abolished it throughout the U.S. We find that the Supreme Court decision to abolish mortgage strip-down under Chapter 13 led to a reduction of 3% in mortgage interest rates and an increase of 1% in mortgage approval rates, while the Supreme Court decision to abolish strip-down under Chapter 7 led to a reduction of 2% in approval rates and no change in interest rates. We also find that markets react less to circuit court decisions than to Supreme Court decisions. Overall, our results suggest that lenders respond to forced renegotiation of contracts in bankruptcy, but their responses are small and not always in the predicted direction. The lack of systematic patterns evident in our results suggests that introducing mortgage strip-down under either bankruptcy chapter would not have strong adverse effects on mortgage loan terms and could be a useful new policy tool to reduce foreclosures when future housing bubbles burst.
K35|Credit, bankruptcy, and aggregate fluctuations|We ask two questions related to how access to credit affects the nature of business cycles. First, does the standard theory of unsecured credit account for the high volatility and procyclicality of credit and the high volatility and countercyclicality of bankruptcy filings found in U.S. data? Yes, it does, but only if we explicitly model recessions as displaying countercyclical earnings risk (i.e., rather than having all households fare slightly worse than normal during recessions, we ensure that more households than normal fare very poorly). Second, does access to credit smooth aggregate consumption or aggregate hours worked, and if so, does it matter with respect to the nature of business cycles? No, it does not; in fact, consumption is 20 percent more volatile when credit is available. The interest rate premia increase in recessions because of higher bankruptcy risk discouraging households from using credit. This finding contradicts the intuition that access to credit helps households to smooth their consumption.
K35|Precautionary Measures to be Taken Following a Tax Audit or a Fraud Control Over a Taxpayer's Assets|The present paper is the result of an interdisciplinary analysis in which we plan to investigate the difference between two concepts that may appear to be synonymous, but which, in reality, are distinct forms of checking the taxpayer: tax audit and antifraud controls. In addition, special attention is given to combining provisions of tax procedural law with those of civil procedural law. In terms of financial and tax law, we speak, inter alia, of the obligation to declare correct income and paying related taxes. As for civil law, here we refer to the matter of real rights, respectively to the property, assets, and the ownership right thereof, and also to the rights of claim and the guarantee of claims payment by instituting precautionary measures, at the initiative of the creditor. i .e. the state tax authority.
K35|Making Work Pay for the Indebted: The Effect of Debt Services on the Exit Rates of Unemployed Individuals|This paper investigates the effectiveness of an intervention that was targeted at a specific group of Dutch Social Assistance (SA) recipients with debt problems. With a large share of the income gains of work resumption were transferred to the creditors, these individuals experienced a strong a priori disincentive to resume formal work. The direct aims of this intervention were therefore twofold: the restructuring of personal debts and the prevention of new debt problems to arise. We use the timing-of-events method to identify the effects of debt programs on SA spells. Our key finding is that the provision of debt services substantially increased the exit out of the SA schemes, but this was mainly due to exits out of the labor force. This suggests individuals perceived or experienced program as unpleasant and opted to exit without work. At the same time, the debts program offer increased the exit rate for targeted individuals that did not show up, probably due to increased monitoring and sanction activities.
K35|Liquidity Constraints and Consumer Bankruptcy: Evidence from Tax Rebates|We estimate the extent to which legal and administrative fees prevent liquidity-constrained households from declaring bankruptcy. To do so, we study how the 2001 and 2008 tax rebates affected consumer bankruptcy filings. We exploit the randomized timing of the rebate checks and estimate that the rebates caused a significant short-run increase in consumer bankruptcies in both years, with larger effects in 2008 when the rebates were more generous and more widely distributed. Using hand-collected data from individual bankruptcy petitions, we document that households that filed shortly after receiving their rebate checks had higher average liabilities and liabilities-to-income ratios. © 2014 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
K35|L'effacement des dettes des particuliers surendettés : une étude empirique des décisions judiciaires|This paper explores the mechanisms employed by French judges to discharge personal debts of over-indebted households in exchange for the liquidation of their assets. We use an original database consisting of judiciary decisions between 2003 and 2005. We highlight the determinants of selection between debtors whose debts are cancelled and those who are ordered to repay them. Debtors who are less able to repay have a greater chance of benefiting from a fresh start. If the repayment capacity increases by 1 %, the predicted probability of debt discharge decreases by a little more than 1 %. Overall, courts erase household debts in a rather restrictive way, applying criteria not limited to an assessment of debtors’ financial situation.
K35|Economics of bankruptcy exemption: Signaling value of collateral, cost of credit and access to credit|We analyze the effect of a bankruptcy law according to which some of the borrower's assets are exempt from liquidation in the event of default in the context of a competitive credit market characterized either by moral hazard (MH) or by adverse selection (AS). In particular, we study how the level of such exemption affects the role of collateral depending on the dominant source of asymmetric information. Under MH, conditional on the level of exemption, the cost of credit is higher for borrowers who are requested to post collateral. Moreover, conditional on posting collateral, the cost of credit does not change with the level of asset exemption. Differently, in the case of AS, the decision to post collateral results in a lower cost of credit, whenever the equilibrium is separating. Finally, under AS, a higher level of exemption is generally associated with a lower level of credit rationing. Similarly, credit rationing either stays unchanged or goes down with exemption in the case of MH. We exploit cross State variability in the level of asset exemption from liquidation – according to personal bankruptcy US State laws prior to 2005 federal reform – in order to identify the signaling role played by collateral in a sample of american small business taken from the SBFF data.
K35|Who Invests in Home Equity to Exempt Wealth from Bankruptcy?|Homestead exemptions to personal bankruptcy allow households to retain their home equity up to a limit determined at the state level. Households that may experience bankruptcy thus have an incentive to bias their portfolios towards home equity. Using US household data from the Survey of Income and Program Participation for the period 1996-2006, we find that especially households with low net worth maintain a larger share of their wealth as home equity if a larger homestead exemption applies. This home equity bias is also more pronounced if the household head is in poor health, increasing the chance of bankruptcy on account of unpaid medical bills. The bias is further stronger for households with mortgage finance, shorter house tenures, and younger household heads, which taken together reflect households that face more financial uncertainty.
K35|A tale of two commitments: equilibrium default and temptation|I construct the life-cycle model with equilibrium default and preferences featuring temptation and self-control. The model provides quantitatively similar answers to positive questions such as the causes of the observed rise in debt and bankruptcies and macroeconomic implications of the 2005 bankruptcy reform, as the standard model without temptation. However, the temptation model provides contrasting welfare implications, because of overborrowing when the borrowing constraint is relaxed. Specifically, the 2005 bankruptcy reform has an overall negative welfare effect, according to the temptation model, while the effect is positive in the no-temptation model. As for the optimal default punishment, welfare of the agents without temptation is maximized when defaulting results in severe punishment, which provides a strong commitment to repaying and thus a lower default premium. On the other hand, welfare of agents with temptation is maximized when weak punishment leads to a tight borrowing constraint, which provides a commitment against overborrowing.
K35|Who Invests in Home Equity to Exempt Wealth from Bankruptcy?|Homestead exemptions to personal bankruptcy allow households to retain their home equity up to a limit determined at the state level. Households that may experience bankruptcy thus have an incentive to bias their portfolios towards home equity. Using US household data from the Survey of Income and Program Participation for the period 1996-2006, we find that especially households with low net worth maintain a larger share of their wealth as home equity if a larger homestead exemption applies. This home equity bias is also more pronounced if the household head is in poor health, increasing the chance of bankruptcy on account of unpaid medical bills. The bias is further stronger for households with mortgage finance, shorter house tenures, and younger household heads, which taken together reflect households that face more financial uncertainty.
K35|Pre-insolvency workout agreements with creditors and corporate crisis management|The Italian pre-insolvency law for corporate crisis management needs to be reconsidered for a further rationalization and harmonization. This in line with the Eu position aiming to strengthen such regulation in Member States legal systems
K35|Banking and fiscal burdens in Italian bankruptcy law|In order to combat against the phenomenon of tax evasion, the Government has to make choices that imply a significant change of its traditional modus operandi with regard to firms with large debts and tax liabilities
K35|Households Debt Restructuring: Evidence from the French Experience|France has a long and unique experience of public intervention in household debt restructuring. When facing financial distress, households can file a case to a “households’ over-indebtedness commission” (HOC). These HOCs either grant a delay of payment or impose a partial reimbursement of the secured or unsecured debt. This paper evaluates the ex post impact of this decision on the creditors’ recovery rate, the household’s re-default rate and the net benefit of the treatment, defined as the amount recovered by the creditors minus the public cost of treatment of the file. The random allocation of the households over file managers with different pro-household friendlinesses is used to correct for endogeneity. Sixty percent of households are ordered to repay part of their debt. Over a two-year horizon, the possibility to grant a delay of payment decreases the average redefault rate and the average repayment rate respectively from 13 to 7 percentage points and from 14 to 12 percentage points. The net benefit over a small fraction of low distressed households offsets the loss observed over a large fraction of more distressed households. Our results highlight a substantial impact of the severity of the case manager.
K35|Bankruptcy resolution capacity and regional economic fluctuations|In this paper we uncover a relationship between regional economic fluctuations and bankruptcy resolution capacity and predict that its direction depends on the cyclicality of bankruptcy. If bankruptcy is countercyclical (procyclical), we predict that economic fluctuations should be more(less) severe in regions with lower judicial capacity. This is because in these regions, bank lending is more sensitive to judicial capacity and shocks that have a countercyclical (procyclical) effect on bankruptcy are amplified (mitigated) by more. We find evidence showing that bankruptcy is countercyclical and that in US states with lower judicial capacity, economic fluctuations are more severe.
K35|Government Intervention to Prevent Bankruptcy: the Effect of Blind-Bidding Laws on Movie Theaters|In the 1970s motion picture studios increased their use of blind bidding and non-refundable guarantees in an attempt to reduce the risks associated with producing a small number of large budget films. However, theater owners claimed that blind bidding and guarantees shifted risk to them and increased the likelihood of bankruptcy, since they were required to bid for the right to exhibit a movie without seeing it first. In response to the lobbying of theater owners, twenty-four states passed laws between 1978 and 1984 that banned blind bidding, while seven states also banned non-refundable guarantees. This paper provides the first empirical analysis of the conflicting claims made by theater owners and movie studios about the impact of these laws on the survival rates of independent theaters, admission prices, and delays in the release of movies. We find that the laws were not only ineffective in keeping theater owners at risk of bankruptcy from exiting the market; they may have been even detrimental to those theater owners converting theaters to multiplexes at that time.
K35|Bankruptcies in 2009–2011: Post-crisis Dynamics; New Trends; Regulation|This paper deals with the issues of bankruptcy in the aftermath of 2008 financial crisis.
K35|Bankruptcy as Implicit Health Insurance|This paper examines the implicit health insurance households receive from the ability to declare bankruptcy. Exploiting cross-state and within-state variation in asset exemption law, I show that uninsured households with greater seizable assets make higher out-of-pocket medical payments, conditional on the amount of care received. In turn, I find that households with greater wealth-at-risk are more likely to hold health insurance. The implicit insurance from bankruptcy distorts the insurance coverage decision. Using a microsimulation model, I calculate that the optimal Pigovian penalties are similar on average to the penalties under the Affordable Care Act (ACA).
K35|Division Of Spouses Property And Insolvency Proceedings|The opening of an insolvency procedure impacts considerably the referred parties, indirectly affecting other people involved. We considered the case of a debtor’s spouse who is in a state of insolvency and the case of admitted personal liability according to art. no. 138 of the Romanian Insolvency Proceedings Law. The obvious interest for a fraudulent division of goods can be traced back to the circumvention of some valuable assets from the enforcement procedure. The authors offer, in a succinct and practical manner, a few clues aiming the annihilation of such frequent fraudulent acts, together with some relevant French jurisprudential doctrine.
K35|The significance of socioeconomic factors on personal loan decision a study of consumer banking local private banks in Pakistan|This paper explores the influences of the approved results of loans cases, the loan applicants’ socioeconomic attributes in the decision of perusal loan. The results can improve the credit quality and avoid the misjudgment of screening personal loan customers and also establish a better personal loan risk management forecasting model. The main purpose of the present paper was to evaluate significance of loan applicant socioeconomic attributes on personal loan decision in the local private commercial banks of Pakistan. The statistical techniques, descriptive and logistic regression were used. The model identified that out of six independent variables, region, residence status and year with the current organization have significant impact on personal loan decision.
K35|Information Technology and the Rise of Household Bankruptcy|"Several studies have attributed the rise of household bankruptcy in the past two decades to the decline of social stigma associated with default. Stigma explanations, however, cannot account for the large increase in the use of unsecured credit during this period. I explain the simultaneous increase in bankruptcy rates and unsecured credit as the result of improvements in credit-rating technologies. Using an environment where borrowers face heterogeneous default costs (unobservable by creditors), I show that such improvements will lead to agents with high default costs, i.e., ""safe"" borrowers, being able to borrow more. A quantitative example illustrates that this increased access to credit can be large enough to raise both equilibrium borrowing and default rates. (Copyright: Elsevier)"
K35|Happy 150th Birthday Italy? Institutions and Economic Performance Since 1861|In the last twenty years the Italian economy showed claer signs of structural crisis. Using a variety of secondary literature, this paper claims that the recent decline must be seen as part of a long-term trend of sub-optimal performance driven by the inability of the country to remain congruent with the tecnological frontier. This problem, in turn, is the result of week and/or poorely-enforced rules that regulate economic activity. Specifically, legal institutions in areas such as firms’ governance (bankruptcy law; balance sheets regulation, use of inefficient forms of governance), banking supervision, education, and tax compliance, favoured “extractive” behaviour from firms’ owners, discouraged businesses to reach a size compatible with innovation in advanced sectors, and frustrated investment in education, research, and innovation. The paper also analyses the origin of this institutional failure and uses the example of football to show the persistency of inefficient rules. The picture that emerges is that institutional failure finds its origin in the feature of the process of State formation and, later, in the post WWII political equilibrium. Distorted institutions serve the interests of a constantly-changing minority, big enough to protect the status quo
K35|Did Bankruptcy Reform Cause Mortgage Defaults to Rise?|Homeowners in financial distress can use bankruptcy to avoid defaulting on their mortgages, since filing loosens their budget constraints. But the 2005 bankruptcy reform made bankruptcy less favorable to homeowners and therefore caused mortgage defaults to rise. We test this relationship and find that the reform caused prime and subprime mortgage default rates to rise by 23% and 14%, respectively. Default rates rose even more for homeowners who were particularly negatively affected by the reform. We calculate that bankruptcy reform caused mortgage default rates to rise by one percentage point even before the start of the financial crisis. (JEL D14, G01, G21, K35)
K35|How Did the US Housing Slump Begin? The Role of the 2005 Bankruptcy Reform|Most analyses of the recent financial crisis in the US focus on the consequences of the dramatic slump in housing prices that started in the mid-2000s, which led to rising mortgage defaults, shrinking home equity credit and liquidity in the banking system. Yet these accounts do not explain what caused the reversal of housing price growth in the first place. This paper argues that the passage of the 2005 Bankruptcy Reform Act (BAPCPA) contributed significantly to the reversal. The reform generated negative wealth effects for a category of homeowners, lowering prices of their homes, which spread via a process of contagion to the prices of other homes. Evidence consistent with this hypothesis is provided: changes in housing prices and mortgage interest rates at the MSA level following the reform were significantly correlated with BAPCPA-exposure. The results are robust to controls for the size of the pre-2005 price growth, local unemployment rates, rates of new home construction and home vacancies, apart from MSA, house and year dummies.
K35|Costly Contracts and Consumer Credit|the empirical density of credit card interest rates has become much more disperse since 1983.
K35|"Personal Bankruptcy Law, Wealth and Entrepreneurship: Theory and Evidence from the Introduction of a ""Fresh Start"""|"A personal bankruptcy law that allows for a ""fresh start"" after bankruptcy reduces the individual risk involved in entrepreneurial activity. On the other hand, as risk shifts to creditors who recover less of their credit after a debtor's bankruptcy, lenders may charge higher interest rates or ration credit supply, which can hamper entrepreneurship. Both aspects of a more forgiving personal bankruptcy law are less relevant for wealthy potential entrepreneurs who still risk losing their wealth, but tend not to face higher interest rates because they provide collateral. This paper illustrates these effects in a model and tests the hypotheses derived by exploiting the introduction of a ""fresh start"" policy in Germany in 1999 as a natural experiment, based on representative household panel data. The results indicate that the insurance effect of a more forgiving personal bankruptcy law exceeds the interest effect and on balance encourages less wealthy individuals to enter into entrepreneurship."
K35|Insolvenzordnung: Möglichkeit des Neustarts erleichtert Unternehmensgründungen|Seit 1999 die Insolvenzordnung eingeführt wurde, können sich Privatpersonen, die sich überschuldet haben, in einem Insolvenzverfahren entschulden. Dafür muss der private Schuldner zunächst die sechsjährige Wohlverhaltensphase durchlaufen, während derer sein Einkommen oberhalb einer Pfändungsgrenze an die Gläubiger abgeführt wird. Nach dieser Phase werden die Restschulden erlassen. Da in Einzelunternehmen und Personengesellschaften die Eigentümer persönlich für die Unternehmensschulden haften, ist die Insolvenzordnung mit der Möglichkeit der Restschuldbefreiung besonders auch für Selbständige wichtig. Die Bundesregierung plant derzeit eine Reform der Insolvenzordnung und will insbesondere die Dauer der Wohlverhaltensphase auf drei Jahre halbieren. Dies könnte Unternehmensgründungen in Deutschland attraktiver machen.
K35|Health insurance and the consumer bankruptcy decision: Evidence from expansions of Medicaid|Anecdotal evidence and several observational studies suggest that out-of-pocket medical costs are pivotal in a large fraction of consumer bankruptcy decisions. In this paper, we assess the contribution of medical costs to household bankruptcy risk by exploiting plausibly exogenous variation in publicly provided health insurance. Using cross-state variation in Medicaid expansions from 1992 to 2004, we find that a 10 percentage point increase in Medicaid eligibility reduces personal bankruptcies by 8%, with no evidence that business bankruptcies are similarly affected. We interpret our findings with a model in which health insurance imperfectly substitutes for other forms of financial protection, and we use the model to present simple calibration results which illustrate how our reduced-form parameter estimate affects the optimal level of health insurance benefits. We conclude with calculations which suggest that out-of-pocket medical costs are pivotal in roughly 26% of personal bankruptcies among low-income households.
K35|Health insurance and the consumer bankruptcy decision: Evidence from expansions of Medicaid|Anecdotal evidence and several observational studies suggest that out-of-pocket medical costs are pivotal in a large fraction of consumer bankruptcy decisions. In this paper, we assess the contribution of medical costs to household bankruptcy risk by exploiting plausibly exogenous variation in publicly provided health insurance. Using cross-state variation in Medicaid expansions from 1992 to 2004, we find that a 10 percentage point increase in Medicaid eligibility reduces personal bankruptcies by 8%, with no evidence that business bankruptcies are similarly affected. We interpret our findings with a model in which health insurance imperfectly substitutes for other forms of financial protection, and we use the model to present simple calibration results which illustrate how our reduced-form parameter estimate affects the optimal level of health insurance benefits. We conclude with calculations which suggest that out-of-pocket medical costs are pivotal in roughly 26% of personal bankruptcies among low-income households.
K35|Personal bankcuptcy law, wealth and entrepreneurship - Theory and evidence from the introduction of a 'fresh start'|A personal bankruptcy law that allows for a 'fresh start' after bankruptcy reduces the individual risk involved in entrepreneurial activity. On the other hand, as risk shifts to creditors who recover less of their credit after a debtor's bankruptcy, lenders may charge higher interest rates or ration credit supply, which can hamper entrepreneurship. Both aspects of a more forgiving personal bankruptcy law are less relevant for wealthy potential entrepreneurs who still risk losing their wealth, but tend not to face higher interest rates because they provide collateral. This paper illustrates these effects in a model and tests the hypotheses derived by exploiting the introduction of a 'fresh start' policy in Germany in 1999 as a natural experiment, based on representative household panel data. The results indicate that the insurance effect of a more forgiving personal bankruptcy law exceeds the interest effect and on balance encourages less wealthy individuals to enter into entrepreneurship.
K35|Too Low to Be True: The Use of Minimum Thresholds to Fight Tax Evasion|"The enforcement of compliance with tax regulation is a complex task. This is particularly the case when the administrative capacity of the tax authority is low, as it often happens in developing and transition countries. This paper draws on some international experiences in fighting tax evasion to identify tools that can be used to reduce underreporting by employed labor, small and medium enterprises, self-employed, and professionals. In particular, I analyze the use of minimum thresholds, where taxpayers cannot declare an income below a certain amount or, alternatively, are subject to a higher probability of an audit if they decide to do so. First, I model the impact of minimum thresholds by explicitly taking into account low administrative capacity. The model shows that introducing a threshold creates a spike and a ""missing middle"" in the distribution of declared incomes and highlights under which conditions a threshold is likely to increase net revenues. I then analyze two policies used to fight underreporting: the Italian ""Business Sector Analysis"" and the Bulgarian ""Minimum Social Insurance Thresholds"". The Italian tax authority infers ""normal"" revenues and compensations by small and medium enterprises, self-employed, and professionals from indicators that are difficult to conceal or manipulate. In case the taxpayer decides to declare less than the ""normal"" level, the probability of an audit increases and the burden of proof is reversed. Bulgaria has established a system of differentiated minimum social insurance thresholds depending on sector and profession, so that social security contributions cannot be lower than the ones implied by the threshold. To conclude, I appraise the applicability of these two systems in other countries."
K35|Corporate and Personal Bankruptcy Law|Bankruptcy is the legal process by which the debts of firms, individuals, and occasionally governments in financial distress are resolved. Bankruptcy law always includes three components. First, it provides a collective framework for simultaneously resolving all debts of the bankrupt entity, regardless of when they are due. Second, it provides rules for determining how the assets and earnings used to repay are divided among creditors. Third, bankruptcy law specifies punishments intended to discourage debtors from defaulting on their debts and filing for bankruptcy. This review discusses and evaluates bankruptcy law by examining whether and when the law encourages debtors and creditors to behave in economically efficient ways. It also considers how bankruptcy law might be changed to improve economic efficiency. The review shows that there are multiple economic objectives of bankruptcy law, because the law affects has very diverse effects. Some of these objectives differ for individuals versus corporations in bankruptcy.
K35|Macroeconomic Effects of Bankruptcy & Foreclosure Policies|Bankruptcy laws govern consumer default on unsecured credit. Foreclosure laws regulate default on secured mortgage debt. I investigate to what extent differences in foreclosure and bankruptcy laws can jointly explain variation in default rates across states. I construct a general equilibrium model where heterogeneous infinitely-lived households have access to unsecured borrowing and can finance housing purchases with mortgages. Households can default separately on both types of debt. The model is calibrated to match national foreclosure and bankruptcy rates and aggregate statistics related to household net worth and debt. The model can account for 83% of the variation in bankruptcy rates due to differences in bankruptcy and foreclosure law. I find that more generous homestead exemptions raise the cost of unsecured borrowing. Households in states with high exemptions therefore hold less unsecured and more mortgage debt compared to low exemption states, which leads to lower bankruptcy rates but higher foreclosure rates. The model also predicts recourse results in higher bankruptcy rates and a higher coincidence of foreclosure and bankruptcy. I use the model to evaluate how proposed and implemented changes to bankruptcy policy affect default rates and welfare. The 2005 Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act yields large welfare gains (1% consumption equivalent variation) but results in increases in both foreclosure and bankruptcy rates. I find that implementing the optimal joint foreclosure and bankruptcy policy, which is characterized by no-recourse mortgages and a homestead exemption equal to one quarter of median income, yields modest welfare gains (0.3% consumption equivalent variation).
K35|The Formation Of Credit Agreements For Consumers|The purpose of Directive 2008/48/EC is to harmonize all aspects concerning credit for consumers, in order to unify the internal market and remove any distortion of competition arising from different national regulations. The instrument used consists in achieving a standard status of protection of the credit consumer. O.U.G. no. 50/2010 on credit agreements for consumers, which transposes into the domestic legislation the European directive, develops like the latter a system of pre-contractual and contractual information and publicity, governed by the principle of transparency, aimed at ensuring the consumer the formation of an informed consent.
K35|How Does Personal Bankruptcy Law Affect Start-ups?|We analyze the effect of changes in U.S. state personal exemptions on the financing structure and performance of a representative sample of start-ups. An increase in the amount of borrower’s personal wealth protected in bankruptcy reduces the availability of bank credit to all start-ups. Owners of unlimited liability businesses, who benefit from the increase in wealth insurance, offset the reduction in bank credit by investing more money in the firm. We find no such response for start-ups whose entrepreneurs’ personal wealth is already protected by limited liability. Consequently, corporations experience lower growth rates and higher failure rates, while proprietorships performance is not negatively affected.
K35|The Ticket to Easy Street? The Financial Consequences of Winning the Lottery| This paper examines whether giving large cash transfers to financially distressed people causes them to avoid bankruptcy. A comparison of Florida Lottery winners who randomly received $50,000 to $150,000 to small winners indicates that such transfers only postpone bankruptcy rather than prevent it, a result inconsistent with the negative shock model of bankruptcy. Furthermore, the large winners who subsequently filed for bankruptcy had similar net assets and unsecured debt as small winners. Thus, our findings suggest that skepticism regarding the long-term impact of cash transfers may be warranted. © 2011 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
K35|"Personal Bankruptcy Law, Wealth and Entrepreneurship: Theory and Evidence from the Introduction of a ""Fresh Start"""|"A personal bankruptcy law that allows for a ""fresh start"" after bankruptcy reduces the individual risk involved in entrepreneurial activity. On the other hand, as risk shifts to creditors who recover less of their credit after a debtor's bankruptcy, lenders may charge higher interest rates or ration credit supply, which can hamper entrepreneurship. Both aspects of a more forgiving personal bankruptcy law are less relevant for wealthy potential entrepreneurs who still risk losing their wealth, but tend not to face higher interest rates because they provide collateral. This paper illustrates these effects in a model and tests the hypotheses derived by exploiting the introduction of a ""fresh start"" policy in Germany in 1999 as a natural experiment, based on representative household panel data. The results indicate that the insurance effect of a more forgiving personal bankruptcy law exceeds the interest effect and on balance encourages less wealthy individuals to enter into entrepreneurship."
K35|The optimal Chapter 7 exemption level in a life-cycle model with asset portfolios|I develop a heterogenous agent life-cycle model that examines the effects of the US personal bankruptcy law on bankruptcy filings and welfare. In addition to facing uncertainty over their labor income, agents also face wealth shocks that stem from unexpected changes in family composition or from unexpected medical expenses. I allow agents to borrow and save simultaneously. Some households borrow at high interest rates while simultaneously saving at low interest rate because of the option value of defaulting. This is consistent data on household assets. Under chapter 7 of the US bankruptcy law, consumers can keep all wealth up to an exemption level. I show that introducing exemption levels is of particular importance in the presence of wealth shocks. My quantitative evaluations show that changes in the exemption level have an impact only for very low exemption levels. Thus, ignoring them biases welfare results. But this impact fades out rather quickly. The reason is that almost no household is affected by medium to high exemption levels because those households who might default do not have much wealth. The welfare results of changes in the exemption level are rather small, less than 0.1% of annual consumption. In contrast to the earlier literature, but consistent with the data, I do not find a strong positive relationship between the exemption level and default rates.
K35|How Did the US Housing Slump Begin? The Role of the 2005 Bankruptcy Reform|Most analyses of the recent ¯nancial crisis in the US focus on the consequences of the dramatic slump in housing prices that started in the mid-2000s, which led to rising mortgage defaults, shrinking home equity credit and liquidity in the banking system. Yet these accounts do not explain what caused the reversal of housing price growth in the ¯rst place. This paper argues that the passage of the 2005 Bankruptcy Reform Act (BAPCPA) contributed signi¯cantly to the reversal. The reform generated negative wealth e®ects for a category of homeowners, lowering prices of their homes, which spread via a process of contagion to the prices of other homes. Evidence consistent with this hypothesis is provided: changes in housing prices and mortgage interest rates at the MSA level following the reform were significantly correlated with BAPCPA-exposure. The results are robust to controls for the size of the pre-2005 price growth, local unemployment rates, rates of new home construction and home vacancies, apart from MSA, house and year dummies.
K35|Debt restructuring and improper granting of credit in Italian law|In the context of the reform of bankruptcy law, the improper granting of credit and the restructuring of debts of a company have received a more comprehensive regulatory definition, with a clearer identification of the situations and responsibilities: an issue of peculiar interest for banks called to support a debt restructuring agreement.
K35|Domestic Support Obligations and Bankruptcy: An Analysis of Chapter 13 Filings|No abstract is available for this item.
K35|Relationship Between ECHR and the Court of Justice of the European Communities for the Standardization of the Respect for Human Rights|European Convention on Human Rights focuses on the concept of state responsibility, but also the responsibility of the Community as a result of actions taken by EU institutions and the responsibility of Member States, i.e. the actions taken by state authorities in exercise of the powers of the Community.
K35|BANKRUPTCY REORGANIZATIONS AND THE TROUBLING LEGACY OF CHRYSLER AND GM (English version)|The Chrysler and General Motors (GM) bankruptcy reorganizations represent the culmination of a sea-change in corporate restructuring practice that has occurred largely over the course of just the past decade. A bankruptcy reorganization has traditionally been effectuated though a chapter 11 plan of reorganization, with elaborate requirements for disclosure, creditor voting, and allocation of stakes in the reorganized debtor entity’s new capital structure among creditors and owners. Such an internal boot-strap reorganization, though, is on the decline, and many reorganizations are now accomplished through a relatively expeditious going-concern sale of the debtor’s business and assets to a third-party purchaser, with a subsequent distribution of the proceeds to creditors and shareholders in accordance with their relative priority rights. What Chrysler and GM vividly illustrate is that there actually is no clean, clear distinction between reorganization by “plan” and reorganization by “sale”—through the wonders of sophisticated transaction engineering, each can be the precise functional equivalent of the other. The acute danger this presents, and that actually came to pass in the GM case, is that a nominal “sale” structure can be used to effectuate a purely internal boot-strap reorganization that distributes the value of the reorganized debtor entity among creditors in a manner that indisputably contravenes their relative priority rights in the debtor’s assets. Indeed, when examined in the context of a longer historical perspective on corporate reorganizations, one can readily discern that what transpired in GM (and what the Second Circuit’s Chrysler opinion fully sanctions) is precisely what the Supreme Court prohibited in a series of decisions in the late 1800s and early 1900s, which formed the basis for chapter 11’s codification of creditors’ priority rights in corporate reorganizations. Contrary to the received wisdom regarding the implications of Chrysler and GM, their combined effect foretells the literal death of the fundamental distributive principles that are the essence of bankruptcy law and that have been the bedrock of bankruptcy reorganizations for at least a century. Moreover, no one (and particularly not the judges presiding over those cases) seems to appreciate that fact! Amazingly, we find ourselves in the midst of a sub silentio destruction of the very core of bankruptcy reorganization law.
K35|Information Technology and the Rise of Household Bankruptcy|Several studies attributed the rise of household bankruptcy in the past two decades to the decline of social stigma associated with default. Stigma explanations, however, cannot account for the increase of credit availability during this period. I try to explain both of these facts as a result of a more informative credit rating technology. I study an adverse selection environment where borrowers are heterogeneous with respect to their cost of default. Creditors have access to a rating technology which provides an exogenous signal about borrowers' default costs. Equilibrium contracts subject each borrower to a credit limit such that the creditors' expected profit, conditional on the signal about the borrower's default cost, is zero. As the exogenous signal becomes more informative, the credit market will provide higher credit limits for borrowers with high default costs, and lowers credit limits of borrowers with low costs of default. Hence a more informative signal allows those with high default costs to borrow more, making them more likely to default, while decreasing borrowing and default by those with low default costs. Using Simulated Method of Moments, I estimate the model parameters to match the increases in the average consumer credit card limit, the average unsecured consumer debt level and the spread of the credit limit distribution from 1992 to 1998 using the Survey of Consumer Finance's data. The model does well in matching the targeted moments and can account for one third to half of the increase in the number of bankruptcy filings from 1992 to 1998.
K35|Approaching Insolvency Proceedings in Practical Court Decisions|The text deals with claimants approaching to insolvency proceedings in decisions by courts. It focuses on the application of the Civil Proceedings Act to insolvency proceedings, especially problems of approaching insolvency proceedings. It also reflects the incorrect application of law in the decision of insolvency courts and explains how to apply the Civil Proceedings Act and Insolvency Act properly.
K35|Optimal Personal Bankruptcy Design under Moral Hazard|In this paper, we develop a normative theory of unsecured consumer credit and personal bankruptcy based on the optimal trade-off between incentives and insurance. First, in order to characterize this trade-off, we solve a dynamic moral hazard problem in which agents' private effort decisions influence the life-cycle profiles of their earnings. We then show how the optimal allocation of individual effort and consumption can be implemented in a market equilibrium in which (i) agents and intermediaries repeatedly trade in secured and unsecured debt instruments, and (ii) agents obtain (restricted) discharge of their unsecured debts in bankruptcy. The structure of this equilibrium and the associated restrictions on debt discharge closely match the main qualitative features of personal credit markets and bankruptcy law that actually exist in the United States. (Copyright: Elsevier)
K35|Too low to be true: the use of minimum thresholds to fight tax evasion|No abstract is available for this item.
K35|Transfer of Undertakings, Insolvency Proceedings in the United Kingdom and Italy, and the European Court of Justice Case Law|The current paper explores the application and revision process of the Ac-quired Rights Directive in the context of insolvency proceedings, focusing on the role of community and national (British and Italian) case law. It therefore analyzes, from a comparative perspective, the inevitable conflict between these disciplines, and the related implementation of the EU Directive in Italy and in the United Kingdom.
K35|Saving Your Home in Chapter 13 Bankruptcy| This paper examines how filing for bankruptcy under Chapter 13 helps financially distressed homeowners. We develop a model of debtors' decisions to default on their mortgages and file for bankruptcy and evaluate it using a new data set of debtors who filed for bankruptcy under Chapter 13 in 2006. We also examine the effect of introducing cram down of residential mortgages in Chapter 13, which would reduce the total amount that debtors owe. We find that 96 percent of Chapter 13 filers are homeowners and 79 percent of filers repay mortgage debt in their repayment plans, while just 9 percent of filers replay only unsecured debt in their plans. Thus, filers use Chapter 13 almost exclusively as a save-your-home procedure. Under current law, only about 1 percent of Chapter 13 filers who would otherwise have defaulted save their homes, but this fraction would increase to 10 percent if cram down were introduced. We estimate that the cost to lenders of cram down would be $264,000 per home saved and $30 billion in total. (c) 2010 by The University of Chicago. All rights reserved.
K35|Probleme des Insolvenzplanverfahrens|The paper analyses options in case of insolvency. Although insolvency plans empirically are very successful, they are not used very much. Reasons that prevent their application and possibilities for their promotion are discussed.
K35|The Housing Crisis and Bankruptcy Reform: The Prepackaged Chapter 13 Approach|The housing crisis threatens to destroy hundreds of billions of dollars of value by causing homeowners with negative equity to walk away from their houses. A house in foreclosure is worth 30 to 50 percent less than a house that a homeowner either retains or sells on the market, and a foreclosed house damages neighboring property values as well. We advocate a reform of Chapter 13 that would allow homeowners to strip down the value of their mortgages in a prepackaged bankruptcy. Such a plan would give homeowners an incentive to keep or resell their homes, thus reducing the market value loss of homes while protecting the effective value of creditors’ interests. Two further key elements of the plan are that it uses prices based on the average house price in a particular ZIP code, which reduces moral hazard; and it is automated, requiring only a rubber stamp by a bankruptcy judge or other official, thus preserving judicial resources. Other plans, including that of the Obama administration, are compared.
K35|Going Bankrupt? Business Failure in Colonial Indonesia, c. 1870-1940|Bankruptcy represents a highly evasive feature of business activity when it comes to interpretation. Statistics convey the ups and downs of business cycles and genuine business failures but also strategies of readjustment. There was a careful registration of declared bankruptcies in late colonial Indonesia but so far the preserved data have not been utilized for purposes of economic historical analysis. This article, based on primary evidence from the colonial period, seeks to fill that gap in the historiography. The article presents an overview of available sources, including a discussion of ambiguities in interpretation. The actual analysis consists of two parts, one concerning the period from the late 1860s up to the first decade of the twentieth century when the basis for laid for a rapid export-led economic expansion. The second part of the analysis embraces the period of expansion, in particular during the 1920s, as well as the downturn during the worldwide economic depression in the 1930s. Particular attention is given to evidence from major commercial centres in Java such as Batavia (Jakarta), Surabaya and Semarang. The statistical record highlights the stability in the bankruptcy pattern up to 1920 followed by sharp oscillations, including dramatic peaks in the early 1920s and early 1930s. Strikingly, sustained losses registered in declared cases of bankruptcy were significantly larger during the 1920s than the 1930s which testifies to a large-scale corporate restructuring through the device of bankruptcy during the former decade. Findings also underscore the conspicuous presence of ethnic Chinese among businessmen filing for bankruptcy but their share declined in the course of time as more European firms went bankrupt.
K35|Mortgage Default, Foreclosure, and Bankruptcy|In this paper we examine the relationship between homeowners' bankruptcy decisions and their mortgage default decisions and the relationship between homeowners' bankruptcy decisions and lenders' decisions to foreclose. In theory, both relationships could be either substitutes or complements. Bankruptcy and default tend to be substitutes because homeowners' budgets are limited and, if they spend less on payments to unsecured lenders, then they have more money to pay their mortgages. But bankruptcy and default may also be complements if homeowners use bankruptcy to reduce the cost of defaulting on their mortgages. Bankruptcy and foreclosure similarly may be either substitutes or complements. In fact we show that both relationships are complementary, although homeowners reacted to the 2005 bankruptcy reform by treating them as substitutes. We also show that bankruptcies, defaults and foreclosures all tend to spread, i.e., higher bankruptcy rates in the neighborhood raise homeowners' probability of filing, higher default rates raise homeowners' probability of defaulting, and higher foreclosure rates raise homeowners' probability of foreclosure. We provide estimates of the size of these effects. The paper argues that these relationships have important public policy implications. In particular, foreclosures have very high social costs, and some of these costs are external to both borrowers and lenders. As a result, there is a social gain from discouraging bankruptcies, since fewer bankruptcies mean fewer defaults and foreclosures. We show that these considerations shift optimal bankruptcy law in a pro-creditor direction, because pro-creditor bankruptcy policies reduce the number of filings and therefore reduce foreclosures. But the same considerations shift other policies that affect bankruptcy in a pro-debtor direction. This is because pro-debtor shifts in, for example, wage garnishment policy reduce the number of bankruptcy filings and therefore reduce foreclosures.
K35|The impact of insolvency laws on venture capital|The venture capital (VC) industry supports innovation in an economy, and has seen much success over the last few years. However, with the inherent risk in any start-up business, the venture capitalist is bound to see some failures. This paper explores the effects of corporate and personal insolvency laws on financially distressed VC funded firms. It also compares the contract driven bankruptcy system to the court driven system, and their implications for failed VC funded firms. This paper relies upon qualitative analysis and draws upon interviews with academic experts, industry practitioners and secondary data. In the light of corporate insolvency, the research concludes that entrepreneurial firms are often ‘wound up’ rather than put into the bankruptcy system for liquidation/ reorganization because the realized value from the small firms often do not cover the cost of the bankruptcy process. Consequently, it is difficult to ascertain the impact of corporate insolvency laws on small businesses. On the contrary, it has been observed that the severity of the personal insolvency law does not affect venture capital financed entrepreneurs. The venture capitalists provide equity finance and the entrepreneurs do not need to risk their personal assets for collateral to acquire bank finance. The comparison between the US and UK systems of bankruptcy revealed that for small entrepreneurial firms, both systems are convergent to a greater degree than they are for larger firms i.e., the smaller the firm the more similar both the systems seem in relation to efficiency and the ability to salvage value from financially distressed firms.
K35|Foreclosure and Bankruptcy--Policy Conclusions from the Current Crisis|The recent episode of rising consumer bankruptcy and increasing foreclosure rates has sparked a lively debate about how to best tackle the crisis in the U.S. housing market. This paper contributes to the debate by providing an explicit model of the interactions of households' decisions to declare Chapter 7 bankruptcy, and to enter into foreclosure. We construct a model to show that the interaction of bankruptcy exemption limits and mortgage regulation has an impact on the prevalence of bankruptcy and foreclosure. We use state-level data to show empirically that our model predictions are plausible. We argue that policy proposals that focus solely on one aspect of the twin-crisis are likely to be misguided. In particular, we show that in the short-run a switch from non-recourse mortgages to recourse mortgages may have little effect on foreclosures, but could dramatically increase the number of bankruptcies.
K35|Consumer durables and risky borrowing: The effects of bankruptcy protection|There exist substantial differences in the generosity of bankruptcy protection across U.S. states. This paper exploits cross-state variation in exemption levels to assess the dual role of durable goods as informal collateral for unsecured debt and self-insurance against bad shocks to earnings. The generosity of bankruptcy protection is found to change both the incentives and the ability of households to accumulate durable wealth. The gains from a high level of insurance are reduced by the effect of tighter credit constraints, so that the net effects of a change in exemption are very small. A more generous bankruptcy regulation reduces net durable wealth in the first half of the life cycle. In addition, the optimal level of exemption is positive but low.
K35|Who Benefits from Tax-Advantaged Employee Benefits?: Evidence from University Parking|We use university parking permits to study how firms and employees split the value of employee benefit tax subsidies. Starting in 1998, the IRS allowed employees to pay for parking passes with pre-tax income. This subsidized the parking pass purchases of faculty and staff, but did not affect students. We show that the typical university raised its parking rates by 8-10% extra when it implemented a pre-tax payment system, but that this increase was the same for those affected by the tax change and those that were not affected. We conclude that university employees captured much of the new tax benefit, that faculty and staff that purchase permits benefited relative to those that do not purchase permits, and that students that purchase permits were made worse off relative to those that do not buy permits. We discuss what these results suggest about universities' objectives in setting their parking prices and about the demand for university parking.
K35|Bankruptcy: Past Puzzles, Recent Reforms, and the Mortgage Crisis|This paper discusses four bankruptcy-related policy issues. First, what is the economic rationale for having a bankruptcy procedure at all and what defines an economically efficient bankruptcy procedure? Second, why did the number of U.S. bankruptcy filings increase so dramatically between 1980 and 2005? Third, a major bankruptcy reform went into effect in the U.S. in 2005--what did it do and how did it affect credit and mortgage markets? Finally, the paper discusses the mortgage crisis, the high social cost of foreclosures, and the difficulty of avoiding foreclosure by voluntarily renegotiation of mortgage contracts, even when such renegotiations are in the joint interest of debtors and creditors. I also discuss the pros and cons of government programs to refinance mortgages and the possibility of giving bankruptcy judges new power to change the terms of mortgage contracts in bankruptcy.
K35|Bankruptcy Law and Entrepreneurship|" Recent initiatives in a number of countries have sought to promote entrepreneurship through relaxing the legal consequences of personal bankruptcy. Whilst there is an intuitive link, relatively little attention has been paid to the question empirically, particularly in the international context. We investigate the relationship between bankruptcy laws and entrepreneurship using data on self-employment over 16 years (1990--2005) and fifteen countries in Europe and North America. We compile new indices reflecting how ""forgiving"" personal bankruptcy laws are. These measures vary over time and across the countries studied. We show that bankruptcy law has a statistically and economically significant effect on self-employment rates when controlling for GDP growth, MSCI stock returns, and a variety of other legal and economic factors. Copyright 2008, Oxford University Press."
K35|Consumer Bankruptcy: A Fresh Start|Consumer bankruptcy provides partial insurance against bad luck, but, by driving up interest rates, makes life-cycle smoothing more difficult. We argue that to assess this trade-off one needs a quantitative model of consumer bankruptcy with three key features: life-cycle component, idiosyncratic earnings uncertainty, and expense uncertainty (exogenous negative shocks to household balance sheets). We find that transitory and persistent earnings shocks have very different implications for evaluating bankruptcy rules. More persistent shocks make the bankruptcy option more desirable. Larger transitory shocks have the opposite effect. Our findings suggest the current US bankruptcy system may be desirable for reasonable parameter values. (JEL D14, D91, K35)
K35|Fresh Start or Head Start? The Effects of Filing for Personal Bankruptcy on Work Effort|No abstract is available for this item.
K35|Heuristics and Biases in Bankruptcy Judges|Do specialized judges make better decisions than judges who are generalists? Specialized judges surely come to know their area of law well, but specialization might also allow judges to develop better, more reliable ways of assessing cases. We assessed this question by presenting a group of specialized judges with a set of hypothetical cases designed to elicit a reliance on common heuristics that can lead judges to make poor decisions. Although the judges resisted the influence of some of these heuristics, they also expressed a clear vulnerability to others. These results suggest that specialization does not produce better judgment.
K35|Bankruptcy Reform and Credit Cards|From 1980 to 2004, the number of personal bankruptcy filings in the United States increased more than five-fold, from 288,000 to 1.5 million per year. Lenders responded to the high filing rate with a major lobbying campaign for bankruptcy reform that led to the adoption in 2005 of the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act (BAPCPA), which made bankruptcy law much less debtor-friendly. The paper first examines why bankruptcy rates increased so sharply. I argue that the main explanation is the rapid growth in credit card debt, which rose from 3.2% of U.S. median family income in 1980 to 12.5% in 2004. The paper then examines how the adoption of BAPCPA changed bankruptcy law. Prior to 2005, bankruptcy law provided debtors with a relatively easy escape route from debt, since credit card debt and other types of debt could be discharged in bankruptcy and even well-off debtors had no obligation to repay. BAPCPA made this escape route less attractive by increasing the costs of filing and forcing some high-income debtors to repay from post-bankruptcy income. However, because many consumers are hyperbolic discounters, making bankruptcy law less debtor-friendly will not solve the problem of consumers borrowing too much. This is because, when less debt is discharged in bankruptcy, lending becomes more profitable and lenders increase the supply of credit. The paper examines the determinants of an optimal bankruptcy law. It also considers the relationship between bankruptcy law and regulation of lending behavior and discusses proposals that would reduce lenders' incentives to supply too much credit to debtors who are likely to become financially distressed.
K35|Accounting for the Rise in Consumer Bankruptcies|Personal bankruptcies in the United States have increased dramatically, rising from 1.4 per thousand working age adults in 1970 to 8.5 in 2002. We use a heterogeneous agent life-cycle model with competitive lenders to evaluate several commonly offered explanations. We find that increased uncertainty (income shocks, expense uncertainty) cannot account quantitatively for the rise in bankruptcies. Instead, the rise in filings appears mainly to reflect changes in the credit market environment: a decrease in the transaction cost of lending and in the cost of bankruptcy. We also argue that the abolition of usury laws and other legal changes were unimportant. (JEL D14, E44, G21, G28)
K35|Renégociation stratégique de la dette, risque comptable et risque juridique<BR>[Strategic Bankruptcy with accountable and judicial risks]|This paper studies the influence of bankruptcy law (depending on whether the law is pro-lenders or pro-borrowers) on the borrowers propensity to demand the renegotiation of their debt, when there exist an asymmetrical information between lenders and borrowers. In the tradition of Law & Economics, we proceed to a study of impact for the main parameters of the model that capture the design of bankruptcy law, showing their influence on the probability of strategic bankruptcy and on the social welfare.
K35|Ex-Ante vs. Ex-Post Efficiency in Personal Bankruptcy Proceedings|Amidst a sharp increase in household debt levels, many countries have substantially reformed their consumer bankruptcy regulations. I first classify the mechanisms triggered by current U.S. and European bankruptcy regulations and then evaluate these mechanisms within a hidden action model. I analyze the consumer’s incentives prior to distress and during a ’period of good conduct’ following bankruptcy, appraising the capacity of existing regulations to implement those conflicting objectives. Though the institution of debt release provides adequate bankruptcy regulation ex-post, the prospect of debt release also distorts the debtor’s choices prior to distress. I propose alternative regulations that provide superior incentives, minimizing the overall distortions at both dates. A numerical example illustrates the findings.
K35|The Dynamics of Chapter 13 Bankruptcy| The â€œBankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005â€ makes extensive changes to U.S. consumer bankruptcy regulations. One of its most important features is to prohibit debtors from filing under Chapter 7 when some or all of a debtorâ€™s unsecured liability can be repaid from future income under Chapter 13. The reasons that underlie these changes are twofold. First, unsecured creditors typically benefit from greater repayment rates under Chapter 13 than under Chapter 7, with the higher filing and processing costs of Chapter 13 assumed to be largely offset by this higher repayment rate. Second, means testing is thought to be effective in predicting higher repayment rates under Chapter 13. While the latter notions are held as conventional wisdom, there has been almost no research that either validates or invalidates these assumptions. In this paper we develop and estimate a bargaining model of repayment plan formation and dissolution for Chapter 13 bankruptcy filers to study the dynamics of Chapter 13 filing. Specifically, we seek to understand the determinants of 1. repayment plans that are acceptable to all parties; 2. the successful consummation of repayment plans; 3. the recovery rates for creditors; and 4. the length of repayment plans and overall time spent in Chapter 13. We then use the estimated structural model to conduct experiments that aim at evaluating the impact of regulatory changes on the duration of the Chapter 13 plan formation process, the type of plan that form, their successful rates and recovery rates.
K35|Accounting for the Rise in Consumer Bankruptcies in the U.S. and Canada| Personal bankruptcy filings have increased dramatically: rising from 1.4 in per thousand of working age population 1970 to 8.5 in 2002 in the United States and from 0.2 in 1970 to 4.3 in 2002 in Canada. This paper asks whether 6 commonly mentioned potential explanations -- financial innovation, financial market liberalization, an increase in household specific idiosyncratic risk, demographic changes, legal changes and decreased â€œstigmaâ€ -- can quantitatively account for the rise in consumer bankruptcies in the United States and Canada. We use a heterogeneous agent life cycle model with competitive intermediaries who are able to (imperfectly) observe households (labor) productivity, age and current asset holdings. We undertake numerical experiments to determine the extent to which each of the 5 factors can account for the rise in consumer bankruptcies. Our analysis suggests that financial innovation (the spread of credit scoring and new collateralized debt instruments) and financial liberalization play an essential role, while demographic changes and increased earnings uncertainty play a small role in accounting for the rise. These results cast doubt on explanations of the rise which depend upon declining ``stigma'' explanation or the relaxation of the bankruptcy code
K35|The Politics of Legal Reform|As a result of the emerging market crises of the last decade and a large body of academic research on the influence of investor protection in the development of capital markets and economic growth, there is a growing consensus that reforming the legal infrastructure supporting business should be an important component of reforms in many developing countries. But the consensus is unwieldy, as there are still many forces against reform and little agreement about what constitutes feasible legal reforms. This paper has two parts. In the first, we identify the forces for and against legal reform and review the role these forces play in episodes of reform. In the second, we seek to further our understanding of what constitutes good laws and regulatory mechanisms, and more importantly how to make them enforceable in different countries. If legal reform is to succeed, the commonly advocated principles of corporate governance in the international community must be brought down to the local political and judicial realities. Translating international corporate governance initiatives into clear and enforceable rights for creditors and shareholders that incorporate these constraints will be difficult but necessary. Bankruptcy law and corporate law reform need to be politically feasible and enforceable. Legal reforms should be complemented with carefully drafted judicial reforms, as well as market-based mechanisms that foster a culture of corporate governance.
K35|Financial Aid Packages and College Enrollment Decisions: An Econometric Case Study|We study the effects of a change in financial aid policy introduced by a Northeastern university in 1998. Prior to that time, the university s financial aid packages for low income students consisted of grants, loans, and campus jobs. After the change, the entire loan portion of the package for low-income students was replaced with grants. We find the program increased the likelihood of matriculation by low-income students by about 3 percentage points, although the effect is not statistically significant. The effect among low-income minority students was about twice that size and statistically significant at the 10 percent level.
K35|Wage and Wage Discrimination Across Regions|No abstract is available for this item.
K35|Personal Bankruptcy and Wage Garnishment|Contrary to Chapter 7 bankruptcy in the U.S., many European bankruptcy regimes are stricter and force bankrupts to repay some outstanding debt through wage garnishment. Since wage garnishment raises the efective marginal tax rate, it distorts labor supply. Explicitly modeling the garnishment period and endogenizing labor supply, this paper examines the optimal garnishment regime for Germany: optimal garnishment rates are 18 percentage points lower and the garnishment du-ration increases from six to ten years. Consequently, repayment during bankruptcy increases and interest rates fall. Welfare improves by 3.3%. Low-income households gain the most due to better access to cheaper credit.
K35|Chapter 7 or 13: Are Client or Lawyer Interests Paramount?|Households often rely on professionals with specialized knowledge to make important financial decisions. In many cases, the professionals financial interests are at odds with those of the client. We explore this problem in the context of personal bankruptcy. OLS, fixed effects, and IV estimates all show that attorneys play a central role in determining whether households file under Chapter 7 or Chapter 13 of the bankruptcy code. We present evidence suggesting that some attorneys maximize profits by steering households into Chapter 13 bankruptcy even when the households objective financial benefits are low and the probability of case dismissal is high. An attorney-induced Chapter 13 filing increases household legal fees and reduces the probability of long-term debt relief.
