K36|The Impact of Post-Marital Maintenance on Dynamic Decisions and Welfare of Couples|In many countries divorce law mandates post-marital maintenance payments (child support and alimony) to insure the lower earner in married couples against financial losses upon divorce. This paper studies how maintenance payments affect couplesâ€™ intertemporal decisions and welfare. I develop a dynamic model of family labor supply, housework, savings and divorce and estimate it using Danish register data. The model captures the policy trade off between providing insurance to the lower earner and enabling couples to specialize efficiently, on the one hand, and maintaining labor supply incentives for divorcees, on the other hand. I use the estimated model to analyze counterfactual policy scenarios in which child support and alimony payments are changed. The welfare maximizing maintenance policy is to triple child support payments and reduce alimony by 12.5% relative to the Danish status quo. Switching to the welfare maximizing policy makes men worse off, but comparisons to a first best scenario reveal that Pareto improvements are feasible, highlighting the limitations of maintenance policies.
K36|The Impact of Post-Marital Maintenance on Dynamic Decisions and Welfare of Couples|In many countries divorce law mandates post-marital maintenance payments (child support and alimony) to insure the lower earner in married couples against financial losses upon divorce. This paper studies how maintenance payments affect couples’ intertemporal decisions and welfare. I develop a dynamic model of family labor supply, housework, savings and divorce and estimate it using Danish register data. The model captures the policy trade off between providing insurance to the lower earner and enabling couples to specialize efficiently, on the one hand, and maintaining labor supply incentives for divorcees, on the other hand. I use the estimated model to analyze counterfactual policy scenarios in which child support and alimony payments are changed. The welfare maximizing maintenance policy is to triple child support payments and reduce alimony by 12.5% relative to the Danish status quo. Switching to the welfare maximizing policy makes men worse off, but comparisons to a first best scenario reveal that Pareto improvements are feasible, highlighting the limitations of maintenance policies.
K36|The effect of child support on selection into marriage and fertility|Child support policies in the United States have expanded dramatically since the mid-1970s and now cover 1 in 5 children. This paper studies the consequences of child support for marriage and fertility decisions. I first introduce a model showing that child support enforces ex ante commitment from men to provide financial support in the event of a child, which (1) increases premarital sex among couples unlikely to marry, and (2) reduces the abortion rate, by lessening the cost of raising a child as a single mom. Using variation in the timing and geography of the rollout of U.S. child support laws relative to the timing of pregnancy, from 1977 to 1992, I find that marriages following an unplanned pregnancy are less likely to occur under strengthened child support laws, accounting for about a 7-8 percentage point reduction relative to a base of 38 percent. I find that the child support rollout reduced the abortion rate by 1-2 per 1000 women aged 15-44, off a base of 28, representing about 50 percent of the total decline in the abortion rate over this period.
K36|Securing personal freedom through institutions – the role of electoral democracy and judicial independence|Personal freedom is highly valued by many and a central element of liberal political philosophy. Although personal freedom is frequently associated with electoral democracy, developments in countries such as Hungary, Poland, Turkey and Russia, where elected populist leaders with authoritarian tendencies rule, suggest that electoral democracy may not be the envisaged unequivocal guarantor of freedom. Instead, an independent judicial system, insulated from everyday politics, might provide a firmer foundation. We investigate empirically how electoral democracy and judicial independence relate to personal freedom, as quantified by the new Human Freedom Index. Our findings reveal that while judicial independence is positively and robustly related to personal freedom in all its forms, electoral democracy displays a robust relationship with two out of seven types of personal freedom only (freedom of association, assembly and civil society as well as freedom of expression and information). These are types of freedom associated with democracy itself, but democracy seems unable to protect freedom in other dimensions. When we study interaction effects and make use of more refined indicators of the political system in place, we find that countries without elections or with only one political party benefit more from judicial independence than both democracies and multi-party systems without free elections. A number of robustness checks confirm these findings. Hence, it seems as if personal freedom has institutional correlates in the form of both democracy and judicial independence, with the latter safeguarding freedom more consistently and more strongly.
K36|Beyond Okun's Law: Output Growth and Labor Market Flows|This paper studies the relationship between the change in the unemployment rate and output growth using an approach based on labour market flows. The framework shows why the Okun coefficient may be constant/time-varying and/or symmetric/asymmetric and that the outcome lies with the behaviour of the labour flows in response to growth. The encompassing framework nests the conditions to determine the properties of the Okun coefficient without the need to rely on retrospective arbitrary dating of recessions. The framework also highlights the potential mispecification in conventional models of Okun's Law unless stringent conditions are assumed about the behavior of labour flows. The empirical analysis is based on the stock-consistent labour market flows data developed by the BLS for the period 1990:2-2017:3.
K36|The Consequences of Extending Equitable Property Division Divorce Laws to Cohabitants|This paper analyses the effect of extending equitable property division divorce laws to unmarried cohabiting couples in Australia. Using a triple-difference fi xed effects approach we show that existing couples are more likely to make relationship-specific investments after being exposed to laws enabling the equitable redistribution of property in the event of relationship breakdown. In affected couples we fi nd that men increase their employment and women increase time spent on housework. Couples have more children and are more likely to become home owners. These results demonstrate the causal effect of property division laws on relationship-specifi c investments and inform the ongoing international debate about the appropriate legal treatment of unmarried cohabiting couples.
K36|Divorced in a Flash: The Effect of the Administrative Divorce Option on Marital Stability in the Netherlands|Administrative divorce is an optional divorce procedure which allows couples to bypass the court system and dissolve their marriages in a streamlined, uncontested process. The lack of court involvement renders the administrative divorce faster and less expensive than the conventional divorce. In this paper, I investigate whether the administrative divorce option affected the stability of marriages in the Netherlands. Leveraging the ban of the procedure in 2009, I show that the divorce risks were 11.6% higher under the legal regime which allowed for administrative divorce. This effect is causal, and it exhibits considerable heterogeneity, being stronger among dual-earner couples, native couples, and couples living in rural regions.
K36|Symbolism Matters: The Effect of Same-Sex Marriage Legalization on Partnership Stability|We study the effect of marriage on the stability of formal partnerships exploiting same-sex marriage legalization in the Netherlands as a natural experiment. Same-sex marriage legalization allowed registered partnerships to be transformed into marriage. Since registered partnerships and marriages are similar in terms of rights and obligations we can investigate the effect of marital symbolism on the partnership stability. Using rich administrative data, we find that same-sex marriage legalization had two different effects. First, it increased the separation rate of existing same-sex registered partnerships. Second, partnerships that were transformed into marriage had a substantially lower separation rate. We take the second finding as evidence of the symbolic effect of marriage stabilizing partnerships.
K36|The Consequences of Extending Equitable Property Division Divorce Laws to Cohabitants|This paper analyses the effect of extending equitable property division divorce laws to unmarried cohabiting couples in Australia. Using a triple-difference fixed effects approach we show that existing couples are more likely to make relationshipspecific investments after being exposed to laws enabling the equitable redistribution of property in the event of relationship breakdown. In affected couples we find that men increase their employment and women increase time spent on housework. Couples have more children and are more likely to become home owners. These results demonstrate the causal effect of property division laws on relationship-specific investments and inform the ongoing international debate about the appropriate legal treatment of unmarried cohabiting couples.
K36|Symbolism Matters: The Effect of Same-Sex Marriage Legalization on Partnership Stability|We study the effect of marriage on the stability of formal partnerships exploiting same-sex marriage legalization in the Netherlands as a natural experiment. Same-sex marriage legalization allowed registered partnerships to be transformed into marriage. Since registered partnerships and marriages are similar in terms of rights and obligations we can investigate the effect of marital symbolism on the partnership stability. Using rich administrative data, we find that same-sex marriage legalization had two different effects. First, it increased the separation rate of existing same-sex registered partnerships. Second, partnerships that were transformed into marriage had a substantially lower separation rate. We take the second finding as evidence of the symbolic effect of marriage stabilizing partnerships.
K36|Securing Personal Freedom through Institutions – the Role of Electoral Democracy and Judicial Independence|Personal freedom is highly valued by many and a central element of liberal political philosophy. Although personal freedom is frequently associated with electoral democracy, developments in countries such as Hungary, Poland, Turkey and Russia, where elected populist leaders with authoritarian tendencies rule, suggest that electoral democracy may not be the envisaged unequivocal guarantor of freedom. Instead, an independent judicial system, insulated from everyday politics, might provide a firmer foundation. We investigate empirically how electoral democracy and judicial independence relate to personal freedom, as quantified by the new Human Freedom Index. Our findings reveal that while judicial independence is positively and robustly related to personal freedom in all its forms, electoral democracy displays a robust relationship with two out of seven types of personal freedom only (freedom of association, assembly and civil society as well as freedom of expression and information). These are types of freedom associated with democracy itself, but democracy seems unable to protect freedom in other dimensions. When we study interaction effects and make use of more refined indicators of the political system in place, we find that countries without elections or with only one political party benefit more from judicial independence than both democracies and multi-party systems without free elections. A number of robustness checks confirm these findings. Hence, it seems as if personal freedom has institutional correlates in the form of both democracy and judicial independence, with the latter safeguarding freedom more consistently and more strongly.
K36|La maternidad y el empleo formal en Colombia|Usando los registros de la Planilla Integrada de Liquidación de Aportes (PILA), en este documento se investigan las dinámicas de empleo de una población de mujeres jóvenes, que tenían trabajos formales y tomaron licencias de maternidad cuando estas aumentaron de 12 a 14 semanas. Al tratarse de un cambio no anticipado, se argumenta que la Ley 1468 de julio de 2011 dio un tratamiento diferenciado a las mujeres que estaban próximas a recibirla. Para diferentes grupos se compararon las probabilidades de conservar el empleo, iniciar uno nuevo, salir temporalmente de la formalidad o abandonarla permanentemente; en un periodo de 60 meses de observación desde el momento que iniciaron la licencia. Los resultados indican que las licencias protegen el empleo de las madres en el corto plazo y el aumento en la duración no afectó la probabilidad de continuar con el mismo empleo. Sin embargo, a largo plazo sí disminuyó la probabilidad de reengancharse en nuevos trabajos e incrementó la probabilidad de abandonar la formalidad. ******* ABSTRACT: Using the Colombian Integrated Record of Contributions to Social Security, this document investigates the labor dynamics of a population of young women, who had formal jobs and were close to receive a maternity leave when it was increased from 12 to 14 weeks. Being an unanticipated change, it is argued that the Law 1468 of July 2011 gave different treatments to these women. For an observational period of 60 months, intergroup comparisons were made using the probabilities to continue with the same job, to start a new one, to take a temporary leave from the formality, and to drop out of the formal labor market. Results show that the Colombian maternity leave does protect the employment of mothers in the short term; and the increase in duration did not affect the probability to continue with the same job. However, the long-term effects of an extended maternity leave would include lower probabilities to start new jobs and higher probabilities to abandon the formal market.
K36|Does Part-Time Mothering Help Get a Job? The Role of Shared Custody in Women’s Employment|Though shared custody arrangements after divorce are more and more frequent in many countries, little is known about their economic consequences for parents. By relaxing family time constraints, does shared custody help divorced mothers return to work more easily? This article analyses to what extent the type of child custody arrangement affects mothers' labour market behaviours after divorce. Using a large sample of divorcees from an exhaustive French administrative income-tax database, and taking advantage of the huge territorial discrepancies observed in the proportion of shared custody, we correct for the possible endogeneity of shared custody. As it turns out, the probability of being employed is 16 percentage points higher for mothers with shared custody arrangements compared to those having sole physical custody, with huge heterogeneous effects: larger positive effects are observed for previously inactive women, for those belonging to the lowest income quintiles before divorce, for those with a young child, and for those who have three or more children. Shared custody is particularly helpful for women who are far removed from the labour market.
K36|La maternidad y el empleo formal en Colombia|Usando los registros de la Planilla Integrada de Liquidación de Aportes (PILA), en este documento se investigan las dinámicas de empleo de una población de mujeres jóvenes, que tenían trabajos formales y tomaron licencias de maternidad cuando estas aumentaron de 12 a 14 semanas. Al tratarse de un cambio no anticipado, se argumenta que la Ley 1468 de julio de 2011 dio un tratamiento diferenciado a las mujeres que estaban próximas a recibirla. Para diferentes grupos se compararon las probabilidades de conservar el empleo, iniciar uno nuevo, salir temporalmente de la formalidad o abandonarla permanentemente; en un periodo de 60 meses de observación desde el momento que iniciaron la licencia. Los resultados indican que las licencias protegen el empleo de las madres en el corto plazo y el aumento en la duración no afectó la probabilidad de continuar con el mismo empleo. Sin embargo, a largo plazo sí disminuyó la probabilidad de reengancharse en nuevos trabajos e incrementó la probabilidad de abandonar la formalidad. ******* ABSTRACT: Using the Colombian Integrated Record of Contributions to Social Security, this document investigates the labor dynamics of a population of young women, who had formal jobs and were close to receive a maternity leave when it was increased from 12 to 14 weeks. Being an unanticipated change, it is argued that the Law 1468 of July 2011 gave different treatments to these women. For an observational period of 60 months, intergroup comparisons were made using the probabilities to continue with the same job, to start a new one, to take a temporary leave from the formality, and to drop out of the formal labor market. Results show that the Colombian maternity leave does protect the employment of mothers in the short term; and the increase in duration did not affect the probability to continue with the same job. However, the long-term effects of an extended maternity leave would include lower probabilities to start new jobs and higher probabilities to abandon the formal market.
K36|Childless Aristocrats. Inheritance and the extensive margin of fertility|We provide new evidence on the two-way link between fertility decisions on the extensive margin and inheritance. We focus on settlements, a popular inheritance scheme among British aristocrats that combined primogeniture and a one-generation entail of the family estates. Using peerage records (1650-1882), we find that settlements affected the extensive margin of fertility: they reduced childlessness rates by 14.7 pp., ensuring the survival of aristocratic dynasties. Since settlements were signed only if the family head survived until his heir's wedding, we establish causality by exploiting variation in the heirs birth order. Next, we show that the extensive margin of fertility can shape inheritance rules. We build a model with inter-generational hyperbolic discounting where inheritance rules affect fertility and, in turn, schemes restricting successors (e.g., settlements or trusts) emerge endogenously in response to concerns over the dynasty's survival. These results highlight the importance of fertility decisions for the analysis of inheritance.
K36|Do Laws Shape Attitudes? Evidence from Same-Sex Relationship Recognition Policies in Europe|Understanding whether laws shape or simply reflect citizens' attitudes is important but empirically difficult. We provide new evidence on this question by studying the relationship between legal same-sex relationship recognition policies (SSRRPs) and attitudes toward sexual minorities in Europe. Using data from the European Social Surveys covering 2002-2016 and exploiting variation in the timing of SSRRPs across countries, we show that legal relationship recognition is associated with statistically significant improvements in attitudes toward sexual minorities. These effects are widespread across demographic groups, emerge only after the policies are adopted, and are not observed for views on other social issues. Our results suggest that laws can exert a powerful influence in shaping societal attitudes.
K36|How Bargaining in Marriage Drives Marriage Market Equilibrium|This paper investigates marriage market equilibrium under the assumption that Bargaining In Marriage (BIM) determines allocation within marriage. Prospective spouses, when they meet in the marriage market, are assumed to foresee the outcome of BIM and rank prospective spouses on the basis of the utilities they foresee emerging from BIM. Under these assumptions, the marriage market is the first stage of a multi-stage game -- in the simplest case, a two-stage game -- that must be solved by backwards induction. The marriage market determines both who marries and, among those who marry, who marries whom. Bargaining in the second and any subsequent stages determines allocation within each marriage. When BIM determines allocation within marriage, the appropriate framework for analyzing marriage market equilibrium is the Gale-Shapley matching model. In contrast, the standard model of marriage market equilibrium assumes that prospective spouses make Binding Agreements in the Marriage Market (BAMM) that determine allocation within marriage. If we assume BAMM and transferable utility, then the appropriate framework for analyzing marriage market equilibrium is the Koopmans-Beckmann-Shapley-Shubik assignment model. BIM and BAMM have different implications not only for allocation within marriage but also for who marries, who marries whom, the number of marriages, and the Pareto efficiency of marriage market equilibrium.
K36|Divorced in a Flash: The Effect of the Administrative Divorce Option on Marital Stability in the Netherlands|Administrative divorce is an optional divorce procedure which allows couples to bypass the court system and dissolve their marriages in a streamlined, uncontested process. The lack of court involvement renders the administrative divorce faster and less expensive than the conventional divorce. In this paper, I investigate whether the administrative divorce option affected the stability of marriages in the Netherlands. Leveraging the ban of the procedure in 2009, I show that the divorce risks were 11.6% higher under the legal regime which allowed for administrative divorce. This effect is causal, and it exhibits considerable heterogeneity, being stronger among dual-earner couples, native couples, and couples living in rural regions.
K36|Do Laws Shape Attitudes? Evidence from Same-Sex Relationship Recognition Policies in Europe|Understanding whether laws shape or simply reflect citizens’ attitudes is important but empirically difficult. We provide new evidence on this question by studying the relationship between legal same-sex relationship recognition policies (SSRRPs) and attitudes towards sexual minorities in Europe. Using data from the European Social Surveys covering 2002-2016 and exploiting variation in the timing of SSRRPs across countries, we show that legal relationship recognition is associated with a statistically significant increase in favourable attitudes towards sexual minorities. These effects are widespread across demographic groups, emerge only after the policies are adopted, and are not observed for views on other social issues. Our results suggest that laws can exert a powerful influence on societal attitudes.
K36|Can Reduced Child Support Make Joint Custody Bad for Children? The Role of Economic Incentives in U.S. Divorce Law on Child Outcomes|This paper examines the effect of economic incentives generated by U.S. divorce and custody law on a range of child health and human capital measures. State laws vary widely in the treatment of child support under joint custody. While some states require no child support in joint custody cases, other states require fathers with joint custody to pay the same child support as those without custody. Merging family and child data from the SIPP with state-level data on economic incentives for joint custody, we find that fathers' joint custody decisions are significantly affected by the incentives generated by reduced child support. These incentives have negative effects on children's human capital development and health, with economic incentives for joint custody leading to significantly lower educational attainment as well as worse attitudes toward school and child health. Parental characteristics and time use data suggest that economic incentives for joint custody may limit children's time spent with relatively high quality mothers, as fathers pursue joint custody in response to the policy.
K36|More or less unmarried. The impact of legal settings of cohabitation on labor market outcomes|We show how the legal settings of unmarried cohabitation affect partners' labor market outcomes. In Canada, cohabiting couples are automatically entitled to certain rights after a few years of cohabitation. In some provinces, ex-cohabiting partners can claim for alimony upon separation, in others they can claim for an equal split of all the assets acquired during the relationship. As legal settings of unmarried cohabitation differ across time, provinces and duration of the relationship, it provides a unique framework to analyze how different levels of commitment affect couples' decision regarding labor market supply. Using cross-provinces variation in the legal settings and minimum duration for eligibility, we show that unmarried cohabiting men increase their labor force supply when they become eligible to a more committed cohabitation regime, whereas women decrease theirs. Higher levels of commitment induce larger effects on labor market outcomes.
K36|Do Alimony Regulations Matter inside Marriage? Evidence from the 2008 Reform of the German Maintenance Law|This study investigates how West German spouses have responded by adjusting their time allocation to the alimony reform introduced in 2008. This reform imposed financial self-responsibility after a finalized divorce. It weakened the relative bargaining position of the spouse with a claim for maintenance in the case of a potential divorce prior to the law change. Therefore, the present study helps to verify bargaining models by considering the 2008 policy change as a shift of spousal bargaining power. Estimating difference-in-differences models I find that, indeed, wives who face a potential low alimony loss might have increased their working hours as a result of the 2008 reform. To my knowledge, the present investigation is the first analysis of the behavioral response of individuals in longer marriages to the 2008 reform. Its approach to identifying those who have been (dis)advantaged by this reform is a new one, proposing a method that reflects the realities of alimony arrangements in Germany.
K36|Behavioral Response of Non-Resident Parents to Child Support Obligations: Evidence From SOEP|The present paper investigates how parents responsible for child maintenance payments have responded to changes in the amount of obligations. The potential endogeneity of child support obligations is addressed by using SOEP panel data from 1985-2013 and applying individual FE-IV models. Results for parents younger than 50 years old show that a euro 10 increase in monthly child support obligations decreases the likelihood of having an additional child by about 0.39 percentage points (about 3% at the sample mean). Furthermore, an increase in financial obligations does not have an impact on the likelihood of cohabiting with a new partner or on hours spent with children entitled to child support. There is only weak evidence of a positive (re)marriage incentive. There seems to be no adjustment in the parent's labor supply. To my knowledge, the present investigation is the first causal analysis of the behavioral response of non-resident parents to child support obligations in Germany.
K36|Familien müssen für die gleiche Betreuung in der Kita unterschiedlich viel zahlen: Ein Vergleich der Gebührenordnungen der größten Städte in Deutschland|Obschon auf politischer Ebene sehr stark über die Abschaffung der Elternbeiträge für die Betreuung in Krippen, Kindergärten und Kitas diskutiert wird, liegen derzeit kaum aussagekräftige Zahlen dazu vor, wie stark die Belastung der Eltern tatsächlich ist. Hauptgrund hierfür ist, dass die Gebühren auf kommunaler Ebene festgesetzt werden und sich die Lage entsprechend von Stadt zu Stadt deutlich unterscheidet. Vor diesem Hintergrund wurden für die vorliegende Untersuchung die Gebührenordnungen der Städte mit über 250.000 Einwohnern und der kleineren Landeshauptstädte ausgewertet. Dabei wurde jeweils eine Paarfamilie mit einem Bruttojahreseinkommen von 30.000 Euro, 50.000 Euro und 90.000 Euro und einem Kind im Alter von 18 Monaten, 30 Monaten und 42 Monaten betrachtet. Zudem wurden Betreuungsumfänge von 25 Stunden, 35 Stunden und 45 Stunden pro Woche in den Blick genommen. Die niedrigsten Betreuungsgebühren liegen in jedem der betrachteten Fälle bei 0 Euro, da Berlin die Elternbeiträge komplett abgeschafft hat. Ab dem zweiten Geburtstag gilt auch in allen rheinland-pfälzischen Städten vollständige Gebührenfreiheit. In Hamburg erstreckt sich die Beitragsfreiheit für alle Jahrgänge nur auf eine Grundbetreuung im Umfang von 25 Stunden pro Woche, beinhaltet aber ein Mittagessen, für das ansonsten eine Verpflegungspauschale anfällt, die in der Untersuchung nicht miterhoben wurde. Bemerkenswert ist auch die Stadt Düsseldorf, die den Kindergarten für Kinder im Alter ab drei Jahren ohne entsprechende landesrechtliche Regelungen und Zuschüsse komplett beitragsfrei gestellt hat. Die höchsten Elternbeiträge liegen bei einem Bruttojahreseinkommen von 50.000 Euro und einem Kind im Alter von 18 Monaten bei knapp 270 Euro für eine Betreuung im Umfang von 25 Stunden, bei rund 300 Euro für 35 Stunden und bei knapp 370 Euro für 45 Stunden in der Woche. Bei einem Dreieinhalbjährigen reichen die Werte bis 155 Euro für 25 Stunden, bis rund 220 Euro für 35 Stunden und bis rund 280 Euro für 45 Stunden. Dazu ist allerdings anzumerken, dass die Gebührensätze der einzelnen Städte nicht komplett vergleichbar sind. Wenn eine Staffelung nach Einkommen erfolgt, wird je nach Kommune das vorletzte, letzte oder aktuelle Jahr betrachtet und bei der Bezugsgröße handelt es sich teilweise um das Bruttoeinkommen und teilweise um das Nettoeinkommen. Zudem gelten die Gebührenordnungen der Städte nicht in allen Bundesländern auch für die staatlich geförderten Einrichtungen in freier Trägerschaft, die deutschlandweit rund zwei Drittel der Einrichtungen ausmachen. Um eine Angleichung der Beitragshöhen und damit einen wesentlichen Abbau der regionalen Ungleichbehandlung der Familien zu erreichen, müssten die Gebühren fast zwangsweise komplett abgeschafft werden, da sonst eine bedeutende Zahl an Familien schlechter gestellt würde. Allerdings sollten die hierfür notwendigen Mittel besser dafür eingesetzt werden, die Betreu-ungsangebote bedarfsgerecht auszubauen und ihre Qualität zu verbessern.
K36|Do Alimony Regulations Matter inside Marriage? Evidence from the 2008 Reform of the German Maintenance Law|This study investigates how West German spouses have responded by adjusting their time allocation to the alimony reform introduced in 2008. This reform imposed financial self-responsibility after a finalized divorce. It weakened the relative bargaining position of the spouse with a claim for maintenance in the case of a potential divorce prior to the law change. Therefore, the present study helps to verify bargaining models by considering the 2008 policy change as a shift of spousal bargaining power. Estimating di_erence-in-di_erences models I find that, indeed, wives who face a potential low alimony loss might have increased their working hours as a result of the 2008 reform. To my knowledge, the present investigation is the first analysis of the behavioral response of individuals in longer marriages to the 2008 reform. Its approach to identifying those who have been (dis)advantaged by this reform is a new one, proposing a method that reflects the realities of alimony arrangements in Germany.
K36|Signing Up New Fathers: Do Paternity Establishment Initiatives Increase Marriage, Parental Investment, and Child Well-Being?|With nearly half of US births occurring out of wedlock, understanding how parents navigate their relationship options is important. This paper examines the consequences of a large exogenous change to parental relationship contract options on parental behavior and child well-being. Identification comes from the staggered timing of state reforms that substantially lowered the cost of legal paternity establishment. I show that the resulting increases in paternity establishment are partially driven by reductions in parental marriage. Although unmarried fathers become more involved with their children along some dimensions, the net effects on father involvement and child well-being are negative or zero.
K36|The Economic Consequences of Family Policies: Lessons from a Century of Legislation in High-Income Countries|By the early 21st century, most high-income countries have put into effect a host of generous and virtually gender-neutral parental leave policies and family benefits, with the multiple goals of gender equity, higher fertility, and child development. What have been the effects? Proponents typically emphasize the contribution of family policies to the goals of gender equity and child development, enabling women to combine careers and motherhood, and altering social norms regarding gender roles. Opponents often warn that family policies may become a long-term hindrance to women's careers because of the loss of work experience and the higher costs to employers that hire women of childbearing age. We draw lessons from existing work and our own analysis on the effects of parental leave and other interventions aimed at aiding families. We present country- and micro-level evidence on the effects of family policy on gender outcomes, focusing on female employment, gender gaps in earnings, and fertility. Most estimates range from negligible to a small positive impact. But the verdict is far more positive for the beneficial impact of spending on early education and childcare.
K36|Women's Property Rights and Outreach of Microfinance Institutions Targeting Women| The right to legally own and control property is vital to the ability of an individual to receive credit. Women in developing countries often lack property rights and are therefore at a disadvantage when applying for loans. In addition, even where women have been granted equal or near-equal rights as men, there is often a disconnect between what is codified as law and what occurs in practice. Therefore, I seek to examine how women’s property rights, both as codified and in enforcement, affect outreach activities of Microfinance Institutions (MFIs) serving women. I initially hypothesized that in MFIs targeting women, the breadth of outreach to women would be positively affected by both the legal strength and enforcement of women’s property rights. Results of a Heckman selection model and a Seemingly Unrelated Regression model both contradict that initial hypothesis, instead showing that MFIs give a far greater portion of their loan funds to women clients in countries with more discriminatory women’s property rights, and that enforcement of property rights does not show any significant effect on the ability of MFIs to reach women borrowers.
K36|Eradicating women-hurting customs: What role for social engineering?|Social engineering refers to deliberate attempts, often under the form of legislative moves, to promote changes in customs and norms that hurt the interests of marginalized population groups. This paper explores the analytical conditions under which social engineering is more or less likely to succeed than more indirect approaches when it comes to suppress genderbiased customs. This implies discussing the main possible interaction frameworks leading to antiwomen equilibria, and deriving policy implications from the corresponding games. The theoretical arguments are illustrated by examples drawn from available empirical works, thus providing a reasoned survey of the literature.
K36|Does Single Motherhood Hurt Infant Health among Young Mothers?|Does single motherhood adversely affect infant health? This question is not easy to answer because of the endogeneity of coresidence during pregnancy. In this paper, we exploit quasi-natural variation in single motherhood from the moment of conception to that of birth arising from marriageable age restrictions and the reform of the laws in Korea. The Korean birth certificate dataset is unique in that it allows us to distinguish coresidence and legal marital status and further to identify the duration of pregnancy period without a partner. Results show that although coresidence with the partner during pregnancy is seemingly beneficial for infant health, it is mostly driven by selection into coresidence. Further, we do not find any significant advantage of legal marriage among young mothers.
K36|Intergenerational Effects of Improving Women's Property Rights: Evidence from India|This paper analyzes the intergenerational effects following the positive changes in women’s inheritance rights. The amendment to the Hindu Succession Act, the law governing inheritance for Hindus, empowered unmarried daughters at the time of the reform to have equal rights to inherit ancestral property as their brothers. We employ a difference-in-differences strategy and exploit the state level variation in a woman’s exposure to the reform. Using the Indian Human Development Survey data for rural India, we find that the property rights reform significantly increased women’s education. We find a significant decrease in her sons’ education, the effect is magnified in households where fathers are less educated than mothers. We further explore the role of birth order and the gender composition of children to assess the intergenerational impact of this more gender equal inheritance law. Regardless of the child’s gender, our results show a significant decrease in educational attainment for younger children.
K36|Common Law Marriage and Teen Births|Abstract Whether common law marriage (CLM) in the US affects teen birth rates is the central question we address. CLM effects were identified through cross-state and time variation, as four states repealed the law over the period of study. Using microdata from Current Population Survey Fertility supplements 1990–2010 and state-level data from CDC Vital Statistics 1988–2012 we found that, in the states where CLM was first available but then repealed, the odds that teens would become new mothers increased. Births to teens younger than 18 were more responsive to availability of CLM than those to teens aged 18 or 19 or to women in their early twenties. The likelihood of becoming a mother increased where CLM was available in the years prior to its repeal. Teens were more responsive to information about availability of CLM about three years later than to knowing that it is available at the time of potential conception. To the extent that they reduce teen births CLM laws are socially desirable and states that still have CLM may be better off by not repealing the law.
K36|Prohibiting Sex or Prohibiting True Love? An Empirical Assessment of Effect of Statutory Rape Law on Teenage Marriage in Japan|"Local statutory rape laws in Japan, where the national marriageable age is 16 for females (18 for males), criminalize sexual acts with those generally under 18 unless the offender and the victim are in ""serious love toward marriage."" The critiques argue that the vagueness of the law interferes ""true love"" toward legal marriage, rather than protecting minors. This paper provides some evidence on this question by estimating the effects of the passage of statutory rape rule and the changes in the degree of enforcement at local prefectures on teenage marriage. Using the regional data of cohorts born between 1940-1990, we find that the passage of the law significantly encourages new marital formation of women under 18. We do not find evidence that the law increases the divorce rate of women under 18. Therefore, the statutory rape law is likely to prohibit ""true love"" sexual relationships, encouraging the formal marital formation as a substitute, without increasing reluctant ""cover-up"" marriage."
K36|How Bargaining in Marriage drives Marriage Market Equilibrium|This paper investigates marriage market equilibrium under the assumption that Bargaining In Marriage (BIM) determines allocation within marriage. Prospective spouses, when they meet in the marriage market, are assumed to foresee the outcome of BIM and rank prospective spouses on the basis of the utilities they foresee emerging from BIM. Under these assumptions, the marriage market is the first stage of a multi-stage game – in the simplest case, a two-stage game – that must be solved by backwards induction. The marriage market determines both who marries and, among those who marry, who marries whom. Bargaining in the second and any subsequent stages determines allocation within each marriage. When BIM determines allocation within marriage, the appropriate framework for analyzing marriage market equilibrium is the Gale-Shapley matching model. In contrast, the standard model of marriage market equilibrium assumes that prospective spouses make Binding Agreements in the Marriage Market (BAMM) that determine allocation within marriage. If we assume BAMM and transferable utility, then the appropriate framework for analyzing marriage market equilibrium is the Koopmans-Beckmann-Shapley-Shubik assignment model. BIM and BAMM have different implications not only for allocation within marriage but also for who marries, who marries whom, the number of marriages, and the Pareto efficiency of marriage market equilibrium.
K36|Subsidized Home–ownership Programs, Transaction Costs, and Domestic Violence|We exploit the random assignment rule implemented by the government of the municipality of Salto (Argentina) in its program of social housing in order to identify the effect of the program on subsequent domestic violence. Beneficiaries receive a finished house in exchange for a long-term credit at a heavily subsidized rate, and are entitled to legal ownership after full payment. Using administrative records from the population of applicants, we find that subsidized home-ownership programs to low-income households are associated to an increase in reported domestic violence. We explore various potential mechanisms and we conclude that the empirical evidence only favors the mechanism of an increase in transaction costs associated to exiting a relationship.
K36|Eradicating Women-Hurting Customs: What Role for Social Engineering?|Social engineering refers to deliberate attempts, often under the form of legislative moves, to promote changes in customs and norms that hurt the interests of marginalized population groups. This paper explores the analytical conditions under which social engineering is more or less likely to succeed than more indirect approaches when it comes to suppress gender-biased customs. This implies discussing the main possible interaction frameworks leading to anti-women equilibria, and deriving policy implications from the corresponding games. The theoretical arguments are illustrated by examples drawn from available empirical works, thus providing a reasoned survey of the literature.
K36|Intergenerational Effects of Improving Women's Property Rights: Evidence from India|This paper analyzes the intergenerational effects following the positive changes in women's inheritance rights. The amendment to the Hindu Succession Act, the law governing inheritance for Hindus, empowered unmarried daughters at the time of the reform to have equal rights to inherit ancestral property as their brothers. We employ a difference-in-differences strategy and exploit the state level variation in a woman's exposure to the reform. Using the Indian Human Development Survey data for rural India, we find that the property rights reform significantly increased women's education. We find a significant decrease in her sons' education, the effect is magnified in households where fathers are less educated than mothers. We further explore the role of birth order and the gender composition of children to assess the intergenerational impact of this more gender equal inheritance law. Regardless of the child's gender, our results show a significant decrease in educational attainment for younger children.
K36|La contractualisation des rapports pecuniaires entre epoux en droit camerounais|The matrimonial regimes in Cameroonian’s law is known nowadays as the venue of unexpected solutions in matters concerning divorce, corps’ separation and widowage because of severe confusions made by the Jurisprudence every time It’s sued to liquidate or share a matrimonial patrimony. Though, it has been long times stated that throughout a marriage’s agreement signed before the marriage celebration, spouses could organize their patrimonial relationship by themselves, choosing clearly and precisely their matrimonial regime. Such old and viable solution shows the place of contract in the Law of matrimonial regimes. It appears as one of the remedies against the incertitude of the jurisprudence in family’s patrimonial cases in Cameroon, where the customs are so heavy that even judges in charge of modern law, couldn’t resist in applying its solutions as they did in the KOUM’s case. To correct those incertitude in the “contractualization” of the patrimonial relationships in marriage remain the best solution. It can be possible according to the civil code by or without spouses will. Any way, it’s a means to modernize the Law of matrimonial regimes and reduce matrimonial unsolved cases.
K36|Examination of judicial practice on the exercise of parental authority by a single parent|The specific objective of the present study lies in identifying how respected the principle of joint exercise of parental authority, enshrined in the Romanian legislature. The aim of Civil fundamental rule is to recognize the active participation regarding compliance by the parents of the right to psychological and physical welfare of their children, growth, education, training and their health. Analysis interests of the child enshrined rule that parental rights are not only father but also parental duties so that this breach legal obligations should be duly reasoned. Knowledge of basic civil complying with the requirements resulting from commitments made by Romania in the European integration process and the new status of our country's membership of the European Union. Jurisprudence should share the idea that joint parental authority is the rule and the exception exclusive. The availability principle in subsequent civil trial must be the protection of the interests of the child. Just this social reality we can talk about a Europe constituted by and for children.
K36|The condition of foreigners in the family law of Cameroon|The preamble of the constitution of Cameroon enshrines the principle of assimilation of foreigners into nationals through the Family law. However in concrete terms, this constitutional provision is undermined (limited, hindered) by a number of political and sociological constraints. The foreigner faces limitations in enjoying the said rights as well as in creating them. It is therefore necessary to amend the Cameroonian legislation so that it complies fully with the exigencies (requirements, needs) of fundamental rights, the construction of the universal human being (man in general), who will be governed by the same rules everywhere.
K36|Youth Response to State Cyberbullying Laws|Cyberbullying is a large social concern among youth in the US. This is the first empirical study to examine how high-school teenagers respond to cyberbullying laws that require schools to enact effective guidelines to reduce cyberbullying. The analysis utilizes nationally representative samples of high-school students from Youth Risk Behavior Surveys and incorporates state and time variation in the implementation of cyberbullying laws to estimate the causal impacts of the law in a difference-in-differences framework. Key results indicate that adoption of cyberbullying law is related to statistically significant increases in the likelihood that students report experiences of being victimized by various forms of school violence. Further empirical tests reveal (to some degree) that the state laws are potentiallymore likely to promote victims’ reporting of school violence/ cyberbullying victimization experiences. Finally, evaluation of important components of the state laws indicate that compared to other legislative provisions, criminal sanctions are more likely to increase victims’ reporting of school violence victimization. The regression estimates are robust to the inclusion of multiple sensitivity checks.
K36|Warrantless Arrest Laws for Domestic Violence: How Are Youth Affected?|This study empirically examines the impact of warrantless arrest laws (designed to deter domestic violence) on multiple youth outcomes. Utilizing variation in the timing of implementation of the laws across states, and employing a difference in differences framework, we examine both the direct and indirect impacts on youth in the United States. There appears to be no significant direct link between warrantless arrest laws and domestic violence-related homicides. However, on the indirect front, we do find strong evidence that implementation of the arrest laws results in a drop in the probability of youth experiencing suicidal ideation. This analysis also accounts for important heterogeneities in laws across states, and our findings are robust to multiple sensitivity checks, aimed at addressing key threats to identification.
K36|How Rome enabled impersonal markets|Impersonal exchange increases trade and specialization opportunities, encouraging economic growth. However, it requires the support of sophisticated public institutions. This paper explains how Classical Rome provided such support in the main areas of economic activity by relying on public possession as a titling device, enacting rules to protect innocent acquirers in agency contexts, enabling the extended family to act as a contractual entity, and diluting the enforcement of personal obligations which might collide with impersonal exchange. Focusing on the institutions of impersonal exchange, it reaches a clear positive conclusion on the market-facilitating role of the Roman state because such institutions have unambiguously positive effects on markets. Moreover, being impersonal, these beneficial effects are also widely distributed across society instead of accruing disproportionately to better-connected individuals.
K36|Does Bankruptcy Law Affect Business Turnover? Evidence From New And Existing Business|" type=""main"" xml:id=""ecin12230-abs-0001""> This study examines how differences in state bankruptcy laws, specifically the homestead exemption, affect business turnover by studying both new and existing businesses. We focus on areas just near state boundaries to control for unobserved local attributes to better isolate the effect of more wealth protection. We find that an increase in the homestead exemption attracts new businesses but also has a positive impact on existing businesses, suggesting that asset protection through bankruptcy law encourages successful entrepreneurs to incur the risks. Our results indicate that the personal bankruptcy law is an important policy tool that governments can use to encourage business growth without causing business turnover. (JEL K30, K36, R11, R1)"
K36|Women's Liberation as a Financial Innovation|Property rights are at the heart of capitalism's ability to efficiently allocate resources. Historically, married women have been one of the groups with the greatest legal disabilities in this regard, to the benefit of their husbands. Starting in the second half of the 19th century, common law countries, which were entirely dominated by men, gave married women property rights. Before this ``women's liberation,'' married women were subject to the laws of coverture. Coverture had detailed laws as to which spouse had ownership and control over various aspects of property both before and after marriage. These laws created a strong disincentive for women to invest in financial assets, such as stocks, bonds, and even bank deposits. This paper develops a general equilibrium model with endogenous determination of women's rights in which these laws affect portfolio choices, leading to inefficient allocations. We show how technological advancement eventually leads to men granting rights, and in turn how these rights affect development. Exploiting cross-state variation in the timing of rights, we show that increases in non-agricultural TFP predict the granting of rights. The granting of rights in turn leads to a dynamic labor reallocation towards the non-agricultural sector, representing further development. Finally, we show that women's rights are associated with lower interest rates and greater financial intermediation, consistent with an increase in the supply of credit.
K36|Die allermeisten Selbständigen betreiben Altersvorsorge oder haben Vermögen|According to data from 2013, only 43 percent of self-employed persons have statutory pensions. This does not mean, however, that most self-employed workers are inadequately prepared for retirement: of those without statutory insurance, more than half live in households with life insurance or private pension insurance plans. In most cases, however, they have ample personal assets: of the 57 percent without statutory pension insurance, nearly two-thirds are in possession of real estate, monetary assets, or capital assets amounting toat least 100,000 euros, and roughly 40 percent have assets valued at over 250,000 euros. Self-employed with employees of their own tend to have higher assets than do the solo self-employed. Solo self-employed individuals are also less likely to have private pension insurance. At the same time, some self-employed individuals are in fact inadequately prepared for retirement. Twelve percent of all self-employed individuals without statutory pensions also have neither private pension insurance nor personal assets of over 100,000 euros. Sixteen percent have assets valued at less than 250,000 euros; among the solo self-employed, this figure amounts to 19 percent. Bei weitem nicht alle Selbständigen (43 Prozent) waren im Jahr 2013 bei einer gesetzlichen Rentenkasse versichert. Das bedeutet aber nicht, dass die meisten Selbständigen unzureichend finanziell auf den Ruhestand vorbereitet sind. Denn von den nicht gesetzlich Versicherten verfügt mehr als die Hälfte über eine Kapitallebensversicherung oder eine private Rentenversicherung in ihrem Haushalt. Vor allem aber ist oft ein Vermögen vorhanden: Von denjenigen Personen, die nicht an einer gesetzlichen Rentenversicherung teilnehmen, verfügen knapp zwei Drittel über ein Immobilien-, Geld oder Anlagevermögen von mindestens 100 000 Euro, und etwa 40 Prozent sogar über ein Vermögen von mindestens 250 000 Euro. Unter den Selbständigen mit Angestellten ist der Anteil der Vermögenden höher als unter den Solo-Selbständigen, auch verfügen Solo-Selbständige seltener über eine private Vorsorgeversicherung. Gleichwohl gibt es Selbständige, bei denen die Altersvorsorge offenbar nicht hinreichend ist. Nach den Daten der amtlichen Einkommens- und Verbrauchsstichprobe haben zwölf Prozent aller Selbständigen, die nicht in eine gesetzliche Rentenkasse einzahlen, auch keine private Vorsorgeversicherung oder ein Haushaltsvermögen von mindestens 100 000 Euro. Das sind eine halbe Million. Legt man die Messlatte für das Vermögen auf 250 000 Euro, sind es 16 Prozent oder 670 000, bei den Solo-Selbständigen 19 Prozent (450 000).
K36|Do schools discriminate against homosexual parents? Evidence from a randomized correspondence experiment|The recognition of homosexual rights is a controversial issue in many countries. Spain was the third country in the world (after the Netherlands and Belgium) to introduce a law recognizing homosexual marriage and the adoption of children by homosexual couples. In this paper, we examine for the first time whether schools are more hesitant about giving feedback to homosexual parents during children's pre-registration period in Catalonia (Spain). To do so, we designed a correspondence experiment to be conducted in schools. We created three types of fictitious couples—one heterosexual, one gay, and one lesbian—and sent emails to schools in which the couples’ sexual orientation was explicit. Our results show that gay couples had a significantly lower (22 percentage points) call-back probability than heterosexual couples. No statistically significant differences in call-back probability were found between the lesbian and heterosexual couples.
K36|The expectation effect of a fall in divorce costs|Under private information about spouse characteristics a fall in the cost of divorce has a direct divorce-increasing effect and an indirect effect through expectations about second-marriage spouse quality. The expectation effect reinforces the direct effect if the proportion of “good” spouse types is sufficiently large in couples with marginal match qualities – in the case of unimodal and symmetric match quality distributions, if “good” spouse types are in majority and the prospective benefit from finding a “good” spouse relative to the cost of divorce is initially large. Otherwise, expectations diminish and partially offset the rise in divorce. In the presence of multiple equilibria, the expectation effect can trigger a substantial short-run change in divorce.
K36|Sérier pour révéler une norme de comportement institutionnel : analyse croisée de trois juridictions|This article considers, from a methodological point of view, the way statistical analysis is used in both history and economics approaches, by comparing threee researches on french judicial data. These three projects differ according to the period considered (Middle age / nowadays), the jurisdiction studied (the royal Châtelet court / lawyers disciplinary courts / family law), and the scientific discipline they are attached to. However, they share the purpose of highlighting, through individual data considered as series, the norm of behavior of a judicial institution. This identical aim allows to compare the methodological choices of each research. Even for the contemporary time researches, this purpose indeed deprives the researcher from any ready-made database. More than the academic fields, this lack of information explains the methodological choices made in the seriation process both with the specificities of the institutional contexts studied. Moreover, the methodological routines followed when inferential statistics come into play reflect various conceptions of the articulation between theoretical models and empirical data, which go beyond the frontiers of both academic fields
K36|Does Gender Matter in the Civil Law Judiciary? Evidence from French Child Support Court Decisions|This article assesses whether and to what extent gender matters in one particular area of the civil law system, family law. Using a dataset of 2,000 child support decisions from French courts of appeal, we show that in a civil law system like that in France, the gender of the judge does seem to matter. We find that this influence is likely to manifest itself in two ways. First, our results show that female and male judges do not make the same decisions: comparatively to the latter, the former (i) are more generous, fixing higher amounts of child support (the difference represents between 8% and 17% of the average amount of child support), and (ii) make more pro-mother decisions, regardless of whether the mothers are debtors or creditors. The magnitude of these differences is greater when the panel is composed of three female judges, comparatively to mixed or all-male panels.
K36|日本と韓国における養子制度の発展と児童福祉－－歴史統計を用いた比較制度分析の試み－－|養子縁組とは血縁に依存せず法的に親子関係を創出する制度であり、家庭に 恵まれない児童が新たに恒久的な家庭を得る唯一の方法である。しかし、韓国では養子制度が児童福祉に重要な役割を果たしているのに対して、日本では児童福祉政策としての機能をほとんど果たしていない。本研究では「なぜ日韓では社会的養護としての養子縁組の位置づけが大きく異なるのか」という問いを立て、政府統計を駆使して比較可能な長期統計を作成し、両国における制度発展の歴史的経路を明らかにする。分析の結果によると、日本と韓国は戦後の混乱期に児童福祉政策が導入された点で似たような初期条件にあった。しかし、政治情勢や国家の財政力などの違いからその発展経路が分かれ、韓国では政府機関と外国援助団体の連携の下に要保護児童対策における養子縁組の役割が拡大していったのに対して、日本では政府機関と社会福祉事業者の協調の下に施設養護が主流となり養子法の改革が遅れ、現在に至るまで養子縁組は児童福祉として積極的に活用されていない
K36|Should common law marriage be abolished?|In addition to regular marriage, Australia, Brazil, and 11 US states recognize common law (or de facto) marriage, which allows one or both cohabiting partners to claim, under certain conditions, that an informal union is a marriage. France and some other countries also have several types of marriage and civil union contracts. The policy issue is whether to abolish common law marriage, as it appears to discourage couple formation and female labor supply. A single conceptual framework can explain how outcomes are affected by the choice between regular and common law marriage, and between various marriage and civil union contracts.
K36|Strumenti per il sostegno finanziario di famiglie e microimprese: il caso italiano (Policies to help financially vulnerable Italian households and micro-businesses)|This study aims to review and evaluate several policies enacted in the financial field to alleviate the negative consequences of the economic crisis on families and micro-businesses. Two different, yet complementary aspects of the effects of the crisis have been examined: the increased difficulty in gaining access to credit and the increased problems in meeting debt repayment obligations. Firstly the recent regulations governing micro-credit - enacted to facilitate access to credit for families and micro-businesses (the latter in light of the increasing need for self-sufficient entrepreneurial projects, as a response to increased unemployment in the job market) - are evaluated. This is followed by an examination of the efficacy of the law relating to over-indebtedness of families and micro-businesses, with particular focus on the concept of creditor-blame. This study ends with a question: could an interpretation of the new rules governing responsible credit to consumers constitute a legal right to such credit?Classification-JEL: G21, G28, I38, K35, K36
K36|Sérier pour révéler une norme de comportement institutionnel : analyse croisée de trois juridictions|This article considers, from a methodological point of view, the way statistical analysis is used in both history and economics approaches, by comparing threee researches on french judicial data. These three projects differ according to the period considered (Middle age / nowadays), the jurisdiction studied (the royal Châtelet court / lawyers disciplinary courts / family law), and the scientific discipline they are attached to. However, they share the purpose of highlighting, through individual data considered as series, the norm of behavior of a judicial institution. This identical aim allows to compare the methodological choices of each research. Even for the contemporary time researches, this purpose indeed deprives the researcher from any ready-made database. More than the academic fields, this lack of information explains the methodological choices made in the seriation process both with the specificities of the institutional contexts studied. Moreover, the methodological routines followed when inferential statistics come into play reflect various conceptions of the articulation between theoretical models and empirical data, which go beyond the frontiers of both academic fields.
K36|Marriage Market Equilibrium|"The standard Beckerian analysis of marriage market equilibrium assumes that allocation within marriage implements agreements made in the marriage market. This paper investigates marriage market equilibrium when allocation within marriage is determined by bargaining in marriage and compares that model with the standard model. When bargaining in marriage determines allocation within marriage, the marriage market is the first stage of a two-stage game. The second stage, bargaining in marriage, determines allocation within each marriage. This analysis is consistent with any bargaining model with a unique equilibrium as well as with Becker's ""altruist model,"" the model that underlies the Rotten Kid Theorem. Marriage-market participants are assumed to rank prospective spouses on the basis of the allocations they foresee emerging from bargaining in marriage. The first stage game, the marriage market, determines both who marries and, among those who marry, who marries whom (assortative marriage). When bargaining in marriage determines allocation within marriage, the appropriate framework for analyzing marriage market equilibrium is the Gale-Shapley matching model, not the Koopmans-Beckmann assignment model. These models have different implications for who marries, for who marries whom, and for the Pareto efficiency of marriage market equilibrium."
K36|The Impact of Consumer Credit Access on Employment, Earnings and Entrepreneurship|How does consumer credit access impact employment prospects, earnings, and entrepreneurship? We answer this question by merging individual employment records from the Census Bureau with individual TransUnion credit reports, and exploiting the discrete increase in individual credit following exogenous bankruptcy flag removal. We find that flows into self-employment increase, flows out of self-employment increase, flows into formal employment increase. Earnings levels and growth rates rise for individuals who make the transition into formal employment. There are two competing economic forces underlying these results: (i) credit constraints loosen after exogenous bankruptcy flag removal allowing households to start self-employed businesses (ii) households who were self-employed because credit checks precluded them from finding formal sector jobs subsequently return to the formal sector after bankruptcy flag removal.
K36|Gender Inequality after Divorce: The Flip Side of Marital Specialization - Evidence from a French Administrative Database|If divorce has large consequences on both ex-spouses, its economic impact may be very different for each partner. It is well-documented that women generally experience a large decrease of their living standards after union dissolution, whereas men's living standards are often presented as stable or increase. Thanks to a very rich administrative dataset on French couples who broke up their marriage in 2009, matched with identical still married spouses, we interestingly show that both women and men support a loss in average, but still of larger magnitude for women (19%) than for men (2.5%). Results show that the number of children only plays a minor role in the explanations of the large women's impoverishment. The share of couple's resources each spouse provides before divorce, resulting mainly from marital specialization, is the main driver. Child support payments, public transfers and the massive labor market reentry of inactive women mitigate but do not cancel post-divorce gender inequalities.
K36|Crises, Human Rights and Legal Challenges|The purpose of this study is to ponder on – and provide assistance in tackling – the latest challenges affecting individual lives and human rights. The three most severe crises of our days are global-scale social inequality; declining populations in rich economies and overpopulation in poor countries; and the threat of a climate change disaster. These three crises aggravate each other, and their negative effects combine and materialise concurrently. The key question is how social sciences – especially economics and legal sciences – respond to the symptoms of these crises and whether they can offer an accurate diagnosis or recommend a possible therapy. Do they need to exercise self-criticism and bring their scientific truths more in line with reality? It is crucial to seek answers to these questions for the sake of sustainability and future generations.
K36|3rd PARTY?S ESTABLISHMENT OF RELATIONSHIP WITH THE CHILD ACCORDING TO TURKISH CIVIL LAW|As a member of the family, the relationship of the child with the parents is considered in custody institution. But, how should the relationship be established with the other parent of the child if custody is given to one of the parents due to the termination of family relationship? If this condition is left to the initiative of the parents with the custody, especially in cases where an abrasive divorce process is experienced, it can lead to the use of children as a revenge tool. At this point, with the idea that it is to the benefit of the child to establish relationship with both parents even if separately, the legislator has made a legal regulation on this issue (TCL. Art. 323-324). According to the regulation mentioned, each of the parents has the right to request the establishment of appropriate personal relationship with the child who is not under his/her custody or is not given to him/her. But not only parents, third parties other than those, for example a grandparent may request to establish a personal relationship with the child in such a case. Turkish Civil Code allows a third person to establish a personal relationship with the child to the extent that it is to the benefit of the child (TCL. Art. 325). In our study issues of the conditions under which children can establish relationships with third parties, who can be accepted in this context and how to provide this relationship are considered.
K36|3rd PARTY?S ESTABLISHMENT OF RELATIONSHIP WITH THE CHILD ACCORDING TO TURKISH CIVIL LAW|As a member of the family, the relationship of the child with the parents is considered in custody institution. But, how should the relationship be established with the other parent of the child if custody is given to one of the parents due to the termination of family relationship? If this condition is left to the initiative of the parents with the custody, especially in cases where an abrasive divorce process is experienced, it can lead to the use of children as a revenge tool. At this point, with the idea that it is to the benefit of the child to establish relationship with both parents even if separately, the legislator has made a legal regulation on this issue (TCL. Art. 323-324). According to the regulation mentioned, each of the parents has the right to request the establishment of appropriate personal relationship with the child who is not under his/her custody or is not given to him/her. But not only parents, third parties other than those, for example a grandparent may request to establish a personal relationship with the child in such a case. Turkish Civil Code allows a third person to establish a personal relationship with the child to the extent that it is to the benefit of the child (TCL. Art. 325). In our study issues of the conditions under which children can establish relationships with third parties, who can be accepted in this context and how to provide this relationship are considered.
K36|Termination Of The Caretaking Contract For Enforcement Objective Impossibility. Case Study|This study refers to a frequently used contract, namely the contract of caretaking, and presents the cancellation of this contract for the objective impossibility of out carrying it. Also, this case study highlights the legal issues that may occur in the situation of objective impossibility of execution of the caretaking obliga tion by the debtor – caretaker. In case of cancellation of such a contract there can be no discussion of succesors in rights from the debtor – caretaker because there is no mention about the continuity of the contract with the successors. Only from the creditor that was taken care of, there has been a will in favour of another person from outside the family, namely a third party
K36|Family Council And The Tutelage In The Light Of The New Civil Code|An important area to which the Law No 287/2009 brings significant modifications is represented by the means in which are approached to legal ways for protecting the natural person. By comparing the actual regulation with the one previous to the new Civil Code (Family Code – Law No 4/1953 repealed and Law No 272/2004 on the protection and promotion of the rights of the child) – Art 40 Para 1, Art 41-42, repealed) we notice that if most of the means for protecting the natural person are still the same – the tutelage, guardianship and the placement under interdiction –, the application of these measures has registered significant changes. The family council stated by the new Civil Code is totally different in its composition, role and situations for which is established, by the institution with the same name stated by the Law No 217/2003 for the prevention and combat of domestic violence, defined as b eing the “association without legal personality and patrimonial purpose, formed by the family members with full capacity of exercise”, for the prevention of the conflictual situations and the mitigation between the family members. From the content of the texts referring to the family council it results that it is a consultative organ (without legal personality), appointed by the family court, with the role of overseeing the means in which the guardian fulfils his rights regarding the minor’s person and assets.
K36|Infringement In One’S Right To Name, Intrusion In Private Life Or Family Life? The European Court Of Human Rights Perspective|The name is important both to the individual and to the society. Therefore, it is important to understand its role in both shaping the private sense of self and identity and in reflecting and sustaining the social institutions such as the state, family. The aim of this article is to contribute to the better understanding of the scope of Article 8 from the European Convention of Human Rights in what concerns the right to bear a name. The great variety of issues that have been covered by this article has generated a huge literature in which Article 8 was treated as one of the most open-ended provisions of the ECHR. In this context, it was underlined the inclusion of the right to name into the domain of this article, while tracing the connotation given by the Court in the attempt to establish an infringement of the right to privacy and famil y. Moreover, the case law presented reveals that there are fluctuations in the approach of the Court, showing also the cases in which it was not found a violation of Article 8. However, the infringement of one's right to name could reveal different ways of intrusion in the private life or family life, but in any situation, it is engaged liability for the damage caused.
K36|Specific Deontological/Ethical Regulations Concerning The Involvement, Duties And The Active Role Of Certain Categories Of Civil Servants Regarding The Protection Of Family Relationship Against Parental Alienation Syndrome|"The present paper aims to analyze the manner in which the parental alienation syndrome (acknowledged as a form of severe psychological abuse against children by the Directive No. 2/2016 for recognition of parental alienation phenomenon) is identified, prevented and treated and by Romanian state authorities.The parental alienation syndrome emerged and started to spread in Romanian society due to the increasing rate of divorce and the larger number of single parent families. According to the definition found in the first article of the Directive no. 2/2016, this form of abuse consists of the ""systematic denigration work of one parent by the other parent, with the intention of ali enating the child from the other parent."" In the article, we will analyze the legal and deontological duties of officials from the Child Welfare and Protection which operates locally and, also, how the civil courts exercise their active role in solving the cases in which is claimed the existence of this form of severe psychological abuse. We will also describe specific cases. From our point of view, the formal recognition ofthe parental alienation is a progress in the actual achievement of the welfare and best interests of children in Romanian society. This matter must be treated seriously as the emotional abuse committed against minors impede their harmonious and balanced development, with dramatic effects on medium and long term."
K36|Parental leave benefit and differential fertility responses: evidence from a German reform|Abstract This paper examines the causal effects of a major change in the German parental leave benefit scheme on fertility. I use the unanticipated reform of 2007 to assess how a move from a means tested to an earnings-related benefit affects higher-order births. By using data from the Mikrozensus, I find that the reform significantly affected the timing of higher-order births in the first 5 years after a last birth. Overall, mothers “just” eligible for the new benefit for the current birth initially reduce subsequent childbearing and extend birth spacing, compared to mothers “just” ineligible. However, by the end of the third year, mothers start to compensate for the earlier losses. The negative effects are largely driven by the low-income mothers, who are now worse-off and do not display any catch-up effects. The differential fertility responses along the income distribution are in line with the heterogeneous structure of the economic incentives.
K36|Parental leave benefit and differential fertility responses: evidence from a German reform|This paper examines the causal effects of a major change in the German parental leave benefit scheme on fertility. I use the unanticipated reform of 2007 to assess how a move from a means tested to an earnings-related benefit affects higher-order births. By using data from the Mikrozensus, I find that the reform significantly affected the timing of higher-order births in the first 5 years after a last birth. Overall, mothers “just” eligible for the new benefit for the current birth initially reduce subsequent childbearing and extend birth spacing, compared to mothers “just” ineligible. However, by the end of the third year, mothers start to compensate for the earlier losses. The negative effects are largely driven by the low-income mothers, who are now worse-off and do not display any catch-up effects. The differential fertility responses along the income distribution are in line with the heterogeneous structure of the economic incentives. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2016
K36|Does gender matter in the civil law judiciary? Evidence from French child support court decisions|This article assesses whether and to what extent gender matters in one particular area of the civil law system, family law. Using a dataset of 2,000 child support decisions from French courts of appeal, we show that in a civil law system like that in France, the gender of the judge does seem to matter. We find that this influence is likely to manifest itself in two ways. First, our results show that female and male judges do not make the same decisions: comparatively to the latter, the former (i) are more generous, fixing higher amounts of child support (the difference represents between 8% and 17% of the average amount of child support), and (ii) make more pro-mother decisions, regardless of whether the mothers are debtors or creditors. The magnitude of these differences is greater when the panel is composed of three female judges, comparatively to mixed or all-male panels.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
K36|Yours, Mine, and Ours: Do Divorce Laws Affect the Intertemporal Behavior of Married Couples?|This paper examines how divorce laws affect couples' intertemporal choices and well-being. Exploiting panel variation in US laws, I estimate the parameters of a model of household decision-making. Household survey data indicate that the introduction of unilateral divorce in states that imposed an equal division of property is associated with higher household savings and lower female employment, implying a distortion in household assets accumulation and a transfer toward wives whose share in household resources is smaller than the one of their husband. When spouses share consumption equally, separate property or prenuptial agreements can reduce distortions and increase equity. (JEL D13, D14, D91, J12, J16, K36)
K36|Considerations regarding parental authority in Romanian private international law|Parental authority is the entirety of rights and obligations concerning both the person and the property of the child and belongs equally to both parents. In Romanian private international law, parental authority is governed by art. 2611 of the Romanian Civil Code. This legal provision is a reference rule which establishes that the law applicable to parental authority and children’s protection is determined under the Convention on Jurisdiction, Applicable Law, Recognition, Enforcement and Cooperation in respect of Parental Responsibility and Measures for the Protection of Children, adopted in Hague on 19 October 1996. This convention is part of the complex process of aligning the Romanian legislation to EU regulations. For an overview of relevant legal regulations addressed by the Convention, in the present study we analyzed the main issues referring to the domain of application of the Convention, the law applicable to child protection measures, parental responsibility, and the recognition and enforcement of measures regarding parental responsibility and child protection.
K36|The alternative residence of minors with separated parents|The present article proposes to analyze the modality in which the alternative residence is established within the legislation of several states, as well as the modality in which the courts apply the notion of alternative residence. In addition to this, we took into consideration the views expressed by psychologists regarding this matter. In the latter part of the article we analyzed the regulations regarding the residence of minors whose parents are separated in domestic law and we submitted our conclusions regarding the advantages and the disadvantages of an alternative residence. In order to obtain the necessary information, we studied the legislation from different countries, the principles of the European Commission on Family Law, articles on this subject and case law, as well as studies conducted in several states. We were therefore able to observe that in some states, the alternative residence is explicitly provisioned by law, while in other states, even though the notion is not explicitly provisioned, the courts managed to find ways in which, through the judgments rendered, to establish it by way of fact. The study is relevant to our legal system as domestic legislation does not specifies alternative residence, but nevertheless, in practice, such an arrangement could answer best the superior interest of the child.
K36|La prise en compte du statut d'époux par le droit des affaires de l'Organisation pour l'Harmonisation en Afrique du Droit des Affaires (OHADA)|Taking into account the status of spouses by business law of the Organization for the Harmonization of African Business Law (OHADA) is referring to general commercial law and company law. The OHADA legislator values the status of spouses devoting equality between spouses, through the possibility for them to be able to be involved in low risk companies; the recognition of the de facto company between them and the right granted to each power, under the same conditions, benefit from the commercial lease originally attached to privileges. The consideration that the OHADA law grants the quality of husband appears in heritage protection thereof, insofar as it puts it away in case of depletion bad deal made by one of them . This is why the prohibition for spouses to be involved in the unlimited risk firms and the requirement of a separate trade as a condition for the spouse of the trader can also acquire the same status. But the heritage protection system spouse taken from the OHADA business law is supplemented by certain mechanisms of civil law, including matrimonial property regimes, although not all have the same efficiency. Indeed, among the two groups of matrimonial property regimes are known as separation schemes and those of the community property, only the first effectively protect the couple's assets. This objective likely was not assigned to the second from the design. These look more forward the merger of most of the assets of the couple without the slightest idea of calculation.
K36|The institutions of Roman markets|I analyze the basis of the market economy in classical Rome, from the perspective of personal-versus-impersonal exchange and focusing on the role of the state in providing market-enabling institutions. I start by reviewing the central conflict in all exchanges between those holding and those acquiring property rights, and how solving it requires reducing information asymmetry without endangering the security of property. Relying on a model of the social choice of institutions, I identify the demand and supply factors driving the institutional choices made by the Romans, and examine the economic circumstances that influenced these factors in the classical period of Roman law. Comparing the predictions of the model with the main solutions used by Roman law in the areas of property, business exchange and the enforcement of personal obligations allows me to propose alternative interpretations for some salient institutions that have been subject to controversy in the literature, and to conclude with an overall positive assessment of the market-enabling role of the Roman state.
K36|Unequal Bequests|Using data from the Health and Retirement Study (HRS), we make two contributions to the literature on end-of-life transfers. First, we show that unequal bequests are much more common than generally recognised, with one-third of parents with wills planning to divide their estates unequally among their children. These plans for unequal division are particularly concentrated in complex families, that is, families with stepchildren and families with genetic children with whom the parent has had no contact (e.g., children from previous marriages). We find that in complex families past and current contact between parents and children reduces or eliminates unequal bequests. Second, although the literature focuses on the bequest intentions of parents who have made wills, we find that many elderly Americans have not made wills. Although the probability of having a will increases with age, 30 percent of HRS respondents aged 70 and over have no wills. Of HRS respondents who died between 1995 and 2010, 38 percent died intestate (i.e., without wills). Thus, focusing exlusively on the bequest intentions of parents who have made wills provides an incomplete and misleading picture of end-of-life transfers.
K36|Parental Leave Benefit and Differential Fertility Responses: Evidence from a German Reform|This paper examines the causal effects of a major change in the German parental leave benefits on fertility. I use the unanticipated reform of 2007 to assess how a move from a means-tested to an earnings-related benefit affects higher-order births. By using data from the Mikrozensus, I find that the reform significantly affected the timing of higher-order births. Overall, mothers “just” affected by the reform initially reduce subsequent childbearing and start to compensate by the end of the third year. The negative effects are largely driven by lowest-income mothers, who are now worse-off and do not display any catch-up effects.
K36|Genes Legitimacy and Hypergamy : Another Look at the Economics of Marriage|In order to credibly “sell” legitimate children to their spouse, women must forego more attractive mating opportunities. This paper derives the implications of this observation for the pattern of matching in marriage markets, the dynamics of human capital accumulation, and the evolution of the gene pool. A key consequence of the trade-off faced by women is that marriage markets will naturally tend to be hypergamous – that is, a marriage is more likely to be beneficial to both parties relative to remaining single, the greater the man’s human capital, and the lower the woman’s human capital. As a consequence, it is shown that the equilibrium can only be of two types. In the “Victorian” type, all agents marry somebody of the same rank in the distribution of income. In the “Sex and the City” (SATC) type, women marry men who are better ranked than themselves. There is a mass of unmarried men at the bottom of the distribution of human capital, and a mass of single women at the top of that distribution. It is shown that the economy switches from a Victorian to an SATC equilibrium as inequality goes up. The model sheds light on how marriage affects the returns to human capital for men and women. Absent marriage, these returns are larger for women than for men but the opposite may occur if marriage prevails. Finally, it is shown that the institution of marriage may or may not favour human capital accumulation depending on how genes affect one’s productivity at accumulating human capital.
K36|Suicide and property rights in India|This paper studies the impact of female property rights on male and female suicide rates in India. Using state level variation in legal changes to women's property rights, we show that better property rights for women are associated with a decrease in the difference between female and male suicide rates, but an increase in both male and female suicides. We conjecture that increasing female property rights increased conflict within household and this increased conflict resulted in more suicides among both men and women in India. Using individual level data on domestic violence we find evidence that increased property rights for women did increase the incidence of wife beating in India. A model of intra-household bargaining with asymmetric information and costly conflict is consistent with these findings.
K36|Unequal Bequests|Using data from the Health and Retirement Study (HRS), we make two contributions to the literature on end-of-life transfers. First, we show that unequal bequests are much more common than generally recognized, with one-third of parents with wills planning to divide their estates unequally among their children. These plans for unequal division are particularly concentrated in complex families, that is, families with stepchildren and families with genetic children with whom the parent has had no contact (e.g., children from previous marriages). We find that in complex families past and current contact between parents and children reduces or eliminates unequal bequests. Second, although the literature focuses on the bequest intentions of parents who have made wills, we find that many elderly Americans have not made wills. Although the probability of having a will increases with age, 30 percent of HRS respondents aged 70 and over have no wills. Of HRS respondents who died between 1995 and 2010, 38 percent died intestate (i.e., without wills). Thus, focusing exclusively on the bequest intentions of parents who have made wills provides an incomplete and misleading picture of end-of-life transfers.
K36|United but (un)equal: human capital, probability of divorce, and the marriage contract|This paper studies how the risk of divorce affects the human capital decisions of a young couple. We consider a setting where complete specialization is optimal with no divorce risk. Couples can self-insure through savings which offers some protection to the uneducated spouse, but at the expense of a distortion. Alternatively, for large divorce probabilities, symmetry in education, where both spouses receive an equal amount of education, may be optimal. This eliminates the risk associated with the lack of education, but reduces the efficiency of education choices. We show that the symmetric allocation will become more attractive as the probability of divorce increases, if risk aversion is high and/or labor supply elasticity is low. However, it is only a “second-best” solution as insurance protection is achieved at the expense of an efficiency loss. Finally, we study how the (economic) use of marriage is affected by the possibility of divorce. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
K36|Is there justification for alimony payments? A survey of the empirical literature|The French civil code relating to divorce makes reference to the economics of marriage in specifying that in fixing alimony payments, judges should take into account the professional choices made by each spouse during the marriage for the sake of the union or for the children. According to the theory, traditional gender role specialisation results in men accumulating market human capital whilst women accumulate family-oriented human capital. Wage data in many countries indeed indicates that men tend to enjoy a marriage wage premium whilst women suffer a wage penalty. A corollary of this is that in the event of divorce, men are not penalised financially whereas women are. This paper analyses the empirical justification for alimony payments. An extensive review of the literature suggests that part of the premium observed for men is explained by a selection effect, and possibly other factors such as the effect of responsibility, or employer bias. In the case of women, it is motherhood and not marriage per se that has a clearly negative impact on wages.
K36|Executive Women And Work-Family Interaction: Evidence In Mexico Mujeres Ejecutivas E Interaccion Trabajofamilia: Evidencias En Mexico|The access of women to high positions in organizations has been limited by some difficulties originate by the culture, that institutionalizes discrimination, subordination and inequity between men and women. These problems make evident the need for structural changes in the family, the state and the labor market. This paper is a gender view to the interaction family-work; analyzes executive women in the cities of Durango and Aguascalientes. The strategy was a survey conducted 58 interviews with women executives. Comparison of findings from three studies on executive is also made. (Griselda MartÃ­nez VÃ¡zquez, 1997; Adriana Gallegos, 2004 and MarÃ­a del Carmen Bernal and Enrique Taracena, 2012). Looking for the construction of a new gender identity for this group of workers, is possible show some findings: women still perceived themselves as responsible for the private world, and there is not a substantial change in terms of new female identity, because women executives have reconciled work and family but feelings of guilt persist; although they show egalitarian relationships with their husbands with whom they share the parenting.
K36|Do Schools Discriminate Against Homosexual Parents? Evidence from an Internet Field Experiment| The recognition of homosexual rights is a controversial issue in many countries. Spain was the third country in the world (after Netherlands and Belgium) to introduce a law recognizing homosexual marriage and adoption of children. In this paper, we examine for the first time whether schools are more hesitant to give feedback to homosexual parents during children's pre-registration period in Spain. In order to do that, we designed an internet field experiment to be conducted in schools. We created three types of fictitious couples; one heterosexual, one male homosexual and one female homosexual, and send emails to schools making sexual orientation explicit. Our results show that men homosexual couples had a significant lower probability to receive and answer than heterosexual couples (22.5 percentage points less). No statistically significant differences in the response rate were found between female homosexual and heterosexual couples. This result suggests that male homosexual couples might be penalized because of the lack of a maternal figure. Keywords: Discrimination, field experiment, schools, homosexual rights. JEL codes: H41, I20, K36
K36|Do joint custody laws improve family well-being?|Custody laws governing living arrangements for children following their parents’ divorce have changed dramatically since the 1970s. Traditionally, one parent—usually the mother—was assigned sole custody of the child. Today, many divorced parents continue to share parental rights and responsibilities through joint custody arrangements. While joint custody laws have improved the situation of divorced fathers, recent empirical research has documented intended and unintended consequences of joint custody laws for families in such areas as family formation, labor force participation, suicide, domestic violence, and child outcomes.
K36|Votes on behalf of children: a legitimate way of giving them a voice in politics?|This article argues that the widely accepted principle of universal suffrage actually implies endowing children with voting power. The fact that children lack political maturity does not necessarily lead us to the conclusion that they should not have the right to vote. Parents, at least in principle, can act as their electoral custodians. The idea of letting parents vote on behalf of their children, however, raises one important question: are parents in fact able to make a genuine voting decision for their children, independently from their own decision, or will children’s suffrage just lead to a multiplication of parental choices? Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
K36|Concept of the Legal State of Personality|The article is devoted to the definition of the signs and the wording of the definition of the legal status of a person as w ell as the substantial and functional legal phenomenon.
K36|Same-sex relationship escalation with uncertain marriage legality: Theory and empirical implications|We develop a strategic model of same-sex dating, cohabitation, and potential marriage with location-specific marriage legality. With an initial illegal location, couples bargain over a relationship path that internalizes the probability of future legalization and potential migration-for-marriage. Our model generates testable, empirical implications on relationship hazard rates, migration, and utility due to changes in migration costs and legalization probabilities. Specifically, we show that decreased migration costs or increased legalization probabilities will increase relationship hazard rates (dissolution) for both daters and cohabitators. These changes will also decrease utility for an identifiable segment of the relationship quality distribution.
K36|Step Children'S Protection In Turkish Civil Law|Step children are viewed pity for all cultures. Even foster parents are always evil in tales. In real life, the situation is not the same for all step children, but there is no doubt that this is a sensitive subject. The rule of law has brought protective provisions in favor of children because they are incapable. So that parents? custody on children has been limited to various provisions against abuse. The striking one among these limiting provisions is a provision for interest and pay attention to spouses minors of the stepchildren (TCC. Art. 338). This is relatively new in terms of the provisions of Turkish law, not only leads to the emergence of a set of results but also for an advice. The beginning of these results, if step parents' behavior violates obligation of care and his own mother or father condone this, the custody of child's can be removed and even care obligating violation of a defective behavior for spouses' divorce. In our study, according to the Turkish Civil Law provisions in the general framework of the protection of children, in particular the step child protection and violation of care obligations to the step children the sanctions that may arise are evaluated.
K36|In terms of Gender Equality Principles, the woman's last name in the Turkish Civil Law|Former Turkish Civil Code Article 153/1 was in the form: ?Wife, carries her husband's family name?. In this regard, according to the changes made in 1997 women last names, was granted the right to use her husband's surname with. Finally, in 2002, it entered into force, 4721 in New Turkish Civil Code Article 187. line within, It accepted that women use their maiden name with the surname of her husband. This provision, which respond to the needs, is treated in accordance with the principle of equality and are thought to end the discussion on this subject. However, the real debate should be initiated after the change of the legislator.
K36|Is there justification for alimony payments? A survey of the empirical literature|The French civil code relating to divorce makes reference to the economics of marriage in specifying that in fixing alimony payments, judges should take into account the professional choices made by each spouse during the marriage for the sake of the union or for the children. According to the theory, traditional gender role specialisation results in men accumulating market human capital whilst women accumulate family-oriented human capital. Wage data in many countries indeed indicates that men tend to enjoy a marriage wage premium whilst women suffer a wage penalty. A corollary of this is that in the event of divorce, men are not penalised financially whereas women are. This paper analyses the empirical justification for alimony payments. An extensive review of the literature suggests that part of the premium observed for men is explained by a selection effect, and possibly other factors such as the effect of responsibility, or employer bias. In the case of women, it is motherhood and not marriage per se that has a clearly negative impact on wages.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
K36|The Institutions of Roman Markets|I analyze the basis of the market economy in classical Rome, from the perspective of personal-versus-impersonal exchange and focusing on the role of the state in providing market-enabling institutions. I start by reviewing the central conflict in all exchanges between those holding and those acquiring property rights, and how solving it requires reducing information asymmetry without endangering the security of property. Relying on a model of the social choice of institutions, I identify the demand and supply factors driving the institutional choices made by the Romans, and examine the economic circumstances that influenced these factors in the classical period of Roman law. Comparing the predictions of the model with the main solutions used by Roman law in the areas of property, business exchange and the enforcement of personal obligations allows me to propose alternative interpretations for some salient institutions that have been subject to controversy in the literature, and to conclude with an overall positive assessment of the market-enabling role of the Roman state.
K36|Do Schools Discriminate Against Homosexual Parents? Evidence from an Internet Field Experiment|The recognition of homosexual rights is a controversial issue in many countries. Spain was the third country in the world (after Netherlands and Belgium) to introduce a law recognizing homosexual marriage and adoption of children. In this paper, we examine for the first time whether schools are more hesitant to give feedback to homosexual parents during children's pre-registration period in Spain. In order to do that, we designed an internet field experiment to be conducted in schools. We created three types of fictitious couples; one heterosexual, one male homosexual and one female homosexual, and send emails to schools making sexual orientation explicit. Our results show that men homosexual couples had a significant lower probability to receive and answer than heterosexual couples (22.5 percentage points less). No statistically significant differences in the response rate were found between female homosexual and heterosexual couples. This result suggests that male homosexual couples might be penalized because of the lack of a maternal figure.
K36|The Quantity and Quality Adjustment of Births when Having More is Not Subsidized: the Effect of the TANF Family Cap on Fertility and Birth Weight|I examine whether the family cap policy that reduces or eliminates incremental welfare benefits for additional births born to mothers already on welfare would affect both the quantity and quality of births in terms of birth weight. I find that the family cap produces very pronounced effect on reducing out of wedlock birth and low birth weight rates among teenagers. The evidence suggests that the family cap policy might not just produce a deterrent effect on non-marital childbearing but also a quality effect on birth: those births that actually occur are endowed with better health in terms of birth weight.
K36|Free to Leave? A Welfare Analysis of Divorce Regimes|During the 1970s the US underwent an important change in its divorce laws, switching from mutual consent to a unilateral divorce regime. Who benefited and who lost from this change? To answer this question we develop a dynamic life-cycle model in which agents make consumption, saving, labor force participation (LFP), and marriage and divorce decisions subject to several shocks and given a particular divorce regime. We calibrate the model using statistics relevant to the life-cycle of the 1940 cohort. Conditioning solely on gender, our ex ante welfare analysis finds that women would fare better under mutual consent whereas men would prefer a unilateral system. Once we condition not only on gender but also on initial productivity, we find that men in the top three quintiles of the initial productivity distribution are made better off by a unilateral system as are the top two quintiles of women; the rest prefer mutual consent. We also find that although the change in divorce regime had only a small effect on the LFP of married women in the 1940 cohort, these effects would be considerably larger for a cohort who lived its entire life under a unilateral divorce system.
K36|Wirkungen des Elterngeldes auf die Fertilität: zum Stand der Kenntnis|This paper reviews the research on the effects of the recent reform of the parental leave benefit system (Elterngeld) in Germany on fertility. I start with a brief discussion of the economic incentives of the reform and their potential effects on fertility from a theoretical perspective. Then I refer to previous empirical studies that have examined these relationships by using micro data. I discuss their main results and potential threats to internal validity. Although not all studies have been able to identify causal effect, the evidence generally suggests positive fertility responses among high-income couples. In addition, the research indicates substantial regional heterogeneity in fertility responses. The intended fertility effects are stronger in the former East Germany than in the West. Finally, I discuss some policy implications. Die vorliegende Studie stellt den aktuellen Stand der Forschung zu Wirkungen des Elterngeldes auf das Geburtenverhalten vor. Zunächst werden die ökonomischen Anreize des Elterngeldes und deren potenzielle Wirkungen auf die Fertilität aus theoretischer Sicht analysiert. Danach werden empirische Studien vorgestellt, die diese Zusammenhänge mit Mikrodaten untersucht haben. Deren Ergebnisse werden insbesondere hinsichtlich der internen Validität kritisch diskutiert. Obwohl nicht alle Studien als Kausalanalysen aufzufassensind, deutet die bisherige Befundlage auf positive Anreizwirkung des Elterngeldes auf die Bezieher höherer Einkommen. Zudem finden sich einschlägige regionale Unterschiede, wobei sich die intendierten Fertilitätswirkungen stärker in den neuen als in den alten Bundesländern entfalten. Am Schluss werden einige Politikimplikationen diskutiert.
K36|The divorce revolution and generalized trust: Evidence from the United States 1973–2010|This paper examines the effect of exposure to a culture of easier divorce as a minor on generalized trust using the General Social Survey from 1973 to 2010. The easier divorce culture is defined as the introduction of no-fault including unilateral divorce reforms across the US. According to the results, the divorce revolution seems to have had some effect on trust levels across the US. While there are no discernible effects for the whole sample of men, there are statistically significant effects for women with an additional year of exposure being associated with a 4 percentage point lower generalized trust in the states with easy divorce culture compared to states with fault based divorce culture. An analysis by sub-group of women indicates that married and divorced/separated women have significantly lower levels of trust associated with exposure to easy divorce culture as a child. The findings are in agreement with the predictions of previous literature regarding no-fault divorce reforms reducing the security offered by marriage, in particular for women.
K36|Divorce laws and fertility|This paper examines the effect of divorce law reforms on fertility using the history of legislation on divorce across Europe. Because the introduction of more liberal divorce laws permanently reduces the value of marriage relative to divorce, these permanent shocks should also affect the fertility decisions of individuals, to the extent that children are considered marriage-specific capital. Our results suggest that divorce liberalization has a negative and permanent effect on fertility. Divorce reforms have decreased the Total Fertility Rate by about 0.2. The magnitude of the effect is sizable, taking into account that the average Total Fertility Rate declined from 2.84 in 1960 to 1.66 in 2006. These findings are robust to alternative specifications and controls for observed (the liberalization of abortion and the availability of the birth-control pill, among others) and unobserved country-specific factors, as well as time-varying factors at the country level. Supplemental analysis, developed to understand the mechanisms through which divorce law reforms affect fertility, shows that both marital and out-of-wedlock fertility decline, but that the impact on marital fertility varies, depending on whether couples are married prior to or after the divorce law reforms, pointing to a selection effect on the composition of marriages.
K36|Family Crisis: Reference Materials|The paper consists of reference materials on Family crisis. The problem (literature review) focused on number of the version explaining fall in fertility (birthrate) in the industrialized countries. Possibility to propose governmental policies efficiently encouraging giving birth among middle class (among the groups, accumulating both major part of Human capital and civic skill) discussed in this part as well. The Model for comparison of two modes of marriage / divorce elaborated and presented: free private contract regulation turned to be less harming the incentives to marry and to preserve marriage than governmental regulation. The stages of governmental intervention are described in the third part of the paper.
K36|Estates, bequests, and inheritances in Sweden - A look into the Belinda databases|The objective of this paper is to describe two new administrative Swedish databases, referred to as the Belinda databases. Together, these databases contain the most detailed individual-level data on estates, bequests, and inheritances currently available. We present descriptive statistics for the key variables in the databases to give a picture of the size of estates, the content of the bequests, and who the recipients of the inheritances are. The statistics may serve as a point of reference for other scholars, but also as an illustration of the various research possibilities that the databases provide and how the data can be matched with other administrative registers. We also, briefly, describe the institutional context regarding intergenerational transfers in Sweden, including the inheritance law and the inheritance tax.
K36|A Standardized Net Income Shares Model To Develop Basic Child Support Guidelines|Research regarding child support typically focuses on the effects of child support awards and its underlying principles within child support models. However, researchers have invested little effort in the analysis of child support guideline comparisons or in the development of analyses to determine whether state adopted guidelines seem reasonable based on state-specific macroeconomic variables. This analysis intends to develop a model to determine the reasonableness of child support guidelines for states that use the income shares method based on the net income of both parents. Further, it intends to suggest that the development of a standard model is possible and, to a certain extent, needed, to obtain interstate uniformity. Findings suggest that the implementation of such a model could lead to more equitable and uniform basic child support awards.
K36|Common Law Marriage and Male/Female Convergence in Labor Supply and Time Use|Does availability of common law marriage (CLM henceforth) in the U.S help explain variation in the labor force participation, hours of work and hours of household production of men and women over time and across states? As CLM offers more legal protection to household producers at the margin between single status and marriage, we expect it to discourage labor supply and encourage household production on the part of household producers who are married or cohabit. In the context of traditional gender roles this implies a negative association between availability of CLM and the labor supply of women who are either married or cohabit. Also assuming traditional gender roles, men are then expected to work more in the labor force when CLM is available. We analyze micro data from CPS-iPums for the period 1995-2011 to investigate labor outcomes and from the ATUS for the period 2003-11 to study effects on household production and total hours of work. Labor supply effects of CLM availability are almost always negative for cohabiting and married women, and sometimes also for single women. The effects of CLM on men's labor supply tend to be negative when samples include all men aged 18-35. However, for the groups that we identified as most likely to be affected by CLM availability – the youngest white men w/o college education – we find positive effects. Married non-black men and women and work less in home production under CLM.
K36|But Who Will Get Billy? The Effect of Child Custody Laws on Marriage|Under the tender years doctrine in effect until the 1970's, custody was virtually always awarded to the mother upon divorce. Gender-neutral custody laws introduced beginning in the 1970's provided married fathers, in principle, equal rights to custody. Subsequent marriage-neutral laws extended the rights to unmarried fathers. We develop a theoretical model of the effect of custody regime on marriage and test the model's predictions using a unique data set that merges custody law data with data from the Current Population Survey and Vital Statistics. We find that, under marriage non-neutrality, the introduction of gender-neutral laws reduced the hazard into marriage by at least 7.9 percent. There is no evidence that moving from marriage non-neutrality to marriage neutrality affected marriage under the gender-neutral custody regime.
K36|Should divorce be easier or harder?|Many countries have enacted legislation over the past few decades making divorce easier. Some countries have legalized divorce where it had previously been banned, and many have eased the conditions required for a divorce, such as allowing unilateral divorce (both spouses do not have to agree on the divorce). Divorce laws can regulate the grounds for divorce, division of property, child custody, and child support or maintenance payments. Reforms can have a range of social effects beyond increasing the divorce rate. They can influence female labor supply, marriage and fertility rates, child well-being, household saving, and even domestic violence and crime.
K36|Child support order: how do judges decide without guidelines? Evidence from France|The paper presents a model of family judges’ child support orders when no guidelines are available. Based on the French case, it argues that judges weigh up their wish to comply with their institutional environment against their discretion and their willingness to find a compromise, by basing their decision on the parties’ average offer. Using experimental data consisting of child support awards set by approximately 80 French judges, the findings of the paper suggest that family judges promote parents’ child support offer when there is an agreement between them, particularly when their offer is lower than the amount deemed necessary to preserve the child’s interest. There is also some evidence that female judges are likely to be more generous than male judges, although in small amounts and under certain circumstances. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014
K36|Family Ties, Inheritance Rights, and Successful Poverty Alleviation: Evidence from Ghana|Ghanaian custom views children as members of either their mother's or father's lineage (extended family), but not both. Patrilineal custom charges a man's lineage with caring for his widow and children, while matrilineal custom places this burden on the widows' lineage - her father, brothers, and uncles. Deeming custom inadequate, and to promote the nuclear family, Ghana enacted the Intestate Succession (PNDC) Law 111, 1985 and 1998 Children's Act 560 to force men to provide for their widows and children, as in Western cultures. Our survey shows that, although most people die intestate and many profess to know Law 111, it is rarely implemented. Knowledge of the law correlates with couples accumulating assets jointly and with inter-vivos husband to wife transfers, controlling for education. These effects are least evident for widows of matrilineal lineage men, suggesting a persistence of traditional norms. Widows with closer ties with their own or their spouse's lineage report greater financial support, as do those very few who benefit from legal wills or access Law 111 and, importantly, widows of matrilineal lineage. Some evidence also supports Act 560 benefiting nuclear families, especially if the decedent's lineage is matrilineal. Overall, our study confirms African traditional institutions' persistent importance, and the limited effects of formal law.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
K36|Divorce Risk, Wages, and Working Wives: A Quantitative Life-Cycle Analysis of Female Labor Force Participation|This paper develops a quantitative life-cycle model to study the increase in married women's labor force participation (LFP). We calibrate the model to match key life-cycle statistics for the 1935 cohort and use it to assess the changed environment faced by the 1955 cohort. We find that a higher divorce probability and changes in wage structure are each able to explain a large proportion of the LFP increase. Higher divorce risk increases LFP not because the latter contributes to higher marital assets or greater labor market experience, however. Instead, it is the result of conflicting spousal preferences towards the adjustment of marital consumption in the face of increased divorce risk.
K36|Free to Leave? A Welfare Analysis of Divorce Regimes|During the 1970s the US underwent an important change in its divorce laws, switching from mutual consent to a unilateral divorce regime. Who benefitted and who lost from this change? To answer this question we develop a dynamic life-cycle model in which agents make consumption, saving, labor force participation (LFP), and marriage and divorce decisions subject to several shocks and given a particular divorce regime. We calibrate the model using statistics relevant to the life-cycle of the 1940 cohort. Conditioning solely on gender, our ex ante welfare analysis finds that women would fare better under mutual consent whereas men would prefer a unilateral system. Once we condition not only on gender but also on initial productivity, we find that men in the top three quintiles of the initial productivity distribution are made better off by a unilateral system as are the top two quintiles of women; the rest prefer mutual consent. We also find that although the change in divorce regime had only a small effect on the LFP of married women in the 1940 cohort, these effects would be considerably larger for a cohort who lived its entire life under a unilateral divorce system.
K36|Infringement Of Privacy Via Internet|The development of the Internet has enabled instant access to information and its global transfer worldwide. Information whose content represents an infringement of personality rights and which was placed online on the Internet will go around the world in a moment. The question may be raised as to where the harmful event occurred, entailing the need for new legal regulation to possible privacy infringements. EU legislation that regulates this area has been placed to creative interpretations as it has been applied successfully in recent cases of damage inflicted by placing on the Internet content that infringes personality rights. Interpretation of the European Court of Justice is found unsatisfactory to majority of experts in private international law because it represents a limitation of the application of the relevant applicable law determined by conflict-of-law rules of a certain Member State for the purpose of ensuring the free movement of information society services. Many open questions regarding the Internet still need to be addressed by legislators and the entire legal profession.
K36|Is Marriage as Good as a Contract?|Neither marriage nor a legally enforceable contract serves any useful purpose if the parties have access to a perfect credit market. In the presence of credit rationing, the parties may not reach an agreement. If they do, the agreement will be inefficient and give one party more utility than the other. Efficiency and utility equalization are guaranteed only by a legally enforceable contract. Separate-property marriage may reduce, and community-property marriage actually eliminate inefficiency, but neither of them guarantees utility equalization. (JEL codes: C78, J12, K36)
K36|Comparison Elements On The Background Conditions Of Ancient Roman And Contemporary Romanian Marriage|The family is a biological reality achieved by the union of man and woman, and procreation. The model of the European family has its origins in the old Indo-European relative system, which founded marriage as its main source. From Roman antiquity up to present, we can observe and state that the family has represented the basic nucleus of human social organization, having marriage as magical, religious, and legal basis. We consider that it is interesting and useful to have a comparative perspective between the juridical regulations of the ancient Roman marriage and the one of the present, so much more that in Romania, a new Civil Code has been adopted, giving up the idea of a distinct code of the family. If in Rome marriage was preceded by an engagement (sponsalia), which was a natural practice, in our Romanian law, the new Civil Code, as novelty, regulates engagement as a promise of marriage with potential juridical effects. It seems edifying, as a constant along centuries, that there have been several conditions of imperative nature for the validity in the perfecting of marriage, both in Roman law, and in the present Romanian law. Two of these conditions, the accord and age, have represented in Roman law, and do also represent today indispensable elements in the legalization of marriage. It is worth observing that there is a similitude of essential requirements for marriage in both legal systems, so much more that there is a more and more diluted condition, with tendencies of annulment, in the legal practice of many European countries, and not only there. It is the condition of sexual differentiation of the potential spouses.
K36|Child Rights in Bangladesh|Bangladesh is a densely populated country with populations about 160 millions. About half of the populations of Bangladesh are under the age of 18 who are considered as children and more than 20 million of them are under the age of 5. About 73% of children live in the rural areas and 27% live in the urban areas. One-third of these children continue to live below the international poverty line. The violation of child rights is a common matter in Bangladesh. The children have basic rights to education, balance diet, health and nutrition, protection, participation, recreation, safe water, sanitation, and hygiene. Most of the children of Bangladesh are deprived from these basic rights. The GoB with UNICEF has taken steps for schooling all the children and to decrease child labors and other child abuses. An attempt has been made here to discuss the aspects of child rights to create a child-friendly environment in Bangladesh.
K36|¿Existen Derechos Sociales?|Estudios Nueva Economía me solicitó autorización para reproducir este artículo de hace 10 años justo cuando estaba publicándose mi libro Derechos Sociales y Educación: un nuevo paradigma de lo público. La primera parte de ese libro fue conscientemente escrita como una reformulación del argumento de este artículo, una que diera cuenta de que la idea de “derechos sociales” tiene hoy una importancia pública de la que carecía en 2004. Lo primero que pensé, entonces, era que el libro hacía redundante al artículo, por lo que ya no se justificaba volver sobre éste. Pero dos consideraciones me convencieron de que republicarlo tenía un sentido: primero, como una manera de enfatizar que el argumento de este artículo no implica que no hay tal cosa como derecho social a la educación. Para mi sorpresa, algunos lectores de este artículo han quedado con la idea de que al defender hoy que la educación ha de ser un derecho social estoy rechazando la tesis de este artículo. Esos lectores entendieron que la idea defendida en este artículo era que la pregunta del título recibía una respuesta pura y simplemente negativa, cuando su primer párrafo explica que eso no es así. Yo creo, de hecho, que la manera en que se ha articulado la demanda por una nueva educación da la razón a este artículo: si se trata de hacer de la educación un derecho social, lo que es necesario es acción política, no recursos judiciales. La segunda razón es que, leyéndolo 10 años después, el artículo es a mi juicio tan correcto como lo era el día en que fue originalmente publicado. Por supuesto que hoy diría algunas cosas de modo distinto, o desarrollaría algunos temas que en este artículo solo se mencionan y no se desarrollan (algunas de estas cuestiones son identificadas más abajo en esta nota). Pero todas las ideas importantes siguen siendo correctas. O al menos yo sigo creyendo que ellas lo son.
K36|Alcohol, Adultery and Prostitution in the Ottoman Period: Konya Example (1650-1750)|It is possible to mention crimes and criminals wherever people dwell. Definition of offence may vary according to societies in accordance with the influences of culture and religion. In Ottoman Law which has its roots in ecclesiastical and customary sources, it is observed that crimes are categorized in three groups as the ones requiring boundary, ones requiring retaliation and finally the ones requiring corporal punishment and political ban. Demonstration, prescription, jurisdiction and penalisation processes of these offences are all defined by ecclesiastical and customary law. While the ecclesiastical law is characteristically precise with regards to the jurisdiction and penalisation of offences, customary law adopted more practical solutions on these. In case of discrepancy, predicaments were overcome by bringing Islamic scholars? views into action.In Ottoman law, adultery and prostitution which are regarded in boundary offences and drinking alcohol which was regarded in corporal law are observed to constitute integrity both as they cause liability to each other and are all related with recreation. In addition to being the actions banned by Islamic Law, they also drew the reaction of the society. In this reaction, individuals? fear of being seen to be keeping quiet about these offences committed in the neighbourhood as well as the religious and moral worries played important roles. On adultery, prostitution and consuming alcohol, there are complementary judgements in both ecclesiastical and customary law with regards to occurrence, proving and punishment. When these judgements and court registries are compared, it is observable that not always is this theory valid and did the course proceed in the same way. Accordingly, sometimes inhabitants are observed to change the direction of prosecution process directly with their statements and moreover they are also seen to get involved in the process as a direct source of law.In this study, incidents of adultery, prostitution and alcohol incidents devolved to the court of Konya is going to be analyzed based upon the Konya ?er?iyye Registers generated in between 1650 and 1750 years. In this process, questions about how and where these incidents took place, which section of the society the criminals were from, how they were taken to the court, how the prosecution process went on, what the punishments were and what the reactions of the society were to these incidents are all going to be answered.
K36|THE ANALYSIS OF GUNES V. TURKEY DECISION of EUROPEAN COURT OF HUMAN RIGHTS IN TERMS OF TURKISH LAW|This study aims to explore matters about procedures followed up at the stages of national case law Tuncer Gunes v Turkey dated September 2013 of ECHR and compare the national and international approaches. We aim to look at the matter before it was carried on to European Court of Human Rights and be analyze the stages of court of appeals and the supporting decisions and the effects on Turkish Laws. Tuncer Gunes lawsuit was decreed upon the request of lawsuit filed by the woman?s demand for using her maiden?s surname and it is the last of many lawsuits ruled by the court. By means of this study, we will on one hand analyze the applicable Turkish law arrangements in this regard and on the other hand, we will analyze the proceedings of European Court of Human Rights on the other hand. We will also have the opportunity to analyze discourses within domestic law regarding the applications for use of a woman?s maiden?s surname including Turkish public, domestic law, non government organizations and similar fields and the discourses brought forward starting from the first applications made. This is because, under the domestic law, the proceedings which started in 1995 were followed by Unal Tekeli vs. Turkey case filed before European Court of Human Rights which was filed, then adjudicated in 2004 and from 1995 until recently, it enabled means to Turkish courts and the public to discuss this matter including different opinions and suggestions of solution. During this process, the stage of involving the legislative packages being submitted before the parliament were on the agenda and different decisions were adopted which were different from the previous decisions. Furthermore the doctrinal matters were also considered and many articles analyzed the subject and from the solutions envisaged by Turkish laws.
K36|The Eu „ Right To Be Forgotten”|The scientific paper aims at presenting the relevant legal aspects related to data protection in the EU (Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data) in view of the ruling of the Court of justice of the European Union (C131/12), the content of the judgement of the court, how it has been enforced so far by Google and its impact on EU citizen and future legislation.
K36|Means to improve access to justice and legally empower victims of domestic violence: An empirical legal study on legislation and legal offices in Buenos Aires, Argentina|The purpose of this study is to understand how recent legal reforms and the creation of legal offices in Argentina may improve access to justice and legally empower victims of domestic violence. The paper looks into the way the judicial system developed to provide suitable options for victims of domestic violence to gain access to justice and solve their conflicts. It uses a legal empowerment framework composed of three levels normative, institutional and individual. The paper bases the analysis on the existing regulations, and an empirical study conducted with those working for the public institution, and with victims of domestic violence that accessed to those institutions seeking for assistance. The paper gives a comprehensive approach and provides reflections on what aspects of the laws and institutions are actually being of benefit for victims of domestic violence.
K36|State Bankruptcy Law and Entrepreneurship: Evidence from a Border Analysis|This paper examines how differences in state bankruptcy laws, specifically the amount of the homestead exemption, affect business location decisions. We expand upon the literature by narrowing the geographic scope and focus on the amount of entrepreneurial activity within a few miles of the state boundary. By including only these border areas, we are more effectively able to control for unobserved local attributes, which are important determinants of business location decisions. Findings indicate that an increase in a state's homestead exemption attracts new businesses to that locality. In addition, we do not find that a more generous homestead exemption has a negative impact on existing businesses. Our results suggest that bankruptcy law is an important policy tool that state governments can use to attract new businesses, without experiencing an adverse effect on existing enterprises.
K36|But Who Will Get Billy? The Effect of Child Custody Laws on Marriage|Under the tender years doctrine in effect until the 1970â€™s, custody was virtually always awarded to the mother upon divorce. Gender-neutral custody laws introduced beginning in the 1970â€™s provided married fathers, in principle, equal rights to custody. Subsequent marriage-neutral laws extended the rights to unmarried fathers. We develop a theoretical model of the effect of custody regime on marriage and test the modelâ€™s predictions using a unique data set that merges custody law data with data from the Current Population Survey and Vital Statistics. We find that, under marriage non-neutrality, the introduction of gender-neutral laws reduced the hazard into marriage by at least 7.9 percent. There is no evidence that moving from marriage non-neutrality to marriage neutrality affected marriage under the gender-neutral custody regime.
K36|Some aspects on parental protection in the current Romanian Civil Code|The new Civil Code has come to meet the diversification and complexity of social relationships, the growing interference between economic and social life in Romania and the one in Europe and in the world and not least the connection in a greater extent of the Romanian law to the European law. The issues which could occur, given precisely such interconnection with the European law, are those which give rise to issues of civil law enforcement in space, especially when the question would be the application of the Romanian civil law or the foreign civil law, and one of the typical situations in this respect is the law governing parental authority when spouses have different nationalities and misunderstandings arise between them regarding parental authority. Our analysis starts from a hypothetical case, but which may occur in fact, namely the intention of the parent in whose favour was handed down the custody ruling concerning the child, to move in another state together with the child, without having the agreement of the other parent in this respect.
K36|Parental leave benefit and differential fertility responses: Evidence from a German reform|This paper examines the causal effects of a major change in the German parental leave benefit scheme on fertility. I use the unanticipated reform in 2007 to assess how a move from a means-tested to an earnings-related benefit affects higher-order births. By using the German Mikrozensus 2010, I find that the reform significantly affected the timing of higher-order births in the first three years. Overall, mothers initially reduce childbearing, thereby extending their birth spacing, but eventually fully compensate for the earlier losses. The negative effects are largely driven by lowest-income mothers who also do not display any catch-up effects. I also find a substantial heterogeneity inWest and East Germany. Because the reform aimed at parents with strong labor market attachment, the positive effects in the East suggest that the economic incentives essentially perform well, but their impact may be hampered by unfavorable institutional and cultural conditions in the West.
K36|Divorce laws and divorce rate in the US|At the end of the 1960s, the US divorce law underwent major changes and the divorce rate almost doubled in all of the states. This paper shows that changes in property division, alimony transfers, and child custody assignments account for a substantial share of the increase in the divorce rate, especially for young, college educated couples with children. I solve and calibrate a model where agents make decisions on their marital status, savings, and labor supply. Under the new financial settlements, divorced men gain from a higher share of property, while women gain from an increase in alimony and child support transfers. The introduction of the unilateral decision to divorce has limited effects.
K36|Aristóteles y la justicia natural|"In his Nicomachean and Eudemian Ethics Aristotle says of natural justice that it is changeable and not the same everywhere. The implication seems to be that no action, not even murder, is always wrong. But, as is evident especially from his Magna Moralia, Aristotle distinguishes justice into the ""what"" (equality), the ""in what"" (proportion between persons and things), and the ""about what"" (what things are exchanged with which persons). He allows for variability only in the ""about what"". He allows for no variability in the ""what"" and the ""in what"". The fact is clear from adultery, which Aristotle says is always wrong. He says the same elsewhere of other acts, as abortion, euthanasia, and usury."
K36|The Gender Role of the Government: some explanations of family crisis|Basic hypothesis tested in the paper: government interventions into traditional functions of the family became an important factor of the recent family crisis: lower marriage rates, higher divorce rates and lower birthrate in the highly qualified and civic responsible middle class taxpayers. The data for statistical test: the Panel of 17 old Democracies contains observations before pension reforms (since XIX century) till nowadays. Mandatory pension insurance in combination with the life expectancy growth turned pensions into budget liability to the growing share of the population and with considerable lag (15-20 years) could lead to the fertility reduction (because children are taxed for “general good” now and less able to serve as a “retirement saving” for their own parents – see Friedman). Universal suffrage and emergence of the left parties create and maintain a situation under which most of family functions come to be performed by Nanny State. That could reduce a demand for marriage. The governmental regulations and enforcement practices provoke wives to initiate conflicts with their husbands, poor spouse with rich. “Best interest of the child” concept incites children to initiate conflict with parents. As a result of the latter case analysis and statistical test the basic hypothesis has not be rejected.
K36|“Old Testament” Morality And The “Traditional” Family|In this paper we consider questions of morality as a factor impacting trust in society, as an important element of the “soft” infrastructure. Morality is the institution which, if it is maintained in an appropriate condition, is capable of significantly raising the efficacy level of the basal institutions, including the institution of private property. Morality is often gestured toward in political and research discussions, for instance, for purposes of eliminating or establishing artificial borders and constraints upon freedom of discussion. Morality raises the level of trust among market agents, both among those directly acquainted with each other and among those who have never met each other before but hold the same moral views in common. Besides, morality lowers the costs of constructing and implementation of formal institutions which protect private property, as well as institutions friendly to the market. The Government’s pushing out the institution of the family and societal morality is largely bound up with the common mechanism for transferring individual responsibility to society, and the responsibility of society to the Government. The Government is interested in maximum resource use and maximal control. Bringing Government controls to a maximum possible level runs counter to the existence of any limitations, among which morality is the most powerful and most stable one. The foundation of the “liberation” of the individual from responsibility and from morality hails from the stimuli spawned by the institution of universal suffrage.
K36|The Impact of Same-Sex Marriage on Hawai'i's Economy and Government| This report provides quantitative and qualitative measures of the impact of same-sex marriage on Hawai'i's economy and government. We find that marriage equality is likely to lead to substantial increases in visitor arrivals, visitor spending, and state and county general excise tax revenues. We estimate that fewer than 100 spouses will be added as beneficiaries to public and private employer-provided health insurance plans. The size of the gains from marriage equality depends critically on upcoming rulings by the U.S. Supreme Court on the constitutionality of Californiaâ€™s Proposition 8 and the Defense of Marriage Act.
K36|The Impact of Same-Sex Marriage on HawaiÔiÕs Economy and Government|This report provides quantitative and qualitative measures of the impact of same-sex marriage on Hawai`iÕs economy and government. We find that marriage equality is likely to lead to substantial increases in visitor arrivals, visitor spending, and state and county general excise tax revenues. We estimate that fewer than 100 spouses will be added as beneficiaries to public and private employer-provided health insurance plans. The size of the gains from marriage equality depends critically on upcoming rulings by the U.S. Supreme Court on the constitutionality of CaliforniaÕs Proposition 8 and the Defense of Marriage Act.
K36|The Impact of Same-Sex Marriage on Hawaii's Economy and Government: An Update After the U.S. Supreme Court's Same-Sex Marriage Decisions|This report provides an update on the potential impact of marriage equality in Hawai'i on the stateâ€™s economy in light of the U.S. Supreme Courtâ€™s recent DOMA and Proposition 8 decisions. We find that marriage equality is likely to lead to substantial increases in Hawai'i visitor arrivals, visitor spending, and state and county general excise tax revenues due to pent-up demand for same-sex marriage. Over the 2014-2016 period, we estimate that additional visitor spending due to marriage equality would amount to $217 million. The additional gains in visitor spending are time-sensitive: Spending by U.S. same-sex couples and their guests on honeymoons and marriages will be diverted to other states until Hawai'i recognizes marriage equality.
K36|Critical Analysis Of Basic Child Support Awards In Puerto Rico,Analisis Critico De La Pension Alimentaria Basica En Puerto Rico|The responsibility to support offspring emanates from Natural Law and is certainly undelayable and indelegable. However, it must be subject to parameters of fairness which guarantee that children receive, from both parents, the resources needed for their support based on principles of proportionality, need, economic ability and reasonableness. This analysis reveals the Puerto Rico child support regime leads to the imposition of child support awards that overestimate, in most cases, the non-custodial parentsâ€™ responsibility for child rearing expenses thereby violating basic equity principles. This finding is based on a comparative evaluation of awards in state jurisdictions within the United States of America.
K36|Electronic Identity in Europe: Legal challenges and future perspectives|"This deliverable presents the work developed by the IPTS eID Team in 2012 on the large-encompassing topic of electronic identity. It is structured in four different parts: 1) eID: Relevance, Legal State-of-the-Art and Future Perspectives; 2) Digital Natives and the Analysis of the Emerging Behavioural Trends Regarding Privacy, Identity and Their Legal Implications; 3) The ""prospective"" use of social networking services for government eID in Europe; and 4) Facial Recognition, Privacy and Identity in Online Social Networks. In the following, the main findings and arguments related to each of these parts are summarized."
K36|Joint Custody in the Italian Courts|This paper studies the impact of the introduction of joint custody in Italy (Law 54/2006) on judiciary outcomes. As to the formal (legal) assignment of joint custody, the reform envisaged very little judge discretion. With reference to the substance of the custody (the amount of time each parent spends with the child and the money involved in post-dissolution arrangements), the law established new principles while leaving plenty of implementation power to the judges. Our results – based on court data that covers the universe of separations from 2000 to 2010 – document that the law was only cosmetically applied by the judges. Compared to the prereform regime, the share of sole legal custody assignments to the mother drastically decreased. However, court implementation washed out the new principles: the provisions of the law related to the financial postseparation arrangements remained unapplied. This suggests that the main innovative aspect of the law – the possibility for a child to spend an adequate amount of time with both parents – was also left unchanged with respect to the previous regime of sole maternal custody. As joint effect of the introduction of the law and the little degree to which the new principles have been translated into actual verdicts, there was a surge in litigiousness among separating spouses and judicial inefficiency. Moreover, the incentives for a female partner to apply for a separation raised. The paper discusses a possible rationale for the findings and some related policy remedies. As for the former, the evidence we present can be explained by the adoption of genderbiased judiciary practices. As for the latter, our results suggest that a restatement of the law, to define a narrowed grid of prescriptions that constrain judge discretion, could be an effective corrective action.
K36|Deterring domestic violence: Do criminal sanctions reduce repeat offenses?|This study presents an empirical analysis of domestic violence case resolution in North Carolina for the years 2004 to 2010. The key hypothesis is that penalties at the level set for domestic violence crimes reduce recidivism (re-arrest on domestic violence charges or conviction in 2 years following an index arrest). We use state court data for all domestic violence-related arrests. Decisions to commit an act of domestic violence are based on a Bayesian process of updating subjective beliefs. Individuals have prior beliefs about penalties for domestic violence based on actual practice in their areas. An individual’s experience with an index arrest leads to belief updating. To address endogeneity of case outcomes, we use an instrumental variables strategy based on decisions of prosecutors and judges assigned to each index arrest in our sample. Contrary to our hypothesis, we find that penalities, at least as set at the current levels, do not deter future arrests and convictions. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2013
K36|Privacy Aspects Of The Medically Assisted Human Reproduction|"The analysis of privacy issues in the medically assisted human reproduction system includes both the rights of the person, as general private law right subject, respectively rights inseparably related to the very existence of the human being which circumscribe the general idea of ""personality right"" but also their rights as patient and also the rights deriving from the regulation of the statute of the human body, its elements and its products. Assisted reproduction technologies raise serious privacy issues within the field of the person’s private life, so that the legal provisions relating to human beings comprise the human body, its organs and tissues, including those detached from it. A person's right to have the freedom of disposition refers to physical freedom, to the right to dispose of the person’s own body, including in its content also the right to donate organs and tissue for transplants or other medical and genetic engineering experiments."
K36|Procedure Of Recovery, Cancellation, Modification, Completion Or Rectification Of Civil Status Documents|According to the law, marital status proves to the acts drawn up in the registers of civil status (original acts of civil status), as well as with the civil status certificates issued on the basis thereof. Civil status documents provide proof to the finding of false by a final judgment for other entries, until proof to the contrary, issue, cancellation, rectification or completion or reconstruction of civil status acts, as well as any registrations made on the civil status acts, pursuant to a final and irrevocable judgment or under an administrative provision may be relied on by any person until proof to the contrary. We have proposed in this paper to present the procedure by which acts of civil status can be reconstituted, canceled, corrected, amended and supplemented in order to proof civil status.
K36|Применение Почвозащитных Технологий В Регионах, Подверженных Ветровой Эрозии: Механизмы Мотивации Собственников Земли<BR>[Application of soil protection technologies in regions prone to wind erosion: mechanisms for motivating landowners]|The purpose is to reveal the factors of motivations of the agricultural enterprises and certain farmers in the course of application of the nature preservation technologies; the priority of protection the natural resources in motivation of farmers; to develop a technique of studying the social and economic mechanisms of use of the soil-protective systems. The novelty consists in complex studying of motivation of rural producers by means of the technique considering macro-social and micro-social factors of application of the nature preservation technologies for the regions subject to wind erosion of soils (Kazakhstan, the Volga region, Siberia, etc.). The results are as follows: the policy in the sphere of the nature preservation technologies has to consider the factors influencing the choice of decisions regarding the use of technologies. Among the factors are demographic situation, poverty level, the state policy, measure of sensibleness of the carried-out actions, access to information, and economic efficiency for the economic entity. The action program directed on formation of the social and economic mechanism, pricing, subsidies and trade policy in agriculture has been proposed, as well as creations of the monitoring system of soils condition, consumption of fertilizers, pesticides, soil cover and the ground waters. The scope of results is the following: professional communities, state authorities, municipalities, scientific and research and educational institutions.
K36|Problem of orphanhood in Russia: Analysis of cultural, economic and political aspects|The paper provides regression analysis of data on registration of orphans in Russian regions in 1999–2006. The purpose of analysis is to understand what factors — cultural, economic, political and, maybe, some else — influence the quantity of orphans yearly recorded in Russian regions. The analysis confirms hypotheses about significant influence of cultural and political factors on the acuity of orphanhood problem in Russian regions. The impact of economic factors on the acuity of orphanhood problem in Russia is ambiguous.
K36|Das ärztliche Attest im Umgangsrecht|Das Recht auf Umgang mit seinem/n Kind/Kindern ist gesetzlich verankert, falls es/sie beim anderen Eltern­ teil lebt/leben. Früher lag das Augenmerk bei Trennung oder Scheidung auf dem vermögensrechtlichen Bereich. Inzwischen verlagert sich der Schwerpunkt der Auseinandersetzungen jedoch immer weiter in Richtung des/der Kindes/Kinder als Streitobjekt/e; ganz besonders, wenn nur geringes/kein Vermögen vorhanden ist. Immer häufiger wird, um des Streitens willens, die Machtstellung von dem Elternteil ausgenutzt, bei dem die Kinder ihren Aufenthalt haben. Dem steht jedoch entgegen, dass der andere Elternteil nach dem Gesetz die Kinder sehen darf. Um das Recht auf Umgang zu umgehen und somit das Kräfteverhältnis klarzustellen, besteht die einzige - legale - Möglichkeit darin, zu behaupten, das Kind sei krank, was jedoch mit einem ärztlichen Attest nachgewiesen werden muss. Die Problematik, ein solches ärztliches Attest zu erhalten, insbesondere welche Arten von Erkran­ kungen im Nachhinein den Ärzten gegenüber ange­ geben wurden, und was dann hauptsächlich, meist ohne ärztliche Untersuchung, an Krankheiten attestiert wurde, wird nachstehend aufgezeigt. Es wird auch erläutert, welche Stellung der attestierende Arzt einnimmt und welche Lösungen seitens des Gesetzgebers erfolgen könnten.
K36|Joint Custody in the Italian Courts|This paper studies the impact of the introduction of joint custody in Italy (Law 54/2006) on judiciary outcomes. As to the formal (legal) assignment of joint custody, the reform envisaged very little judge discretion. With reference to the substance of the custody (the amount of time each parent spends with the child and the money involved in post-dissolution arrangements), the law established new principles while leaving plenty of implementation power to the judges. Our results – based on court data that covers the universe of separations from 2000 to 2010 – document that the law was only cosmetically applied by the judges. Compared to the pre-reform regime, the share of sole legal custody assignments to the mother drastically decreased. However, court implementation washed out the new principles: the provisions of the law related to the financial post-separation arrangements remained unapplied. This suggests that the main innovative aspect of the law – the possibility for a child to spend an adequate amount of time with both parents – was also left unchanged with respect to the previous regime of sole maternal custody. As joint effect of the introduction of the law and the little degree to which the new principles have been translated into actual verdicts, there was a surge in litigiousness among separating spouses and judicial inefficiency. Moreover, the incentives for a female partner to apply for a separation raised. The paper discusses a possible rationale for the findings and some related policy remedies. As for the former, the evidence we present can be explained by the adoption of gender-biased judiciary practices. As for the latter, our results suggest that a restatement of the law, to define a narrowed grid of prescriptions that constrain judge discretion, could be an effective corrective action.
K36|Financial Incentives and Fertility| Using panel data on over 300,000 Israeli women from 1999 to 2005, we exploit variation in Israel's child subsidy to identify the impact of changes in the price of a marginal child on fertility. We find a positive, statistically significant, and economically meaningful price effect on overall fertility and, consistent with Becker (1960) and Becker and Tomes (1976), a small effect of income on fertility, which is negative at low and positive at high income levels. We also find a price effect on fertility among older women, suggesting that part of the overall effect is due to a reduction in total fertility. © 2013 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
K36|Divorce and the birth control pill|This paper explores the role of the birth control pill on divorce. To identify its effect, we use a quasi experiment exploiting the differences in the language of the Comstock anti-obscenity statutes approved in the 1800s and early 1900s in the US. Results suggest that banning the sales of oral contraceptive methods has a negative impact on divorce. These findings are robust to alternative specifications and controls for observed (such as female labour force participation, or changes in the early legal access to the birth control pill) and unobserved state-specific factors, and time-varying factors at the state level. Additional analysis, developed to examine whether the impact of subsequent divorce law reforms on divorce is modified after controlling for the birth control pill effect, shows that, although sales bans matter, the impact of divorce law reforms on divorce rate does not vary.
K36|Does custody law affect family behavior in and out of marriage?|We examine the effect of joint custody on marriage, divorce, fertility and female employment in Austria using individual-level administrative data, covering the entire population. We also use unique data obtained from court records to analyze the effect on post-divorce outcomes. Our estimates show that joint custody significantly reduces divorce and female employment rates, significantly increases marriage and marital birth rates, and leads to a substantial increase in the total money transfer received by mothers after divorce. We interpret these results as evidence against Becker-Coase bargains and in support of a mechanism driven by a resource redistribution that favors men giving them greater incentives to invest in marriage specific capital.
K36|Earnings-Dependent Parental Leave Benefit and Fertility: Evidence from Germany|This paper examines the effects of a major change in German parental transfer system on fertility. I use the largely unanticipated reform of 2007 as a natural experiment to assess how an earnings-dependent parental leave benefit effects higher-order fertility. Given the recent introduction, this paper evaluates short-run responses by using data from the German Microcensus 2010. I find that the reform reduced the probability of having a further child in the first three years after birth. However, this effect is mainly driven by mothers on the lower bound of the benefit. Among mothers above the lower bound, short-run fertility responses are less pronounced and vary with potential earnings. The heterogeneity is in line with the structure of economic incentives.
K36|Marriage, Divorce, and Interstate Risk Sharing|In this paper we study the importance of marriage for interstate risk sharing. We find that US states in which married couples account for a higher share of the population are less exposed to state-specific output shocks. Thus, marriages do not just improve the allocation of risk at the individual level, but also have implications for the allocation of risk at the more aggregated state-level. Quantitatively, the impact of marriage on interstate risk sharing varies over divorce regimes.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
K36|Female labor supply and divorce: New evidence from Ireland|If participation in the labor market helps to secure women's outside options in the case of divorce/separation, an increase in the perceived risk of marital dissolution may accelerate the increase in female labor supply. This simple prediction has been tested in the literature using time and/or spatial variation in the US divorce legislation. In this paper, we suggest testing this hypothesis by exploiting a more radical policy change, i.e., the actual legalization of divorce. In Ireland, the right to divorce was introduced in 1996, followed by an acceleration of marriage breakdown rates. We use this fundamental change in Irish society as a natural experiment. Using families for whom the risk of marital dissolution is small as a control group, our difference-in-difference estimates suggest that the legalization of divorce contributed to a significant increase in female labor supply, occurring essentially at the extensive margin. Results are not driven by selection and are robust to numerous specification checks, including the introduction of household fixed effects and propensity score reweighting.
K36|Breaks in the breaks: An analysis of divorce rates in Europe|This paper explores the frequency of permanent shocks in divorce rates for 16 European countries during the period 1930–2006. We examine whether the divorce rate is a stationary series, exhibits a unit root, or is stationary around a process subject to structural breaks. A clear finding from this analysis is that not all shocks have transitory effects on the divorce rate. Our results provide evidence of both stationarity around occasional shocks that have permanent effects, and of a unit root, where all shocks have a permanent effect on the divorce rate. All of the permanent shocks are positive, and most are grouped in the 1970s. These shocks can be related to major events that occurred throughout Europe at that time: the divorce law reforms, suggesting that those policies play an important role in the movement of European divorce rates.
K36|Unilateral divorce versus child custody and child support in the U.S|This paper explores the response of the divorce rate to law reforms introducing unilateral divorce after controlling for law reforms concerning the aftermath of divorce, which are omitted from most previous studies. We introduce two main policy changes that have swept the US since the late 1970s: the approval of the joint custody regime and the Child Support Enforcement program. Because those reforms affect divorce decisions by counteracting the reallocation of property rights generated by the unilateral divorce procedure and by increasing the expected financial costs of divorce, it is arguable that their omissions might obscure the impact of unilateral divorce reforms on divorce rates. After allowing for changes in laws concerning the aftermath of divorce, we find that the positive impact of unilateral divorce reforms on divorce rates does not vanish over time, suggesting that the Coase theorem may not apply to changes in divorce laws. Supplemental analysis, developed to examine the frequency of permanent shocks in US divorce rates, indicates that the positive permanent changes in divorce rates can be associated with the implementation of unilateral divorce reforms and that the negative permanent changes can be related to the law reforms concerning living arrangements in the aftermath of divorce. This seems to confirm the important role of these policies in the evolution of divorce rates.
K36|Will you civil union me? Taxation and civil unions in France|Although the tax system is not marriage neutral in many countries, it has been found to be only slightly significant in determining marriage decisions (Buffeteau and Echevin, 2003; Alm and Whittington, 1995). This paper tests whether the tax system can alter the decision to contract a civil union, which is less binding than a marital contract. In 1999, France introduced civil union (pacs) as an alternative legal union to marriage. I assess the impact of taxation on the decision to contract a pacs using a difference-in-differences evaluation of the 2005 income tax reform for newly pacsed couples. As the control group is contaminated by the reform, I propose an original estimation method based on a difference-in-differences-in-differences setting to estimate bounds to the impact of the reform. My results find a positive and increasing impact of taxation on pacs rates, but also a change in the timing of pacs unions suggesting that taxation alters the decision to contract a pacs. In addition, I find a slightly significant impact of taxation on the decision to terminate a pacs.
K36|Changing the Rules Midway: The Impact of Granting Alimony Rights on Existing and Newly Formed Partnerships|"The paper analyzes the effect of a reform granting alimony rights to cohabiting couples in Canada, exploiting the fact that each province extended these rights in different years and required different cohabitation length. A theoretical analysis, based on a collective household model with a matching framework, predicts that changes in alimony laws would affect existing couples and couples to-be differently. For existing couples, legislative changes aimed at favoring (wo)men do benefit them, especially if the match quality is low. However, for couples not yet formed, they generate offsetting intra-household transfers (in our model, of leisure) and lower intra-marital allocations for the spouses who are the intended beneficiary. Our empirical analysis confirms these predictions. Among cohabiting couples united long enough before the reform, obtaining the right to petition for alimony led women to lower their labor force participation. These results, however, do not hold | and, in some cases, are reversed for newly formed cohabiting couples.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
K36|L'application de la Convention Internationale des Droits de l'Enfant en droit luxembourgeois|Le Grand-Duché de Luxembourg a approuvé ? sous réserves ? la Convention Internationale des Droits de l?Enfant par la loi du 20 décembre 1993. L?étude de l?application de cette Convention internationale en droit luxembourgeois implique un vaste « tour d?horizon », tourné, d?une part, vers le passé et le présent et, d?autre part, vers l?avenir. Lorsque le regard se tourne vers le passé et le présent, il invite à l?étude des principales mesures assurant la mise en oeuvre du Traité en droit interne, c?est-à-dire les acquis actuels et les concrétisations récentes, qui donnent pleinement effet aux droits reconnus dans la Convention et assurent l?effectivité de la jouissance de ces droits. Lorsque le regard est porté vers le futur et l?avenir, il incite à l?examen des principales réformes assurant le respect de la Convention en droit luxembourgeois, c?est-à-dire les projets actuellement en discussion et les perspectives qui visent à approfondir l?effectivité juridique et pratique de la Convention en droit interne.
K36|Does Custody Law Affect Family Behavior In and Out of Marriage?|We examine the effect of joint custody on marriage, divorce, fertility and female employment in Austria using individual-level administrative data, covering the entire population. We also use unique data obtained from court records to analyze the effect on post-divorce outcomes. Our estimates show that joint custody significantly reduces divorce and female employment rates, significantly increases marriage and marital birth rates, and leads to a substantial increase in the total money transfer received by mothers after divorce. We interpret these results as evidence against Becker-Coase bargains and in support of a mechanism driven by a resource redistribution that favors men giving them greater incentives to invest in marriage specific capital.
K36|The Scope of the Notions of Marriage, Property Relations and Matrimonial Agreement in Romanian Private International Law (English version)|Application of private international law is impossible without deciphering the meaning of the legal rules specific to this branch or without classifying the test cases on categories. This dual mental operation that the judge has to do is called qualification. The notion of qualification is defined by authors differently. According to a first opinion the qualification is defined as the operation performed by an authority that is required to solve a conflict, when asked to find the conflict category of the situation, in order to decide what rule should be applied. According to another opinion, the qualification establishes the meaning of the notions of legal rules on the subject of regulation and the law applicable to the legal relationship. In a reverse operation, through qualification, they determine the legal category to which a fact situation belongs and indicate the competent law. According to a last opinion, qualification is defined in two ways: starting from the conflict of laws towards the facts (legal relationship) or vice versa. Thus: a. the qualification is the logical-judicial operation of determining the exact full meaning of legal terms expressing the content and relations of the conflict of laws, in order to see whether a legal relationship (a state of facts) is included (or not) among these terms; b. the qualification is the interpretation of a legal relationship (of a specific fact situation)in order to see the to which conflict of laws, in terms of content and relationship, it belongs. In foreign literature qualification is defined differently. Thus, according to a first view, the qualification is defined as the legal operation performed to include a specific legal situation in the contents of a conflict of laws. This operation gives rise to a conflict between the contents of the conflict of laws belonging to the same legal system, and to a qualifications conflict when another system of law, which relates to the facts, places it within the content of a conflict of laws different from that chosen by the legal system of the forum. According to another point of view, the qualification means defining the terms used by the rules of private international law: nationality (citizenship), domicile, residence, capacity, family rights, inheritance rights, etc.
K36|General Considerations about Matrimonial Regime under the Provisions of the New Romanian Civil Code (English version)|The provisions of art. 312 of the Civil Code establish: a legal system, that is the community property regime and two types of conventional regimes: the regime of separation of goods and the regime of conventional community (the latter includes conventional derogation from community property regime). Legal matrimonial regime includes assets acquired by each spouse during marriage, except property required by law, which represents each spouse’s own assets. Community legal regime will apply in all situations in which prospective spouses opt for separation of property regime or the regime of conventional community. Separation of property regime is characterized by the fact that each of the spouses is the exclusive owner of their current assets and of those acquired alone after the dissolution of marriage, for the adoption of this regime the spouses being forced to draw up an inventory of movable property belonging to each one at the contracting of marriage. Conventional community regime is applicable when by matrimonial agreement, it derogates from the provisions on legal community regime, and the matrimonial convention concluded in this case can narrow or broaden the community of goods.
K36|The Economical Implications of The Modifying Law 31/1990 Regarding The Companies and The New Civil Code on Property Relations Between Spouses|Matrimonial regime is the synthesis of all the rights and obligations of spouses pecuniary valence, having its origins in the institution of marriage, leaving outside their regulatory and other economic issues that may arise property relationships between spouses, as: maintenance obligation, Liberties rights of inheritance. matrimonial regime, considering that it is the synthesis of all the rights and obligations of spouses pecuniary valence, having its origins in the institution of marriage, leaving outside their regulatory and other economic issues that may arise property relationships between spouses, such as: the obligation maintenance, Liberties, rights of Inheritance. Under company law, spouses are not forbidden to own a company, whether it one partnerships, or that they have an association with unlimited in a limited partnership or limited by shares or a company is limited or become shareholders in a joint stock company.
K36|Division Of Spouses Property And Insolvency Proceedings|The opening of an insolvency procedure impacts considerably the referred parties, indirectly affecting other people involved. We considered the case of a debtor’s spouse who is in a state of insolvency and the case of admitted personal liability according to art. no. 138 of the Romanian Insolvency Proceedings Law. The obvious interest for a fraudulent division of goods can be traced back to the circumvention of some valuable assets from the enforcement procedure. The authors offer, in a succinct and practical manner, a few clues aiming the annihilation of such frequent fraudulent acts, together with some relevant French jurisprudential doctrine.
K36|The Notion Of „Family Member” In The Light Of The New Romanian Criminal Code And The Law No. 217/2003 For Prevention And Combating Domestic Violence, Republished|The legislator has created in the special part of the new Criminal Code a separate chapter in the title relative to the offenses against the persons, dedicated to describing the crimes committed on a family member. In the general part of the code the definition of ,,the family member” has been changed for the purposes of widening the scope of its applicability for the people who have established relationships like those between spouses or between parents and children, provided they live together. It was aimed to harmonize the definition existing in the Law no. 217/2003 for preventing and combating domestic violence, republished.
K36|The Judicial Regime Of The Biomedical Practices, In The Light Of The New Romanian Civil Code|The article represents a commentary of the main alterations brought to the judicial regime of biomedical practices (curative and predictive medicine, organ procurement, exam of genetic characteristics, medically assisted reproduction) by the adoption of the Romanian New Civil Code. The new legislative framework is intended to protect vulnerable persons from biological exploitation, objectification of the human body or genetically based discrimination. The legislator’s option for requiring the existence of an explicit, written, unequivocal, free and informed consent of the organ donor indicates without a doubt that, in the light of the new legislation applicable in the Romanian law since October 1st, 2011, organ procurement and transplantation is no longer authorized on the grounds of a tacit or presumed consent, the donor’s written, express assent thus being required. The second major characteristics of the new legislation are related to the regulation over the donor’s legal right of retract, exercisable by the donor in cases in which he or she intends to modify or revoke the prior consent to the organ procurement, before the initiation of the procurement procedure. In the field of the medically assisted human reproduction, the requirement of a parental project reverberates over the validity of the future parents’ consent, so that the death, the divorce or the simple physical and patrimonial separation of the potential parents will be automatically followed by the inefficiency of their consent. The principle of the non-objectification of the human body justifies the legal prohibition of the scientific research on human embryos. The latter cannot be seen as merely material objects of scientific research, the present legislation prohibiting the creation of human embryos in the absence of a parental project and in the sole purpose of scientific research.
K36|结婚年龄与婚姻的稳定性：来自断点回归的证据<BR>[Age at marriage and marital stability: evidence from a regression discontinuity design]|Exploiting the exogenous shock of change of marriage law, this paper estimates a quasi-natural experimental effect of age at marriage on marital stability for the first time. A new Marriage Law came into force in Jan. 1, 1981 in China, with new requirement on age at marriage. Using a regression discontinuity design by restricting sample to those married just before and after 1981, this paper finds that probability of divorce increases by age at marriage. One year delay of age at marriage increases the probability of divorce by 3 to 6 percentage points. On the contrary, the results from conventional OLS estimation show that delay of age at marriage either has no effects or has a small positive effect on marital stability, suggesting the OLS estimates suffer from severe omitted variable bias. This study suggests that increase in age at marriage is one important cause of the increase of divorce rates during recent year in China.
K36|The significance of socioeconomic factors on personal loan decision a study of consumer banking local private banks in Pakistan|This paper explores the influences of the approved results of loans cases, the loan applicants’ socioeconomic attributes in the decision of perusal loan. The results can improve the credit quality and avoid the misjudgment of screening personal loan customers and also establish a better personal loan risk management forecasting model. The main purpose of the present paper was to evaluate significance of loan applicant socioeconomic attributes on personal loan decision in the local private commercial banks of Pakistan. The statistical techniques, descriptive and logistic regression were used. The model identified that out of six independent variables, region, residence status and year with the current organization have significant impact on personal loan decision.
K36|Italian Succession Procedure|Italian inheritance law based on the Roman law of succession including legitimate succession and testamentary succession. The importance of drafting an Italian will and the legal requirements according to Italian Law.
K36|Divorce Laws, Sex Ratios and the Marriage Market|I show how an interaction between the imbalance of the sex ratio and the jump in divorce rates after a liberalization in divorce laws can obtain in a model of marriage market matching with non-transferable utility. If sex ratios are more unbalanced, the size of the jump in divorce rates following a transition from mutual consent to unilateral divorce will be larger. This works through two interacting sources of asymmetry, the first in remarriage odds between the sexes, the second in the impact of divorce law regime on the ease of obtaining a divorce.
K36|Some Remarks On The New Amendments In The Adoption Procedure Regarding The Adoption Defining Terms And Substantive Conditions|Adoption is one of the most important measures to protect children in need, namely that category of children who are deprived of parental care, loss due to various reasons. If a child in need can not be maintained or reinstated in his natural family, state authorities must have an alternative measure of protection: guardianship, special protective measures provided by Law no. 272/2004 on the protection and promotion of children's rights (placement, emergency placement or specialized supervision) or adoption, regulated by Law no. 273/2004. This paper aims to critically analyze the Adoption of the new rules, with special regard to the definition, principles and conditions for the adoption procedure.
K36|Divorce Property Division and the Decision to Marry or Cohabit|This paper presents a model of the choice between marriage and cohabitation for a couple who have decided to form a relationship. The model is used to analyse the implications of changing from a title based division of property on divorce to an equal sharing regime. There are two opposing effects. In line with popular expectations, the change to an equal sharing regime prevents some wealthy individuals from marrying since they risk losing half of their assets in the event of divorce. Offsetting this, the equal sharing property division regime enables cooperative investments to be made in marriage, and so increases the value of marriage relative to cohabitation for some couples. Overall the impact on the marriage rate is ambiguous, although the rate is most likely to increase where it is more difficult to make cooperative investments due to unilateral divorce laws, and where couples are more similar to each other, reducing their cost of divorce.
K36|Theoretical Aspects and Judicial Practice Aspects Regarding the Return of the Displaced or Kept Child by Violating a Right Related to Entrusting|The article discusses the main problems referring to the return of the displaced or unlawfully kept child, considering the stipulations of the Hague Convention on the civil aspects of the international children kidnapping of Regulation (EC) no. 2201/2003 of the European Union Council from November, 27th 2003 regarding the competence, the acknowledgement and the execution of the judicial decisions in matrimonial matter and in the parental responsibility matter, and also of Law no. 369/2004 regarding the application of the Convention on the civil aspects of the international children kidnapping, adopted at Hague on October, 25th 1980, where Romania accessed by Law no. 100/1992. After a short introductory part regarding the juridical frame, there are analysed the unlawful feature of the displacement or of the keeping, and also the competence in matter of returning the child, and then it is presented the procedure of returning the child and in the final part it is examined the possibility of the judicial or administrative authority not to dispose the child’s return.
K36|Violence in Civil Law|Violence as a juridical institution has been known ever since the Roman Law, being crystallized as a vice in Justinian’s age. It is also known in the old Romanian law and is regulated both in the current civil Code and in the assumed Civil Code and is defined as being that consent vice which consists in threatening a person with an evil or a danger meant to cause a fear that determines it to conclude a juridical deed that it would not have concluded otherwise.
K36|Divorcio en Chile|This paper is an initial attempt to make an empirical evaluation of what happened in Chile after the 2004 enactment of the new Civil Marriage Act (Law 19,947), which included absolute divorce for the first time in Chilean law. Until that moment, the way that a marriage could formally be ended was by an annulment due to incompetence of the Civil Registry officer, possible only provided there was mutual consent of the spouses and the resources to hire an attorney. The analysis says that although the divorce rate has increased considerably with respect to the annulment rate prior to the law, it is not high in relation to other countries, despite an accumulation of couples who wanted to be divorced at the time the law was enacted. The study concludes that the new Civil Marriage Act has extended and equalized the possibility of a legal dissolution of the bond of marriage. Although no changes are seen in birth rates and the percentage of infants born outside of marriage, marriages have increased, even when controlling for some variables and discounting second marriages. Also, under the new law divorced women and their children would be more protected than women who are merely separated as the former would receive more alimony from their ex-husbands. At the end, some policy measures are discussed.
K36|Would you civil union me?|Although the tax system is not marriage neutral in many countries, it has been found only slightly significant in determining marriage decision (Buffeteau and Echevin, 2003; Alm and Whittington, 1995). This paper tests if the tax system could alter the decision to contract a civil union, which is a less binding marital contract. In France, since 1999, couples can either contract a marriage or a civil union (pacs). I assess the impact of taxation on the decision to contract a pacs using a difference-in-differences evaluation of the 2005 reform of income taxation of newly pacsed couples. As the control group is contaminated by the reform, I propose an original estimation method based on a difference-in-differences-in-differences setting to estimate bounds to the impact of the reform. My results suggest a positive and increasing impact of taxation on pacs rates, but also a change in the timing of pacs indicating that taxation alters the decision to contract a pacs. I find a slightly significant impact of taxation on the decision to break up a pacs.
K36|Divorce Laws and Divorce Rate in the U.S|At the end of the 1960s, the U.S. divorce laws underwent major changes and the divorce rate more than doubled in all of the states. The new laws introduced unilateral divorce in most of the states and changes in divorce settlements in every state, such as property division, alimony transfers, and child custody assignments. The empirical literature so far has focused on the switch from consensual to unilateral divorce and found that this change cannot fully account for the increase in the divorce rate. Also, the divorce rate increased even in states where the decision remained consensual. In this paper, I consider the effects of other aspects of the legal change. I show that changes in divorce settlements provide economic incentives for both spouses to agree to divorce. Moreover, I describe a mechanism that can explain the different change in divorce rate by age of couples. I solve and calibrate a model where agents differ by gender, and make decisions on their marital status, investment and labor supply. Under the new financial settlements, divorced men gain from a favorable division of property, while women gain from an increase in alimony and child support transfers. Since both of them are better off in the new divorce setting, the existing requirement of consent for divorce (consensual or unilateral) is no longer relevant. Results show that changes in divorce settlements account for a substantial amount of the increase in the aggregate divorce rate. I also find that the increase in divorce rate of young couples with children contributes the most to the overall increase, which is consistent with the data.
K36|The Effect of Joint-Child-Custody Legislation on the Child-Support Receipt of Single Mothers|Due to the preponderance of single mothers on public assistance, delinquent child support has been a contentious political issue in the U.S. for over 30 years. We examine whether joint-child-custody reform affects the child- support receipt of single mothers. We use variation in the timing of joint-custody reforms across states to identify the effect of joint custody on the child-support receipt of single mothers. Joint-custody enactment raises the probability of receiving child support for all single mothers by six percent. However, the effect on all single mothers is driven by the effect on divorced mothers since separated and never-married mothers are unaffected by joint-custody reform. We conclude joint-custody reform confers the most benefit on divorced mothers and their children, particularly those who do not receive public assistance.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
K36|Law, legislation, and local minima: Solving a problem in Hayek’s theory of common law judging, with historical examples|No abstract is available for this item.
K36|Considerations Regarding the Absence of Impediments to the Contracting of Marriage According to the Stipulations in the Family Code and Civil Code|The impediments to the contracting of marriage are those circumstances expressly stipulated by the law whose existence incapacitates the contracting of marriage. The article present and analyzes the impediments to marriage according to articles 5-9 of the Family Code and to art.273-277 of the Civil Code. Thus, we will see that according to art.5-9 of the Family Code and to art. 273-276 of the Civil Code the impediments to marriage are: 1. the existence of a previous valid marriage (the state of bigamy); 2. the prohibition of marriage between blood relatives; 3. the prohibition of marriage between relatives by adoption; 4. the prohibition of marriage between the legal tutor and the minor child; 5. the prohibition of marriage of the mentally alienated people and of the mentally retarded people; 6. the prohibition of marriage between the people who suffer from temporary lack of judgment; 7. the prohibition of same-sex marriage. However, the provisions in the Civil Code only bring under regulation as an impediment the prohibition of marriage between the persons who suffer from temporary lack of judgment. Art. 277 paragraph 3 in the Civil Code stipulates the prohibition of the civil partnerships between people of different or same sex.
K36|The Validity Conditions of the Will in the Romanian New Civil Code and in French Law|Law number 287/2009 regarding the Civil Code was published in the Official Gazette of Romania but its date of entering into force hasn’t been established yet. The law reforms the matter of successions, taking into consideration, first of all, the French law which has been always a source of inspiration of the Romanian legislator. Law number 287/2009 brings also a few novelties concerning the validity conditions of the last will act. Therefore, in the present paper, we want, on the one hand to reveal and to analyze the new aspects brought by Law number 287/2009 concerning the validity conditions of the testament and also we try to value their justness. On the other hand, our goal is to identify how much the French law influenced these alterations. Thus, using this actual and useful approach we consider we can contribute to a better knowledge of the New Civil Code provisions regarding the matter of will.
K36|Cateva Consideratii Privind Propunerea Legislativa de Stabilire a Denumirii Oficiale de Utilizat pentru Etnia Romilor - Considerations Regarding the Legislative Proposal Establishing an Official Name to Use for the Roma Ethnics (Romanian version)|The study analyzes the new legislative proposal regarding the terminology used for the Gypsy ethnics, highlighting that the subject of the right to choose one’s ethnic name belongs only to the ethnic group itself, as an expression of the person’s right to selfdetermination. Any public decision disregarding this right is deemed to be rejected by the ethnic group and by the European institutions as contrary to international law and to European values, as well.
K36|Considerations Regarding the Absence of Impediments to the Contracting of Marriage According to the Stipulations in the Family Code and Civil Code (Enghish version)|The impediments to the contracting of marriage are those circumstances expressly stipulated by the law whose existence incapacitates the contracting of marriage. The article present and analyzes the impediments to marriage according to articles 5-9 of the Family Code and to art.273-277 of the Civil Code. Thus, we will see that according to art.5-9 of the Family Code and to art. 273-276 of the Civil Code the impediments to marriage are: 1. the existence of a previous valid marriage (the state of bigamy); 2. the prohibition of marriage between blood relatives; 3. the prohibition of marriage between relatives by adoption; 4. the prohibition of marriage between the legal tutor and the minor child; 5. the prohibition of marriage of the mentally alienated people and of the mentally retarded people; 6. the prohibition of marriage between the people who suffer from temporary lack of judgment; 7. the prohibition of same-sex marriage. However, the provisions in the Civil Code only bring under regulation as an impediment the prohibition of marriage between the persons who suffer from temporary lack of judgment. Art. 277 paragraph 3 in the Civil Code stipulates the prohibition of the civil partnerships between people of different or same sex.
K36|Conditiile de Validitate ale Testamentului in Noul Cod Civil Roman si in Dreptul Francez - The Validity Conditions of the Will in the Romanian New Civil Code and in French Law (Romanian version)|Law number 287/2009 regarding the Civil Code was published in the Official Gazette of Romania but its date of entering into force hasn’t been established yet. The law reforms the matter of successions, taking into consideration, first of all, the French law which has been always a source of inspiration of the Romanian legislator. Law number 287/2009 brings also a few novelties concerning the validity conditions of the last will act. Therefore, in the present paper, we want, on the one hand to reveal and to analyze the new aspects brought by Law number 287/2009 concerning the validity conditions of the testament and also we try to value their justness. On the other hand, our goal is to identify how much the French law influenced these alterations. Thus, using this actual and useful approach we consider we can contribute to a better knowledge of the New Civil Code provisions regarding the matter of will.
K36|The significant behavioral aspects of adopted children within successful adoption in Romania (English version)|The human behavior is giving the entire picture of a person. The behavior is based on a complex combination of personal innate factors, experience and education and the social network within which the individual is integrated. Each moment the complex individual factors face external and internal environmental aspects which in turn, generate proactive and retroactive reactions. The adoption process is an important and challenging social experiment, bringing to the adopted child a new affiliation, social network, experiences and educational standards. This comes in his/her life after the trauma of losing his biological affiliation and social and emotional support. Which are the significant characteristics of the adopted child’s behavior? Which are the behavioral characteristics of the adoptive child that guarantee the success of the domestic adoptions in Romania? These are the questions we are going to answer here based on the research done within FISAN6 project. The 32 children, 11-16 years old, adopted by Romanian families, during the early ages (0-4 years), were evaluated with complex evaluation tools for children and parents. The adoptive families participating in the research live in the Western counties of Romania. Successful adoption is defined as secure attachment of the adopted child. The conclusions emphasize the importance of: the pro-social behavior, the loving behavior showed to the parents, the assertive behavior, the differentiations between parents and people outside the family, and between the two parents, and the humor. These behaviors displayed by the adopted children are the ingredients of a successful integration within the adoptive family
K36|The relationship among parents and children in Vietnamese families nowadays (English version)|Family is a social institution. It is a product of history defined by the economic, political, cultural and social conditions of a given society. In Vietnam, industrialization and urbanization have considerably affected to family, changing its size, structure, relationship and quality. This article has the objective of studying the relationship among parents and children in Vietnamese family nowadays through the below factors: (1) the care of parents on their children; (2) the amount of time parents use for taking care of their children; (3) the way parents use for teaching their children; (3) behavior and desires of parents on son and daughter. Main methods used are secondary data analyzing and in-depth interview. Figures on Vietnamese family used in this paper are taken from National Survey on Family 2006 carried out by Family Department of the Population, Family and Children Committee, the General Statistics Office, the Family and Gender research Institute and the United Nation Children’s Fund and some other resources. We can see from the result that there are many changes in the relationship among parents and children in Vietnamese family nowadays. On one hand, it is getting more democratic and there are more equality among sons and daughters. On the other hand, parents seem not to care much about their children as before for they have lots of other things to do. The changes in the relationship among parents and children in Vietnamese family are considered the consequence of the industrialization and urbanization period, and to its turn, it is one of the main causes for the instability of Vietnamese family structure
K36|Attending parenting education programmes in Romania. The case of the Holt Romania Iasi programme (English version)|The article presents the partial results of a study concerning the factors that influence the participation of rural-environment parents in parenting education programmes. The research aims to explore the mechanisms that lead to a higher number of participants joining parenting education programmes, as well as to an increase of the beneficial effects these classes have on parents, starting from the perspectives and opinions of parents who had taken parenting classes. Aside from the factors that pertain to the organisation of courses by the providers of such programmes, we see as equally important the personal motivational factors such as: investing in personal growth, the need for socialisation and learning, the clinical (therapeutic) effect of participation and the opportunity of escaping domestic routine. All these factors may become analysis frameworks for the providers of parenting education, supplying information that may be used for refining the contents and the form of organising parenting education classes.
K36|The building of parental bonds: adoption and assisted reproduction in Chile (English version)|This article aims to analyze the building of bonds between parents and children in Chile. In keeping with the same, the cultural elements upon which mothers and fathers who have adopted children or had children using assisted reproduction techniques base their parenthood relationships are identified. People who have required assistance for their reproductive process have had to make implicit multiples underlying parental relations explicit. The analysis of parents’ narratives enables identification of the following cultural elements: 1) Blood, biology and genetics, 2) care, love and time, 3) destiny, God and the unexplainable and 4) sensory aspects or relationships between bodies. The article attempts to bring the analysis of parenthood relations closer to the real experiences of people by accounting for creativity deployed in their desire to establish their relationships.fferent ways. Participation processes were usually structured, and mothers and fathers were involved differently. In general, parcipation was very much influenced by the actual and ascribed competence of the children.
K36|Children participating in family decisions (English version)|Children are nowadays seen as self-reliant subjects able to articulate their wishes and to participate in family decisions. International studies have shown that children in Austria participate in family affairs only to a moderate extent. National studies just as well indicate that there is much more interest on the part of the children to engage in family affairs than is actually realized in family’s everyday lives. We present an Austrian qualitative study which takes a closer look at families and the negotiating procedures within them. The main aim was to find out how participation works within the family, thus discovering the driving forces of consensus and conflict. The study comprises material from children’s and parent’s points of view. We made photo interviews with 10-year-old children (n = 50) and problem-centered interviews with their parents (n = 71). Results show that children were allowed to participate in different fields from furnishing their room to deciding on changing the home in different ways. Participation processes were usually structured, and mothers and fathers were involved differently. In general, participation was very much influenced by the actual and ascribed competence of the children.
K36|General Considerations on Personal Relations between Spouses under the Provisions of the New Civil Code (English version)|The effects of marriage are brought under regulation in the Civil Code in Title II entitled “Marriage” Chapter V is dedicated to personal rights and duties of spouses (art.307-311) and Chapter VI is dedicated to property rights and obligations of spouses (art.312-372). Also, the Civil Code establishes the effects of marriage in other articles from different chapters. Also, we find some rights and obligations of spouses brought under regulation by rules belonging to other branches of law as follows: the Civil Code contains for example provisions relating to the irrevocability of donations between spouses (Article 937 Civil Code), Law no. 319/1944 in art. 1-5 sets the hereditary vocation of the surviving spouse and his/her right to habitation, etc. Moreover, the effects of marriage are set to rights in some international laws to which Romania is party or has ratified or acceded to, namely: the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (Article 16), the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (Article 23 paragraph 4 and art. 24),) International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (art. 10 paragraph 1), etc.2. In relation to the area of people, between whom these effects are produced,3, we distinguish the following types of relations: a. relationship between spouses; b. relations between spouses and their children; c. relations between a spouse and the relatives of the other spouse (affinity relations); d. relations between family members and other natural persons or legal persons. Relations between spouses refer to: a. personal relationships; b. economic relations; c. capacity of exercise.
K36|CERTAIN REGARDS UPON THE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING OF LABOUR CONDITIONS IN THE ROMANIAN LABOUR LAW (English version)|In the market economy, the stabile and social peaceful climate can be assured only through different means of consultation and dialogue between social partners. Therefore, employers' and employees' interests can be harmonized, starting at the unit level and going up nationally, through various forms of social dialogue. In this respect, the special literature considered that in present, the Labor Law is primarily a right negotiated with the source of living, dynamic and specific collective agreements. The collective bargaining contract is compulsory only in establishments that have 21 or more workers employed. The law provides only an obligation to negotiate and not to conclude the collective agreement. Thus, in literature it was considered that the obligation to negotiate is a duty of care, and its fulfillment must be appreciated in relation with the diligence exercised by the employer in terms of negotiation, and not in concluding the collective labor contract
K36|ENFORCE HUMAN RIGHTS IN MAIN INTERNATIONAL DOCUMENTS (English version)|"Human quality is based on the natural rights, inalienable and sacreditura Citizen regular and it HAS to set by law ""year as expression of general will."" Their Participation at birth is related to city life and all it implies Equality. We should find That Individuals Contribute to the extent of Their faculties, the defense force dependence on public administration and STIs."
K36|THE “MAYFLOWER COMPACT”, THE GROUNDBREAKING DOCUMENT OF THE AMERICAN DEMOCRACY (English version)|The paper provides a cultural analysis of the first official document used to regulate the government of the American colonies, and aims at highlighting the fact that the most important political legacy of the Puritan world to the modern American world is the concept of government by mutual consent.
K36|INTERNATIONAL STANDARDS CONCERNING ALTERNATIVE MEASURES TO DETENTION IN JUVENILE JUSTICE (English version)|Alternatives penalties to imprisonment are defined as a substitute for imprisonment, taken by the court when imposing penalties, with the consent of the offender, in order to maintain its freedom (community), by restricting certain rights and freedoms in parallel with the exercise of control by the specialized services Key Documents of the United Nations and the Council of Europe which cover noncustodial sanctions and measures EU, are the United Nations Standard Rules for noncustodial measures - known as the Tokyo Rules, and the Council of Europe Recommendation No.. R (92) 16 of the Committee of Ministers of member States on the European Rules on Community Sanctions and Measures. The aim for regulating those non-custodial measures is to reduce incarceration, taking into account the respect for human rights and the needs of offender rehabilitation. These documents purpose a wide range of non-custodial measures, which correspond to the seriousness of the crime committed, to the convict’s personality, to other circumstances of the case, and according to the pre-trial stage, trial and post-procedural. Community participation should be encouraged and regarded as one of the most important means of strengthening the links between persons subject to community sanctions, their families and the communit.
K36|MATERIAL DIMENSION OF THE HUMAN RIGHT TO A HEALTHY ENVIRONMENT IN THE JURISPRUDENCE OF EUROPEAN COURT OF HUMAN RIGHTS (E.C.H.R.) (English version)|Due to the increasing importance of living in a healthy environment, in the context of enhanced pollution nowadays and due to the fact that the European Convention for Protection of Human Rights does not consider this human right, The European Court of Human Rights (E.C.H.R.) has decided its enclosure in the sphere of application of the 8th article of Convention, together with the right to a private life, to a family life and to a private home. Therefore, the jurisprudence of E.C.H.R. has succeeded to replace the non-existence of this right among those which are established by the Convention, thus ensuring an efficient protection of this essential human right.
K36|The Fragility of Estimated Effects of Unilateral Divorce Laws on Divorce Rates|Following an influential article by Friedberg (1998) on the response of divorce rates to the adoption of unilateral divorce laws, Wolfers (2006) explored the sensitivity of Friedberg’s results to allowing for dynamic response. We in turn explore the sensitivity of Wolfers’s results to variations in estimation method and functional form, and we find that the results are extremely fragile. We conclude first that the impact of unilateral divorce laws remains unclear. Second, we make the methodological point that identification in differences-in-differences research becomes weaker in the presence of dynamics, especially in the presence of unit-specific time trends.
K36|Corporate and Personal Bankruptcy Law|Bankruptcy is the legal process by which the debts of firms, individuals, and occasionally governments in financial distress are resolved. Bankruptcy law always includes three components. First, it provides a collective framework for simultaneously resolving all debts of the bankrupt entity, regardless of when they are due. Second, it provides rules for determining how the assets and earnings used to repay are divided among creditors. Third, bankruptcy law specifies punishments intended to discourage debtors from defaulting on their debts and filing for bankruptcy. This review discusses and evaluates bankruptcy law by examining whether and when the law encourages debtors and creditors to behave in economically efficient ways. It also considers how bankruptcy law might be changed to improve economic efficiency. The review shows that there are multiple economic objectives of bankruptcy law, because the law affects has very diverse effects. Some of these objectives differ for individuals versus corporations in bankruptcy.
K36|Approaches Regarding The Tax Evasion In Romania|In any economy, the main purpose of the tax system is to provide a solid and stable source of government revenue. On the other hand, a tax system should aim to enable the country\'s economic development and support disadvantaged groups. Achieving these objectives should be accompanied by a continuous preoccupation of the tax administration to increase its efficiency. In this process, a particularly important factor consists in reducing the tax evasion, given that it contributes to a diminution in terms of efficiency within the state structures, while being a factor of corruption. Over the past 20 years, in Romania, the presence of tax evasion has reached relatively large dimensions in both the economic area and the underground economy, where the phenomenon is widespread. Taking the road from the particular to the general, distinguishing the legal tax evasion from the fraudulent one, this paper aims to answer the question: Why is it necessary to control the tax evasion phenomenon and how to do this? This question aims at achieving the following objectives: distinguishing between the legal and the fraudulent tax evasion and the methods used by taxpayers to circumvent the tax obligations. First of all, reaching the objectives was assured by consulting a significant amount of work, that is to say publications of scientific claim, while making use of analysis, induction and deduction, significant volume of quantitative information was examined and submitted to professional reasoning. In literature, there are many Romanian and foreign authors reporting on the tax evasion issue while as far as specialised magazines are concerned, there are just a few discussing about the social protection issues or about the European experience in the tax adjustment whereby the states have gone over the years, such as: the Romanian Economic Journal, the Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Review of Social Innovation and other authors such as Saguna & Tutungiu (1995), M. Duverger (1965), Carmen Corduneanu (1998), Hoanþã (2000). Research results and general conclusions on the issue of tax evasion in Romania are listed at the end of the paper.
K36|Relational Contracts, Taxation and the Household| This article applies the theory of relational contracts to make precise the idea that because households are engaged in a repeated non-cooperative game, Pareto efficient outcomes can be supported by self interest, given the specific pattern of specialization and exchange that exists in the household. The household's choice of a particular solution from the resulting feasible set is found by the maximization of a household welfare function, a generalization of a suggestion originally made by Samuelson. This nests as special cases the objective functions used in currently popular models of households engaged in one-shot cooperative games. We take a specific example of such a household welfare function, characterize the determinants of the household utility distribution, and then apply the model to examine the effects of a move from joint to individual taxation. We show that on standard stylized facts, secondary earners are always better off absolutely, and define the conditions under which they will also be relatively better off. This confirms the conclusions from models that concern themselves only with the across-household welfare distribution. (JEL Codes: D11, D13, H21, H24, H31, J12, J16, K36, N30) Copyright The Author 2011. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Ifo Institute for Economic Research, Munich. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com, Oxford University Press.
K36|Identification Et Repression De L’Esclavage Domestique En France : « Peut Mieux Faire »…|Domestic slavery, one of the contemporary forms of slavery, appeared a few years ago in Europe. This new form of slavery forced thousands of victims, often underage, to work without financial counterpart and in harmful conditions to their liberty and dignity. The identification of this phenomenon reveals, firstly, the existence of a large amount of acts (International and European Law), and then, highlights the importance of the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) regarding this subject in a judgement that condemned France. Thus, the deficiencies of the French apparatus for the repression of this phenomenon were secondly reported by the ECHR. However, they still remain, today, despite various reforms that turned out to be ineffective in the eye of the European requirements.
K36|On The Freedom Of Expression And The Right To Private And Family Life|The essential aspects related to the freedom of expression and the right to private and family life – as human rights – are consecrated by the international regulations in the matter, but they are also consecrated as fundamental rights regulated at the level of the constitutions and regulations within the national legal systems of all democratic states. The freedom of expression and the right to private and family life are two of the fundamental human rights which grant significance to the social respect due to the individual.
K36|Le Droit A La Dignite Dans La Carte Des Droits Fondamentaux De L’Union Europeenne|"This paper presents an analysis of the principle of human dignity. ""Dignity"" is entitled the first chapter of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, the Charter in early stage have a declarative existence (European Union member states and EU institutions were not bound by its provisions, although it was made as such as was required). The inclusion of the Charter in the Lisbon Treaty and its entry into force on 1 December 2009, cause the full legal effect.Human dignity is provided in two important pillars of Europe: The European Convention on Human Rights and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. This topic of interest to states aspiring to join the European Union, the Charter is incorporated in the Treaty of Lisbon, when the non-Member State will have state of the EU Lisbon Treaty will be applied in them. Charter of Fundamental Rights provides new rights? European Convention on Human Rights has a lower effect compared with the European Union's Charter of Fundamental Rights? The article presents a comparison of the dignity principle in the Charter of Fundamental Rights and European Convention on Human Rights."
K36|Constitutional Problems In The Field Of Tax Relief|The present study analyzes the constitutional issues relating to tax relief. We highlight how the doctrine and case law have raised particular problems relating to the constitutionality of the rules under consideration and especially that they create interference with the principle of saving clause and the principle of equality with regard to ability to pay.
K36|Quelques Aspects Relatifs Aux Effets Du Mariage|A marriage gives rise to complex and different relationships between the married parties and some of these relations are regulated by law. Patrimonial and personal relations, as well as non-patrimonial ones arising between the spouses are stipulated by law, with the result that mutual rights and obligations are established for the parties. The content of the personal relationships between the spouses is varied and complex and the lawmaker is able to regulate only generally and only a part of the relations that arise once the marriage takes place. The regulation of the relations between the married parties by law is important and necessary especially when misunderstandings between the parties arise and mainly when the relations between them are impaired and the marriage cannot be maintained.
K36|Divorce laws and fertility decisions|This paper explores the effect of divorce law reform on fertility. By modifying the value of marriage, the adoption of no-fault and unilateral divorce may impact fertility decisions. To identify the effects of those reforms on fertility, we use a quasi experiment exploiting the legislative history of divorce liberalization across Europe. Results suggest that divorce law reforms have a negative and permanent effect on fertility. These findings are robust to alternative specifications and controls for unobserved country-specific factors, time-varying factors at the country level, the liberalization of abortion, and the availability of the birth-control pill. Supplemental analysis, developed to understand the mechanisms through which divorce law reforms affect fertility, shows that both marital and out-of-wedlock fertility declines, but that the impact on marital fertility varies depending on whether couples are married prior to or after divorce law reform.
K36|Căsătorie, mentalităţi colective şi reglementări cutumiare în nord-vestul Transilvaniei (a doua jumătate a secolului al XIX-lea)<BR>[Marriage, Collective Mentality and Customary Regulations in North-Western Transylvania (2nd Half of the 19th Century)]|The family, its formation, the relationships between man, woman, children and relatives, as well as the relationships with the rest of the community were filtered by the “village gossip”. The need for a strong solidarity that was necessary in the unfriendly conditions at the time compelled the individuals to accept the cohabitation with other members of the family (including the extended one) and with the rest of the community. More often than not, the individual behaviour acquired the expression of the collective behaviour. Such an influence of the community was obvious in the traditional rural societies. However, in time, it became progressively diluted under the pressure of modernity. We can see that there were deep changes as the area integrated to an economic circuit that would lead to imposing new mutations in several economic sectors. The economic development and the dissemination of non-agricultural activities associated to urban development whose influence went growing brought about alterations in the family relations. Then, there were mutations in the relationship between the family, the domestic group and the household resources. These changes were not obvious in all localities in the region: some of them were still anchored in the traditional as the new managed to penetrate more difficultly, while major changes on the level of the collective mental could not be perceived on a short span of time. Nevertheless, under the influence of modernity, society influenced the family not only in point of form, but also insofar as its role and functions were concerned. Mentalities changed together with the form and nature of society. Family was no longer big; it did no longer accept the interference of the relatives and even less that of the community. Changes were more visible in the city; however, once the social, cultural and economic changes, they became obvious in the countryside too. The nuclear family was the new family model where interference from the outside was insignificant.
K36|Islam, Gender Dan Fundamentalisme-Radikal Dalam Politik Ekonomi Global<BR>[Islam, Gender And Fundamentalism-Radicals In A Global Political Economy]|The role of women had marginalized in the political space, economic, and social. Women to be helpless due to religious authority and repressive social structures. Women tend to accept the injustice in his position as part of the community. The integration of feminist theory and the theory of social work theory form a radical feminism that is used as a political analysis of gender inequalities in the global economy. The tendency of women to the option-radical fundamentalist ideology can be caused by poverty and lack of financial factors.
K36|The Collaborations-Relations Between Western (Secular) Law and Religious Nomoi Groups in Today’s Multicultural Context: The Cases of France and Canada|No abstract is available for this item.
K36|La conciliation de la vie professionnelle, privée et familiale. L'approche juridique de l'Union européenne|EU law influences significantly the national law of the Member States of the EU in the field of equal treatment between men and women and the reconciliation of work, private and family life. This article presents an overview of the objectives of the EU, the current legal developments at the EU level and some case law of the Court of Justice of the EU in these areas. The Court has certainly contributed to strengthening the position of pregnant women. However the role of the case law in realising a more equal sharing of family responsibilities between the sexes remains rather modest. New approaches to reconciliation issues merit further attention, both at Community and national level. JEL classification codes: K36, H31, Y80.
K36|Witness Protection as a Subjective Right and its Elements|The main idea of this paper is that the witness protection is a subjective, public right and is a result of protection of fundamental human rights. It is fundamental, public, individual, positive, directly relative and indirectly absolute right. The following entitlements stem from the fundamental right of witness to protection: a) entitlement to be informed about one’s right to protection; b) entitlement to demand or waive one’s right to protection; c) entitlement to withhold one’s personal details, testimony in full or answers to particular questions until the decision is made as to his request for protection; d) entitlement to two-instance decision on one’s request; e) entitlement to have a proxy; f) entitlement to enjoy protection. The analysis of procedural witness protection in the comparative law shows that the witness in some countries does not have certain entitlements. On the other side, some entitlements are generally recognized. Certain differencies are understandable and acceptable, but not all of them. It is necessary to work on the realization of all entitlements that can be derived from subjective right to witness protection.
