K39|Local referendum: The perspectives of a forgotten legal instrument|Direct democracy is generally represented by national referenda, when the whole population of a country could decide on a particular matter, or could express an opinion. However, in most of the democratic countries, the local communities, regions or townships have also the right to hold referenda from local issues, such as the planned construction of new industrial facilities, or from investments with remarkable environmental impact. These referenda are subject to similar legal framework, than national referenda, but their inherent character is different: this local legal instrument does not constitute essentially the expression of the popular sovereignty, but it creates a tool for the citizens to participate at the self-governance of the local community. Due to this ambiguity, local referenda shall be distinguished clearly from the national level of direct democracy: the legal background, the special campaign, and the remedies of local referenda shall be analysed in depth. Moreover, to outline the different models in this regard, a comparative research would be also crucial to provide an overarching picture from local referenda across Europe.As the outcome of our research, we would provide a deeper understanding of local referendum as an underestimated instrument of direct democracy, and we would conceptualize, how this constitutionally acknowledged legal framework could serve the interest of the citizens and the local communities more efficiently. For this purpose, certain points would be highlighted for consideration for future constitution-making processes. Our research would cover a field, which has been little researched, and it would be based on three strands of literature, which has been rarely used by this integrated manner. Firstly, we would rely on contributions from direct democracy, which give us some sense from the general character of this forgotten legal instrument. Secondly, the literature from the self-governance would be also referred, as local referenda shall be evaluated primarily within this concept. Thirdly, sources directly linked to local referendum would be also revealed from various European countries, where this concept plays a significant role to decide particular issues.
K39|Analyse économique des politiques linguistiques au Québec : 40 ans de Loi 101|Ce texte examine à l’aide des outils de l’analyse économique l’offre et la demande pour le français et l’anglais au Québec puis de leur utilisation et valeur sur le marché du travail pour la période 1971-2011. Nous présentons également la politique linguistique en vigueur au Québec et discutons de comment la rendre optimale. Nos principaux résultats empiriques sont que : La connaissance du français a augmenté au Québec alors que la part de la population de langue maternelle française a diminué entre 1971 et 2016 (offre) ; L’importance des employeurs francophones a augmenté au Québec entre 1961 et 2003 (demande); Le statut socio-économique du français sur le marché du travail mesuré par son utilisation et sa rémunération s’est amélioré entre 1971 et 2011 alors que le bilinguisme est toujours plus rémunérateur que l’unilinguisme.
K39|Is the EU Disinformation Review Compliant with EU Law? Complaint to the European Ombudsman About the EU Anti-Fake News Initiative|The EU’s approach to fake news, as epitomised by the European External Action (EEAS) Service East Stratcom Disinformation Review, violates the rights to freedom of expression and due process of those accused of distributing disinformation. The EU Disinformation Review is a publication of the European External Action Service (the European Union’s diplomatic service) to target fake news and online disinformation. Following our request for access to documents, EEAS conceded that the EU Disinformation Review uses an “ad hoc” methodology for conducting its fact-checks, which makes it an outlier in the international fact-checking community led by the International Fact-Checking Network (IFCN). Despite being a well-intentioned initiative to respond to the challenges posed by pro-Kremlin disinformation, the EU should ensure the respect of fundamental rights when engaging in fact-checking. The EU Disinformation Review seeks to control the right to freedom of expression by labelling publishers as “disinforming outlets” and their content as “disinformation,” creating a chilling effect on the work of journalists that is central to democracy. The right to freedom of expression is expressed in Article 11.1 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union (2000/C 364/01) and Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The labelling of publishers as “disinformation outlets” is contrary to principle of the freedom of press established by the European Court of Human Rights: “[a] general requirement for journalists systematically and formally to distance themselves from the content of a quotation that might insult or provoke others or damage their reputation is not reconcilable with the press’ role of providing information on current events, opinion and ideas.” In addition, the methodology used by EEAS in the EU Disinformation Review is “ad hoc,” which constitutes a violation of the fundamental right to good administration in Article 41 of the European Charter of Fundamental Rights. Specifically, the ad hoc design and operation of the EU Disinformation Review fails to ensure the review acts “impartially, fairly and within a reasonable time.” First, publications are not provided with the right to be heard or proper notice. The EU Disinformation Review’s homepage offers an opportunity to contact the Task Force report a suspected mistake in a fact-check but the page is only available in English, in violation of the principle of multilingualism, and no notice if given to outlets accused of being “disinforming outlets” before or after fact-checks of their content are published. Second, the EEAS does not fulfil its duty to motivate. EEAS is given a broad margin of discretion to identify disinformation, but fails to do so according to a consistent methodology. Therefore, EEAS cannot justify, on the basis of objective criteria, its choice of which content to review and how to determine its truth or falsehood. To comply with EU law and ensure the respect of fundamental rights, the EEAS should develop and make public (1) a methodology for selecting partnerships and reviewing fact-checks in line with international standards and (2) a notice and response mechanism for journalists, publishers and citizens whose content is being reviewed. If EEAS is unable to comply with the above, the EU Disinformation Review should be shut down.
K39|Rethinking nudge: not one but three concepts|Nudge is a concept of policy intervention that originates in Thaler and Sunstein's (2008) popular eponymous book. Following their own hints, we distinguish three properties of nudge interventions: they redirect individual choices by only slightly altering choice conditions (here nudge 1), they use rationality failures instrumentally (here nudge 2), and they alleviate the unfavourable effects of these failures (here nudge 3). We explore each property in semantic detail and show that no entailment relation holds between them. This calls into question the theoretical unity of nudge, as intended by Thaler and Sunstein and most followers. We eventually recommend pursuing each property separately, both in policy research and at the foundational level. We particularly emphasize the need of reconsidering the respective roles of decision theory and behavioural economics to delineate nudge 2 correctly. The paper differs from most of the literature in focusing on the definitional rather than the normative problems of nudge.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
K39|Trade and terroir. The political economy of the world’s first geographical indications|The world’s first geographical indications (GIs) were in the wine sector and focused on the delineation of the location of production, the ‘terroirs’: the Burgundy wines in the fifteenth century, the Port wines and Chianti wines in the eighteenth century, and the Champagne wines in the early twentieth century. We analyze the causes for the introduction of these GIs (‘terroirs’) and for changes in their delineation (expansion) later on. Trade played a very important role in the creation of the ‘terroirs’ but the mechanisms through which trade stimulated GIs varied. For the Port and Chianti GIs it was exports to foreign markets (Britain) that were crucial; for Burgundy it was domestic trade to Paris; and for the Champagne GI it was not exports but pressure from wine imports and new wine regions that played a crucial role. For the expansions of the GIs later in history, other factors seem to have been more important. Expansions of the GIs in the years and centuries after their introduction followed (1) major changes in political power; (2) the spread of a new philosophy in liberal and free markets across Europe; (3) and infrastructure investments which opened up markets and made exports cheaper from “new” producers.
K39|Spillovers from regulating corporate campaign contributions|Abstract Populist clamor and recent Supreme Court decisions have renewed calls for increased regulation of corporate money in politics. Few empirical estimates exist, however, on the implications of existing rules on firms’ political spending. Exploiting within firm-cycle cross-candidate variation and across firm-cycle variation, we demonstrate that the regulation of PAC campaign contributions generates large spillovers into other corporate political expenditures such as lobbying. Using both high dimensional fixed effects and regression discontinuity designs, we demonstrate that firms constrained by campaign contribution limits spend between $549,000 and $1.6M more on lobbying per election cycle, an amount that is more than 100 times the campaign contribution limit. These results demonstrate that, similar to regulations in other domains of the economy, constraining specific corporate political activities often yields unintended effects.
K39|Mental Health Policy in India: Seven Sets of Questions and Some Answers|The context of the paper's analysis is the arguably poor state of mental health care in India, as well as an unprecedented level of policy attention to the issue. The questions posed pertain to (1) the provision of such care in hospitals, (2) non-hospital provision, including by non-medical providers, (3) issues of education and social acceptance, (4) affordability, (5) within-country variation of care and possibilities for benchmarking, (6) aggregate resource impacts of a concerted effort to change policies and improve care, and (7) the shape of a more effective “continuum of care for mental health issues. The paper argues that, while new laws and policies being introduced in India propose ideas and changes that are groundbreaking for that country, leading to cautious optimism, there still are many gaps in the understanding of the challenges of the provision of increased access to, as well as better quality, mental health care throughout the country. These challenges can be understood on two fronts: one is the psychiatric and medical aspect of the issues, and the other is the management and administration of the system. A priority in achieving the goals of greater access and better quality is to increase the number of trained personnel at all levels of specialization and skilling that are relevant. Further, while the new legal framework and policy identify the importance of information technology in rapid expansion of access to mental healthcare, more context-specific research and trials are needed. With respect to the administration and management needs of the public system, important challenges will be the need for significant organizational innovations in the education system, and cultural changes that allow specialized medical professionals to accept the use of software and less-qualified, more dispersed, frontline providers. A final area is the interface between the public and private sectors, including the role of non-profit organizations: challenges include information sharing, division of responsibilities, and resource allocation.
K39|Актуални Правни Аспекти На Реферирането И Индексирането На Научни Публикации В България<BR>[Actual legal aspects of the reference and indexing of scientific publications in bulgaria]|Резюме: Статията разглежда индексирането на научните публикации в контекста на изискванията на дигиталното общество. Процесът е изследван във взаимовръзката израстване на академичния състав и потребността от популяризиране на научните трудове, посредством публикуване в реферирани и индексирани издания. Акцент се поставя на юридическите публикации, които се разглеждат в сравнителен план с останалите научни разработки. На база на анализа се правят обобщения, изводи и препоръки с практическа насоченост.
K39|Understanding of the sustainable developmnet principle in Polish Law|Sustainable Development when discussed on the ground of legal science is first of all the subject of environmental law but also constitutional law and the theory of law. It is possible to say that its legal status is specified by terms used by the theory of law, its importance by the EU primary law and on polish grounds ? in polish constitution. The scope of its realization is a subject of studies of environmental law. The paper will discuss the problem of understanding the principle in Polish law. The main aim is to show the dilemma of location of the sustainable development principle in the first chapter of Polish Constitution and the consequences of that fact.
K39|The other side of the coin: the negative aspect of freedom of religion|It is beyond doubts, that the framework of freedom of religion, as a positive right, entitles people to conduct a wide range of activities. However, what is the proper assessment, when one refrains from a legal duty due to religious reasons, or one refuses to participate in compulsory commitments on religious grounds?It should be highlighted, that freedom of religion influences almost all areas of life worldwide, the issues which are raised, are quite similar in the different countries. As for demonstration, it is broadly accepted, that the free exercise of religion shall not violate disproportionately the fundamental rights of others. The definition of religion and church shall be precised. It is also questionable, whether there is a right to convert someone to one?s religion. Our contribution is dedicated to these issues.
K39|Organic laws in Africa and the judicial branch|During the last decades, several countries have entrenched a special subcategory of law, which is adopted by stricter procedural rules, than the requirements of the ordinary legislative process. These laws are enacted by qualified majority, by the consent of the two chambers of the legislation, they are subject to mandatory constitutional review before their promulgation, or additional safeguards are implemented in the ordinary legislative process. Organic law appears in the French, the Spanish and the Hungarian legal system also as main models. Later, further European countries implemented organic law in their legal system, such as Portugal, Romania or Moldova. Organic law is also known in Latin-America. In Africa, a total of 19 countries have implemented organic law: Algeria; Angola; Benin; Burkina Faso; Central African Republic; Chad; Djibouti; Equatorial Guinea; Gabon; Guinea; Ivory Coast; Democratic Republic of Congo; Republic of Congo; Madagascar; Mauritania; Morocco; Niger; Senegal; Togo; Tunisia; and Cape Werde Islands. Although the fact, that organic law has been introduced in a huge number of African countries, this phenomena has not been researched in depth int he relevant African literature. Several questions might be raised: whether the implementation of organic law is a mere copy of European (French and Portugal) samples, or internal African reasons may be also identifiable? What is the role of organic law in African constitutional systems, could organic laws promote the stability of African constitutional frameworks? Is there any regional differences between organic laws? African organic laws differs remarkably from their European counterparts? Is there any African discussion or jurisprudence from the legal category of organic law?My study will address such issues, and would provide a broad overview from African organic laws. I have three main purposes: to understand the characteristics of African organic laws; to compare the relevant African and the European models; and to analyse the perspectives of organic laws in Africa. My concept would be based on a combined strands of first and secondary African and European sources, which have been rarely used in this integrated manner.
K39|The quest for fiscal rules|James Buchanan pioneered the political economics of public debt 60 years ago. In this paper, we contrast his thinking of the burden of debt, the public choice mechanisms that lead to excessive debt and the demand for constitutional restraints on public debt with its development, its sustainability, the evidence on the political economy of debt and on the effects of institutions. It turns out that Buchanan farsightedly anticipated the problems that would emerge from excessive indebtedness in the developed world. The introduction of fiscal rules appear as a late triumph of Buchanan's thinking. However, socialism is dead, but Leviathan lives on. Opposition to sound fiscal policies has increasingly dominated the public debates since the Great Recession.
K39|The Integral Nature Of Tax Laws For Tax Payer’S In Mexico, Las Leyes Tributarias Forman Parte Integral De La Vida Del Gobernado En Mexico|This research was conducted in the city of Monclova, Coahuila, in 2015. The research identifies rules that direct taxes and indirect taxes and tax laws are a part of life. Humanity over time has experimiented with different systems of government where lawmakers are out of control. The phenomenon arises when there are tax laws are complex and difficult to understand. The sample is calculated for 74 respondents and obtained the result that the Mexican tax burden is excessive when compared with other European countries such as Denmark
K39|Human Rights and Sovereign Debts in the Context of Property and Creditor Rights|Post-War conceptions of human rights have evolved independently of long-established theory and practice of property and creditor rights, to the detriment of the development and implementation of human rights law. This chapter attempts to build a first bridge between these two fields of law. It begins by recalling the strikingly different origin and implementation of ‘human’ versus property and creditor rights, because the differences have significant implications. Human rights laws are more honoured in the breach than in the observance in most parts of the world, principally because states accepted international standards governing the treatment of their own nationals in their own territory while reserving to themselves the sovereign right to enforce those rights as they saw fit. In sharp contrast, when it comes to property and creditor rights, there are few gaps between principled intentions, legal mandates, and actual enforcement. Property and creditor rights are important for the attainment of other human rights, especially those of an economic nature, and many human rights are connected to, and are rather inseparable from, broadly conceived property rights. There follows a discussion of the still wide gap between aspirational human rights and economic reality. The time has come for human rights scholars to ratchet down their expectations to match the very limited capacity of low-income and formerly communist countries most prone to human rights deficiencies to import the Western European welfare state model. The final section focuses on the poorly understood interconnections between sovereign debts and human rights. Neglect of property and creditor-rights considerations has led many contemporary human rights advocates down an infertile, if not inappropriate, intellectual and policy path. Speculation that contracts governing cross-border debts and investments may not be sufficiently compelling, at least relative to human rights commitments, is unwarranted and counterproductive.
K39|A Legal Lethal Education|In the 1930s, the United States was a global leader in public education by having the largest student populations in the world attend high schools. In the 1980s, school shootings started escalating in the United States, as did profitable investing in the privatization of American prisons, which currently contain half of the world?s total prison population of 233 countries. In the 2000s, adversarial laws related constitutionality and impartiality but not resolve for why the United States is where the majority of the world?s prison population resides and massive school shootings. There has been debate of whether a correlation authentically or paradoxically exists. There has been debate of why random school shootings cannot be predetermined by traditional means of profiling or quasi-experimental research, which are two rudiments viably debated as predispositions contributing to high imprisonment in America. There has been debate that penal populations and school massacres may decrease if judicial practices are less politicized, popularized, and localized. While well intended, the decades of debates distract from definite resolve. The American dream of equal access to education in the pursuit of liberty and happiness is a civil right in a nation of exceptionally high imprisonment and indiscriminate school massacres. Resident and nonresident aliens in the United States are not the primary populations of prisoners because native-born citizens conduct the majority of crimes and school massacres in America. Disadvantaged individuals who are young, poor, minorities, and uneducated immensely compile prison populations in the United States. However, in American school massacres, disadvantaged or advantaged individuals can equally and effortlessly become defenseless instructors or deceased students. The contrast is alarming and a foundation to propose the United States Department of Education, which administrates legal regulations and policies for American schools, permit defensive mandatory practices to help foster educational excellence through safety in schools. The proposal merits substantial review due to administrative laws as a necessity in the governance of society, or due to the likely fact that from the time this content is written to the time this content is published and read, another deadly school shooting will occur in the United States.
K39|Educating to Dialogue: connecting an argumentative approach to Mediation and Educational Transactional Analysis. Some tranSkills signposts for promoting inclusive and participative societies|The acquisition of relational skills is one of the main goals of an educational system that aims at promoting non-violent, inclusive and participative societies. Dialogue is the key factor for such purpose, acting both as a means and as a goal that education ought to achieve. According to this perspective, education to dialogue matches ethical-behavioural aspects (dialogue as expression of interconnectedness) and logical-argumentative competences (dialogue as instrument of communication). Such elements trace connected dimensions: (1) the ability of managing a healthy communication, which implies both correct reasoning and effective expression; (2) the ability of creating and managing a situation of communicative reciprocity, which is an instrument for preventing and transforming conflict. The goal of this paper is to outline some conceptual and methodological signposts for the education to dialogue in light of the classical notion of ?maieutic?, by drawing perspectives, concepts and methodologies from both Conflict Mediation and Educational Transactional Analysis. This transkills outline is directed to those who are professionally involved at all levels of education, with the purpose of offering a first conceptual framework for developing programmes and proposals aimed at introducing and empowering communicative attitudes and skills.
K39|The Solution Of The Sea Disagreement|In order to reach fair conclusions, I had to set out some definitions given by the International Conventions. This area is relatively new and unobtrusively studied by academics, military, Albanian lawmakers, who have been unequally confronted with the Greeks in this agreement because they have human capacities at the world's best levels, institutes and institutions of the sea. The method used to relate this study is that of comparison and deduction. To reach the goal, the study was conducted around the answers to these questions:1.How do legal regimes operate in sea?2.How are resolved marine disagreements? 3.Does the Albania-Greece deal matter??4.How was it done in similar cases?5.Is this agreement in accordance with the UN Conventions?6.What is lacking in this agreement?Only after the above answers, the relevant conclusions and recommendations have been reached.
K39|Rent-seeking in elite networks|We employ a unique dataset on members of an elite service club in Germany to investigate how social connections in elite networks affect the allocation of resources. Specifically, we investigate credit allocation decisions of banks to firms inside the network. Using a quasi-experimental research design, we document misallocation of bank credit inside the network, with bankers with weakly aligned incentives engaging most actively in crony lending. Our findings, thus, resonate with existing theories of elite networks as rent extractive coalitions that stifle economic prosperity.
K39|Do Consumers Exploit Commitment Opportunities? Evidence from Natural Experiments Involving Liquor Consumption|"This paper provides evidence concerning the extent to which consumers of liquor employ commitment devices. One widely recommended commitment strategy is to regulate alcohol consumption by deliberately manipulating availability. The paper assesses the prevalence of the ""availability strategy"" by evaluating the effects of policies that would influence its effectiveness--specifically, changes in allowable Sunday sales hours. It finds that consumers increase their liquor consumption in response to extended Sunday on-premises sales hours, but not in response to extended off-premises sales hours. The latter finding is inconsistent with widespread use of the availability strategy."
K39|Industrial Hemp: Legal, Political/Social and Economic Issues Raised over Time| Section 7606 of the Farm Bill authorizes the production of industrial hemp for research and pilot program purposes. Currently 24 states have laws or statutes that have paved the way for industrial hemp production; however, only four states are in the South. Although previous research has suggested that there are 25,000 legal uses for industrial hemp, there is a lack of timely information regarding the political (social acceptability) and legal and economic feasibility of hemp production for Southern states. The purpose of this poster is to: 1) conduct an extensive literature review to summarize existing legal, political and economic considerations; and 2) identify the primary legal, political and economic challenges and opportunities for hemp production in the South. It is expected that this information will be helpful to policy makers, agricultural producers and the public by providing information about consumer acceptance, cost of production, best management practices and how the crop fits into crop rotations. As with many new industries, siting of processing locations will be a function of where the crop will be grown. Such regions are likely those where competition for land use is least. Such analyses are only possible with the types of information collected here.
K39|Large-Scale Risks and Technological Change: What About Limited Liability?|We consider a firm that has to choose a technology to produce a given good. This technology drives a multiplicative large-scale risk of incident for Society: the total potential level of damage increases with the level of activity. Contrary to what is often argued in the literature, we show that limited liability can be more incentive for technical change than an unlimited liability rule, depending on the magnitude of the technological change and on the firm's size. In a second part of the paper, taxes are introduced. We show how manipulating the tax rate with respect to the technological choice made by the firm still enlarges the set of parameters that lead to technological change under a limited liability rule. Our normative results provide some arguments in favor of the limited liability rule, often considered as the main explanation of partial large-scale risk internalization by firms.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
K39|Juridical Aspects Concerning The Institution Of Adoption From Romania And Moldova|The powerful social, emotional and economic impact of adoption requires clear and concise legal provisions, which does not give rise to misinterpretations, with well-defined features for the national and international levels. Starting from the classic definition of a child adoption, respectively legal operation by which is created the ties of filiation between adopter and the adoptee, as well as kinship ties between the adopted child and adopter's relatives, through this article we present similarities and differences regarding the institution of adoption from Romania and Moldova. Thus, we will refer to the institutional and legal regulations on adoption, the substance of adoption, the national and international adoption procedure. Without claiming an exhaustive approach, we consider that through issues highlighted in this article can be identified both positive aspects and shortcomings of the adoption process in these two countries.
K39|Effects of Fiscal Rules - 85 Years' Experience in Switzerland|The paper investigates the fiscal effects of Swiss cantonal debt brakes by taking explicitly into account the rules’ coverage. An in-depth analysis provides unique evidence that suggests the following: First, fiscal rules at the cantonal level have a negative effect on public deficits, which is stronger the better the analyzed budget position corresponds with the variable targeted by the rules. Second, cantonal debt brakes are rather not associated with substantial evasive measures. Third, cantonal fiscal rules tend to mitigate political budget cycles and shock-related deficits.
K39|Trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights agreements and the upsurge in foreign direct investment in developing countries|Globalization has brought about remarkable growth in worldwide foreign direct investment (FDI), especially in developing countries. Many previous papers have examined the drivers of FDI inflows to developing countries. Nevertheless, little attention has been paid to relationships between TRIPS (Trade Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights) agreement and FDI. This paper examines whether TRIPS have spurred a sharp rise in FDI in developing countries. The research presented in this paper addresses the 1985 to 2012 time period to comprehensively examine the impact of TRIPS on inward FDI in 23 developing countries via Ordinary Least Square (OLS), Fixed Effects (FE) and System Generalized Method of Moments (System GMM) techniques. The empirical results show that enforcement of the TRIPS agreement constitutes a driving force of FDI in host countries. In addition, such effects vary with host country characteristics.
K39|Selection of public servants into politics|Countries differ substantially in how they deal with politicians that come from the public sector. Most constitutions include incompatibility and ineligibility rules due to concerns about conflicts of interest and the politicization of the public service. We study how these rules affect the attractiveness of parliamentary mandates for public servants and thus the selection into politics. We compile a novel dataset that captures the fraction of public servants in 76 national legislatures as well as the respective (in)compatibility regimes. On average, there are seven percentage points fewer public servants in parliaments where a strict regime is in force. Supplementary evidence based on IV estimations shows that the fraction of public servants in parliament is positively correlated with government consumption, but not correlated with government effectiveness.
K39|Intellectual property rights hinder sequential innovation. Experimental evidence|In this paper we contribute to the discussion on whether intellectual property rights foster or hinder innovation by means of a laboratory experiment. We introduce a novel Scrabble-like word-creation task that captures most essentialities of a sequential innovation process. We use this task to investigate the effects of intellectual property allowing subjects to impose license fees on their innovations. We find intellectual property to have an adverse effect on welfare as innovations become less frequent and less sophisticated. Introducing communication among innovators does not reduce this detrimental effect. Introducing intellectual property results in more basic innovations, with subjects failing to exploit the most valuable sequential innovation paths. Subjects act more self-reliant and non-optimally in order to avoid paying license fees. Our results suggest that granting intellectual property rights hinders innovation, especially for sectors characterized by a strong sequentiality in innovation processes.
K39|What Are The Financial Mechanisms Under The Climate Change Regime That Support The Use Of Renewable Energy. How Can These Mechanisms Be Improved Within The 2020 Agreement?|: The financial mechanisms that support the use of renewable energy under the climate change regime and how these mechanisms can be improved by the 2020 Agreement. Some of the sources of renewable energy that are supported through financial mechanisms from climate change policies are Bio-energy, Solar Energy, Geothermal energy, Hydropower, wind energy and Ocean energy through tidal waves. Tapping these sources for energy is financially prohibitive as the cost of generation of power is far higher than the market price of electricity. Therefore financial incentives are required to promote the use of renewable energy
K39|The technology legal framework issues and challenges in Romania|The evolution of humanity is not synchronized with the one on technology. A similar technological process like the one we have already been through during the whole last century, happen between 2001 and 2015. If we are to look further, same process will happen starting from now till 2021, from 2021 to 2025… We will face, around the year 2025 such a great technological advance, that in just one single year it will equalize the whole technological advance of the 20th century. The technology advances exponentially. In the near future we will speak about: virtual monetary systems, editing the human genome, network neutrality, drones, artificial intelligence, robotics, biotechnology, neuronal implants, virtual reality and things that are not yet invented. As Ray Kurzweil (an American author, computer scientist, inventor and futurist) said in the 21 century we won’t experience just 100 years of progress but, 20.000 years if we are to take into consideration the today’s speed of the technological advance. So we have to adapt to this new era, to change the regulatory system, and to do it fast. In this article we will present shortly the evolution of Romanian e-government legal framework over time, showing how slow the whole process is and offering some examples of laws that are completely improper for what is going to happen in the future.
K39|Critical review of the tools of Ijtihad used in Islamic finance|Fiqh, indicating Islamic law and the means to produce it, covers all aspects of human dealings, including Islamic financial law and its Shariah nominated contracts, which represent the bases for all Islamic banking and finance transactions. These contracts are either readily found in the classic books of Islamic law or modified versions adopted to suit the modern transactions of Islamic finance. In some cases they are a combination of more than one contract designed to serve a particular financing purpose, like the contract of Ijarah Muntahia Bittamlik where the transaction starts with lease and ends with sale. This paper comes to discuss the most important Ijtihad instruments that can be used by the Faqih to evaluate and endorse products in Islamic finance. It then elaborates on the instruments that are in use in the modern Islamic finance and which reflect a departure from Shariah rules and tools for Ijtihad. The objective of this paper is to shed light on the contemporary Ijtihad in Fiqh of Finance in light of the guidelines provided by the Shariah in an attempt to draw the outlines of what constitutes a proper use of proper Ijtihad instruments in Islamic finance.
K39|The Sale of Goods Act 1893 (UK) stands tall in Hong Kong, India and Malaysia|When UK?s Sale of Goods Act 1893 (?the UK Act?) was passed, the United Kingdom was a flourishing colonial power having dominion over, inter alia, Hong Kong, India and Malaysia. This explains the adoption, with minor modifications, of the UK Act in Hong Kong (as the Sale of Goods Ordinance 1896 (?SOGO?)), in India (as the Sale of Goods Act, 1930 (?the Indian Act?)) and in Malaysia (as the Sale of Goods Enactment 1932 (No. 1 of 1932) (?the Enactment?)). The Indian Act was mainly based on the provisions of the UK Act, modified in the light of subsequent judicial decisions in England and India. Thereafter, the Indian Act has neither been subjected to major review nor amended to incorporate changes in its UK counterparts. While Hong Kong was a British colony (until 1 July 1997), all changes in the UK sale of goods legislation were ultimately incorporated into SOGO. From 1896-1997, SOGO was amended 12 times to keep pace with changes in the UK Act. In Britain, the Act was repealed and replaced by the Sale of Goods Act 1979 (?the 1979 Act?). Hong Kong, however, did not follow suit but retained SOGO and amended it to follow the 1979 Act. Malaya gained independence from the British in 1957 and became the Federation of Malaysia in 1963. The Enactment has since been re-intituled twice. First, it was retitled, Sale of Goods (Malay States) Ordinance 1957 (No. 1 of 1957) and in 1989, it became the Sale of Goods Act 1957 (?SOGA?). Save for its re-intitulement, there has been no amendment of any significance. Malaysia has seen fit not to be guided by local judicial pronouncements or developments in the law of the sale of goods in other common law jurisdictions. SOGA remains, as a result, an ossified version of the UK Act.
K39|Dimensions Of Expert Report Complexity In Intellectual/Industrial Property. Case Study|The growing number of complex processes with the specific intellectual / industrial property demonstrated the need for highly qualified experts called in solving technical problems in the court files. The expertise in such field obliges to detailed knowledge of domestic and international law. However, those processes have as conjugate subjects: counterfeiting inventions, trademarks, industrial design; unfair competition; calculating damage that leads to highlighting the economic benefits, the latter requiring economic assessment of an intangible asset using in formula,in addition to economic data, micro - and macro-economic risk factors. Conflicts arise in a specific space. It is therefore necessary detailed knowledge of company law, competition law, that relating to interest, insolvency and bankruptcy in their developments. It should be considered domestic and European legal practice, as well as the rapid evolution of the meaning of legal terms and concepts. Experts have to understand solutions given in the prior complaints for correct interpretation of the provisions of the agreements, laws and regulations derived. The paper refersto one of the most complex expertise reports, which forced expert to integrated legislation acquaintances on patents, on insolvency and interest - in their evolution. But fundamentally, the expert had to understand the phenomenon of engineering and how to measure economic efficiency in the case of a divided invention.
K39|Islamic conscious capitalism: a ‘Third Way’ in light of classical scripture|"The economic paradigm and framework advocated for in Islam is one that entails a unique combination of various socio–economic philosophies. This article advances the notion that Islam promotes a capitalistic economic model wrapped in its own garment of understanding—fashioned with threads of equity and stitched in patterns of benevolence and justice. This article examines the Islamic theological framework relating to the profit incentive and its spiritually–conscious methodology of capital procurement. The Qur’an contains around 370 references in regard to commerce, from which much of Islamic law relating to lending, banking and trading originates (Heck in Muhammad and the Arab roots of capitalism (Studien zur Geschichte und Kultur des Islamichen Orients)—Band 18. Walter de Gruyter, Berlin, p 5, 85, 2006 ). This article intends to explore the potential that these teachings have for an Islamic ‘Third Way’ (i.e. an Islamic contribution to economic philosophy and discourse that is in-between of, or an alternative to, both the purely individualistic primary concerns on prices, profits, and private property inherent in ""pure"" capitalism, and the purely communal command economics of communism, which often negates or discourages the promotion of self-interests). Part I of this paper intends to introduce the reader to the various sources of Islamic ‘law’ and its scope. In doing so, the philosophical nature and objectives of the Shariah will become evident, through the exploration of specific theological economic teachings. Part II intends to study Islam’s theological attitude toward entrepreneurship and the profit incentive, as well as the concept of the potential for salvation through ethical profits. Part III explores, in light of classical Islamic scripture, the various prohibitions within the Islamic concept of the economy. In doing so, the paper shall explore how values and theories found in classical Islamic scripture have found contemporary application within the growing modern Islamic finance industry, for example, through Shariah ‘screens’ applied on market indicies, such as the Dow Jones Islamic Market Index. Part III shall also explore Islamic edicts with regards to business practices, as well as environmental ethics. In doing so, Part IV concludes that there can indeed be such an Islamic ‘Third Way’, drawn along similar shared values found amongst other world religions. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2016"
K39|Legal Regime Of The Bulgarian High Schools From The Liberation Until Present Days|The article researches the legal regime of the Bulgarian higher schools from the Liberation until present days in historical and comparatively - legal aspect, in order to systematize the legislative amendments. The legal regime of the higher schools is not being researched from juridical point of view, what provokes the interest of the author to an article in this direction. The author makes a periodization and analysis of the legislation in the area of the higher education in Bulgaria, and on basis of this analysis she makes important conclusions about the Bulgarian system of higher education. The development of the higher education is directly connected to the scientific researches and innovations and is a guarantee for high-qualified graduates/specialists, who are of importance for the whole European Community (European Union).
K39|Best Practices in Customs Procedures|The paper presents the main aspects related to the modernisation process of the European Union customs legislation and identifies a series of benefits that arise from implementing the measures of the Modernised Community customs code. In this context, foreign trade companies must adapt their logistics strategies to the new customs system, a necessary condition in order to obtain competitive advantages. In an increasingly competitive global environment, best practices in the customs activity have a positive influence both on the international trade as well as on the consumer safety and protection. The results of implementing best practices are also found in rankings made by different institutions and international organisations regarding the competitiveness in logistics and ease in the development of foreign trade transactions. They mainly relate to reducing the time for the necessary clearance procedure and reducing the logistics costs by decreasing the number of physical and documentation checks, giving a priority treatment to consignments when they are selected for control, the possibility to choose the location for customs controls and less information to submit in summary declarations.
K39|The NATO-Russia Council: current political and juridical perspectives|After the end of the Cold War, an important element of the European and international security structure is the cooperation between NATO and Russia in security and stability fields. NATO had the initiative to develop security organizations to approach Russia and create a partnership. The best security structure is represented by the NATO-Russia Council, a form of cooperation between a state, Russia and an international alliance, NATO. After being institutionalized a collaboration, with some interruptions caused by the crisis (Kosovo, Georgia, Ukraine), from April 2014 the common military and civil activities in NATO-Russia Council are suspended. The NATO-Russia relation is of particular importance for the security and the stability in Europe and in the world.
K39|Threats to Romania generated by the status of a NATO and EU|Romania's status as a member of NATO and the European Union makes the eastern border a common border of the two organizations. Romania being on the border of the two organizations has created a significant new geopolitical and geostrategic position. Therefore, on the one hand we are witnessing the actions aimed at strengthening defence and security of the Romanian state and on the other hand it is increasingly becoming a possible target of threats. Based on these considerations our study aims to analyse the diversity of potential threats to Romania.
K39|Basic Dimensions of Security Information Systems|The XXI century brought significant new changes in information systems improvement, especially as regards increasing their role in the performance of an organization. Given the need to ensure the functioning of information systems, today, increasingly there are new openings in terms of ensuring their security. In this article we intend to present some aspects that aim fundamental dimensions of ensure the security of information systems and how they affect activities within an organization. Size information systems security analysis highlights new aspects of its complexity and the need for more efficient management of each of these.
K39|Possible Developments of Forms and Ways of Risks and Threats Manifestations towards Romania|Through its international status and geopolitical positioning, Romania will remain a place of some possible risks and threats. The diversity, complexity and especially the threat for Romania's security requires a detailed knowledge of the manifestation particularities and influence. Therefore, addressing specific issues to the evolution of forms and ways of manifestation of risks and threats for Romania remains an issue of high interest to any scientific analysis, as in this study.
K39|Ensuring the security of information systems - role and functions of information systems security|We are certainly in the face of unprecedented challenges regarding the crisis and war development highlighting new ways of conflict evolution, anticipating the major role that information systems will acquire. It is this beginning of the millennium challenge that induces the need of a more sustained focus on preparing the new type of war in which information systems security will be the success factor. Through this article we aim to present the role of the information systems and the manner in which information systems security affects the decision-making process, the planning and the operational management of all actions taken within each organization.
K39|The concept of parody|The scientific paper focuses on possible meanings of the concept of parody, by using as framework Law No.8/1996 on copyright and neighboring rights, but especiallly in the perspective of the European Union Law (Directive No. 2001/29/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 May 2001 on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society and the Judgement of the Court (Grand Chamber) of Justice of the European Union of 3 September 2014-Case C-201/13.
K39|Ancestralidad y derecho: el sistema jurídico en la India|David, R., & Spinosi-Jauffret, C. (2010). Los Grandes Sistemas Jurídicos Contemporáneos. México:Instituto de Investigaciones Jurídicas, UNAM. Lorenzen, D. N., & Preciado Solís, B. (2003). Atadura y liberación: las religiones de la India. COLMEX. Malhotra, A., & Malhotra, R. Family Law and Religion: Indian Expirience. Ontiveros, E., & Guillén, M. (2012). Una nueva época, los grandes retos del siglo XXI. Barcelona, España: Galaxia Gutemberg. Oropeza García, A. (2013). México-Rusia: culturas y sistemas jurídicos comparados. México: Instituto de Investigaciones Jurídicas, UNAM. Pániker, A. (2014). La sociedad de castas. Barcelona, España: Kairós. Sen, A. (2007). India Contemporánea: entre la modernidad y la tradición. Barcelona, España: Gedisa. Spear, Percival, Historia de la India II, Fondo de Cultura Económica, México, 2001 Setalvad, M., & Vibhufhan, P. (1960). The Common Law in India. Stevens and Sons United. Tharoor, S. (2009). Nehru: la invención de la India. Barcelona España: Tusquets.
K39|Copyright protection and entry deterrence|Illegal copying of digital products has become an increasingly debated issue. I present a previously unmentioned possible effect of piracy, namely that it may benefit an incumbent producer by making entry less profitable. In a differentiated products setting I show that when entry costs or the consumer valuation of the product are high enough or when consumer heterogeneity is sufficiently low, an incumbent monopolist will prefer less than full protection and thus allow the piracy of its own product. When the consumer valuations for the good are high, then there is no market expansion effect of illegal copying and consumers might end up worse-off because of piracy.
K39|The Right to Be Forgotten in the European Union and Russia: Comparison and Criticism|On 14 July, 2015 the Russian President signed Law No. 264-FZ which grants Russian citizens the right to request the delisting of search results which link to inaccurate or irrelevant information about them (“the right to be forgotten”).This paper discusses the decision of the Court of Justice of the EU in Google Spain v. Agencia Espanola de Proteccion de Datos (AEPD) and Mario Costeja Gonzalez, the case which inspired Law No. 264-FZ, and compares implementation of the right to be forgotten in the EU and Russia. It is found that the Russian law was created as a sui generis right, and fails to account for the right of the general public to find and access information online. Other discrepancies include a wider scope of the right to be forgotten, rigid requirements for processing removal requests and the prohibition to disclose any information about such requests.
K39|Popular Tradition - The Premise of the Occurrence of Mediation in Romanian Judicial System|"Of all the social norms the custom is one that best identifies with the concept of social norm, due to its specific features. Custom or popular tradition is a creation of society, being born of the desires and aspirations of every people, the pains, sorrows and his experiences in the struggle waged for survival, the defeats and victories held by history. The custom is what was intended, along a story more or less tumultuous, to reveal all the qualities and defects due to its conservative nation, a perfect identification with where was born and formed and especially, the extraordinary possibilities to adapt to hardships weather, which showed (""the forest is brother with Romanian"" poet observes, that ""eternity was born in the country"", and Romanians do not let their ancestral land whatever the vicissitudes of history)."
K39|Executive Women And Work-Family Interaction: Evidence In Mexico Mujeres Ejecutivas E Interaccion Trabajofamilia: Evidencias En Mexico|The access of women to high positions in organizations has been limited by some difficulties originate by the culture, that institutionalizes discrimination, subordination and inequity between men and women. These problems make evident the need for structural changes in the family, the state and the labor market. This paper is a gender view to the interaction family-work; analyzes executive women in the cities of Durango and Aguascalientes. The strategy was a survey conducted 58 interviews with women executives. Comparison of findings from three studies on executive is also made. (Griselda MartÃ­nez VÃ¡zquez, 1997; Adriana Gallegos, 2004 and MarÃ­a del Carmen Bernal and Enrique Taracena, 2012). Looking for the construction of a new gender identity for this group of workers, is possible show some findings: women still perceived themselves as responsible for the private world, and there is not a substantial change in terms of new female identity, because women executives have reconciled work and family but feelings of guilt persist; although they show egalitarian relationships with their husbands with whom they share the parenting.
K39|Does altruism justify privileges?|This article discusses whether altruism justifies ad-hoc legislation with reference to three different contexts. One is defined by the libertarian notion of liberty, a second framework corresponds to the egalitarian vision, and a third one originates from social-contract theory. It is shown that current legislation is rather ambiguous and sometimes even contradictory. By and large, the common-law view tends to favour the libertarian approach, while the civil-law visions are closer to what one might expect from social-contract theory, where the letter of the law is often questioned by the academic community and by the judiciary, and decisions eventually follow the judges' discretionary power.
K39|Analisi lessico testuale delle ordinanze del Commissario Delegato alla ricostruzione in Emilia-Romagna: un contributo alla legge nazionale su emergenza e ricostruzione|In the three years after the 2012 earthquake in Emilia-Romagna, through the enactment of more than 350 ordinances, the Commissioner has structured interventions to cope with emergency and reconstruction. The intense law-making, essential to fill a legal vacuum, has enabled to overcome the uncertainties of the difficult phase of recovery. There is agreement among experts that a large number of those ordinances was due to the absence of national rules governing the urgent intervention in case of natural disasters. On the push of actions taken in Emilia-Romagna, the Italian Parliament has reopened the debate on a national law on emergency after natural disasters. Through a systematic content analysis of the corpus of ordinances issued in EmiliaRomagna, in this paper we propose a contribution in drafting a law on emergency. Two main strands of analysis have been developed. In the first one, an automatic text analysis, supported by Taltac2, has provided inputs for a factor analysis and a cluster analysis of the thematic areas covered by the ordinances. Four main topics have been singled out: grant criteria and contributions; management of allocation of resources; urgent works for municipalities, schools and churches buildings; interventions to support population. Having associated each ordinance to one of the four topics, a temporal analysis of the issues addressed during the emergency and reconstruction phase highlights the sequence of actions that were undertaken in Emilia. In a second step, the set of terms characterizing each cluster it is used to obtain a redefinition of disjunctive classification towards a fuzzy multi-class.
K39|Analisi lessico testuale delle ordinanze del Commissario Delegato alla ricostruzione in Emilia-Romagna: un contributo alla legge nazionale su emergenza e ricostruzione|In the three years after the 2012 earthquake in Emilia-Romagna, through the enactment of more than 350 ordinances, the Commissioner has structured interventions to cope with emergency and reconstruction. The intense law-making, essential to fill a legal vacuum, has enabled to overcome the uncertainties of the difficult phase of recovery. There is agreement among experts that a large number of those ordinances was due to the absence of national rules governing the urgent intervention in case of natural disasters. On the push of actions taken in Emilia-Romagna, the Italian Parliament has reopened the debate on a national law on emergency after natural disasters. Through a systematic content analysis of the corpus of ordinances issued in EmiliaRomagna, in this paper we propose a contribution in drafting a law on emergency. Two main strands of analysis have been developed. In the first one, an automatic text analysis, supported by Taltac2, has provided inputs for a factor analysis and a cluster analysis of the thematic areas covered by the ordinances. Four main topics have been singled out: grant criteria and contributions; management of allocation of resources; urgent works for municipalities, schools and churches buildings; interventions to support population. Having associated each ordinance to one of the four topics, a temporal analysis of the issues addressed during the emergency and reconstruction phase highlights the sequence of actions that were undertaken in Emilia. In a second step, the set of terms characterizing each cluster it is used to obtain a redefinition of disjunctive classification towards a fuzzy multi-class.
K39|The Disability Employment Puzzle: A Field Experiment on Employer Hiring Behavior|The authors investigate potential discrimination against people with disabilities through a field experiment that sent job applications to 6,016 accounting positions for which the applicantsâ€™ disabilities are unlikely to affect productivity. One-third of the cover letters disclosed that the applicant had a spinal cord injury, one-third disclosed the presence of Aspergerâ€™s syndrome, and one-third did not mention disability. The disability applications received 26% fewer expressions of employer interest. This gap was concentrated among experienced applicants and small private companies that are not covered by the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). Tests suggest possible positive effects of the ADA, but not of state laws, in reducing the disability gap. Results indicate there may be substantial room for employer and policy initiatives to improve employment opportunities for people with disabilities.
K39|Legal Issues Relating to the Liability of the Carrier for the Air Carriage of Passengers|The analysis of the problems of the current legislation on the liability of the carrier for the carriage of passengers should cover both inter­nal acts and those of EU law and international treaties, as a result of it are derived existing in the Bulgarian Civil Aviation Act gaps. So that they be overcome made relevant proposals de lege ferenda for amendments to the said leg­islation. The detailed analysis of the national legislation requires comparing it with the right of countries with highly developed air transport. As the Bulgarian legal system follows the con­tinental tradition, as well as receptions of our private right of French law, the latter may serve as a suitable basis for comparative analysis and mapping trends in the development of legislation on issues of liability of the carrier in air transpor­tation passenger.
K39|Power, Composition, and Decision Making: The Behavioral Consequences of Institutional Reform on Brazil’s Supremo Tribunal Federal|How does a court’s policy-making authority shape the nature of judicial behavior? We argue that judicial systems that limit policy-making authority also discourage the politicization of courts, encouraging judges to think narrowly about the interests of litigating parties. In contrast, granting a court high policy-making authority—affecting potentially thousands of cases and other branches of government—naturally encourages judges to consider broader ideological principles. Typically, unraveling cause and effect would be difficult, as judicial behavior and institutions are usually stable and endogenous. But an especially stark sequence of political and institutional changes in Brazil affords analytic leverage to explore these questions. A series of judicial reforms greatly expanded the Brazilian Supreme Court’s authority, and our analysis of judicial decisions shows the emergence of a political cleavage on the court after these reforms. (JEL C140, K39, K49)
K39|Considerations Regarding The Government Emergency Ordinance No. 55/2014 For Regulating Certain Measures Concerning The Local Public Administration|The Government Emergency Ordinance no. 55/2014 suspended for 45 days the dispositions of art. art. 9 par. (2) letter h1) and art. 15 par. (2) letter g1) from the Law No. 393/2004 that sanction the migration between parties with termination of the mandate for elected local officials. Starting with the relation between politics, public administration and law, the study points out that regulations concerning migration of elected local officials, from one political party to another after election time, is a moral and politic issue, not necessarily a legal one. Some decisions of the Constitutional Court of Romania on the subject are analysed. The reasoning of the EOG refers to situations of „political separations”, reorganisation of political parties and political alliances, the need to surpass gridlocks in order to insure a good administration. The paper analyses different possible outcomes of such situations that are not regulated by law. Regarding the legal effects of the ordinance, the main questions concerns the legal situation of the councillors that have already gave course to its dispositions, in the case such an ordinance will be rejected or adopted by the Parliament, or in case it will be found unconstitutional.
K39|Quelques Considerations Sur L’Harmonisation Europeenne Dans Le Domaine Audiovisuel – Pour Une Europe Unie|L’Union européenne a besoin de nouveaux facteurs de cohésion. Il faut que ses peuples se connaissent pour qu’ils puissent se reconnaître a etre un peuple européen. La transmission a l’échelle européenne de certaines chaînes publiques de chaque pays membre pourrait aider a la connaissance réciproque et a un acces véritable a l’éducation et a la culture.
K39|"Behördliche Erlaubnis im Sinne des § 284 I Strafgesetzbuch - Konzessionen nach dem Recht der DDR als ""deutsche Genehmigung""?"|"Der Wortlaut der Norm des § 284 I Strafgesetzbuch - ""ohne behördliche Erlaubnis"" - statuiert ein Genehmigungserfordernis für die Durchführung von öffentlichem Glücksspiel. Eine genauere Ausgestaltung dieses negativen Tatbestandsmerkmals beziehungsweise des Genehmigungserfordernisses ist allerdings seitens des Gesetzgebers unterblieben. Aufgrund der Wiedervereinigung der Bundesrepublik Deutschland mit der ehemaligen Deutschen Demokratischen Republik stellt sich die Frage, ob und in welchem Umfang Genehmigungen, welche auf der Grundlage und zur Zeit der Geltung der Rechtsordnung der ehemaligen Deutschen Demokratischen Republik erteilt wurden, anzuerkennen sind. Im Rahmen dieses Beitrages werden die zu den zuvor genannten Problemfeldern genannten Auffassungen dargestellt und es erfolgt eine argumentative Auseinandersetzung mit den jeweiligen Auffassungen."
K39|Actual problems of product placement and embedded (surreptitious) advertising|This research paper covers examples and problems arising from product placement and surreptitious advertising. Product placement and surreptitious advertising are so similar but absolutely different types of advertising, while product placement may not be considered advertising at all. The point at issue arises when it is difficult to determine the real object of advertising. A separate cluster of marketing is a publishing of advertisement information in consumer products, which are not directly available for advertising: for example motion pictures and texts of books. There is a practice when authors include in products mentioning of specific trademarks and its characteristics for consideration. However, in some cases, it is very difficult to distinguish advertising and a describing or information naturally included in the text and is not advertising. The author focuses on the regulation of product placement and surreptitious advertising in Russia, legality of such advertising under the legislation of different countries, lawsuits, risks and academic conclusions. The choice of the research topic is due to different interpretations of these concepts and mixtures with other types of advertising in the research works and contradictory practices and terms found in the regulations of the Federal Antimonopoly service and the decisions of the courts. This research paper will be useful for lawyers dealing with cyber and digital law and all persons interested in legality of advertising materials in mass media and mass entertainment.
K39|Unregistered Well-Known Mark Protection In Indonesia|As a part of Intellectual Property Rights, Trademark have a significant role in trade and business activities. Trade Marks has a function as identification to distinguish the production of goods or services produced by a person as a means to promote of the goods or services as well as a guarantee of the products quality within the same time a mark will create an image on the reputation of the goods or services. and many of them Became well-known mark. Mark represent the goods or services will make the mark became famous mark so it needs legal protection for the marks owners. Indonesia which has been stipulated in Trade Mark Act, 2001 apply first to file system which will provide legal protection to those who register its marks in the Directorate General of Intellectual Property Rights to obtain exclusive rights and legal protection and recognized as a legitimate owners. In the Trade Mark Law especially in Criminal provisions do not set penalties for infringement of unregistered trade mark and raised legal questions as to how the legal action can be taken when there is infringement unregistered well-known in Indonesia.
K39|Third Party In International Commercial Arbitration: Indonesia Perspective|Arbitration Agreement between the parties is the important sources of law in the arbitration proceeding, especially in International Commercial Arbitration. Arbitration Agreement, which could be made before and after the dispute, provide jurisdiction to the arbitral tribunal to settle the dispute. Traditionally, the arbitration agreement provide that only the parties in the agreement could be bound the arbitration proceeding. However, in commercial arbitration there is a circumstances, which has third party could be bound to arbitration proceeding. Indonesia has already arbitration law based on Law No. 30 Year 1999 in regard with Arbitration and Alternative Dispute Resolution. This law stipulate how is arbitration proceeding could be proceed in Indonesia, include third party issues in arbitration proceeding which is stipulate in Article 30. Commonly, how is third party could be bound the arbitration proceeding also regulate in Arbitration Rules of the Institutional Arbitration such as ICC with ICC Rules. Indonesia has Institutional Arbitration namely Indonesia National Board of Arbitration, which has BANI rules as Arbitration Rules. In Indonesia the arbitration proceeding also applies the Indonesia Procedural of Civil Law as a source.This article will discuss how is third party could be bound the arbitration proceeding in Indonesia, especially in regard with Commercial Arbitration. The discussion will examine number of issues. First, how is Indonesia Arbitration Law require the definition of third party in arbitration proceeding, compared with international convention or model law. Second, how is Indonesia Arbitration Law, especially Article 30 could be interpreted when there is third party would like to join the arbitration proceeding and how the regulation on Indonesia Procedural of Civil Law could be used to decide or consider third party in arbitration proceeding. This two issues need more elaboration, since Indonesia Arbitration Law has not give more explanation or sample case to explain this article. The result of discussion will be an input for Indonesia to amend the Arbitration Law.
K39|Rebellion Crime in the ?slamic and Ottoman Law|"Rebellion in the Islamic state, also known as ba?y is a matter not outdated. Likewise in the legal system, ""State of rebellion"" and disobedience is a crime punished. In our study, in Islamic and Ottoman law, ""Rebellion"" by another name ""ba?y"" crimes were investigated. What are the terms of the rebellion crime in Islamic law. According to Islamic law, in case of a justified revolt against the president, these people are not considered rebels. Such an action undertaken against the illegitimate president is always right, it is legitimate. Rebellion, described in the place of Islamic law and the required information is provided."
K39|The effects of ethnobotanical drugs on human body|"Etnobotany is a branch of etnobiology which studies the interrelations between man and his environment, including the hallucinogenic effects of plants. Consumption is particularly widespread through adolescents. Even if they are considered to be ""light drugs"", ethnobotanical plants have disastrous and unpredictable effects and can damage/ affect the body in various ways. These effects are divided into three categories: immediate, chronic and overdose. In the short term, the person who used these products may experience different physical and psychic effects. Etnobotanical consumption is more dangerous than drug usage because the effects these products may have in the long term are not exactly known and therefore the doctors don't know what treatment can be administered. In Romania, according to the law, some of these drugs are prohibited but some producers and distributors sell them under the pretext of their use in agriculture or veterinary medicine."
K39|Establishment Of A Political Party|Legislation setting up a political party has evolved in the post-communist period, from a set of minimum provisions regarding registration of parties to a number of restrictive rules meant to reduce the number of competing political actors. The number of members required for the establishment of a party rose from 251 in 1989 to 10,000 in 1996 and 25,000 in 2003, and the last legislative change in 2015 fell to three.
K39|Zurück in die dirigistische Vergangenheit: Das Hochschulzukunftsgesetz in NRW|Oktober 2014 wurde in NRW das Hochschulfreiheits- vom Hochschulzukunftsgesetz abgelöst, welches die Hochschulautonomie stark beschränkt und den Einfluss des Staates, insbesondere des Ministeriums, auf die Hochschulen verstärkt. Das wird an wesentlichen Änderungen des Hochschulgesetzes NRW aufgezeigt.
K39|Better winding up: A proposal for improved winding up of executory contracts|An evaluation problem exists when winding up executory contracts in case of insolvency. The trustee has difficulties in accurately considering the claim for damages that arises if he chooses to reject a contract instead of accepting it. An unequal treatment of creditors and inefficiencies follow. However, a simple reform can solve this problem. If an executory contract is accepted by the trustee, there should be the same claim for damages as if it had been rejected. Only the difference between this claim for damages and the initial claim should be paid directly out of the estate.
K39|How judges think in the Brazilian Supreme Court: Estimating ideal points and identifying dimensions|We use NOMINATE (Nominal Three Step Estimation) (Poole and Rosenthal, 1983, 1997) to estimate ideal points for all Supreme Court Justices in Brazil from 2002 to 2012. Based on these estimated preferences we identify the nature of the two main dimensions along which disagreements tend to occur in this Court. These estimates correctly predict over 95% of the votes on constitutional review cases in each of the compositions of the Court which we analyze. The main contribution of the paper is to identify that the main dimension along which preferences align in the Brazilian Supreme Court is for and against the economic interest of the Executive. This is significantly different than the conservative-liberal polarization of the US Supreme Court. Our estimates show that along this dimension the composition of the Court has been clearly favorable to the Executive's economic interests, providing the setting in which the dramatic transformation in institutions and policies that the country has undergone in last two decades could take place.
K39|Considerations On The Importance Of Observing Human Rights Within European States|The detailed analysis of the institution of human rights and fundamental freedoms is necessary to know its role. The promotion of the human condition in the world leads to the innovative interpretation of this institution. The existence of so many international legal instruments aims towards a better protection of the human rights in contemporary society. The issue of human rights has occupied an important role within the states, human rights violations being a common concern, especially in the former communist states. The issue of human rights in Romania has emerged and developed very early. The changes made in Romania by the revolution of 22 December 1989 caused an intense process of amending the legislation in order to be correlated with the international standards. Within European states human rights observance has acquired great importance, a matter which will be emphasised in the future as well. The European Court of Human Rights ensures the guarantee of respecting human rights in Europe, having as legal instrument the European Convention on Human Rights.
K39|¿Fruto de la parra envenenada? Algunas observaciones comparadas sobre la Constitución Chilena|Can a constitution born in dictatorship serve democracy, or is it inevitably tainted by the circumstances of its birth? This question is central in Chilean politics today, but Chile is not alone. Roughly 20% of constitutions in force today were drafted during undemocratic periods. Chile’s constitution, however, is part of a smaller set which we call transformational authoritarian constitutions. These constitutions (1) are explicitly framed as helping to structure a return to electoral democracy after a period of time; (2) reflects certain policy goals designed to be permanent; and (3) contain an enforcement mechanism to ensure that both these goals are met. The article then goes on to consider how constitutional reform should be achieved, drawing on comparative evidence.
K39|Rethinking Nudges|Nudge is a semantically multifarious concept that originates in Thaler and Sunstein's (2008) popular eponymous book. In one of its senses, it is a policy for redirecting an agent's choices by only slightly altering his choice conditions, in another sense, it is concerned with bounded rationality as a means of the policy, and in still another sense, it is concerned with bounded rationality as an obstacle to be removed by the policy, when the latter has a benevolent aim. The paper centres on the interrelations, both semantic and factual, of these three nudge concepts. It argues that the first and second are basically disconnected on Thaler and Sunstein's major examples of nudges, and that this has gone unnoticed to them because they wrongly equate the second with the third concept, and also because they overestimate the explanatory power of behavioural economics, compared with that of classical rational choice theory, to account for successful interventions. After completing this analysis, the paper moves to some of the normative issues raised by Thaler and Sunstein. Their thought-provoking claim that liberalism and paternalism can be reconciled within one and the same doctrine of social ethics - libertarian paternalism – has been subjected to thorough philosophical criticism. Rather than following this abstract line, the paper takes the shortcut of arguing that Thaler and Sunstein lose their best defence of libertarian paternalism after the nudge concepts are disentangled. They had effectively based their case on the view that slight interventions could have powerful effects through a clever use of bounded rationality, and it has been shown that the latter is not really at work in the interventions they consider. The paper finally concludes that the three nudge concepts are worth pursuing, though independently of each other, and in particular that the third one, which involves correcting the pitfalls of bounded rationality, should receive sustained attention from policy analysts
K39|The effect of national revenues on sub-national revenues evidence from the U.S|I present for the first time an empirical examination of the impact of total federal revenues on total sub-national proceeds. Prior theory recognizes that the effects of national revenues on sub-national revenue-raising are ambiguous. Earlier studies have focused on vertical relationships between particular tax bases, such as the impact of federal commodity taxes on state or provincial commodity tax rates. Using a panel of data from U.S. states over the recent decade, I find an economically and statistically significant degree of federal crowding in of state revenues. Also, employing a difference-in-differences design to study the impact of a 2004 change in the federal deductibility of state general sales taxes, I find modest evidence that deductibility increased state revenues in states more dependent on the sales tax. I note the potential implications of these results for fiscal federalism theory and legal controversies over federal conditional spending.
K39|Does mortgage deregulation increase foreclosures? Evidence from Cleveland|This paper examines how relaxing a local anti-predatory lending law for mortgages affects foreclosures. The empirical evidence is drawn from a quasi experiment in Cleveland, Ohio, where the State Supreme Court repealed an ordinance that imposed lending restrictions on home mortgages of high annual percentage rates (APRs). Empirical evidence shows that observable loan and borrower characteristics were not affected by the repeal, nor did the overall originations appear to increase; yet the APRs were 20% more likely to exceed the regulatory thresholds that were nullified. Moreover, the foreclosure rate increased by six percentage points to 20%.
K39|Can't see the tacking for the trees? Try a Coasian solution|Arguably, the types of examples used by texts in examining Coasian bargains that address negative externalities are not the types of situations or stories that typically appeal to traditional college and university students. The chapter provides a more modern story for principles instructors to use as a supplement to traditional textbook accounts of the problems associated with externalities and the applicability of the Coase Theorem.
K39|An experiment on protecting intellectual property|We conduct a laboratory experiment to explore whether the protection of intellectual property (IP) incentivizes people to create non-rivalrous knowledge goods, foregoing the production of other rivalrous goods. In the contrasting treatment with no IP protection, participants are free to resell and remake non-rivalrous knowledge goods originally created by others. We find that creators reap substantial profits when IP is protected and that rampant pirating is common when there is no IP protection, but IP protection in and of itself is neither necessary nor sufficient for generating wealth from the discovery of knowledge goods. Rather, individual entrepreneurship is the key. Copyright Economic Science Association 2014
K39|Rethinking Nudges|Nudge is a semantically multifarious concept that originates in Thaler and Sunstein's (2008) popular eponymous book. In one of its senses, it is a policy for redirecting an agent's choices by only slightly altering his choice conditions, in another sense, it is concerned with bounded rationality as a means of the policy, and in still another sense, it is concerned with bounded rationality as an obstacle to be removed by the policy, when the latter has a benevolent aim. The paper centres on the interrelations, both semantic and factual, of these three nudge concepts. It argues that the first and second are basically disconnected on Thaler and Sunstein's major examples of nudges, and that this has gone unnoticed to them because they wrongly equate the second with the third concept, and also because they overestimate the explanatory power of behavioural economics, compared with that of classical rational choice theory, to account for successful interventions. After completing this analysis, the paper moves to some of the normative issues raised by Thaler and Sunstein. Their thought-provoking claim that liberalism and paternalism can be reconciled within one and the same doctrine of social ethics - libertarian paternalism – has been subjected to thorough philosophical criticism. Rather than following this abstract line, the paper takes the shortcut of arguing that Thaler and Sunstein lose their best defence of libertarian paternalism after the nudge concepts are disentangled. They had effectively based their case on the view that slight interventions could have powerful effects through a clever use of bounded rationality, and it has been shown that the latter is not really at work in the interventions they consider. The paper finally concludes that the three nudge concepts are worth pursuing, though independently of each other, and in particular that the third one, which involves correcting the pitfalls of bounded rationality, should receive sustained attention from policy analysts.
K39|出版社の権利保護に関する経済学的分析|本稿では電子書籍の普及を図るために導入が検討されていた著作隣接権の効果について経済学的な分析を行った。出版社に対して、著作権に準ずる著作隣接権を付与した場合、出版社も著作権者と同様に、電子書籍配信業者に対してライセンス契約を求めることが可能になる。本稿ではこの効果に着目して、簡易な経済理論モデルを構築し、現行制度下での均衡と比較を行った。本稿で得られる結論は以下の通りである。まず、著作隣接権を出版社に与えることによって、社会厚生が改善する領域が存在するが、その領域では電子書籍の需要と著作者利潤は減少していることが示せる。次に、電子出版権について考えた場合、社会厚生上は出版社に出版権を一括管理させるよりも、別建て型を採用し著作者に管理させた方が望ましいことが示せた。
K39|Protection of Publishers' Rights in e-Books -An Economic Analysis of Neighboring Rights-|We analyze neighboring rights which are under consideration as a change in copyright law to promote electronic publishing. If publishers are allocated neighboring rights similar to copyright protection, they will be able to reach publishing agreements with electronic book providers, just as the authors are able to license. We compare performance of several business models that would be possible under such a legal regime. We show that such a legal change can improve social welfare but this would come at a cost of less profit for both authors and publishers. We then show that if current copyright protection is expanded to include electronic publishing, it is better to have the authors retain the right for electronic book publishing than having the publishers engage in both paper and electronic publishing.
K39|How the consumers can be protected in case of contracts signed remotely in terms of the OUG provisions no. 34/2014|The article is written in the spirit of presenting the benefits offered to the consumers, parties of remote contracts, following the harmonization of the consumer protection national legislation with the European standards. The Ordinance no. 34/2014 is the one transposing internally the Directive 2011/83/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council, on the consumer rights, published in the European Union Official Journal, series L, no. 304 of 22.11.2011. The OUG no. 34/2014 revokes the OG no. 130/2000 on the remote contracts and creates a coherent framework designed to regulate certain aspects of the relationship between the consumers and the professionals when signing this type of contract and is aimed at protecting the consumers' rights.
K39|Municipal Administrative Courts In The State Of Tamaulipas, Juzgados Administrativos Municipales En El Estado De Tamaulipas|Local Governments in Mexico must have real autonomy. Local Governments must exercise competences with limitations only enshrined in the Mexican Federal Constitution. The real situation is very different. There are many different regulations in each state regarding the powers of local Governments. This regulation sometimes does not recognize the autonomy of the Local Governments enshrined by the Federal Constitution. The aim of this paper is to show reasons a local legislator interpreted in a special way the article 115 of the Mexican constitution. This interpretation avoids the creation of municipal administrative courts. We conclude there is necessity to reform current legislation to allow municipal administrative courts in Tamaulipas. With these courts, strengthening of the local Governments in MÃ©xico, particularly in Tamaulipas, is possible. Furthermore, it could comply with the constitutional reform of article 115.
K39|Case comment: C-82/10 European Commission v Ireland—judgement of the Court of Justice of the European Union, September 29, 2011 (VHI case)|This article is the case comment on the recent judgement (September 29, 2011) of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the case No C-82/10 concerning non-life insurance. This case was initiated by the European Commission against Ireland for failure to fulfil its obligations by not covering the Voluntary Health Insurance Board by insurance supervisory scheme as provided for by relevant Directives. The above insurance institution which is the main health insurer in Ireland enjoys exemption from the supervisory scheme envisaged by relevant Directives. Ireland may maintain this exemption if its capacity is not amended; otherwise the above institution must be covered by the insurance supervisory scheme. This article provides a brief summary of facts and court conclusions alongside with relevant comments on the impact of this judgement. The author has commented both legal and economic aspect of this case paying particular attention to the role of this judgement in the development of the insurance supervisory scheme in the European Union law. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2014
K39|Copyright infringement as user innovation|Copyright holders of major manga and anime in Japan have been ignoring copyright infringement by $$d{\bar{o}}jinshi$$ (or doujinshi), a Japanese word referring to self-published works created predominately by amateurs. Many of $$d{\bar{o}}jinshi$$ are derivative works of popular anime or manga but are sold without official permissions from the copyright holders. Thus, it is highly possible that the activity of $$d{\bar{o}}jinshi$$ creators violates Article 28 of the Copyright Law of Japan, which states the rights of original authors in the situation of exploitation by derivative works. We demonstrate that ignoring copyright infringement by a derivative creator can be optimal for the copyright holder based on an economic model that incorporates both positive and negative externalities of derivative work. We also demonstrate that when unauthorized use of the copyrighted work is optimal for the copyright holder, it is also optimal for social welfare although the opposite is not necessarily true. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014
K39|Dispute resolution in construction matters – arbitration|Construction is one of the largest but also one of the most difficult sectors of the economy. Disputes arising in connection with construction projects are very complicated ones which causes that their solution is a time-consuming process and, consequently, contributes to the delay of construction projects, exposing both the investor and the contractor to huge losses. For this reason, an entrepreneur in the construction industry should adopt such a mode of dispute resolution which will allow for the swift and deformalised solution. This article aims to present the most common causes of disputes in the construction matters and characterisation of one of the alternative ways of solving them, that is the arbitration proceedings.
K39|A Short Look over the New Customs Regulations and the Logistics Performance in the European Union. Case Study: Romania [Scurtă privire asupra noilor reglementări vamale şi a performanţei logistice în Uniunea Europeană. Studiu de caz: România]|Logistics activities play an increasingly important role in the mechanism of running a foreign trade operation. The costs for this activity are found in the final price which determines the achievement of the business transaction. On an increasingly competitive global market the logistical factors acquire a growing importance, emphasis being placed on optimizing the logistics activities.
K39|Considérations Sur Les Initiatives Récentes De Révision De La Constitution Roumaine|Dans les dernieres années, la vie politique et institutionnelle roumaine a été marquée, entre autres, par une vive préoccupation de perfectionner le texte constitutionnel. Plusieurs initiatives, en partant du niveau présidentiel et jusqu’au activisme populaire, se sont manifestées, en témoignant chacune le fait que la derniere révision, de 2003, a été inachevée et que plusieurs aspects, tant la forme de régime politique, que les rapports entre les pouvoirs, voire l’organisation de la justice, demandent une nouvelle analyse profonde. La présente étude s’est proposée de passer en revue, d’une maniere critique, ces initiatives, en se rapportant aux considérants formulés par la Cour constitutionnelle roumaine.
K39|¿Existen Derechos Sociales?|Estudios Nueva Economía me solicitó autorización para reproducir este artículo de hace 10 años justo cuando estaba publicándose mi libro Derechos Sociales y Educación: un nuevo paradigma de lo público. La primera parte de ese libro fue conscientemente escrita como una reformulación del argumento de este artículo, una que diera cuenta de que la idea de “derechos sociales” tiene hoy una importancia pública de la que carecía en 2004. Lo primero que pensé, entonces, era que el libro hacía redundante al artículo, por lo que ya no se justificaba volver sobre éste. Pero dos consideraciones me convencieron de que republicarlo tenía un sentido: primero, como una manera de enfatizar que el argumento de este artículo no implica que no hay tal cosa como derecho social a la educación. Para mi sorpresa, algunos lectores de este artículo han quedado con la idea de que al defender hoy que la educación ha de ser un derecho social estoy rechazando la tesis de este artículo. Esos lectores entendieron que la idea defendida en este artículo era que la pregunta del título recibía una respuesta pura y simplemente negativa, cuando su primer párrafo explica que eso no es así. Yo creo, de hecho, que la manera en que se ha articulado la demanda por una nueva educación da la razón a este artículo: si se trata de hacer de la educación un derecho social, lo que es necesario es acción política, no recursos judiciales. La segunda razón es que, leyéndolo 10 años después, el artículo es a mi juicio tan correcto como lo era el día en que fue originalmente publicado. Por supuesto que hoy diría algunas cosas de modo distinto, o desarrollaría algunos temas que en este artículo solo se mencionan y no se desarrollan (algunas de estas cuestiones son identificadas más abajo en esta nota). Pero todas las ideas importantes siguen siendo correctas. O al menos yo sigo creyendo que ellas lo son.
K39|Labour Law Patrimonial Liabilities. General Aspects|The damages under labour law are assessed according to special legal provisions and in the absence of such regulations, civil law regulations must be applied in relation to the prices at the time at which the agreement of will was made or the damaged person may bring the action before the court. In the case of goods’ damage, the damage assessment is done in all cases taking into account the real degree of wear of the asset.
K39|Habeas data: new judicial guarantee in public law of Latin America|"In this conference we want to make our contribution in the theme "" Habeas data: new judicial guarantee in public law of Latin America "", concept of habeas data, origin and evolution, regulatory developments of the right-guarantee habeas data in the Latin America, experience of Colombia, Brasil, Venezuela and Costa Rica, legal interests protected, active and passive subjects.The first theme that we want to discuss is related to the basic concept of habeas data, its origin and regulatory development, the regulatory and judicial development in the Latin America Continent. In second place we have analized some tipical realities of Latin America, so that we can observe, through the constitutional paper, the respect and the rules for the application of this right- guarantee of third generation. The third theme in which was focused our study is related to the analysis of active and passive subjects, legitimate in the application of the right-guarantee of habeas data, the legal interest protected, legal and procedural aspects of this right-guarantee. Analitic study related to the guarantee of habeas data in the founding charts of the countries included in this study;Fields of application, legitimate of application and procedural aspects related; Comparative analysis of reality.Raise awareness of the Albanian legislator to build and include, at constitutional level, through the forms of constitutional review provided, the right-law of habeas data. Lead the albanian citizens to learn, update and rectify the informations concerning the protection of fundamental rights related whith the privacy and honour. Make the necessary constitutional revisions provided, with the purposes of including in the constitution the right-guarantee of habeas data."
K39|A model of state secularism|This paper posits a minimalist state interested in taxation and religion and explores the conditions conducive to the separation of state and religion. It shows that a ruler is secular and does not favour his religion as the state religion if he is absolutely tolerant, he faces a homogeneous, co-religionist society, and/or punishing violations of the state’s religious policy is prohibitively costly. Secular rulers are accordingly classified into three types: innately, coincidentally, and instrumentally secular. In the short run, individuals are equally well-off under different secular regimes. But among rulers, instrumentally secular rulers are relatively worse-off. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media Dordrecht 2014
K39|Las cooperativas no agropecuarias en Cuba<BR>[Non-agricultural cooperatives in Cuba]|Las cooperativas agropecuarias tienen una gran tradición en Cuba; sin embargo, hasta diciembre de 2012 no existía la posibilidad de constituir cooperativas dedicadas a actividades diferentes de las agropecuarias. Con la promulgación de una serie de normas que, con carácter experimental, regulan su constitución, estructura, régimen laboral de los socios y obligaciones contables, se pretende actualizar el modelo económico cubano. El objeto de este estudio es describir las características básicas de estas nuevas cooperativas cubanas y comparar su régimen jurídico con el de las cooperativas españolas establecido por la Ley 27/1999.
K39|Concreción de las entidades de la economía social<BR>[Delimitation of social economic entities]|El objeto de este estudio se centra en el análisis de los pormenores de las entidades de la Economía Social en España tras la entrada en vigor de la Ley 5/2011. No obstante, en primer lugar, se hace referencia a los antecedentes en la concreción de dichas entidades, con el objetivo de mostrar que no se trata de una labor sencilla. En segundo lugar, se lleva a cabo una primera aproximación a la regulación contemplada en la Ley 5/2011, de forma y manera que se sientan las bases que permiten comprender la estructura tenida en cuenta por el legislador a la hora de identificar las diez entidades que hasta la fecha pueden integrarse en la Economía Social. En concreto, se analiza desde una perspectiva de coherencia intranormativa el artículo 5, que más allá de mencionar expresamente las entidades consideradas de Economía social, establece también dos cláusulas abiertas a través de las cuales a futuro podrán incorporarse nuevas entidades. Finalmente, se profundiza en el estudio de cada una de las diez entidades identificadas, señalando sus principales rasgos característicos, que los acercan o alejan de la Economía Social.
K39|Wie das Hochschulfreiheitsgesetz Hochschulen noch freier machen könnte|Das Hochschulfreiheitsgesetz von Nordrhein-Westfalen aus dem Jahr 2006 ist immer noch in Kraft, auch wenn es demnächst durch ein viel restriktiveres Hochschulzukunftsgesetz ersetzt werden soll. Der wesentliche Anspruch war die Stärkung der Freiheit bzw. Autonomie von Hochschulen durch Änderungen des Hochschulgesetzes NRW. Hier werden konkrete Vorschläge präsentiert, wie dieser Anspruch noch besser hätte erfüllt werden können.
K39|Der Einfluss der Champions League auf die Wettbewerbsposition einzelner Vereine und die Competitive Balance der Bundesliga|Eine Teilnahme an der UEFA Champions League ermöglicht Vereinen, erhebliche finanzielle Zusatzeinnahmen zu generieren und ihre Kader so weiter zu verstärken. Gerade Vertreter schwächerer Bundesligaklubs beklagen sich daher über abnehmende Wettbewerbschancen und eine Schwächung der Competitve Balance und fordern entsprechende Gegenmaßnahmen. Vor diesem Hintergrund soll in diesem Diskussionspapier sowohl theoretisch als auch empirisch analysiert werden, wie die Champions League die Competitive Balance der Bundesliga beeinflusst.
K39|The evolution of gender legislation in Italy and Europe|The work describes the evolution of the Italian legislation on equal opportunities and compares the current legal framework with those in other European jurisdictions and the gender policies of the European Community. The aim is to identify the regulatory initiatives taken elsewhere that could help improve the condition of women in Italy. The study suggests that the existing gaps in gender equality among countries are mainly related to rule enforcement, which in turn reflects the extent to which gender issues are lent importance in the societyï¿½s dominant value system. This highlights the need for appropriate mechanisms to ensure the effective implementation of the ï¿½gender mainstreamingï¿½ principle (statistics, gender budgeting, ombudspeople, media and education programs). As to more specific gender policies, ad hoc measures are needed to promote a cultural shift in the division of tasks among men and women (e.g. reforms of parental leave), including measures that affect existing equilibria, so as to remedy the traditional exclusion of women from decision-making processes (e.g. gender quotas).
K39|Certain Assessments Related To The Importance Of European Court Of Human Rights In The European Law System|Being so intensely debated in the contemporary world, the human rights issues is acquiring a well defined contour through the human rights protection systems. The role of these systems is to establish a series of fundamental rights and freedoms, so that they can no longer be violated. The main systems of promotion and protection of human rights are: the Inter-American system of human rights protection, the African system and the European system. Two years before the European Convention on Human Rights on 10 December 1948 the Universal Declaration of Human Rights was elaborated by the Constituent Assembly of the UN. It is not an international treaty. In the 30 articles the nobility of the human being was highlighted and man was praised. The text of the Declaration sets out a series of fundamental rights, “a common ideal to be fulfilled” for all people, regardless of race, sex, language, religion, political opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or material status. The provisions of the Declaration caused a worldwide explosion in international law. Thanks to its generous provisions, it has spread rapidly throughout the world and began to be observed as a treaty. Today, the Declaration is cited in the preamble of international treaties, even in some judicial reasons or in the preamble of Constitutions, for instance in the Romanian Constitution from 1991 under Title II, fundamental rights, freedoms and duties, article 20 reference is made to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
K39|Petičné právo vyplývajúce z občianstva Európskej únie|Tento článok je venovaný jednému z práv, ktoré súvisí s pojmom občianstva Európskej únie. Podľa článku 227 Zmluvy o fungovaní Európskej únie: „ Akýkoľvek občan Únie a akákoľvek fyzická či právnická osoba s bydliskom alebo sídlom zaregistrovaným v členskom štáte má právo individuálne alebo spoločne s ďalšími občanmi alebo osobami predložiť Európskemu parlamentu petíciu vo veci, ktorá sa ich priamo dotýka a ktorá spadá do pôsobnosti Únie.“ Petičné právo má za cieľ poskytnúť občanom Európskej únie jednoduchý spôsob, ako sa obrátiť na Európsky parlament so žiadosťami alebo sťažnosťami. Petície umožňujú Európskemu parlamentu poukázať na porušovanie práv občanov zo strany Európskej únie, členských štátov, regionálnych vlád alebo iných inštitúcií.
K39|Priestor Slobody Bezpečnosti A Spravodlivosti V Kontexte Európskej Integrácie|Cieľom tohto príspevku je skúmať priestor slobody bezpečnosti a spravodlivosti v kontexte európskej integrácie. Priestor slobody, bezpečnosti a spravodlivosti zahŕňa tak rozdielne oblasti ako prisťahovalectvo, azyl, hraničné kontroly a víza, súdnu spoluprácu v civilných a trestných veciach a policajnú spoluprácu. Postupné prehlbovanie integrácie medzi členskými štátmi v rámci úniového priestoru slobody, bezpečnosti a spravodlivosti predstavuje významné napredovanie európskeho projektu. Súbežne integrácia v priestore slobody, bezpečnosti a spravodlivosti sleduje aktuálny vývoj integrácie v Európskej únii, ktorý sa vyznačuje zvýšenou decentralizáciou s dôrazom na fragmentáciu pravidiel.
K39|Explaining the “unpredictable”: An empirical analysis of U.S. patent infringement awards|Patent infringement awards are commonly thought to be unpredictable, which raises concerns that patents can lead to unjust enrichment and impede the progress of innovation. We investigate the unpredictability of patent damages by conducting a large-scale econometric analysis of award values. We begin by analyzing the outcomes of 340 cases decided in US federal courts between 1995 and 2008 in which infringement was found and damages were awarded. Our data include the amount awarded, along with information about the litigants, case specifics and economic value of the patents-at-issue. Using these data, we construct an econometric model that explains over 75% of the variation in awards. We further conduct in-depth analysis of the key factors affecting award value, via targeted regressions involving selected variables. We find a high degree of significance between award value and ex ante-identifiable factors collectively, and we also identify significant relationships with accepted indicators of patent value. Our findings demonstrate that infringement awards are not systematically unpredictable and, moreover, highlight the critical elements that can be expected to result in larger or smaller awards.
K39|Empirical Implications of Sequential Innovation and Legal Action|This article compares two hypotheses, sequential innovation and legal action, and theoretically obtains the testable implications to specify which hypothesis is crucial in empirical evidence. Our main results are that we distinguish between the two hypotheses based on i) whether the cross-term coefficient of the number of patents and the dummy of patent law are positive or negative and ii) whether the variance of the patent distribution is decreased.
K39|Fundamental Rights In The Eec Treaty And Within Community Freedoms|It has been widely argued that the European Economic Community (EEC) was based on principles of economic integrity and growth through the creation of a common market; this is not far from reality. The Treaty of Rome was full of provisions that enhanced economic co-operation and increased the sense of liberalization in Europe, such as the four, now traditional, Community freedoms. Although all the above applied, there were articles within the EEC Treaty where fundamental rights were guaranteed; more than that, fundamental rights that occurred from the Community freedoms, even in a basic level. This is of highest importance since the interpretation of those provisions gave the initiative for further development in the field of fundamental rights protection within the Community legal order, throughout legislative procedure and case law. The aim of this paper is to present the fundamental rights as highlighted in the EEC Treaty and critically approach their concept under Community law.
K39|Islamic constitutionalism and rule of law: a constitutional economics perspective|This study investigates the relationship between Islamic constitutionalism and rule of law. Al Azhar, one of the most respected Sunni religious institutions in the world, developed a model of an Islamic constitution. This study uses Al-Azhar’s constitution as a model of Islamic constitutionalism and examines its stance in regard to the rule of law. We find the Al-Azhar’s constitution to be incompatible with essential concepts of rule of law. For example, the powers vested in the head of the Islamic state are enormous, making the executive branch of government far superior to the legislative and judicial branches. Women and non-Muslims are explicitly discriminated against throughout the constitution. Moreover, laws stemming from this constitution are not stable since many differences exist among schools of Islamic jurisprudence (fiqh). Consequently, we show that state-of-the-art Islamic constitutionalism lacks essential components needed in any constitution based on rule of law. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2013
K39|European integration assessed in the light of the ‘rules vs. standards debate’|The interplay of various legal systems in the European Union (EU) has long triggered a debate on the tension between uniformity and diversity of Member States’ (MS) laws. This debate takes place among European legal scholars and is also paralleled by economic scholars, e.g. in the ambit of the ‘theory of federalism’. This paper takes an innovative perspective on the discrepancy between ‘centralized’ and ‘decentralized’ law-making in the EU by assessing it with the help of the rules versus standards debate. When should the EU legislator grant the national legislator leeway in the formulation of new laws and when should all be fixed ex ante at European level? The literature on the ‘optimal shape of legal norms’ shall be revisited in the light of law-making in the EU, centrally dealing with the question how much discretion shall be given to the national legislator; and under which circumstances. This paper enhances the established decisive factors for the choice of a rule or a standard in a national setting (complexity, volatility, judges’ specialization and frequency of application) by two new crucial factors (switching costs and the benefit of uniformity in terms of information costs) in order to assess law-making policies at EU level. Copyright The Author(s) 2013
K39|"Theoretical Approaches On The Economic Content Of The Category ""Intellectual Property"""|The phenomenon of the intellectual property is becoming more known, exceeding the dimensions of law and legal rules governing the protection of intellectual activity’s results. The approach to the category of intellectual property from the economic point of view is less studied, in comparison with its juridical aspects. In this article, the author examines the essence of the cathegory of intellectual property, especially within the framework of the economical science.
K39|Policies for Inclusive Urbanisation in China|Urbanisation in China has long been held back by various restrictions on land and internal migration but has taken off since the 1990s, as these impediments started to be gradually relaxed. People have moved in large numbers to richer cities, where productivity is higher and has increased further thanks to agglomeration effects. In the process, the rural-urban income differential has narrowed. Urbanisation also entails costs, however, notably in the form of congestion, all the more so as public transport provision has not kept up. Demand for living space is set to continue to increase as living standards improve, putting pressure on land prices. This can be offset by relaxing the very stringent restrictions on the use of agricultural land for building. For migrants to better integrate in the cities where they work, their access and that of their families to education, health and other social services must continue to improve, in particular via further changes to the registration system, coupled with more market-based rules on land ownership and use. Comment favoriser une urbanisation plus inclusive en Chine Alors que l’urbanisation était depuis longtemps freinée en Chine par diverses restrictions appliquées au marché foncier et aux migrations internes, elle s’intensifie depuis que ces obstacles ont commencé à être progressivement levés dans les années 90. Les villes plus riches, caractérisées par une productivité élevée et en constante progression du fait des économies d’échelle générées par l’urbanisation, enregistrent un afflux massif de migrants. Parallèlement, l’écart de revenus entre zones rurales et urbaines s’est resserré. Néanmoins, l’urbanisation a aussi un coût, notamment illustré par les problèmes de congestion, aggravés par le développement insuffisant de l’offre de transports publics. La demande de surface habitable devrait rester orientée à la hausse sous l’effet de l’amélioration du niveau de vie, ce qui exercera une pression sur les prix des terrains. Cette pression peut être atténuée en assouplissant les restrictions très sévères appliquées à l’usage des terres agricoles à des fins de construction. Pour veiller à une meilleure intégration des migrants dans les villes où ils travaillent, il faut continuer à améliorer leur accès et celui de leurs familles à l’éducation, aux soins de santé et aux autres types de services sociaux, notamment en poursuivant la réforme du système d’enregistrement et en adoptant une réglementation plus axée sur le marché en ce qui concerne la propriété et l’utilisation des terres.
K39|Do Freedom of Information Laws Decrease Corruption?| International organizations have encouraged countries to adopt Freedom of Information (FOI) laws as a means to increase transparency and thus combat corruption. This article uses the recent introduction of FOI laws in several countries as a natural experiment to determine their effect on corruption perceptions and the quality of governance. Using different corruption perception indices, both at the macro- and micro-level, I find that countries that adopted FOI laws saw an increase in perceived corruption and a decrease in the quality of governance, rather than the expected improvement. This increase in corruption perception seems to take place in the initial years of the reform, with no significant decrease in the long term. Countries with a free press appear to be the ones experiencing the increase. Results are robust throughout different samples and specifications. (JEL D72, D73, H11, K39, K42). The Author 2012. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Yale University. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com, Oxford University Press.
K39|Book Review: Shari'ah Maxims Modern Applications in Islamic Finance by Muhammad Tahir Mansoori|Shari'ah Maxims Modern Applications in Islamic Finance by Muhammad Tahir Mansoori is a second updated and revised edition of his previous work published under the same title in 2007. It is, perhaps, the first text book on Shari'ah maxims with modern application in Islamic finance. The author’s simple language and his lucid style are highly suitable for this purpose. The knowledge of Shari'ah maxim will surely help the students and decision makers develop insights in new economic matters and reach correct conclusions.
K39|Several Aspects Regarding Orphan Works After The Adoption Of Eu Directive 2012/28/Eu Of The European Parliament And The Council Of 25 October 2012|This study aims at presenting the new legal provisions at EU level regarding orphan works (Directive 2012/28/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on certain permitted uses of orphan works) and their transposition into national law. The study explains the content of the Directive and raises some issues regarding the transposition into national law. It also highlights several problems which can occur in this process because of errors in translation.
K39|Insurance Intermediaries|The actual Civil code regulates for the first time in the Romanian legislation the intermediation contract, until its entering into force existing multiple situations that lent themselves to this legal operation, but did not benefit of such particular legal rules. Yet, the case law has shown that the situations that arise in the activity of the legal or natural persons are much more complex, this leading, in time, to the reglementation of such particular rules. Such a case is that found in the matter of insurance contracts, the position of the insurance intermediaries being regulated especially by Law no. 32/2000, according to which they represent the natural or legal persons authorized in the conditions of the above mentioned legal document, that perform intermediation activities in the insurance field, in exchange of a remuneration, as well as the intermediaries from the EU member states that perform such an activity on the Romanian territory, in accordance with the freedom in performing services. Therefore, the present paper aims to analyze the conclusion of such insurance contracts and to underline the particular position of the insurance brokers, having the following structure: 1) Introduction; 2) The reglementation of the intermediation contract/brokerage agreement in the Romanian Law; 3) The importance of the intermediaries in the insurance contracts; 4) The conclusion of the insurance contracts; 5) Conclusions.
K39|Nuevas realidades en el tercer sector: las aportaciones jurídico-organizativas de las fundaciones cívicas<BR>[New realities in the third sector: the legal and organisational contributions of community foundations]|Las fundaciones cívicas constituyen una realidad incipiente en Europa aunque sus orígenes se remontan a comienzos del siglo XX. En España sin embargo, hasta fechas muy recientes, no empiezan a identificarse organizaciones que respondan a las características propias de este tipo de fundaciones. El propósito de este trabajo es, en primer lugar, sistematizar los elementos configuradores específicos a nivel organizativo –finalidad, recursos, actividades, procesos y estructuras de gobierno- que subyacen en esta fórmula peculiar del Tercer Sector, exponiendo cómo se manifiestan a través de algunos ejemplos de buenas prácticas presentes en la realidad española. Esta sistematización sirve de base, en segundo lugar, para proponer una definición de fundación cívica, reflexionar sobre la pertinencia del término escogido para denominarlas y resaltar sus principales ventajas, aportaciones y novedades respecto a otras formas jurídicas alternativas –como las fundaciones clásicas y las asociaciones-, lo que las lleva a convertirse en un fenómeno de innovación social organizativa. Por último se trazan las líneas maestras del encaje de este tipo de entidades en el ordenamiento jurídico español y se ponen de manifiesto algunas de las dificultades ydesajustes normativos que pueden plantearse cuando la regulación vigente, fundamentalmente la de naturaleza tributaria, no tiene en cuenta de forma adecuada las particularidades de este tipo de entidades.
K39|Bank foundation – a symbiotic legal institution at the crossroad of banking system and non-profit sector|In the context of the development and omnipresence, in Europe, of the non-profit sector and due to the diversification of the legal entities that are involved in the configuration of the third sector, an legal analysis of the foundation of banking origins, is very appealing.Throughout this study we aim to point out key moments in the evolution of this particular figure, mainly in the Italian legislation. Nevertheless, we intend to identify the legal nature of the foundation of banking origins in order to draw a line between banking and philanthropic activities.
K39|45. výročie Zmluvy o zásadách činnosti štátov pri výskume a využívaní kozmického priestoru vrátane Mesiaca a iných nebeských telies|Autor vo svojom príspevku pripomína počiatky prenikania do kozmického priestoru, poukazuje na formovanie nového odvetvia – kozmického práva a tiež na celý rad problémov a otázok spojených s predmetnou problematikou.
K39|L'application de la Convention Internationale des Droits de l'Enfant en droit luxembourgeois|Le Grand-Duché de Luxembourg a approuvé ? sous réserves ? la Convention Internationale des Droits de l?Enfant par la loi du 20 décembre 1993. L?étude de l?application de cette Convention internationale en droit luxembourgeois implique un vaste « tour d?horizon », tourné, d?une part, vers le passé et le présent et, d?autre part, vers l?avenir. Lorsque le regard se tourne vers le passé et le présent, il invite à l?étude des principales mesures assurant la mise en oeuvre du Traité en droit interne, c?est-à-dire les acquis actuels et les concrétisations récentes, qui donnent pleinement effet aux droits reconnus dans la Convention et assurent l?effectivité de la jouissance de ces droits. Lorsque le regard est porté vers le futur et l?avenir, il incite à l?examen des principales réformes assurant le respect de la Convention en droit luxembourgeois, c?est-à-dire les projets actuellement en discussion et les perspectives qui visent à approfondir l?effectivité juridique et pratique de la Convention en droit interne.
K39|Finding Footing in a Postmodern Conception of Law (English version)|The following jurisprudence paper examines the implications of postmodern thought upon our conception of law. In this paper I argue that, despite the absolute, all-consuming moral relativism towards which postmodernism seems to lead in its most extreme form, its acceptance in fact in no way undermines the possibility of finding solid ground for our legal principles. This paper contends that moral objectivity can be found in the individual experience of suffering generated by these very subjective concoctions. Subjective concoctions or not, they are real in that they imbue a sense of value into conditions, and may thus serve as foundational principles for law. While our value systems are stripped of all claim to objective authority, ultimately, all postmodernism does is force us to set aside our larger concepts of “justice,” and instead root our legal conceptions at this far more fundamental level of human experience.
K39|Applying Appreciative Inquiry Principles in the Restorative Justice Field (English version)|Although the convergence between appreciative ideology and the ideologies derived from the need of preserving human dignity is not complete, they can be seen in a single paradigm of affirmative action. Although restorative justice principles are not inspired by appreciative inquiry methodology, are at least converging with it, both of them focusing on human potential positivity. Moving the accent from the offense and its due retribution, on the recovery of prior state offense, both for the victim and the offender, this can be interpreted as waiving the deficiency paradigm, and integrating positive experiences resulting from mediation offender-victim relationship in an appreciative paradigm. Application of appreciative inquiry in restorative justice and in probation systems is a unique area in the world, it being applied only on an experimental level in some restorative justice programs..
K39|Finding Footing in a Postmodern Conception of Law (English version)|The following jurisprudence paper examines the implications of postmodern thought upon our conception of law. In this paper I argue that, despite the absolute, all-consuming moral relativism towards which postmodernism seems to lead in its most extreme form, its acceptance in fact in no way undermines the possibility of finding solid ground for our legal principles. This paper contends that moral objectivity can be found in the individual experience of suffering generated by these very subjective concoctions. Subjective concoctions or not, they are real in that they imbue a sense of value into conditions, and may thus serve as foundational principles for law. While our value systems are stripped of all claim to objective authority, ultimately, all postmodernism does is force us to set aside our larger concepts of “justice,” and instead root our legal conceptions at this far more fundamental level of human experience.
K39|The Business Federation of the Chambers of Trade and Commerce in Hungary|In Hungary, before joining the European Union, great stress was laid on the study of the intermediate or “mezzo” sphere between the policy and the economy, which had also covered the topic of the chambers of trade and commerce. Nowadays these institutions are in focus again because the increasingly smaller participation of the government in the economy would require the presence of the chambers’ corporation to provide help in the business-related affairs of the country. For this reason I deal with the specific characteristics of each chamber model, the establishment of the Hungarian chamber system, its history and its present tasks. Being familiar with all these aspects, it is clear that its role in the development of economy (especially in the field of ventures) and some administrative rights has been beyond question in the past and continues to be so in the present. A model in my empirical study about the role of a chamber is also presented, which aims to investigate the needs for and use of services provided by the chamber among enterprises of different sizes, so their existence is indispensible.
K39|Government and Governance in the Local Utilities of Economic Relevance: The State of Art in a Legal Perspective|This paper concerns the recent evolution in terms of government and governance of the discipline on the local public utilities in Italy,paying attention to the recent changes occurred. The Italian Constitutional Court has declared the illegitimacy of the art. 4, l. n. 148/2011 that established the general discipline of local publicservices of economic relevance within the Italian Legal System; particularly, the Constitutional Court noted that such discipline was adopted in violation of the prohibition of restoring the lawabrogated by popular referendum of 12-13 June 2011. Consequently, in view of the declaration of unconstitutionality, local public services of economic importance directly apply the European rules on the protection of competition.
K39|The Role Of Tax Relief In A Time Of Crisis|The different productive and financial innovations have historically played a key role in the origin of any economic crisis. The special feature of the present one is no doubt his greatness. There are many measures taken by various European Governments to tackle the crisis. All are intended to reduce the tax relief and raise taxes. Can these measures succeed in bettering the various States from the current economic situation? The present study examines critically the measures taken by Italy and Romania proposing some alternative measures.
K39|In the shadow of giants|Intellectual giants provide broad shoulders for subsequent inventors. Their unfinished inquiry, however, also casts shadow on the prospect of future research. This paper incorporates this shadow effect into a two-stage innovation process and shows that patenting the first-stage result (the basic invention) may enhance the second-stage innovation. It is optimal to reject patent protection to the basic invention only when this beneficial effect does not arise, and when it is essential to preserve the pioneering inventor's incentive to continue research activities.
K39|Perceived Internet privacy concerns on social network in Europe|The development of computing technologies and Internet has made possible to capture, save and analyse increasing mount of personal information, which might impact public concern about privacy. The present article aims at analysing Internet privacy concerns in respect to social network website. We use a well-suited dataset of 23 087 individuals collected by the European Union in 2009 in all member states. Fitting an ordered logit model, we examine the variables associated with the probability to have high privacy concerns in order to draw policy and regulatory implications. The results show that institutional framework ensuring comprehensive national efforts to safeguard privacy increases the probability to be worried about possible misuse of private data. Additionally, we observe that socio-demographic variables affect the perception of individual personal data use/misuse.
K39|Time-lag and Business. On Non-Economic Determinants of Economic Parameters (Time-lag i biznes. O pozaekonomicznych wyznacznikach parametrów ekonomicznych)|The system of law enactment in Poland is flawed. It should be based on consultations between the government and non-governmental communities and institutions. One of the tools of such consultations, i.e. social dialogue, is the Tri-partite Commission for Socio-Economic Issues. It was supposed to constitute a plane for communication between the government, trade unions and employers. Its existence at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy proved to be ineffective. Also lack of ability to conduct conversations and negotiations, which would serve to develop arrangements — agreements which, in turn, would become the basis for formulating statutes — does not contribute to successful transfer of information between the three parties. As a result, the law which should anticipate the existing economic phenomena (positive and negative) is created by a legislator with a time-lag. This situation entails negative consequences for companies and the entire economy as well as causes crisis social phenomena, e.g. unemployment increase.
K39|"El fomento de la “economía social” en la legislación española<BR>[Promoting the ""social economy"" in sapnish legislation]"|La “economía social” como concepto identificativo de una forma de hacer empresa, caracterizada por sus fines y ciertas pautas de comportamiento comunes, ha tenido reconocimiento en la legislación española desde los años 90 y especialmente en el último año con la aprobación de la Ley 5/2011 de Economía Social. Los objetivos principales de esta Ley son dar reconocimiento legal a la economía social y promover su fomento. Pero la economía social, como identificación de una realidad económica viene siendo objeto de fomento desde mucho antes, desde la creación en 1990 del Instituto Nacional de Fomento de la Economía Social. Hoy en día, el fomento de la economía social es una competencia asumida por todas las Comunidades Autónomas. Se subvencionan normalmente los gastos derivados de actividades de promoción de la economía social y los gastos generales de funcionamiento de sus entidades representativas. Pero el concepto de economía social utilizado identifica, con alguna excepción (mutualidades y empresas de inserción), exclusivamente a las cooperativas y sociedades laborales. La razón está en que dentro de cada administración pública el fomento de la economía social suele ser competencia de la administración competente en materia de empleo. Con la nueva ley, el fomento de la economía social debería alcanzar a todas las demás familias y para ello sería aconsejable que su fomento se atribuyese a un organismo interministerial.
K39|Unter welchen Bedingungen fördert die Riester-Förderung? Eine theoretische Analyse unter simultaner Einbeziehung von Kosten- und Steuereffekten|Die Riester geförderten Produkte erlebten kürzlich das zehnjährige Jubiläum. Bisherige Analysen über die Vorteilhaftigkeit bezogen sich in der Regel auf Teilaspekte: entweder nur die Kosten- oder nur die Steuereffekte wurden untersucht. Ergebnis der Teilanalysen sind sich widersprechende Handlungsempfehlungen. Dieser Beitrag versucht Handlungsempfehlungen zu geben, wobei Kosten- und Steuereffekte gleichermaßen berücksichtigt werden. Dabei steht nicht die Frage im Vordergrund, welche Kostenunterschiede zwischen den Riester-Produkten beobachtbar sind, weil es die Fragestellung des Entscheiders nicht adäquat berücksichtigt. Vielmehr fokussiert der Beitrag ausschließlich auf die Fragestellung des Entscheiders, nämlich ein ausgewähltes Altersvorsorgeprodukt entweder gefördert oder ungefördert zu erwerben. Der theoretischen Analyse schließen sich Simulationen für drei Einkommenstypen an, wobei für den Geringverdiener stets und für den Durchschnittsverdiener, sofern Kinder einbezogen werden, die Wahl des geförderten Produktes zu empfehlen ist. Der Spitzenverdiener sollte bei weniger als drei Kindern das ungeförderte Produkt wählen. Die Empfehlung ist umkehrbar, sofern kritische Kostenunterschiede zwischen den Varianten vorhanden sind.
K39|"LDC export diversification, employment generation and the ""green economy"": What roles for tourism linkages?"|Pro-poor tourism is arguably one of the best green options for addressing LDC poverty, employment and economic diversification initiatives. Although often neglected as a serious policy option - and consequently most of its potential still remains untapped - tourism is the leading export for at least 11 LDCs, and the 2nd or 3rd largest export for another 11 or more. It is also a major source of new employment, especially for women, youth and the rural poor in general. While difficult to measure accurately, tourism's pro-poor impacts are directly related to the achieved level of inter- and intra-sectoral linkages. Taking export diversification, employment generation and the green economy in turn, the working paper analyzes feasible LDC alternatives, reaching the conclusion (within the limits of data availability) that - in contrast with the current overemphasis on agriculture and manufacturing - green tourism is demonstrably one of the areas of greatest current comparative advantage and development potential for the majority of LDCs, via its extensive upstream and downstream linkages/multiplier effects, employment-generating and poverty alleviation capacities, opportunities for export test marketing of new products, sustainability, and largely untapped export opportunities. An economy wide, primarily private-sector approach is an essential element for maximizing tourism benefits - including its multiple linkages with agriculture and manufacturing - together with a significant coordinating governmental role to minimize negative externalities. Unfortunately, there is no automatic guarantee that expanding tourism will significantly increase poverty alleviation or local employment generation: the necessary mechanisms must be explicitly included in tourism planning and implementation.
K39|Households Insurance -Howto Release Catastrophic Risks|The article refers to the compulsory and voluntary insurances for the protection of households which can be affected by natural or technical disasters, risks that can be covered by these insurances. The failure of state’s involvement in supporting the costs led to the reform of insurances, meaning the acquisition, by each owner, of compulsory insurance for one or more households owned by him. The laws were aimed, in turn, at the compulsiveness, and then the non-compulsiveness of households insurance until 2011, when, by the Law 260 republished, it is stipulated the compulsory insurance for natural disasters. The Pool of Insurance against Natural Disasters (PAID) was authorized to conclude compulsory households insurance by issuing the policy of insurance against natural disasters (PAD) which covers risks up to 20,000 euro or 10,000 euro depending on the type of household.
K39|Územná pôsobnosť práva Európskej únie|Tento článok objasňuje zaujímavú otázku územnej pôsobnosti práva Európskej únie. V zásade sa zmluvy uplatňujú na celom území členských štátov Európskej únie s presne stanovenými výnimkami. Územia členských štátov ležiace ďaleko od európskeho kontinentu buď podliehajú právu Európskej únie, no s viacerými obchýlkami (najvzdialenejšie regióny), sú pridružené k Európskej únii (zámorské krajiny a územia), uplatňujú sa v ich prípade ad hoc ustanovenia vo vzťahu k právu Európskej únie alebo sa na ne právo Európskej únie vôbec nevzťahuje. Rozmanitosť území členských štátov a odlišnosť ich právneho statusu je príkladom flexibility práva Európskej únie.
K39|Medzinárodné kozmické právo|Autor sa vo svojom príspevku zaoberá problematikou kozmického práva, ktorá v slovenskej právnej vede nie je spracovaná. Objasňuje pojmový aparát, jeho pramene, režim využívania kozmického priestoru a nebeských telies, právny status kozmonautov a umelých kozmických objektov, zodpovednosť za činnosť a spôsobené škody a ďalšie otázky súvisiace s predmetnou problematikou.
K39|Entre la diferenciación y los individuos: Derechos fundamentales y las redes de la infamia|In modern societies, the internal relationship between politics and law constitutes the cardinal factor by which fundamental rights are institutionalized. Since functional differentiation provides a framework in which individuals can implement those rights and the legal-political coupling legitimizes and sanctions them, fundamental rights are deemed to be co-original with functional differentiation. This article addresses the difficulties in realizing those rights in Latin America as a consequence of the networks of stratification and reciprocity. Such networks become entrenched and disrupt formal procedures, thereby limiting the universalization of those rights and introducing the particular interests of the network itself. It is argued in this paper that this is an important source of inequality in Latin American modernity.
K39|Civil and criminal penalties for copyright infringement|Copyright violations are subject to both civil and criminal sanctions, but criminal charges are relatively rare. Using a theoretical model, this study compares the implications of civil and criminal penalty schemes from the viewpoint of social welfare, where civil and criminal schemes are distinguished by whether penalties are paid to the copyright holder or the government. The analysis suggests that when the costs of developing a copyrighted product are low, the socially most desirable scheme is one in which there are no civil penalties and criminal penalties are low. Although very severe criminal penalties may lead to the complete elimination of copyright infringements, they could also result in excessive monopoly profits for the producer of the copyrighted good. A further finding is that the number of copyright infringements is smaller under the criminal than the civil law scheme.
K39|Negotiating constitutions for political unions|This paper provides a cradle-to-grave model of political merger between two states and highlights the role of cross-border disparities in material and technological endowments in state formation. This issue has not received adequate theoretical attention in the existing scholarship that has largely focussed on factors like defence, trade, and public goods provision. In this paper, merger negotiations are modelled using a bilateral bargaining model with inside options and contest as an outside option. It is shown that the threat of contest constrains the set of mutually acceptable taxes and, more importantly, it provides stability to the federal constitution by making the punishment strategy in the secession rule credible. The existence of negotiated and contested constitutional merger agreements that are path dependent but time-consistent is shown. Also, the rent extracted by the advanced province in the union for transferring technology to the backward province is shown to be increasing in the complexity of technology but bounded from above. Finally, the impact of demographic heterogeneity on the feasibility of inter-state mergers is discussed.
K39|Features of Legal Language. The Translator’s Perspective (English version)|The crucial importance of the language of the law in the modern society is undeniable as through it the complex legal mechanism is set in motion. Characterising this particular type of language is not a simple task and theorists adopt different perspectives which range from focussing on terminology and syntax to spotlighting ‘problem features’. Legal terminology and phraseology is a major concern for all those who deal with legal language but especially for the legal translator as (s) he must bring to a common level, two or more legal systems which are sometimes particularly diverse and culture-bound. Legal style is also peculiar as it makes use of old-fashioned syntax, lengthy sentences, redundancy of the discourse, overuse of performative verbs, conjoined phrases and lists of words, preference for impersonal constructions, etc. These are the most important features which allow us to distinguish legal style from the style of the common language.
K39|Architecture and the Protection of Historical Monuments in the Hungarian Legislation (English version)|The protection of monuments, seen as interdisciplinary syntagma, whether it is its legal aspect: property law, criminal law, urban planning law, or simply art or architecture, is an issue that should be treated with utmost seriousness, if one wants to offer the future generations the chance to be part of the cultural heritage of architectural and historical monuments, be they local - national – international (by emphasizing the bravery of the past it is highlighted the need and awareness of protection of monuments). This paper is intended to present the evolution of the Hungarian legislation in the field of protection of monuments, highlighting its important aspects, the close connection between the built-up space and the monuments, the evolution of the specific legislation, culminating with the presentation of a sine qua non relationship: criminal law vs. protection of monuments, emphasized by an example.
K39|Arhitectura si Protectia Monumentelor Istorice in Legislatia Maghiara - Architecture and the Protection of Historical Monuments in the Hungarian Legislation (Romanian version)|The protection of monuments, seen as interdisciplinary syntagma, whether it is its legal aspect: property law, criminal law, urban planning law, or simply art or architecture, is an issue that should be treated with utmost seriousness, if one wants to offer the future generations the chance to be part of the cultural heritage of architectural and historical monuments, be they local - national – international (by emphasizing the bravery of the past it is highlighted the need and awareness of protection of monuments). This paper is intended to present the evolution of the Hungarian legislation in the field of protection of monuments, highlighting its important aspects, the close connection between the built-up space and the monuments, the evolution of the specific legislation, culminating with the presentation of a sine qua non relationship: criminal law vs. protection of monuments, emphasized by an example.
K39|Theoretical-methodological Aproaches to the Regional Security (English version)|While studying the international relations, the formulation of a complete and unanimously accepted definition of security has constituted a genuine test for the researchers. The new paradigm of security, in process of its outlining, has, from the perspective of the impact on functionality of the international security system, a series of indubitable advantages, by introducing drainage mechanisms which limit the spiral of competition for military power and transfers the conflict from the area of armed fight to non-military domains.
K39|Enforcing IPR through Informal Institutions: The possible role of religion in fighting software piracy|The existence of formal IPR laws can be considered a prerequisite for having efficient law enforcement but does not imply efficient enforcement in itself. A simple model is constructed to explain the interplay between the IPR law and human behavior within counterfeiting countries. It shows how a politically monitored IPR enforcement strategy is able to alter formal IPR laws or institutions but might not affect informal institutions, or human morals and behavior, to the same extent, hence barely affecting piracy situation. The model shows the essential role of informal institutions and its sanction mechanisms in the enforcement process. The main obstacle of IPR enforcement is that people are still not convinced that IPR violations are unethical. Religion can be considered an informal institution that might support or hinder formal laws issued with regards to IPR and hence influence de facto enforcement of laws, especially in countries with high piracy rate if a high adherence to religion is found. As the Religion-Loyalty Index (RLI) developed by this study shows, Muslim countries have the highest religiosity level among different religions. Consequently, an investigation of how Islamic jurisprudence views IPR piracy is conducted. As Islam generally prohibits IPR piracy, a set of policy recommendations based on new institutional perspective is presented that can effectively help in minimizing IPR piracy in developing countries in general and Muslim ones in specific.
K39|The Reform Of The Labour Interest Reconciliation In Hungary|The interest reconciliation in the Hungarian Labour Law had been regulated insufficiently before last year. The Labour Code of 1992 had provisions only about National Interest Reconciliation, according to which the Government negotiated with the national trade unions and employers’ interest representation organisations. Therefore, the sectorial and regional interest reconciliation was unknown in the world of Labour Law. Sectorial and regional interest reconciliation existed only in the public service owing to the Public Service Acts.
K39|The Experiences Of The Center For Public Affairs Studies In Education For European Administration|The “Corvinus” University of Budapest is one of the largest and most prestigious institutions of higher education in Hungary. Historically, the graduates of the university were called upon to serve as top and middle-level public officials in the central government of Hungary, as well as in various national public authorities. However, the study of public policy making and public management, in the form and content as developed in Western countries, were not a component of the Hungarian higher education. Realizing this gap in the Hungarian higher education and building on its existing faculty, the university decided to offer degrees in public policy and management. From the beginning the purpose is to develop an educational program with a standard of academic excellence matching its leading European and American counterparts. This strong emphasis on quality shaped the early selection of faculty and the first steps of implementation. In the fall of 1991 the Center for Public Affairs Studies was established to initiate graduate and post-graduate education in public policy, public administration and management. The main task of the Center is to create, organize and coordinate coherent educational and training programs as well as initiate and commission research concerning public sector. The Center has rapidly gained recognition in the international academic community. The paper describes the successes of the Center in developing educational programs for European Public Administration and analyses the difficulties the Center faced in the last twenty years.
K39|European Legislation Regarding The Sexual And Moral Harrasment|A substantial body of research addressing the issue of sexual harassment in the workplace has been developed over the past decade. Sexual harassment has consequences. More than half of the employees reported negative consequences for their personal well-being; a third of the harassed employees described negative effects for their work situation such as resignation, reduction in tasks, change of workplace, and poorer working conditions. Also, the harassment had negative consequences for work satisfaction, the working climate and motivation.
K39|The Hungarian minority question in Slovakia and Romania|With the redrawing of European borders following the First World War, some 5 million ethnic Hungarians were assigned minority status in neighboring countries that acquired lands formerly part of Greater Hungary. Discourse analysis of national constitutions reveal that policies toward minorities in Slovakia and Romania were particularly oppressive during the Soviet era, becoming more accommodating as EU accession neared. In this paper, I argue that national determinism, nationalism fueled by legacy, and the EU as a strong external force do not, on their own, hold explanatory power, rather, all factors taken together account for the ongoing struggle for social inclusion.
K39|Governance and the European Commission’s 2020 strategy|This paper aims to prove that an essential step for reaching the targets of the European Commission’s 2020 Strategy for the EU to become a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy lies with the reform and integration of the governance at the level of the Union and especially the administration of its member states and the increasing democratization of EU institutions. It is only through administrative harmonization that economic cohesion can be assured. Specifically, the Union should extend member state reporting to areas of public administration, focusing on the efficiency and legality of its actions. Monitoring, akin to the mechanism for cooperation and verification of progress in Bulgaria and Romania to address specific benchmarks in the areas of judicial reform and the fight against corruption should be implemented with regard to all member states to ensure the good functioning of government with regard to implementing the steps of the 2020 strategy.
K39|Medios económicos y disciplinarios para combatir el incumplimiento de los socios de participar en las actividades de las cooperativas agrarias<BR>[Comparatibility of economic and disciplinary measures against the breach the participation in the activities of agricultural cooperatives]|La voluntad de contribuir al logro de un proyecto común, la fidelidad a los objetivos colectivos y el propósito de cumplir los compromisos adquiridos deberían ser las motivaciones básicas del socio de una cooperativa. Sin embargo, en demasiadas ocasiones, algunos cooperativistas no aportan a la empresa colectiva las cuantías comprometidas, perjudicando así los intereses de la entidad y del resto de los socios. A pesar de que estos comportamientos suponen una infracción del deber básico de participar en las actividades de la cooperativa, resulta difícil sancionar a los infractores y, todavía más, reparar los perjuicios económicos que ocasionan. Por ello, planteamos aquí la exploración de una vía complementaria a la vía sancionadora prevista en nuestras leyes para combatir los incumplimientos del deber de participar en la actividad típica de la cooperativa, que se conoce como “actividad cooperativizada”.
K39|Development and Implementation of a Mandatory Animal Identification System: The Canadian Experience| This article provides a brief history of the animal identification (ID) system that previously existed in Canada along with details on efforts to ‘‘reidentify’’ the country’s cattle herd. The current state of ID for various species is summarized, and the state of regulations federally and for major agricultural province are outlined. A short background on the economics of animal ID is provided. Particular attention is paid to the operation of the Canadian Cattle Identification Agency, an industry–government initiative charged with identifying the national cattle herd. The animal ID system in Canada is found to have performed well when called on in times of animal health crises, although there have been notable deficiencies in its performance on occasion. Canada’s animal ID system will continue to evolve as new technologies for tagging and database management (among others) are developed. It is expected the system will play an important role in future attempts to exploit traceability for value-added initiatives.
K39|The analysis of the violence in the road traffic. Expressions forms and the effects related to the level of violence|This paper, aim to analyze violence in traffic, is discusses and is launching new research themes on the way in which road users perceive the attitude of road partners, risks associated with this violence, the main causes that make traffic to affect the health of drivers. Also, are presented the conclusions of many market studies regarding safety in traffic, causes of the accidents, national official statistics and at EU level concerning accidents causing the deaths. It is presented an aggressive driver profile in Romania. The proposals made aim to increase traffic safety and to ensure a proper driver's education starting with training phase in order to obtain driver's license, followed by issues concerning measures to be taken to attenuate this phenomenon.
K39|Los Derechos Humanos y el siglo XXI|Human rights are powers or facilities granted or recognized as inherent to individuals and human groups, so they can claim from other individuals or groups, and at the extreme from public authorities (local, regional, national or international), specific actions and services necessary to a life with dignity. Some of the benefits of recognising human rights are improving welfare, dignity and quality of life of all human beings, as well as greater economic and social equality. This is specially important for meeting the needs of the most vulnerable individuals and groups, while simultaneusly respecting cultural diversity. In this context, satisfaying basic human needs such as food, drinking water, housing, health or education, is paramount.
K39|Municipal reform in the republics of the Southern Federal Okrug|The study addresses the processes relating to the implementation of municipal reform in the republics of the North Caucasus and the Republic of Kalmykia. The authors analyze some formal parameters of implementing municipal reform: the rate of reforming, the territorial organization of local self-government, the formation of municipal authority, the division of powers, the organization of financing of municipal formations, etc. Besides, they assessed the impact of reform on the whole spectrum of economic, national, and socio-cultural relations in these territories, and in particular on the various conflicts typical of the North Caucasus. The study was completed before the creation, by the President of the Russian Federation, of the North Caucasian Federal Okrug in January 2010.
K39|Intellectual Property Right Protection in the Software Market|We discuss the software patent should be granted or not. There exist two types of coping in the software market; reverse engineering and software duplication. Software patent can prevent both types of copies since a patent protects an idea. If the software is not protected by a patent, software producer cannot prevent reverse engineering. However, the producer can prevent the software duplication by a copyright. It is not clear the software patent is socially desirable when we consider these two types of coping. We obtain the following results. First, the number of copy users under the patent protection is greater than that under the copyright protection. Second, the government can increase social welfare by applying copyright protection when the new technology is sufficiently innovative.
K39|Intellectual Property Right Protection in the Software Market|We discuss the software patent should be granted or not. There exist two types of coping in the software market; reverse engineering and software duplication. Software patent can prevent both types of copies since a patent protects an idea. If the software is not protected by a patent, software producer cannot prevent reverse engineering. However, the producer can prevent the software duplication by a copyright. It is not clear the software patent is socially desirable when we consider these two types of coping. We obtain the following results. First, the number of copy users under the patent protection is greater than that under the copyright protection. Second, the government can increase social welfare by applying copyright protection when the new technology is sufficiently innovative.
K39|Relationship Between ECHR and the Court of Justice of the European Communities for the Standardization of the Respect for Human Rights|European Convention on Human Rights focuses on the concept of state responsibility, but also the responsibility of the Community as a result of actions taken by EU institutions and the responsibility of Member States, i.e. the actions taken by state authorities in exercise of the powers of the Community.
K39|The Effect of Victimization|The infraction victims suffer certain consequences that can be of material, physical-biological, social and moral (psychological) nature. Through committing certain infractions, the victims are caused the loss of some organs or senses or the ceasing of their functioning, physical or psychical infirmities or other such consequences. A very important place in the field of the consequences caused by infractions is occupied by the prejudices of moral nature.
K39|MODERNITATEA EUROPEANA SI FILOSOFIA DREPTULUI NATURAL (Romanian version)|European modernity is based on a sum of shifts in the sphere of political-legal reflection, which subsequently projected themselves in the practice of civil government and in daily structures. Among these shifts, the philosophy of natural law stands out by dislocating the theological way of founding sovereignty and by laying the foundations of a rationalist and contractualist paradigm.
K39|DREPTUL DE AUTOR SI CONFLICTUL DE LEGI - DROIT D'AUTEUR ET CONFLIT DE LOIS- COPYRIGHT AND THE CONFLICT OF LAWS (Romanian version)|Le droit d'auteur comme les droits voisins ignorent d'autant mieux les frontières que les œuvres littéraires et artistiques ont vocation à l'universalité. Les règles de conflit de juridictions ne revêtant pas de spécificité remarquable, on se limitera aux deux autres questions habituelles en la matière que sont la condition des étrangers et le conflit de lois. Car une chose est de savoir si un auteur étranger bénéficiera d'un droit d'auteur en Roumanie, une autre de déterminer la loi applicable. En effet, on peut concevoir d'appliquer sur le sol roumain le droit d'auteur du pays d'origine de l'auteur étranger. Le Nouveau Code civil roumain détermine parfois la loi applicable. En matière de droit d’auteur, les règles de conflit de lois sont principalement édictées au niveau du droit international conventionnel. La Convention de Berne constitue à cet égard la référence. La Convention universelle sur le droit d’auteur contient également des règles de conflit de lois, mais depuis l’adhésion des Etats-Unis à l’Union de Berne, cet instrument conventionnel a perdu beaucoup de son intérêt pratique et a dès lors été quelque peu éclipsé au profit de la Convention de Berne. La principale difficulté affectant le conflit de lois en matière de droit d’auteur réside dans le caractère peu clair des dispositions conventionnelles contenant les règles de résolution dudit conflit de lois.
K39|GLOBALIZAREA PE COORDONATA TEMPORALA: DREPTATEA INTERGENERATIONALA SI RETROACTIVITATEA - GLOBALIZATION ON THE TEMPORAL AXIS: INTERGENERATIONAL JUSTICE AND RETROACTIVITY (Romanian version)|Globalisation acts not only in the spatial-geographical axis but in the temporal one.General theories of law have both the capabilities and vocation to solve the controversial issues underlying this subject. This article attempts an approach of the concept of intergenerational justice in an universalist and contextualist paradigms views, emphasizing possible development in the corrective justice domain and presenting a conceptual map of the moral arguments of retroactivity and prescription
K39|EPISTEMOLOGIA DREPTULUI: TEORIE SI PRACTICA DE STUDIU INTERDISCIPLINAR AL DREPTULUI - EPISTEMOLOGY OF LAW: THE PROCESS OF INTEGRATION OF SCIENCES (Romanian version)|The article raises important problems of contemporary interdisciplinary sciences. In general, our interest was focused on revealing the essence of the theory of scientific knowledge of the law. Taking into consideration the current trends to combine the subjects, to establish bridges of communication among countries, cultures, communities, the study of theoretical - methodological problems, such as the epistemology of law, is considered to be relevant. Thus, the article deals with problems of epistemology of law, by classifying it in the context of subjects’ conbination, in line with the complex process of integration of sciences and with the contemporary unification of subjects, knowledge, methods, etc.
K39|A THEORETICAL AND PRACTICAL APPROACH TO THE LANGUAGE OF NEWSPAPER REPORTING (English version)|The aim of this paper is the identification of some specific linguistic elements of English newspaper reporting by means of a dual approach. On the one hand, we based our research on a theoretical approach that relies on a contrastive linguistic study of two authentic newspaper articles presenting two distinct legal cases. In the analysis of the two texts we have had in view their graphic, grammatical, syntactic and stylistic peculiarities. The comparative theoretical analysis focuses on the overall structure of the texts, but also on a more detailed lexical structure. The articles are compared in terms of their headlining, paragraphing, type of sentence syntax, vocabulary and stylistics. The comparative approach to these texts reveals lexical and stylistic similarities, as well as significant differences between them. Our discussion on several stylistic aspects in the two articles is meant to underline their general impact on the reader. On the other hand, since the two texts have a similar thematic structure - information on two legal cases - we have also had in view a practical approach to them. This has been done in a brief presentation of the use of the language material during our legal English seminars.
K39|A THEORETICAL AND PRACTICAL APPROACH TO THE LANGUAGE OF NEWSPAPER REPORTING (English version)|The aim of this paper is the identification of some specific linguistic elements of English newspaper reporting by means of a dual approach. On the one hand, we based our research on a theoretical approach that relies on a contrastive linguistic study of two authentic newspaper articles presenting two distinct legal cases. In the analysis of the two texts we have had in view their graphic, grammatical, syntactic and stylistic peculiarities. The comparative theoretical analysis focuses on the overall structure of the texts, but also on a more detailed lexical structure. The articles are compared in terms of their headlining, paragraphing, type of sentence syntax, vocabulary and stylistics. The comparative approach to these texts reveals lexical and stylistic similarities, as well as significant differences between them. Our discussion on several stylistic aspects in the two articles is meant to underline their general impact on the reader. On the other hand, since the two texts have a similar thematic structure - information on two legal cases - we have also had in view a practical approach to them. This has been done in a brief presentation of the use of the language material during our legal English seminars.
K39|Considerations Concernant L’Assurance De La Representativite Du Citoyen Europeen Dans La Situation Economique Actuelle|The participation of the social partners to the European governance, lately possessing a great „potential” in democratic terms,should stimulate definitively. The current experience demonstrates that the possibility to point out the benefits, but also the limits of such implication. Nevertheless it’s true; the rules for such potential it should express (especially in the legislative procedure) must be consistent with the base principles of the democracy and the legitimacy for achieving the goal to represent a lot of voices.
K39|Implementation and Evaluation in Romania of the Integrated Border Security System (SISF)|EU’s objective to „maintain and develop the Union as an area of freedom, security and justice” is transposed into the Romanian national strategy. The EU Member States have a common interest to implement a security system. The increase of complexity and scale in crossborder crime emphasised the need for an integrated border management. As part of the state border management, the Integrated Border Security System (SISF) consists of a complex of organizational measures and coordination structures with responsibilities in the field, integrating existing surveillance and control systems, incorporting new ones. This system creates the bases for free movement of persons and goods within community borders. The evaluation of the National Strategy of Integrated management for the Romanian Border is made by the Romanian Inter-ministerial Group for Integrated State Border Management (GIRMIFS) based on the DAC Criteria developed by Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD).
K39|Ownership Issues Of Arable Areas Owned By Foreigners Or Ensured By Firms Or Any Other Contracts|With this study, I want to draw the attention to an on and on appearing problem. The problem is a product of the legislation and thus the solution also ought to be provided by the legislation as soon as possible. In Hungary, the proprietary right of the areas existing in agricultural cultivation branch is protected by statutes since 1994: according to this only Hungarian citizen can be owner of agricultural areas; foreign citizen not (except if inheriting an area of this kind). Firms may acquire proprietary right on agricultural areas only if they deal with agriculture as main activity in a verifiable manner in Hungary for at least 3 years. This restriction is valid till 2011 (possibly 2014). Everyone looks for respectively hunted for the wicket-doors which, however, are associated with a number of risks.
K39|European Funds And The Criminal Liability In Their Administration And Management|Since the entry into force of the Maastricht Treaty regarding European Union, in November 1993, the strengthening of economic and social cohesion has become one of the priority objectives of the European Union. As the European Union expanded, the economic and social cohesion has become increasingly difficult, as Member States became, in their turn, more heterogeneous. In the period 2007-2013, Romania had been allocated Structural and Cohesion Funds totaling 19.668 billion euros. We notice a growing interest from local communities, and from other entities involved in the management of structural instruments in order to find the answer to some relevant questions: What is the impact of the programs financed by the European Union funds, The extent to which programs achieve their objectives, If results of the implemented programs are valued at the lowest possible cost? To answer these questions, it is created a new principle, particularly important for European money management – accountability, which involves the use of funds accessed under the rules in force, in order to avoid any deviation from legality, regularity and compliance, as well as any failure to comply to the provisions of funding memoranda, memoranda of understanding, agreements for of financing regarding the unreimbursable financial assistance provided.
K39|Les Competences Du Juge Constitutionnel Roumain|The law review, as it was organized in Romania by the constitutional power in 1923 and 1991, is a concentrated control. Entrusted by the Constitution of 1923 in Plenum of the highest Court, it is according to the current Constitution to a special and specialized body, largely inspired by the European model of the constitutional courts. By choosing the European model, the Constitutional Court has strengthened skills relative to what it had in the period before the war. These are mostly skills in the political field, determined by the fact that the Constitutional Court is a judicial-political body. On the other hand, while the law review existing under the Constitution of 1923 was a posterior control, the Court exercises both a posteriori control as a priori. The study presents in a comparative perspective the competences of these two constitutional jurisdictions, proposing a classification which takes into consideration the nature of the constitutional instance.
K39|The Main Tendencies Of Public Management Reforms– From A Hungarian Point Of View|Over the course of human history each state decided on its own how broadly and how extensively to encroach on social conditions, i.e. which tasks to take on. However, the growth of state tasks and abstractions by the state (taxation) is a historical fact, particularly in the 20th century. Centralization of state duties and GDP (40-50% of it!) in a bigger scale into the state budget by the 1980s led to the obvious fact that this tendency cannot be continued, the model of state-concept needs a change. It came forward firstly in the Anglo-Saxon countries, than in the developed countries such as France, Germany, etc.. From the public law crisis public management reforms could have meant the way out. The public management reforms can be classified into three tendencies dependent upon aspects of how the state or rather the administration tries to solve the social problems. According to this, on one hand, we can talk about the technical, the value- and participation-based, as well as about the regulative approach, and on the other hand, about the tendency of “New Public Management”, “Good Governance” and “Neo-Weberism”. This essay takes a look at these approaches, tendencies and their most important features briefly
K39|Central Banking in the Rule of Law Context in the Czech Republic|The goal of the paper is to define the issue of central banking in the rule of law context in the Czech Republic. The paper deals both with the legislative framework during the creation of Czechoslovak sovereign monetary policy after the year 1918 and legislative framework of modern central banking in the Czech Republic after the year 1993. It defines present status and legislative framework of central bank and offers an opinion on the future of central banking in relation to European System of Central Banks harmonization processes, future legislative framework and practical conduct of legally defined central banking functions.
K39|Real Effects of Bank Governance: Bank Ownership and Corporate Innovation|In this paper we analyze the impact of government and private ownership of banks on firms’ probability to innovate. We estimate firms’ decision to innovate and their selection of a main lender for a sample of 9000 German manufacturing companies. Since these two decisions may be simultaneously made we use the number of private and government bank branches located in close proximity to our sample firms as an instrument for the selection of each firm’s main lender. We find that the probability of a firm to innovate is about 10 to 13 percent higher if the main lender is a private compared to a government bank (after controlling for firm characteristics and selectivity bias). The ownership type of the main lender is especially important for small firms since their access to finance is more dependent on the local supply of lenders. Therefore, extensive government involvement in the allocation of credit comes at the cost of lower corporate innovation and economic growth.
K39|Finanzas públicas estatales y las leyes de fiscalización superior en México|We study the relationship between the design of accounting laws for thirty Mexican state governments and their public finances. We use two indexes and OLS regressions to analyze it. The first index assesses the quality of the design of the state accounting laws (Figueroa, 2005; García, 2007). The second index assesses the fiscal situation per state for the years 2000 and 2005 (Aregional, 2004). We find that the fiscal situation of Mexican states can be explained by a two-year old design in the law. Laws designed one year before the exercise of the state budget do not have effects on it
K39|Act one, act first – the law on fiscal responsibility|The Law on Fiscal Responsibility adopted late 2008 is a new element in Hungarian fiscal policy, although not without precedent. Under the law, the Parliament and the Government limit themselves to prevent high fiscal deficits and a further increase in public indebtedness, experienced in recent years. Budget planning turns into a three-year process, hardening over time. As a first step, the targeted primary (non-interest) budget balance is subject to the requirement that the stock of government debt cannot rise in real terms. However, ex post, the law allows for deviations in fiscal performance-including those reflecting the effect of so-called automatic stabilizers-attributable to factors beyond the control of the authorities. This means that the actual deficit is not necessarily equal to the deficit path consistent with the real debt limit, but it may fluctuate around this trend over the medium term. In addition, the law prescribes observance of the pay-go principle. Finally, it provides for the establishment of an independent Fiscal Council entrusted with monitoring compliance with the rules and with transparency standards. We evaluated the law according to the Kopits–Symansky criteria applied in the international literature. In most aspects, the law exhibits favourable properties, consistent with the criteria, although inevitably at the expense of simplicity. The assessment suggests that the law would benefit from extending coverage of the rules to local governments. Moreover, enforceability of the rules would be strengthened if the law were adopted by a qualified legislative majority.
K39|The Legal Protection Of The Secrecy Of Correspondence|The guarantee for the secrecy of correspondence, as part of the right to respect for private and family life, has represented and still represents a constant issue for domestic and international law. Thus, on one hand, the amazing evolution of technology has created possibilities for breaking the right to the secrecy of communication, thus constituting a threat to individuals’ private life. On the other hand, the interference of the public authorities in the private life, made on reasonable grounds, should be accompanied by guarantees indicating that there is no abuse of power. This study intends to make an analysis of the regulations, mainly the internal ones that guarantee people’s freedom to communicate by long distance communication means, as well as those stipulating the lawful interception of communications in cases of major public interests, in the light of the exigencies expressed by the case law of the ECHR.
K39|L’Enregistrement Des Partis Politiques Dans La Jurisprudence De La Cour Europeenne Des Droits De L’Homme|Pratique devenue courante et aux finalités diversifiées, l’enregistrement des partis politiques est susceptible de porter gravement atteinte a la liberté d’association partisane. Bien que la Cour européenne des droits de l’homme ait développé un systeme de contrôle particulierement sophistiqué des ingérences dans la liberté d’association partisane qui permet de la garantir contre les atteintes les plus graves, il ne paraît pas toujours suffisant pour la préserver d’entraves apparemment légeres mais qui peuvent sous certains angles être réellement séveres.
K39|Essai De Typologie Des Fonds Structurels De L'Union Europeenne|La crise économique, financiere et sociale que traverse l’Union européenne nécessite des actions structurelles susceptibles de peser durablement sur l’environnement socio-économique de l’Europe. Ces actions sont généralement conduites par un instrument original : le Fonds structurel.
K39|The Philosophy Of Law In The Work Of Vaida Ladislau|The definition and enlargement of the concept of nation are ideas that can be found in the work of Vaida Ladislau. The evolution of the concept is realized in stages, from the feudal concept of “nation” as the whole of the privileged ones, gifted with the right to take part in the governance of the country to the modern notion of “nation”, in the sense of including all who have the same origin, language, historical traditions, life style, common interest, regardless of their social origin and confession to which they belong. The cultivation of rationality and combating religion are central themes also for Vaida, who tries to remove the divine law
K39|Intellectual Property Protection and Patterns of Trade|The paper provides a simple theoretical model for understanding how the difference in the level of intellectual property rights protection determines trade patterns. In particular, I examine how countries ?levels of patent rights protection affect exports in industries with different degrees of reliance on innovation. In contrast to most models of institutional comparative advantage, which predict that countries with superior institutions specialize in industries that are very dependent on institutions, I show that higher patent rights protection does not necessarily lead to specialization in industries that rely heavily on innovation. There may exist a threshold beyond which occurs a reversal of specialization patterns, a consequence of monopoly power inherent in intellectual property rights protection. I then use the model?s implications to assess empirically whether such predicted patterns hold in cross-country trade data and fi?nd evidence for general patterns of specialization as well as a reversal of such patterns among countries with high levels of patent rights protection.
K39|Analyse économique du Droit versus Institutionnalisme. Une comparaison « en situation »1|Cet article propose de comparer deux lectures d’économie du droit portant sur un même objet empirique, l’épargne salariée états-unienne, mais menées respectivement dans le cadre de la Law & Economics néoclassique et dans le cadre de la Théorie de la régulation. Ces deux approches divergent quant à leur prise en compte du politique entendu au sens de la dimension conflictuelle des rapport sociaux. L’approche néoclassique permet de faire l’économie d’un traitement explicite du politique au niveau individuel du cas particulier. L’habitus institutionnaliste produit au contraire une construction d’emblée politique de son objet d’analyse. Cette comparaison « en situation » met en évidence une meilleure capacité de généralisation de la démarche institutionnaliste du fait même de sa dépendance au politique.
K39|La función del órgano de control de una sociedad cooperativa europea domiciliada en España<BR>[The role of the authority of control of a european cooperative society home in Spain]|Como es sabido, el Estatuto jurídico contenido en el Reglamento (CE) 1435/2003 sobre la Sociedad Cooperativa Europea (SCE), fiel a su precedente y modelo, el Reglamento 2157/2001 sobre la Sociedad Europea, ha incorporado la posibilidad de que la SCE, vía estatutaria, pueda optar entre dos modelos de administración: el monista o el dual, este último, prácticamente desconocido en nuestro derecho cooperativo nacional. Precisamente, en tanto el sistema monista es conocido por todos y ha sido objeto de múltiples y meritorios trabajos por parte de nuestra doctrina, hemos considerado conveniente como objeto de esta investigación, centrarnos en el órgano de control (o vigilancia), en tanto es en él donde reside la verdadera “seña de identidad” de este sistema dual, para nosotros novedoso, de organización de la administración. No obstante, abordar la totalidad de su régimen jurídico excedería con mucho el objetivo de estas jornadas. Así, nos limitaremos, en esencia, a realizar una aproximación analítica y, en ocasiones, crítica, a las funciones que este órgano desempeña en el seno de la administración de una SCE domiciliada en España y a la relación que le vincula con el otro órgano administrativo, el encargado de la efectiva administración de la sociedad (el denominado “órgano de dirección” o, simplemente, “dirección”). No pocas dificultades vamos a tener que afrontar en esta tarea, relacionadas casi todas ellas con los problemas interpretativos y de adaptación de un derecho cooperativo como el español al exiguo régimen que ha dibujado el legislador comunitario y que va a resultar necesario integrar –con la normativa ya existente- y, en ocasiones, completar, mediante la articulación de aquellas disposiciones específicas que resulten necesarias para adaptar nuestra normativa a la nueva figura y, concretamente, al nuevo sistema dual de administración.
K39|Datenschutz in KMU: Lehren für die IT-Compliance|IT-Compliance als Teilbereich der IT-Governance erlangt derzeit wachsende Bedeutung. Dass die Forderung nach Gesetzestreue trivial erscheint, offenbar jedoch nicht ist, belegen allein schon die in 2008 bekannt gewordenen Compliance-Verstöße. Diesbezüglich wird die Befolgung der Vorschriften des BDSG in KMU exemplarisch herangezogen. Auf dieser Basis diskutiert dieses Arbeitspapier verschiedene begriffliche und konzeptionelle Aspekte der IT-Compliance. Hierzu werden die ethischen Prinzipien der Deontologie und des Konsequentialismus genutzt. Im Ergebnis zeigen sich grundlegende theoretische Klärungen, die für den Handlungsbereich sowohl der IT-Compliance als auch des IT-Risikomanagements sowie für die Praxis des Datenschutzes nutzbar gemacht werden können.BDSG ; Corporate Governance ; Datenschutz ; Deontologie ; KMU ; Konsequentialismus ; IT-Compliance ; IT-Governance ; Risikomanagement
K39|Information Society: New Challenges For Sustainable Development|The overall aim of this study is to identify the strengths and the opportunities,the weaknesses and the threats of information society that could enable the national and theinternational economies to achieve continuous improvement of quality of life both for currentand future generations, through the creation of sustainable communities able to manageresources efficiently and to tap the ecological and social innovation potential of the economy,ensuring prosperity, environmental protection, social cohesion and cultural diversity. Theauthors of this paper mean to harness the vast potential of ICTs to achieve the sustainabledevelopment aspirations, but also to pay attention to the limits of information society’sextending. Recognizing the importance of ICT as valuable assets for economic growth anddevelopment, world leaders should align their efforts towards building a development-oriented information society.
K39|Software Piracy in Egypt: Analysis of the Institutional Environment and Efficiency of Enforcement Measures|This paper develops the first applied econometric model to examine the efficiency of existing enforcement measures and legal framework on prevailing software piracy rates in Egypt. Hence, it can be used as a tool when discussing new policies concerning the welfare of the interest groups and the pricing of protected software products (i.e., original software products). The model will focus on the available time-series data during 1992-2002 in Egypt. This time period was chosen due to the paucity of quantitative data concerning the model. The institutional environment is examined according to the New Institutional Economics (NIE) to illustrate the legal framework, the informal constraints and the enforcement authorities to support the empirical model. Analytical results show that efficient enforcement of property rights does not only imply increasing legal enforcement through imposing more severe punishments and prosecutions, as decreasing the prices of software plays a much bigger role. Thus relying on legal enforcement authorities alone is not always economically optimal, as it will not be able to deter IPR infringement on its own.
K39|Aspects regarding the organization and the function of the Transylvanian Appeal Court of Târgu-Mures|In the essay on the topic „Aspects regarding the organization and the functioning of the Royal Panel of Transylvania, with its premises in Târgu-Mures”, the author briefly presents the most significant moments in the evolution of an important judicial institution of this Romanian province. For the historical period that the author has chosen in order to illustrate the evolution of the institution, namely the period between the half of the 18th century and the end of the 19th century, he also presents the way in which the institution functioned, the staff and what the attributions of each member of the staff were. When presenting his essay, the author brings to our attention historical, as well as juridical aspects, which contribute to better understanding the importance of this institution, namely the Royal Panel with its premises in Târgu-Mures
K39|The Right to Live and the Freedom to Die|Dreptul la viata reprezinta un drept fundamental reglementat de legislatia româna si consacrat în cele mai importante documente internationale referitoare la drepturile omului. Astfel, referitor la reglementarea dreptului la viata în legislatia româneasca amintim ca legea fundamentala a României din 1991 garanteaza, în art. 22 alin. 1 dreptul la viata, precum si dreptul la integritate fizica si psihica al persoanei, art. 26 alin. 2 prevede dreptul fiecarei persoane de a dispune de ea însasi, iar art. 34 al Constitutiei României garanteaza dreptul la ocrotirea sanatatii. În ce priveste documentele internationale care reglementeaza aceste drepturi fundamentale, cele mai importante astfel de documente sunt Declaratia Universala a Drepturilor Omului (art. 3) si Conventia Europeana a Drepturilor Omului (art. 2, 3, 7 si 8). În doctrina s-a pus tot mai pregnant problema daca prin garantarea dreptului la viata nu se garanteaza implicit si libertatea de a muri, mai exact libertatea fiecarei persoane de a alege momentul la care sa renunte la viata. Este vorba despre eutanasie sau moartea medical asistata.
K39|Credit Expansion, the Prisoner´s Dilemma, and Free Banking as Mechanism Design|Despite the distinctive character of the Austrian approach to “microfoundations for macroeconomics”, the literature on free banking contains a number of arguments which make use of game-theoretic concepts and models such as the well-known Prisoner´s Dilemma model. While there can be no general a priori presumption against the possible usefulness of game-theoretic concepts for Austrian theorizing, in the context of the debate on free banking such concepts and models have been used with varying degrees of perspicacity. One example which is elaborated in the paper is concerned with the interaction configuration between independent banks in a fractional-reserve free banking system, which has sometimes been modeled as a One-Shot Prisoner´s Dilemma. This conceptualization does not provide a sufficient argument for the in-concert overexpansion thesis, nor for the thesis that fractional-reserve free banking will tend to lead to the establishment of a central bank. The author drops the implicit assumption that there exists a one-to-one correspondence between the outcome matrix and the utility matrix. When it is acknowledged that banks in a fractional-reserve free banking system need not necessarily adopt a “myopic”, self-regarding perspective but may recognize the long-run harmony of interests between the banking sector and society at large, a different conceptualization and a different matrix representation emerge.
K39|Privacy, Publicity, and Choice|"We develop and explore a new model of the economics of privacy. Previous work has focused on ""privacy of type,"" wherein an agent privately knows an immutable characteristic. We consider ""privacy of action,"" wherein privacy means that an agent's choice of action is unobservable to others. To show how a policy of privacy can be socially optimal, we assume that an agent derives utility from an action he takes, from the aggregate of all agents' actions, and from other agents' perceptions of the agent's type (that are based on his action). If his action is observable, then he distorts it (relative to his full-information optimal action) so as to enhance the perceptions that others have of him. This contributes to aggregate welfare through increasing the public good, but the disutility associated with the distortion of agents' actions is also a social cost. If his action is unobservable, then he can take his full-information optimal action and still be ""pooled"" with other types. When the disutility of distortion is high relative to the marginal utility of the public good, a policy of privacy is optimal. We also consider a policy of waivable privacy, and find that equilibria exist in which some, but not all, types waive privacy. More significantly, if policies of privacy or publicity are costlessly enforceable, then a policy of waivable privacy is never socially preferred. Finally, we consider a number of examples (some of which involve a public bad and/or social disapproval): open-source software development; charitable giving; recycling; consumption of health services; DNA dragnets; student rankings; constraints on information disclosure at trial; electricity and water usage during periods of voluntary rationing; shaming of speeders; and the use of earmarks by Congress."
K39|Strategic Registration of Voters: the Chilean Case|In this paper we have investigated how the employment relationship, if it implies transfer of rents, may allow employers to control the voting behavior of their workers and lead to a strategic registration of voters. This is feasible when individual voting behavior is observable, as in open ballot elections. More easily controlled voters are more likely registered providing an even larger impact of vote controlling on election results. Making individual vote truly secret (for instance with the adoption of a secret ballot) significantly reduces this control. Moreover, we show that as long as electoral districts are heterogeneous enough, i.e. contain also free voters, any attempt to control votes on the basis of district aggregate results is bound to fail. We test the predictions of the model by examining in detail the effects of the introduction of the secret ballot in Chile in 1958.
K39|La Nouvelle Economie des Ressources (NER) :Panacée ou Boite de Pandore ?|La ‘nouvelle économie des ressources’ (NER) est peu utilisée dans la littérature économique francophone, ce qui contraste avec sa participation aux débats théoriques et idéologiques outre Atlantique. Cette contribution propose une mise en perspective de la NER en s’attachant notamment à la définir et à la distinguer de ‘l’ancienne économie des ressources’ (AER). Les promesses de la NER et ses applications supposent la réunion de conditions contraignantes, parfois contradictoires que nous explicitons, notamment l’existence d’un système de droits de propriété bien définis, exécutoires et transférables à des coûts de transaction faibles grâce à un Etat performant dans sa capacité à garantir un cadre institutionnel adéquat tout en limitant le champ de ses prérogatives. Enfin, nous passons en revue les critiques et les manques susceptibles d’être adressés à ce courant, en soulignant plusieurs zones d’ombre nécessitant des recherches supplémentaires.
K39|Succession in Family Businesses of Pakistan : Kinship Culture and Islamic Inheritance Law|Family businesses are growing and turning into complex business groups, transforming from family controlled and managed to family owned and professionally managed public listed businesses. Hence, successful succession of a business and development of future successors are becoming the key success factors for family businesses. This paper examines succession dynamics and successor development within three family businesses in Pakistan. These cases are not only taken from different sectors, e.g., textile, engineering and manufacturing, but are also at different phases of organizational development. The conceptual framework to observe successor development at the pre-entry, entry and succession phases was developed from literature research. The paper further explores the kinship culture in succession of the family businesses, and examines aspects of Islamic inheritance law in family business succession. We find that kinship culture and Islamic inheritance law influence division of the business during the succession phase in Pakistan. The paper also explores transformation of the family businesses from kinship and biradari culture to professionally managed businesses listed on the stock exchange.
K39|Balance of payments crises under inflation targeting|"July 2000 (Revised) The paper analyzes an open economy where fiscal deficits are incompatible with an inflation target, ultimately leading to a speculative attack. There are two differences to the exchange rate targeting case: (i) The attack takes place over a short period of time as opposed to instantaneously. (ii) Reserve losses attributable to the attack are smaller, and increasing in the share of tradable goods in total consumption. Keywords: intellectual property rights, copyright, sui generis protection of expressive material, economics of information-goods, open science, ""fair use,"" scientific databases. JEL Classification: H4, K39, O31, O34 --><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
K39|Reform of the Social Sphere: Institutional Barriers at the Regional Level|This publication is about the institutional barriers which reduce the social policy outcome in the Russian Federation. Many efforts of the executive power and legislators undermine the incentives of the physical persons to invest in the social sphere both in the financial form and in the form of social activity. Analyzed examples of the social policy in Canada and in other contries with transition economies underline this issue the solution of which is not connected with additional burden on the budget and could have made social institutions in Russia more stable to external economic shocks.
K39|Securitization In Islamic Bonds And Debt Securities Issues And Alternatives| The article focuses on Islamic bonds and debt securitiesand examines specific issues in Islamic debt securitization. Other areas of securitization are discussed briefly to provide an overall picture of the topic. The article also investigates the potential bridging and extension of the concept of securitization to new opportunities and assets that are capable of securitization. Throughout this paper, the focus will be on the modes of securitization for Islamic contracts, essentially to meet the requirements of Islamic legal rules and principles.
K39|On the benefits of studying Roman law|The authors tackle the issue of studying Roman law by those who prepare for a legal career. They underline the manner in which the Romans laid the foundations of a creation, which has lasted up to our times, being the only legal system representing more than a purely historical character. The huge Roman legal construction, the lasting of certain legal institutions and principles impose the study of Roman law with a double justification: one of legal education and one of teaching consideration. The authors militate for a significant increase in the importance granted to the study of Roman law in the Romanian legal study system
K39|Les droits de l'homme en tant que droits subjectifs qui traduisent dans l’ordre juridique les principes naturels de justice|Protection et garantie des droits subjectifs naturels, représente un domaine d’intérêt interdisciplinaire. Les droits subjectifs, leur dynamique, les valences axio - teleo - praxiologiques des principes de l’exercice des droits subjectifs naturels, impliquent des approches de la perspective de la philosophie mais aussi de la philosophie du droit. La recherche de l’essence et du fondement du droit objectif, sa liaison avec la reconnaissance et la protection des droits subjectifs, impliquent l’étude des idées de maxime generalite de la perspective de la théorique générale du droit, tout comme l’analyse systématique des systèmes et mécanismes de protection et garantie, de la perspective du droit international, de la protection juridique des droits de l’homme et du droit communautaire. La protection et garantie des droits en général, des droits de l’homme, en spécial, représenté une préoccupation doctrinaire majeure, l’axe autour duquel gravite le législateur et l’objectif majeur de l’agent de l’application du droit. La compréhension de l’exercice des droits subjectifs naturels, la protection et la garantie de ces doits est un phénomene d’intervention directe dans la contemporanéité, d’ordre pratique, avec implications directes sur les conditions de vie des gens, de sorte qu’une législation ambiguë, qui change tout le temps, ait des conséquences implicites aussi sur cette réalité
K39|Do Freedom of Information Laws Decrease Corruption?|It has been argued that greater transparency is needed to reduce corruption. One way of increasing transparency is through the adoption of Freedom of Information (FOI) laws. This paper uses the introduction of FOI laws as a natural experiment to determine their effect on corruption. Using a sample of democratic countries and two different corruption indices, I find that countries that adopted FOI laws saw an increase in corruption. Results are robust throughout different specifications. Moreover, I find that countries with plurality systems potentially experienced a decrease in corruption following the adoption of FOI legislation. Having a parliamentary system, however, had no impact on the effect of the reform.
K39|Indian Exports at Crossroads: Why the European Community is Subjecting Indian Goods to Countervailing Duties|No abstract is available for this item.
K39|The Distribution of a Federal Entitlement: The Case of Adoption Assistance|Adoption assistance entitlements support the adoptions of children whose birth parents’ rights have been severed after abuse or neglect. The subsidies are meant to offset the extra cost to adoptive families of raising children whose adverse experiences have left them with special physical, emotional, or behavioral needs. Previous studies of adoption assistance are limited in scope; I use administrative data on all recorded adoptions from foster care from 1996 through 2003 to examine the distribution of adoption assistance across and within states. The state-tostate variation payments is large, even after controlling for differences in the cost of living. Moreover, although adoption assistance is an entitlement for children, payments made within many states are systematically correlated with the characteristics of adoptive families. There is substantial evidence that the state administration of this federal entitlement leads to unequal treatment of similar children.
K39|Bankruptcy Regimes and Gambling on Resurrection|This paper analyzes debt contracting in the presence of gambling on resurrection under different bankruptcy regimes. Ex-ante effects on investment levels, interest rates and profit, and ex-post effects on debtor's strategy choices are examined. A model of a debtor-creditor relationship is presented which shows that violation of the Absolute Priority Rule in bankruptcy (soft bankruptcy law) may partially eliminate excessive managerial risk-taking. But under law that is insufficiently soft, this moral hazard problem may be even stronger than under completely tough law. The gambling on resurrection argument for soft law is further weakened if the possibility of verifying the firm's situation by creditors is introduced.
K39|Le politiche del governo federale statunitense nell’edilizia residenziale. Suggerimenti per il modello italiano|this paper aims at examining the federal housing policy at present in place in the United States of America. The most significant initiatives are the “public housing” program, that provides rental housing for eligible low-income families, and “Section 8”, that grants, through the allocation of vouchers, rent subsidies to a relevant number of needy individuals. They’re both administered by the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development and, locally, by the public housing authorities. Particularly interesting are the programs aimed at helping assisted residents to move toward self-sufficiency. Funds for housing affordability are also provided to the states and the local governments through the housing block grants and the LIHTC program. The last part of the paper tries to underline the elements that could be of interest for a comparison with the Italian public housing system, which is object of many reform proposals in this period.
K39|Implementing International Women’s Rights in Domestic Context: Turkish Case|In this paper international instruments relating the women’s rights and their domestic enforceability will be covered. We will discuss the domestic enforceability of international women’s rights in Turkey. The paper will cover general discussion on the differences of signing and ratifying international agreements and their binding effect. Turkey’s European Union obligations on women’s rights will have special emphasis in the paper, the key principles of the European Community law such as supranational and direct effects will be discussed in order to understand the enforceability and binding effects of international women’s’ rights.
K39|Czech Bankruptcy Procedures: Ex-post Efficiency View|The paper presents facts on the ex-post efficiency of the Czech bankruptcy procedures. First, it briefly summarizes in what aspects bankruptcy systems differ across countries and introduces the main observations made about the Czech case so far. Second, international data are presented to assess the Czech standings in four aspects of bankruptcies' ex-post efficiency – duration, recovery rate, administrative costs, and continuation/liquidation decision. Third, the paper provides a summary of statistical observations on ex-post efficiency based on data on 903 Czech companies whose bankruptcies were completed during 2004 by the distribution of returns to the claim-holders. In the paper, understanding the ex-post efficiency is meant as an important prerequisite for an analysis from the ex-ante efficiency prospective.
K39|Medicine, Law and Society: Principles of Medical Responsibility/ Liability in France|The doctor is given a special power in his job, a unique one,”to work” on somebody else’s body with the final purpose of reaching, in certain cases the physical integrity. This right is set by justice for all people and for each individual. Therefore doctors exceptionally have this privilege by the power conferred by law.
K39|George Fotino or a Necessary “Restitutio in Integrum”|George Fotino – the personality that, in 1926, the great man of culture, Nicolae Iorga, praised for his distinguished qualities as a researcher –represents an emblematic and original figure for the Romanian juridical historiography. A multivalent personality, George Fotino, excelled in other areas, too, elaborating highly appreciated and important works for the historiography research, publishing old Romanian documents, as well as showing excellent literary talent
K39|The Didactics of Legal French|Structurat în doua parti „Les enjeux du FOS” (français sur objectifs spécifiques) si „Les enjeux du français juridique”, articolul urmareste prezentarea unor aspecte uneori contradictorii, alteori complementare privind învatarea limbii franceze ca limba de comunicare în situatii generale, cotidiene dar si ca limba de comunicare profesionala, în cazul de fata franceza juridica
K39|The Uneasy Case for Fractional-Reserve Free Banking|Since a few decades several sub-disciplines within economics have witnessed a reorientation towards institutional analysis. This development has in particular also affected the fields of macroeconomics and monetary theory where it has led to several proposals for far-reaching financial and monetary reform. One of the more successful of these proposals advocates a fractional-reserve free banking system, that is, a system with no central bank, but with permission for the banks to operate with a fractional reserve. This article exposes several conceptual flaws in this proposal. In particular several claims of the fractional-reserve free bankers with respect to the purported working characteristics of this system are criticized from the perspective of economic theory. In particular, the claim that a fractional-reserve free banking system would lead to the disappearance of the business cycle is recognized as false. Furthermore an invisible-hand analysis is performed, reinforcing the conclusion that fractional-reserve free banking is incompatible with the ethical and juridical principles underlying a free society.
K39|Review of Huerta de Soto´s `Money, Bank Credit, and Economic Cycles´|This article reviews the first English edition of Prof. Jesús Huerta de Soto´s book `Dinero, Crédito Bancario y Ciclos Económicos´ which first appeared in Spain in 1998.
K39|The Contributions of Professor Amartya Sen in the Field of Human Rights|This paper analyses the work of the Nobel Prize winning economist Professor Amartya Sen from the perspective of human rights. It assesses the ways in which Sen's research agenda has deepened and expanded human rights discourse in the disciplines of ethics and economics, and examines how his work has promoted cross-fertilisation and integration on this subject across traditional disciplinary divides. The paper suggests that Sen's development of a 'scholarly bridge' between human rights and economics is an important and innovative contribution that has methodological as well as substantive importance and that provides a prototype and stimuli for future research. It also establishes that the idea of fundamental freedoms and human rights is itself an important gateway into understanding the nature, scope and significance of Sen's research. The paper concludes with a brief assessment of the challenges to be addressed in taking Sen's contributions in the field of human rights forward.
K39|The contributions of Professor Amartya Sen in the field of human rights|his paper analyses the work of the Nobel Prize winning economist Professor Amartya Sen from the perspective of human rights. It assesses the ways in which Sen’s research agenda has deepened and expanded human rights discourse in the disciplines of ethics and economics, and examines how his work has promoted cross-fertilisation and integration on this subject across traditional disciplinary divides. The paper suggests that Sen’s development of a ‘scholarly bridge’ between human rights and economics is an important and innovative contribution that has methodological as well as substantive importance and that provides a prototype and stimuli for future research. It also establishes that the idea of fundamental freedoms and human rights is itself an important gateway into understanding the nature, scope and significance of Sen’s research. The paper concludes with a brief assessment of the challenges to be addressed in taking Sen’s contributions in the field of human rights forward.
K39|The Genesis of the European Cultural Dimension (II)|Articolul de fata prezinta o analiza plurivalenta a art. 128 cu privire la domeniul cultural, introdus în 1992, în Tratatul de la Maastricht. Importanta prezentei art. 128 în Tratatul instituind Uniunea Europeana rezida în oferirea, pentru prima oara, a unei baze juridice sectorului cultural. Studiul realizat în lucrarea de fata se concentreaza atât asupra punctelor pozitive cat si a punctelor negative care caracterizeaza acest prim articol cu privire la dimensiunea culturala europeana. Totodata complexitatea domeniului cultural la nivel european este urmarita prin analiza unor elemente problematice precum conceptul de „exceptie culturala”, a mecanismului juridic creat si nu în ultimul rând a rolului jucat de statele membre în cadrul acestui mecanism.
K39|Person, personality, responsibility|Modern times consider as a person the individual man being endowed with reason and conscience; this man cannot be but person because he shows so many persons. According to the positive law the human individual is considered a person: natural person in civil relations; criminal in criminal relations; public officer in administrative relations, etc. “Natural person”, “criminal”, “public officer” are terms from legal terminology of different branches of law that define the individual in the law, the one and the same that enters social relations, legal relations, etc.: I am considered natural person in the civil law, criminal in the criminal law, public officer in the administrative law, taxpayer in the fiscal law, etc.
K39|The Effects of Campaign Finance Laws on Turnout, 1950-2000|Scholars have proposed many routes by which campaign finance laws may impact turnout. For instance, laws restricting campaign spending may decrease mobilization, resulting in lower turnout. Alternatively, such laws might increase the competitiveness of elections, resulting in higher turnout. Existing studies tend to focus on only one causal pathway, ignoring the net effects of campaign finance reforms on voter turnout. We exploit the variation in state campaign finance laws from 1950 to 2000 in order to estimate the reduced-form relationships between reform and turnout. Using both aggregate and individual-level data, we find that campaign finance laws on net have little impact on turnout in gubernatorial elections. There are two exceptions to this finding: Limits on organizational contributions are shown in an individual level analysis to increase turnout prior to a sea change in campaign finance ushered in by the Buckley v. Valeo decision in 1976, while public financing laws are shown to have an equally large negative impact on turnout in the post-Buckley era. These results strengthens the existing literature, which finds similarly perverse effects of public financing on the quality of democracy, and demonstrates the advantages of reduced-form analysis for understanding the influence of laws on behavior.
