K40|Income levels,governance and inlusive human development in Sub-Saharan Africa|This study examines how income-driven governance affects inclusive human development in Sub-Saharan Africa with data for the period 2000-2012. The empirical evidence is based on the Generalised Method of Moments (GMM) and Tobit regressions. Nine bundled and unbundled concepts of governance are used: political (voice & accountability and political stability/no violence), economic (government effectiveness and regulation quality) and institutional (corruption-control and the rule of law) governances. The main finding is that ?middle income?-driven governance has a higher effect on inclusive human development than ?low income?-driven governance. Policy implications are discussed in the light of: (i) the contemporary relevance of findings; (ii) the pivotal role of a higher income level in the post-2015 sustainable development agenda; and (iii) inconsistent strands in the literature and in foreign aid policies.
K40|Linear voting rules|How should a society choose between two social alternatives if participation in the decision process is voluntary and costly and monetary transfers are not feasible? Considering symmetric voters with private valuations, we show that it is utilitarian-optimal to use a linear voting rule: votes get alternativedependent weights, and a default obtains if the weighted sum of votes stays below some threshold. Standard quorum rules are not optimal. We develop a perturbation method to characterize equilibria in the case of small participation costs and show that leaving participation voluntary increases welfare for linear rules that are optimal under compulsory participation.
K40|Costless Information and Costly Verification: A Case for Transparency|A principal has to take a binary decision. She relies on information privately held by a completely biased agent. The principal cannot incentivize with transfers but can learn the agent's information at a cost. Additionally, the principal privately observes a signal correlated with the agent's type. Transparent mechanisms are optimal: unlike in standard results with correlation, the principal's payoff is the same as if her signal was public. They take a simple cut-off form: favorable signals ensure the agent's preferred action. Signals below this cut-off lead to the nonpreferred action unless the agent appeals. An appeal always triggers type verification.
K40|Corruption beyond the glass ceiling: do women entrepreneurs perceive corruption differently?|Adding to the corruption-gender nexus, this paper contributes across several dimensions: (a) measurement of corruption by studying whether female managers and female owners of firms perceived corruption differently; (b) using survey information at the firm level; and (c) employing a large sample of more than 100 countries. Results show that both female managers and female owners perceived corruption to be lower relative to men. Furthermore, older firms perceived corruption to be a more server obstacle, while sole proprietorships generally had the opposite view. The advantages of piercing the glass ceiling were undermined in nations with severe gender inequality.
K40|Corruption and Economic Growth: New Empirical Evidence|The nexus between corruption and economic growth has been examined for a long time. Many empirical studies measured corruption by the reversed Transparency International’s Perception of Corruption Index (CPI) and ignored that the CPI was not comparable over time. The CPI is comparable over time since the year 2012. We employ new data for 175 countries over the period 2012-2018 and re-examine the nexus between corruption and economic growth. The cumulative long-run effect of corruption on growth is that real per capita GDP decreased by around 17% when the reversed CPI increased by one standard deviation. The effect of corruption on economic growth is especially pronounced in autocracies and transmits to growth by decreasing FDI and increasing inflation.
K40|Taxation and the Superrich|This paper addresses the modern optimal tax progressivity literature, which clarifies the key role of the behavioral response to taxation and accounts for the incomes of the superrich being qualitatively different than others. Some may be “superstars,” for whom small differences in talent are magnified into much larger earnings differences, while others may work in winner-take-all markets, such that their effort to climb the ladder of success reduces the returns to others. We stress that pivotal tax-rate elasticities are not structural parameters, and will be smaller the broader and less plastic is the tax base and the more effective is the enforcement of tax evasion. For this reason, normative analysis of tax rates should be accompanied by attention to the tax base, with special attention to capital gains, which comprise a large fraction of the taxable income of the superrich.
K40|Corruption and Economic Growth: New Empirical Evidence|The nexus between corruption and economic growth has been examined for a long time. Many empirical studies measured corruption by the reversed Transparency International’s Perception of Corruption Index (CPI) and ignored that the CPI was not comparable over time. The CPI is comparable over time since the year 2012. We employ new data for 175 countries over the period 2012-2018 and re-examine the nexus between corruption and economic growth. The cumulative long-run effect of corruption on growth is that real per capita GDP decreased by around 17% when the reversed CPI increased by one standard deviation. The effect of corruption on economic growth is especially pronounced in autocracies and transmits to growth by decreasing FDI and increasing inflation.
K40|Canadian Legalization of Cannabis reduces both its cash usage and 'Black' Economy|The Canadian Government legalized Cannabis usage on October 17th, 2018. During the same month, primarily in the week before and after such legalization, the amount of cash in circulation fell quite materially, in contrast to the rises typically observed in previous years. A key driver is likely to have been Cannabis users switching from cash payments for illegal purchases to using standard recordable electronic payments for their purchases, which have now become legal. The legalization of Cannabis should ultimately reduce the size of the Underground economy by around 4 or 5 percent, with a much bigger decline likely in the black economy.
K40|Negotiating for Justice: Judge's Perception of the Plea-Bargaining Process in Malaysia|Objective - This paper aims to examine the role of judges and the reality of the plea-bargaining process from the perspective of the judiciary, focusing primarily on their perceptions on the new law and their role and the problems facing them in implementing the law. Methodology/Technique - This paper adopts a qualitative methodology, in which the primary data is obtained from semi-structured interviews with 20 respondents comprising of the stakeholders in the criminal justice system. The secondary data is obtained from analysing the CPC and other library-based sources. Findings - The research reveals that judges are facing some problems derived from the law itself which makes the new plea-bargaining process unappealing to them. Consequently, judges have invented their solutions either by reverting to the old practice or imposing on the parties their terms in disposing of the case through judge-prompted plea-bargain. Novelty - This paper is significant in providing some evidence of the procedural difficulties faced by judges in hearing plea-bargaining application at the pre-trial stage.
K40|Does an Inclusive Citizenship Law Promote Economic Development?|This paper analyzes the impact of citizenship laws on economic development. We first document the evolution of citizenship laws around the world, highlighting the main features of jus soli, jus sanguinis as well as mixed regimes, and shedding light on the channels through which they could have differentiated impact on economic development. We then compile a data set of citizenship laws around the world. Using cross-country regressions, panel-data techniques, as well as the synthetic control method and subjecting the results to a battery of tests, we find robust evidence that jus soli laws—being more inclusive—lead to higher income levels than alternative citizenship rules in developing countries, though to a less extent in countries with stronger institutional environment.
K40|Lawyer Fee Arrangements and Litigation Outcomes: An Auction-Theoretic Perspective|Many jurisdictions in Europe foresee the opportunity to allow the use of pay-forperformance (outcome-based) contracts in lawyer-client relationships, via the socalled contingent/conditional fees. In this article, we analyze the welfare implications of such fee regimes – regarding their effects on litigation outcomes – by modeling the lawsuit as an auction. The criteria for regime comparison are litigation costs, lawyers’ profits, and parties’ incentives to reach a pre-trial settlement. The main result shows that switching from hourly to outcome-based fees may increase the trial costs and the lawyers’ profits, and enhance the likelihood of settlement (by decreasing the litigants’ expected utilities at trial). This last effect may challenge an important argument in favor of pay-for-performance contracts, that is the objective of promoting access to justice, which is an overriding public policy motivation behind the introduction of these remuneration systems.
K40|Institutional Monitoring and Litigation Risk: Evidence from Employee Disputes|In this study, we investigate how institutional investors help mitigate business-related risks in a corporate environment. Using a large sample of employment disputes, litigations, and court cases, we find that institutional investors play a significant role in reducing employment litigation. We observe that firms with larger shares of institutional ownership have a lower incidence of employment lawsuits and that long-term institutional investors are more effective at decreasing employee mistreatment. Our results suggest that institutional investors can improve the employee work environment and help mitigate future employee litigation. The improvement of employee work conditions has been shown to increase a firm’s value through increased employee output, reduced litigation, and direct and indirect costs. Our results shed light on the effectiveness of institutional monitoring on a firm’s litigation risk.
K40|Enhancing judicial efficiency to foster economic activity in Portugal|A well-functioning justice system is indispensable to business activity and to a society as a whole. Judicial efficiency measured by trial length, one of the essential factors in the effectiveness of the justice system, ensures contract enforcement, which is the basis of market transactions. Judicial efficiency is closely associated with accessibility to judicial services and the certainty of judicial decisions, raising people’s confidence. Portugal has undertaken numerous judicial reforms in the past, to the extent that it is difficult to disentangle and evaluate fully the effects of each reform. Overall, judicial efficiency remains weak, as reflected in the average trial length and bottlenecks in a number of courts. The data collection system, significantly developed as part of the reforms, can be more fully utilised for allocating court resources. The autonomy of the judicial council and court presidents can also be strengthened so that they can effectively manage resources. Individual judges can be better incentivised through performance-oriented evaluation. Competition in the legal profession sector can be enhanced while increasing the transparency of legal services. Also, alternative dispute resolution mechanisms can be developed further, meeting different needs for judicial services, in particular those on insolvency, while alleviating court congestion. Finally, building on past and ongoing reform efforts, the judicial system should continue to improve the capacity to undertake forensic investigations of economic and financial crimes.This Working Paper relates to the 2018 OECD Economic Survey of Portugal(http://www.oecd.org/economy/portugal-economic-snapshot/)
K40|Randomly Selected Representative Committees|When selecting a committee that decides for an entire body of members of a society (a court, legislature, etc.) two main methods are used: random assignment and direct election (whereby the latter method is made by some authority). It is known that both methods have some flaws (Hasday, 2017). We present a new method that proposes a pool of committees so that by randomly selecting a committee within this pool, all members in the society have equal opportunities of being selected and properties of representativeness and coherence are fulfilled.
K40|Greening the WTO. EGA, tariff concessions and policy likeness|"This paper considers the APEC and EGA agreements which grant tariff concession through HS classifications beyond the six digit level (""ex outs"") in favour of ""green"" goods and discuss how these initiatives fit into the WTO legal regime. Even if the practical significance of the APEC agreement should not be overestimated as it involves modest tariff concessions over a subset of goods which are not heavily traded, these agreements involve a paradigm shift to the extent that they use tariffs concessions negotiated on a plurilateral basis as a policy instrument to meet public policy concern, instead of making market access conditional on meeting national regulations. We find that there is a tension between the current definition of likeness for the enforcement of MFN provisions and the use of ex outs and a risk that improved market access for ex outs could be seen a de facto discrimination. One way out of this conundrum is to define likeness in terms of policy rationales."
K40|Lawyer Fee Arrangements and Litigation Outcomes: An Auction-Theoretic Perspective|Many jurisdictions in Europe foresee the opportunity to allow the use of pay-forperformance (outcome-based) contracts in lawyer-client relationships, via the socalled contingent/conditional fees. In this article, we analyze the welfare implications of such fee regimes – regarding their effects on litigation outcomes – by modeling the lawsuit as an auction. The criteria for regime comparison are litigation costs, lawyers’ profits, and parties’ incentives to reach a pre-trial settlement. The main result shows that switching from hourly to outcome-based fees may increase the trial costs and the lawyers’ profits, and enhance the likelihood of settlement (by decreasing the litigants’ expected utilities at trial). This last effect may challenge an important argument in favor of pay-for-performance contracts, that is the objective of promoting access to justice, which is an overriding public policy motivation behind the introduction of these remuneration systems.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
K40|Actions en justice et rémunération des avocats : une revue de la littérature|Plusieurs pays européens ont désormais adopté (ou envisagent d’adopter) l’honoraire de résultat comme mécanisme de rémunération des avocats dans le cadre d’actions en responsabilité civile. Ce type d’honoraire implique que l’avocat ne soit rémunéré qu’en cas de transaction amiable ou de victoire au procès, percevant soit un bonus horaire (ou forfaitaire), soit une part de l’indemnisation obtenue par son client. Dans cet article, nous dressons un état des lieux de la littérature économique théorique portant sur l’analyse de ces modalités de rémunération, via l’étude de leurs implications sur les comportements des parties prenantes au litige (que ce soit lors de sa résolution ou, plus en amont, lors de son émergence). Sur cette base, il apparaît que l’honoraire de résultat présente plusieurs avantages potentiels, notamment en termes d’accès au droit, de sélection des affaires, de transfert de risque et de régulation du phénomène d’aléa moral, nous amenant à penser que sa généralisation à l’ensemble des pays occidentaux est souhaitable à de nombreux égards. Pour être plus affirmatif, il faudrait néanmoins que ces avantages soient plus largement confirmés sur un plan empirique.
K40|Income Levels, Governance and Inclusive Human Development in Sub-Saharan Africa|This study examines how income-driven governance affects inclusive human development in Sub-Saharan Africa with data for the period 2000-2012. The empirical evidence is based on the Generalised Method of Moments (GMM) and Tobit regressions. Nine bundled and unbundled concepts of governance are used: political (voice & accountability and political stability/no violence), economic (government effectiveness and regulation quality) and institutional (corruption-control and the rule of law) governances. The main finding is that â€˜middle incomeâ€™-driven governance has a higher effect on inclusive human development than â€˜low incomeâ€™-driven governance. Policy implications are discussed in the light of: (i) the contemporary relevance of findings; (ii) the pivotal role of a higher income level in the post-2015 sustainable development agenda; and (iii) inconsistent strands in the literature and in foreign aid policies.
K40|Kartellrecht und Ökonomik: Institutions matter!|Der vorliegende Beitrag diskutiert die Schnittstelle zwischen Recht und Ökonomik in der Wettbewerbspolitik. Aus einer ökonomischen Perspektive werden Ansätze zu einer institutionenökonomischen Analyse der Kartellrechtsdurchsetzung betrachtet. Im Rahmen einer positiven Institutionenökonomik der Wettbewerbspolitik analysieren die Autoren informationsökonomische Aspekte, verhaltensökonomische Ansätze, sowie die politökonomische Dimension. Zudem werden Bausteine einer normativen Institutionenökonomik des Kartellrechts diskutiert. Schließlich exploriert der Beitrag soziologische Aspekte der Wettbewerbspolitik, welche in der Literatur bisher weitgehend vernachlässigt werden. Insgesamt weisen die Autoren auf zahlreiche offene Fragen für das optimale Institutionendesign bei der Kartellrechtsdurchsetzung hin und identifizieren zahlreiche offene Forschungsfragen für die institutionenökonomische Wettbewerbsforschung.
K40|Trust in State and Non-State Actors: Evidence from Dispute Resolution in Pakistan|Lack of trust in state institutions, often due to poor service provision, is a pervasive problem in many developing countries. If this increases reliance on non-state actors for crucial services, the resulting self-reinforcing cycle can further weaken the state. This paper examines whether such a cycle can be disrupted. We focus on dispute resolution in rural Punjab, Pakistan. We find that providing information about reduced delays in state courts leads to citizens reporting higher willingness to use state courts and to greater fund allocations to the state in two lab-in-the-field games designed to measure trust in state and non-state actors in a high-stakes setting. More interestingly, we find indirect effects on non-state actors. After receiving state positive information, respondents report lower likelihood of using non-state institutions and reduce funds allocated to them in field games. Furthermore, we find similar direct and indirect effects on a battery of questions concerning people’s beliefs about these actors, including a decreased allegiance to the non-state actor. We rationalize these results with a model of motivated reasoning whereby reduced usage of non-state institutions makes people less likely to hold positive views about them. These results indicate that, despite substantial distrust of the state in Pakistan, credible new information can change beliefs and behavior. The feedback loop between state ineffectiveness and the legitimacy of non-state actors may be reversible.
K40|The Rationale for Motions in the Design of Adjudication|The conduct of adjudication is often influenced by motions––requests made by litigants to modify the course of adjudication. The question studied in this article is why adjudication is designed so as to permit the use of motions. The answer developed is that litigants will naturally know a great deal about their specific matter, whereas a court will ordinarily know little except to the degree that the court has already invested effort to appreciate it. By giving litigants the right to bring motions, the judicial system leads litigants to efficiently provide information to courts that is relevant to the adjudicative process.
K40|Understanding Sub-Saharan Africa’s Extreme Poverty Tragedy|Motivated by a recent World Bank report on achieving of Millennium Development Goals which shows that poverty has been declining in all regions of the world with the exception of sub-Saharan Africa (SSA), this study puts some empirical structure to theoretical and qualitative studies on the reconciliation of the Beijing Model with the Washington Consensus. It tests the hypothesis that compared to middle income countries, low income countries would achieve more inclusive development by focusing on economic governance as opposed to political governance. The empirical evidence is based on interactive and non-interactive fixed effects regressions and 49 countries in SSA for the period 2000-2012. The findings confirm the investigated hypothesis. As the main policy implication, in order to address inclusive development challenges in the post-2015 development agenda in SSA, it would benefit low income countries in the sub-region to prioritise economic governance. Other theoretical and practical contributions are also discussed.
K40|Съдебните Производства По Закона За Защита От Дискриминация<BR>[The judicial proceedings under the protection against descrimination act]|Резюме: В Закона за защита от дискриминация са регламентирани различни съдебни производства. В този доклад ще направя анализ на разпоредбите, регламентиращи различните съдебни производства, ще посоча проблемите, които възникват в процеса на правоприлагане, и ще предложа законодателни промени за преодоляване на поставените проблеми. Summary: The different judicial court proceedings are regulated by the Protection against Discrimination Act. Hereafter, in this report, I will analyze the provisions regulating the various legal court proceedings, I will identify and point on the problems that arise in the law enforcement process and I will propose legislative changes to overcome the problems raised.
K40|Introduction|This special section aims to advance scholarship on well-being and happiness in Africa. The section covers theoretical, conceptual and empirical contributions which address relevant areas that enhance extant knowledge on linkages between poverty, happiness and well-being in Africa.
K40|The Minimum Wage, EITC, and Criminal Recidivism|For recently released prisoners, the minimum wage and the availability of state Earned Income Tax Credits (EITCs) can influence both their ability to find employment and their potential legal wages relative to illegal sources of income, in turn affecting the probability they return to prison. Using administrative prison release records from nearly six million offenders released between 2000 and 2014, we use a difference-in-differences strategy to identify the effect of over two hundred state and federal minimum wage increases, as well as 21 state EITC programs, on recidivism. We find that the average minimum wage increase of $0.50 reduces the probability that men and women return to prison within 1 year by 2.8%. This implies that on average the effect of higher wages, drawing at least some released prisoners into the legal labor market, dominates any reduced employment in this population due to the minimum wage. These reductions in returns to incarcerations are observed for the potentially revenue generating crime categories of property and drug crimes; prison reentry for violent crimes are unchanged, supporting our framing that minimum wages affect crime that serves as a source of income. The availability of state EITCs also reduces recidivism, but only for women.
K40|Things have changed (or Have they ?) Tariff protection and environmental concerns in the WTO|"This paper considers the APEC and proposed EGA agreements which grant tariff concession in favor of ""green"" goods. We find that the practical significance of the APEC agreement should not be overestimated as it involves modest tariff concessions over a subset of goods which are not heavily traded. Still, these agreements involve a paradigm shift to the extent that they use tariffs concessions negotiated on a plurilateral basis as a policy instrument to meet public policy concern, instead of making market access conditional on meeting national regulations. We model the mechanism through which these tariff preferences provide incentives to change production in favor of green goods in exporting countries and highlight the challenges that the implementation of these agreements involve."
K40|Trade in Financial Services Regionalism: Derivatives Clearing and Settlement in Economic Integration Agreements|Trade in financial services is integrated through Economic Integration Agreements (EIAs), in addition to the multilateral trading system developed under the WTO. Securities’ clearing and settlement services have nowadays become more important than ever. The latter have gained enormous strategic relevance due to the global regulatory shift towards tasking clearinghouses to mitigate the risks associated with trading of OTC derivatives. This study assesses the liberalization levels of the financial services in the plurilateral trading system. It aims to shed light on the underlying dynamics that could explain the rationale behind international trade treaties. Most importantly, this contribution assesses the relationship between regulation of international trade and regulation of financial market infrastructure in order to bring into the spotlight problematic features that underscore existing silos in WTO Members’ administrations.
K40|Punitive Damages ? A Rising Star in International Commercial Arbitration?|Punitive damages in international commercial arbitration has been considered more a theoretical than a practical issue, especially in civil law countries. Nevertheless, the national law regulations must provide a way how to react on such claims, particularly in the area of international commercial arbitration. This article is considered primarily with the analysis of the current status quo of certain civil law countries related to punitive damages since not only applicable substantive law, but also procedural law of the seat of arbitration has an impact on the availability of punitive damages in international arbitration. It also discusses legal reasons why punitive damages are of limited relevance in international commercial arbitration that consequently leads to a minimal number of arbitral awards of punitive damages. Despite of infrequency, the importance and clear approach to whether punitive damages should have a place in international commercial arbitration must be drawn.
K40|Characteristics of Judgments of the EU Court of Justice|The Court of Justice of the European Union is an independent judicial organ of the European Union. Its decisions possess usual characteristics and procedural aspects that judicial decisions in general have. In this respect we may consider res judicata principle, precedential effect and temporal effect of Court?s decisions. However, some of these characteristics are modified due to the specific nature and aim of judicial process on the EU level. The aim of the paper will be to define the aforementioned characteristics of the Court of Justice decisions, to analyze them on the basis of Court?s jurisprudence and to deal with them in depth in the context of EU judiciary.
K40|The limits of judicial power in England and Germany: a comparative methodological and constitutional perspective|The principle of legal certainty, the rule of law and the constitutional separation of powers are affected to a significant degree when judges engage in judicial law-making, i.e. when they restrict or extend the scope of application of an enactment beyond or against the possible semantic meanings of the statutory language. This paper assesses how far English and German judges go when they interpret national legislation. It adopts a comparative methodological and constitutional perspective. The border between permissible judicial law-making and impermissible judicial amendment of legislation is governed by ?outer? methodological limits in judicial practice. This paper explores reasons that may explain the existing similarities and differences in these limits in England and Germany. By focusing on the methodological constraints of judicial law-making, the paper adds an underexplored aspect to the debate on converging / diverging statutory interpretation in civil law and common law jurisdictions. It also focuses on the often neglected relationship between statutory interpretation and constitutional law. The wider debate the paper feeds into is the debate about the proper degree and limits of judicial power in a legal system.This paper argues that opposing default positions exist in English and German judicial practice in relation to the permissibility of judicial law-making. This is not only due to different underlying constitutional settings but also due to historical factors and tradition that affect judicial attitudes. The paper thus rejects the thesis that statutory interpretation in both countries is fundamentally uniform.In the realms of rights-consistent judicial law-making and interpretation in conformity with an EU directive, this paper discerns contrasting trends in statutory interpretation in both jurisdictions. One effect of these trends is, however, a growing congruence not only in the general expression of outer interpretative limits but also in their application in individual cases in England and Germany. This convergence is based on judges? common understanding of their constitutional role vis-à-vis the legislature. Changes in the UK constitutional framework can partly, but not fully, justify this convergent development. Another reason for the high level of convergence is that English courts have exceeded their judicial powers. The paper therefore argues that scholars have rightly criticised highest English courts for undermining constitutional doctrine with adventurous re-interpretations of legislation. As regards German judicial practice, the paper will challenge scholarly claims that German courts have extended the limits of the judicial function.
K40|Noisy Persuasion|We study the effect of noise due to exogenous information distortions in the context of Bayesian persuasion. In particular, we ask whether more noise is always harmful for the information designer (viz., the sender). We show that in general this is not the case. That is, more noise is often beneficial for the sender. However, when we compare noisy channels with “similar basic structures”, more noise cannot be beneficial for the sender. We apply our theory to applications from the literatures on voting and cognitive biases.
K40|Wrongful Conviction, Persuasion and Loss Aversion|When can a prosecutor persuade a loss-averse judge to increase her rate of conviction? Motivated by empirical evidence, I study a model of persuasion in which the loss a judge incurs from wrongful conviction looms larger than the gain from a just verdict. I show that, surprisingly, the prosecutor beneﬁts from persuasion even when the judge is extremely loss-averse. However, a necessary condition is that the prosecutor does not underestimate the judge’s loss aversion. I draw on experimental ﬁndings to quantify the eﬀectiveness of persuasion under loss aversion. JEL classification numbers: D72 ; D82 ; D91 ; K40
K40|Revisiting the efficiency and institutions debate: The interaction of legal origins and ethnic heterogeneity|We analyse the interaction between legal origins and ethnic heterogeneity and their combined impact on national efficiency. We hypothesise that in the presence of high ethnic heterogeneity common-law system performs worse than civil-law one in terms of economic efficiency. Our empirical tests on the sample of African countries support our hypothesis.
K40|Understanding Sub-Saharan Africaâ€™s Extreme Poverty Tragedy|Motivated by a recent World Bank report on achieving of Millennium Development Goals which shows that poverty has been declining in all regions of the world with the exception of sub-Saharan Africa (SSA), this study puts some empirical structure to theoretical and qualitative studies on the reconciliation of the Beijing Model with the Washington Consensus. It tests the hypothesis that compared to middle income countries, low income countries would achieve more inclusive development by focusing on economic governance as opposed to political governance. The empirical evidence is based on interactive and non-interactive fixed effects regressions and 49 countries in SSA for the period 2000-2012. The findings confirm the investigated hypothesis. As the main policy implication, in order to address inclusive development challenges in the post-2015 development agenda in SSA, it would benefit low income countries in the sub-region to prioritise economic governance. Other theoretical and practical contributions are also discussed.
K40|Introduction|This special section aims to advance scholarship on well-being and happiness in Africa. The section covers theoretical, conceptual and empirical contributions which address relevant areas that enhance extant knowledge on linkages between poverty, happiness and well-being in Africa.
K40|Understanding Sub-Saharan Africaâ€™s Extreme Poverty Tragedy|Motivated by a recent World Bank report on achieving of Millennium Development Goals which shows that poverty has been declining in all regions of the world with the exception of sub-Saharan Africa (SSA), this study puts some empirical structure to theoretical and qualitative studies on the reconciliation of the Beijing Model with the Washington Consensus. It tests the hypothesis that compared to middle income countries, low income countries would achieve more inclusive development by focusing on economic governance as opposed to political governance. The empirical evidence is based on interactive and non-interactive fixed effects regressions and 49 countries in SSA for the period 2000-2012. The findings confirm the investigated hypothesis. As the main policy implication, in order to address inclusive development challenges in the post-2015 development agenda in SSA, it would benefit low income countries in the sub-region to prioritise economic governance. Other theoretical and practical contributions are also discussed.
K40|Understanding Sub-Saharan Africa’s Extreme Poverty Tragedy|Motivated by a recent World Bank report on achieving of Millennium Development Goals which shows that poverty has been declining in all regions of the world with the exception of sub-Saharan Africa (SSA), this study puts some empirical structure to theoretical and qualitative studies on the reconciliation of the Beijing Model with the Washington Consensus. It tests the hypothesis that compared to middle income countries, low income countries would achieve more inclusive development by focusing on economic governance as opposed to political governance. The empirical evidence is based on interactive and non-interactive fixed effects regressions and 49 countries in SSA for the period 2000-2012. The findings confirm the investigated hypothesis. As the main policy implication, in order to address inclusive development challenges in the post-2015 development agenda in SSA, it would benefit low income countries in the sub-region to prioritise economic governance. Other theoretical and practical contributions are also discussed.
K40|Introduction|This special section aims to advance scholarship on well-being and happiness in Africa. The section covers theoretical, conceptual and empirical contributions which address relevant areas that enhance extant knowledge on linkages between poverty, happiness and well-being in Africa.
K40|Determinants of Judicial Efficiency Change: Evidence from Brazil|Judicial efficiency matters for economic development. Nevertheless, the determinants of judicial productivity growth are not entirely understood. Using data of Brazil's state courts for the period of 2009 to 2014, this paper analyzes judicial productivity change and its possible determinants over time in a two stage approach. First, data envelopment analysis is used to calculate Malmquist productivity measures which are decomposed in: technical change (frontier-shift effect) and efficiency change (composed of pure efficiency change and scale efficiency change). In the second stage, fixed effect models are estimated to evaluate the associated factors with judicial productivity growth. The first stage results show a slight improvement in judicial productivity trend, which is defined mainly by efficiency change, since technical change deteriorated in the period. The second stage findings suggest the nonexistence of a trade-off between judicial quality and efficiency improvement. Moreover, judges’ remuneration, legal complexity and technological use are correlated with judicial productivity, however not always in the expected direction.
K40|Cryptocurrency or usury? Crime and alternative money laundering techniques|Abstract The article presents a novel dynamic setting to compare old—usury—and new—cryptocurrency—money laundering techniques and uses it for calibration to shed light on their relative role as an effective device for the criminal organizations to clean their illegal revenues. The specialness of the usury contract depends on its role in laundering illegal revenues originating from criminal activities and it is independent from the interest rate level, while the cryptocurrency money laundering is associated with an initial coin offering tool. The calibration compares the leverage effect on the overall capital owned by the criminal organizations triggered by the two money laundering techniques.
K40|Real estate foreclosures: their functioning and the effects of recent reforms|Lengthy in-court debt recovery procedures may adversely affect the economic and financial system, for example in the management of non-performing loans. This paper analyses the characteristics of real estate foreclosures in Italy and the determinants of their length. A decomposition of procedures into phases shows that the phases preceding and following the actual sale also contribute significantly to the total length of the procedure. The length also turns out to be influenced by both observable and unobservable court characteristics. We also find a reduction in the length of the procedures following recent reforms: new regulations are helping to reduce the length of the ‘pre-sale’ phase and, above all, of the sale phase.
K40|Follow The Money: Online Piracy and Self-Regulation in the Advertising Industry|In this paper, we study the effects of a self-regulatory effort, orchestrated by the European Commission, that aims to reduce advertising revenues for publishers of copyright infringing content. Historical data lets us follow how the third-party advertising and tracking services associated with a large number of piracy websites and a corresponding set of legitimate “placebo” websites change after the agreement to self-regulate went in place. We find that larger EU-based advertisers comply with the initiative and reduce their connections with piracy websites. We do not find reductions for other non-advertising services that track consumers, which has potentially important implications for the efficiency of targeted advertising.
K40|Electoral cycles in perceived corruption: International empirical evidence|I examine whether elections influence perceived corruption in the public sector. Perceived corruption in the public sector is measured by the reversed Transparency International's Perception of Corruption Index (CPI). The dataset includes around 100 democracies over the period 2012–2016, a sample for which the CPI is comparable across countries and over time. The results show that the reversed CPI was about 0.4 points higher in election years than in other years, indicating that perceived corruption in the public sector increased before elections. The effect is especially pronounced before early elections (1.0 points) compared to regular elections (0.4 points). Future research needs to investigate why perceived corruption in the public sector increased before elections.
K40|The Greek Justice System: Collapse and Reform|This paper discusses the key structural deficiencies of the Greek justice system and proposes some concrete policy reforms. In the first part, we provide an anatomy of the Greek legal system using cross-country indicators reflecting the formalism, quality, and speed of the resolution mechanisms. The analysis shows that the Greek justice system is failing to protect citizens, as delays in all types of courts exceed five years and in some instances reach a decade. At the same the quality of laws protecting investors, even property, is low. Using comparative data from other EU jurisdictions, we show that the key reasons behind these failures are the absence of information technology, the lack of supporting to judges staff, the absence of specialized courts and tribunals, and a hugely dysfunctional administration. At the same time, there are minimal checks and balances. In the second part, we detail a set of policy proposals. Our proposals consist of immediate measures for clearing the large backlog and a set of more ambitious medium-term reforms (many of which require a constitutional amendment). Our proposals aim to make the Greek justice system professionally administered, less formalistic, suitably flexible, more responsive and more accountable to society at large. Given the strong link between legal institutions and development, justice reform is an absolute priority of the reform agenda and a sine qua non-condition for the much-needed sustainable recovery of the Greek economy.
K40|Data for Good: Unlocking Privately-Held Data to the Benefit of the Many|It is almost a truism to argue that data holds a great promise of transformative resources for social good, by helping to address a complex range of societal issues, ranging from saving lives in the aftermath of a natural disaster to predicting teen suicides. Yet it is not public authorities who hold this real-time data, but private entities, such as mobile network operators and business card companies, and - with even greater detail - tech firms such as Google through its globally-dominant search engine, and, in particular, social media platforms, such as Facebook and Twitter. Besides a few isolated and self-proclaimed ‘data philanthropy’ initiatives and other corporate data-sharing collaborations, data-rich companies have historically shown resistance to not only share this data for the public good, but also to identify its inherent social, non-commercial benefit. How to explain to citizens across the world that their own data - which has been aggressively harvested over time - can’t be used, and not even in emergency situations? Responding to this unsettling question entails a fascinating research journey for anyone interested in how the promises of big data could deliver for society as a whole. In the absence of a plausible solution, the number of societal problems that won’t be solved unless firms like Facebook, Google and Apple start coughing up more data-based evidence will increase exponentially, as well as societal rejection of their underlying business models. This article identifies the major challenges of unlocking private-held data to the benefit of society and sketches a research agenda for scholars interested in collaborative and regulatory solutions aimed at unlocking privately-held data for good.
K40|The Present and Future of Judgement Aggregation Theory. A Law and Economics Perspective|This chapter briefly reviews the present state of judgment aggregation theory and tentatively suggests a future direction for that theory. In the review, we start by emphasizing the difference between the doctrinal paradox and the discursive dilemma, two idealized examples which classically serve to motivate the theory, and then proceed to reconstruct it as a brand of logical theory, unlike in some other interpretations, using a single impossibility theorem as a key to its technical development. In the prospective part, having mentioned existing applications to social choice theory and computer science, which we do not discuss here, we consider a potential application to law and economics. This would be based on a deeper exploration of the doctrinal paradox and its relevance to the functioning of collegiate courts. On this topic, legal theorists have provided empirical observations and theoretical hints that judgment aggregation theorists would be in a position to clarify and further elaborate. As a general message, the chapter means to suggest that the future of judgment aggregation theory lies with its applications rather than its internal theoretical development.
K40|Does an Inclusive Citizenship Law Promote Economic Development?|This paper analyzes the impact of citizenship laws on economic development. We first document the evolution of citizenship laws around the world, highlighting the main features of jus soli, jus sanguinis as well as mixed regimes, and shedding light on the channels through which they could have differentiated impact on economic development. We then compile a data set of citizenship laws around the world. Using cross-country regressions, panel-data techniques, as well as the synthetic control method and subjecting the results to a battery of tests, we find robust evidence that jus soli laws—being more inclusive—lead to higher income levels than alternative citizenship rules in developing countries, though to a less extent in countries with stronger institutional environment.
K40|Machine learning with screens for detecting bid-rigging cartels|We combine machine learning techniques with statistical screens computed from the distribution of bids in tenders within the Swiss construction sector to predict collusion through bid-rigging cartels. We assess the out of sample performance of this approach and find it to correctly classify more than 84% of the total of bidding processes as collusive or non-collusive. We also discuss tradeoffs in reducing false positive vs. false negative predictions and find that false negative predictions increase much faster in reducing false positive predictions. Finally, we discuss policy implications of our method for competition agencies aiming at detecting bid-rigging cartels.
K40|Things have changed (or Have they?) Tariff protection and environmental concerns in the WTO|"This paper considers the APEC and proposed EGA agreements which grant tariff concession in favor of ""green"" goods. We ?find that the practical signi?cance of the APEC agreement should not be overestimated as it involves modest tariff concessions over a subset of goods which are not heavily traded. Still, these agreements involve a paradigm shift to the extent that they use tariffs concessions negotiated on a purilateral basis as a policy instrument to meet public policy concern, instead of making market access conditional on meeting national regulations. We model the mechanism through which these tariff preferences provide incentives to change production in favor of green goods in exporting countries and highlight the challenges that the implementation of these agreements involve."
K40|Standards of proofs in sequential merger control procedures|We model merger control procedures as a process of sequential acquisition of information in which mergers can be cleared after a ?first phase of investigation. We fi?nd that the enforceability of clearance decisions at the end of the fi?rst phase is unattractive to the extent that it prevents the authorities to use their expectations as to whether evidence gathered in the fi?rst phase will be confi?rmed in the second phase. This deprives the ?first phase of its potential as an effective screening mechanism. We also fi?nd that when clearance decisions in the fi?rst phase are enforceable, a different (higher) standard in the fi?rst phase is only desirable when Phase I decisions are captured by merging parties (as opposed to complainants).
K40|Overburdened judges|We develop a double-sided moral hazard model in which the production of justice depends on two tasks (jurisdictional and administrative). The jurisdictional task can be provided only by a judge (the agent) while the administrative task can be provided either by the government (the principal) and/or by the judge. However, the judge performs the administrative task at a higher unit cost. First, we show that the first-best situation is such that the judge exerts no effort to provide the administrative task. Second, we show that two forms of (second-best) optimal contract can emerge when neither the government's effort nor the judge's effort is contractible: either the incentives are shared between the government and the judge and the judge exerts no effort to provide the administrative task, or the judge faces high-powered incentives which induce her to exert effort to provide both tasks. Our model proposes a rationale for judges work overload observed in many countries.
K40|Police Patrols and Crime|An influential literature has used the aftermath of terrorist attacks to estimate large effects of police street deployment on crime. However, the elasticities obtained in these settings may not easily extrapolate to more standard circumstances. This paper exploits a natural experiment that aimed to increase police presence in more than 6,000 well-defined areas, by economically-realistic amounts and under relatively normal circumstances. Using data transmitted by GPS devices worn by police officers, we first document exogenous and discontinuous changes in patrolling intensity. We do not find that these increases in patrolling were accompanied by corresponding decreases in crime. The standard errors are small enough to reject relatively small elasticities. We discuss and empirically evaluate explanations for our findings.
K40|HRMI Civil and Political Rights Metrics: 2018 Technical Note|This paper details a new methodology developed to measure civil and political rights violations in a pilot sample of 13 diverse countries. In doing so, we discuss the problems present in previous attempts to measure civil and political rights cross-nationally and argue that our approach overcomes many of those problems. Using an expert survey that draws on the knowledge of human rights researchers, advocates, lawyers, journalists, and others responsible for directly monitoring the human rights situation in countries worldwide, we present new measures of the intensity and distribution of respect for seven separate areas of civil and political rights and compare those data with existing work. The results demonstrate that our technique for producing data on civil and political rights produces outcomes with strong face validity vis-à-vis existing measures, while providing more and better information than any previous cross-national data collection effort. We aim to extend this approach to most other countries in the world over the coming years.
K40|Crime, Money Laundering, And Credit Markets: Can Usury Exist At The Zero Lower Bound?|In advanced economies, the recent collapse of interest rates to the Zero Lower Bound (ZLB) has triggered a series of research questions on how to navigate the new zero-interest credit environment. Focusing on illegal markets, it is possible to explain why usury still remains widespread after the legal nominal interest rate has fallen to zero. If the lender is a criminal agent with money-laundering aims, the ZLB isn’t an obstacle to design and implement usury contracts. Using a dynamic model of usury for a loan having a variable interest rate and the value of the borrowing firm itself as collateral it is possible to show that notwithstanding the ZLB the criminal actor can be able achieve the money laundering purpose by expropriating the borrower of his/her collateral.
K40|Marginal Deterrence at Work|We test the rational economic model of marginal deterrence of law enforcement --- i.e., the need for graduating the penalty to the severity of the crime. We combine individual-level data on sentence length for a representative sample of US inmates with proxies for maximum punishment and monitoring costs across US states over 50 years. Consistent with the theory of marginal deterrence, we show that an increase in maximum penalty or a decrease in monitoring cost are associated with longer sentences. We also provide evidence that steeper sanctions are associated with less severe crimes, consistent with marginal deterrence being effective. Overall, these findings favor the marginal deterrence framework over competing theories of justice.
K40|Bunching on the Autobahn? Speeding responses to a ‘notched’ penalty scheme|This paper studies drivers’ responses to a ‘notched’ penalty scheme in which speeding penalties are stepwise and discontinuously increasing in speed. We present survey evidence suggesting that drivers in Germany are well aware of the notched penalty structure. Based on a simple analytical framework, we analyze the impact of the notches on drivers’ optimal speed choices. The model’s predictions are confronted with data on more than 150,000 speeding tickets from the Autobahn and 290,000 speed measures from a traffic monitoring system. The data provide evidence on modest levels of bunching, despite several frictions working against it. We analyze the normative implications and assess the scope for welfare gains from moving from a simple, notched penalty scheme to a more complex but less salient Pigouvian scheme.
K40|Younger Federal District Court Judges Favor Presidential Power|From 1960 to 2015, Federal District Court opinions involving challenges to Executive Branch authority show that U.S. Federal District Court judges (trial judges) support such authority less as they age, with a sharp decline beginning near age 57. We argue that District judges know that elevation to the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals becomes increasingly improbable, and hence have less reason to ‘cooperate’ with the Executive, with advancing age. Political variables (and other variables) introduced as extra regressors do not reverse our main results. When there are contemporaneous vacancies on their Circuit courts, District judges in the eleven State Circuits (but not the District of Columbia circuit) are also more likely to favor the Executive.
K40|The Fall of Capital Punishment and the Rise of Prisons: How Punishment Severity Affects Jury Verdicts|This paper studies the effect of punishment severity on jury decision-making using a large archival data set from the Old Bailey Criminal Court in London from 1715 to 1900. We take advantage of three natural experiments in English history, which result in sharp decreases in punishment severity: The offense specific abolition of capital punishment in the 1800s, the temporary halt of penal transportation during the American Revolution, and the abolition of transportation in 1853. Using a difference-in-differences design to study the abolition of the death penalty and pre-post designs to study the temporary and permanent halts to transportation, we find that decreasing expected punishment (especially via the end of the death penalty), had a large and significant impact on jury behavior, generally leading to the jury being ‘harsher’. Moreover, we find that the size of the effect differs with defendants’ gender and criminal history. These results raise concerns about the impartiality of juries as well as the implicit assumption often made when designing and evaluating criminal justice policies today – that the chance of conviction is independent of the harshness of the penalty.
K40|Screening for Bid-rigging – Does it Work?|This paper proposes a method to detect bid-rigging by applying mutually reinforcing screens to a road construction procurement data set from Switzerland in which no prior information about collusion was available. The screening method is particularly suited to deal with the problem of partial collusion, i.e. collusion which does not involve all firms and/or all contracts in a specific data set, implying that many of the classical markers discussed in the corresponding literature will fail to identify bid-rigging. In addition to presenting new screens for collusion, it is shown how benchmarks and the combination of different screens may be used to identify subsets of suspicious contracts and firms. The discussed screening method succeeds in isolating a group of “suspicious” firms exhibiting the characteristics of a local bid-rigging cartel with cover bids and a – more or less pronounced – bid rotation scheme. Based on these findings the Swiss Competition Commission (COMCO) opened an investigation and sanctioned the identified “suspicious” firms for bid-rigging in 2016.
K40|Ask for the Moon, Settle for the Stars: What is a Reasonable Period to Comply with WTO Awards?|The World Trade Organization (WTO) dispute settlement process allows a defending Member a “reasonable period of time” (RPT) to implement any findings that its contested measures are inconsistent with WTO law. If agreement on this RPT cannot be reached, Article 21.3(c) of the Understanding on Rules and Procedures Governing the Settlement of Disputes (DSU) provides for the possibility of arbitration on the length of the RPT. The DSU provides limited guidelines on the RPT, stating only that it should not normally exceed 15 months. In practice, Arbitrators have developed the standard that the RPT should reflect the shortest possible period under the domestic legal system of the defending Member to make the changes necessary to comply with the WTO rulings. Our research confirms that in practice Arbitrators have determined this period by “splitting the difference” approximately between the periods suggested by the complaining and defending Member. In addition, the process appears to reward defending Members that request an RPT that exceeds the 15-month guideline in Article 21.3(c).<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
K40|The certainty versus the severity of punishment, repeat offenders, and stigmatization|There is a widely held presumption among criminologists that the certainty of punishment p is a greater deterrent than the severity of punishment (s). This presumption is at odds with recent experimental work as well as the implications of simple law enforcement models. This article shows that when offenses may be committed repeatedly, p may have a greater deterrent effect than s, even when each individual offender is more responsive to sthan p. This resolves the discrepancy between experimental results and the common belief held among criminologists.
K40|Prisons, recidivism and the age–crime profile|This paper provides a descriptive analysis of the economic and non-economic channels that led to a U-shaped trend in the average age of male convicts in 19th century London using detailed data from the Old Bailey central criminal court. In addition to discussing industrialization and changing attitudes towards juveniles as potential mechanisms underlying the initial decrease and subsequent increase in criminal age, we put forth a new explanation of the latter. Did the abolition of capital punishment and penal transportation, which led to the rise of the modern day prison system and the emergence of recidivism, lead to a mechanical increase in the average age of criminals?
K40|Political philosophy, executive constraint and electoral rules|This paper explains the choice of electoral rule by the difference in the ease of implementing targeted transfer. By modeling the choice of electoral rule as a decision by the ruling rich-elite party before universal suffrage is enacted, this paper predicts that a loose constitutional constraint on targeted transfers is conducive to the adoption of proportional representation. To complete the theory, this work argues that the British empiricism and the Continental rationalism have their own views concerning the role and the power of a state, leading to differential levels of constraints on redistribution. Thus the theory explains why Anglo-Saxon countries tend to maintain majoritarian electoral rule. Employing the event history analysis with the two-stage-residual-inclusion approach, this work shows that countries with poorer executive constraints are more likely to adopt proportional representation. Meanwhile, we find evidence supporting that countries with British origin have been associated with tighter constraint upon the executive.
K40|Local labor markets and criminal recidivism|This paper estimates the impact of local labor market conditions on criminal recidivism using administrative prison records on four million offenders released from 43 states between 2000 and 2013. Exploiting the timing of each offender's release from prison, I find that being released to a county with higher low-skilled wages significantly decreases the risk of recidivism. The impact of higher wages on recidivism is larger for both black offenders and first-time offenders, and in sectors that report being more willing to hire ex-offenders. These results are robust to individual- and county-level controls, such as policing and corrections activity, and do not appear to be driven by changes in the composition of released offenders during good or bad economic times.
K40|The Impact of Institutions on Innovation|This paper studies the impact of radical institutional reform on innovation. We use the timing and geography of French invasions of different regions of Germany after the French revolution of 1789 as an exogenous shock to the institutions of those regions. German regions that were invaded by the French subsequently changed their institutions in important ways, including the introduction of the civil code, the dissolution of guilds, the abolition of serfdom and the implementation of agrarian reforms. These institutional changes in turn affect innovation. Using patents per capita as our measure of innovation, we show that counties whose institutions are more inclusive as a result of the French occupation also become more innovative. Moving from a county with no occupation to a county with the longest occupation, the implied changes in institutional reforms result in an increase of patents per capita of 123%. Our findings point to institutions as a first order determinant of innovation and highlight the role of innovation as a key mechanism through which institutions may foster economic growth.
K40|Probabilistic patents, alternative damage rules and optimal trade policy|This paper analyzes interdependencies between optimal trade policy and preferred' liability doctrine to assess infringement damages, when intellectual property rights are probabilistic, in a model of import competition between a foreign patentee and a domestic infringer. It shows two reversal results. First, a regime switch from protectionism to free trade reverses stakeholders' preferences over liability doctrines. In the free trade regime both the infringer and consumers prefer the `unjust enrichment' rule, while the patentee prefers the `lost profit' rule, over any convex combination of these two liability doctrines. In contrast, in the regime of trade policy intervention, the importing country's government prefers the `lost profit' rule, which best protects interests of the infringer at the expense of both consumers and the patentee. Second, the optimal trade policy changes from an import tariff under the `lost profit' rule to import subsidization under the `unjust enrichment' rule, unless the patent is weak.
K40|Watching India's Insolvency Reforms: A New Dataset of Insolvency Cases|This paper introduces a new dataset of orders passed by the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) in the insolvency cases under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code or IBC. It builds this dataset to attempt an empirical analysis of the economic effect of the IBC and the performance of the judiciary under the IBC. There are 23 fields of information recorded in the dataset for each case. It analyses orders passed during the first six months of operationalisation of the provisions of the IBC to answer questions such as who are the initial users of the insolvency process under the IBC, what kind of evidence are they using to support their claims before the NCLT, what is the average time taken by the NCLT to dispose off insolvency cases, what is the outcome of the proceedings and is there variation between the benches. Within this limited dataset and within such a short time from the passing of the law, the paper finds behavioural shifts among credit market participants. As the insolvency cases increase, this data set will too increase in scope and size and will form the foundation to answer questions relating to the impact of the IBC and the overall functioning of the Indian bankruptcy regime.
K40|Preordered Service in Contract Enforcement|We propose a procedural rule that we refer to as preordered service to replace sequential service of civil cases for breach of contract. The judiciary preannounces a list that ranks all entities that may enter contracts by some uniquely identifying information, such as taxpayer numbers. Courts use this list to enforce the contracts of the highest ranked entities that file a contract case. In theory, unlike sequential service, preordered service ensures efficiency in a population of investment games. Results from a laboratory experiment suggest that it may substantially reduce the caseload at courts and mitigate payoff inequality.
K40|The effect of changing employers’ access to criminal histories on ex-offenders’ labor market outcomes: evidence from the 2010–2012 Massachusetts CORI Reform|Many regard the 2010–2012 Massachusetts Criminal Offender Record Information (CORI)Reform as a national model to improve ex-offenders’ labor market outcomes. This reform prohibits most employers from inquiring about an individual’s criminal history on the initial job application (the “ban the box” reform), and reduces employers’ access to an applicant’s criminal record (the record-access reform). Using the CORI Reform as a natural experiment and a unique large confidential dataset linking individuals’ CORI records with their unemployment insurance quarterly wage records, we examine the impact of changing employers’ access to applicants' criminal histories on ex-offenders’ labor market outcomes. We find that contrary to the intended goal, the CORI Reform has a small negative effect on ex-offenders’ employment that grows over time, with mixed effects on earnings and industry composition. Suggestive evidence shows that the negative employment effect is more likely to result from a labor supply response rather than a labor demand response to the policy changes.
K40|Does changing employers’ access to criminal histories affect ex-offenders’ recidivism?: evidence from the 2010–2012 Massachusetts CORI Reform|This paper examines how changes in employers’ access to job applicants’ criminal histories affect ex-offender recidivism. We use extensive state administrative data on individual criminal histories spanning the 2010–2012 Massachusetts Criminal Offender Record Information (CORI) Reform, widely regarded as landmark legislation governing access to individuals’ criminal information. The CORI Reform: i) banned inquiring about criminal history on initial job applications, and ii) broadened the list of groups eligible to use the state’s criminal records repository while simultaneously restricting the scope of record access. Using survival analysis and panel regressions, we generally find small reductions in recidivism resulting from each component of the CORI Reform.
K40|Growing Up without Finance|Early-life exposure to local financial institutions increases household financial inclusion and leads to long-term improvements in consumer credit outcomes. We identify the effect of local financial markets using congressional legislation that led to large and unintended differences in financial market development across Native American reservations. Individuals who grow up on financially underdeveloped reservations enter formal credit markets later than individuals from financially developed reservations and have persistently worse consumer credit outcomes (10 point lower credit scores and a 4 percentage point increase in delinquent accounts). These differences are equal to the effect of a $6,000 decrease in annual personal incomes. The effects are long-lived: The financial health of individuals who grow up on and leave financially underdeveloped reservations takes more than a decade to converge with those from financially developed reservations.
K40|Econometric tests to detect bid-rigging cartels: does it work?|This paper tests how well the method proposed by Bajari and Ye (2003) performs to detect bidrigging cartels. In the case investigated in this paper, the bid-rigging cartel rigged all contracts during the collusive period, and all firms participated to the bid-rigging cartel. The two econometric tests constructed by Bajari and Ye (2003) produce a high number of false negative results: the tests do not reject the null hypothesis of competition, although they should have rejected it. A robustness analysis replicates the econometric tests on two different sub-samples, composed solely by cover bids. On the first sub-sample, both tests produce again a high number of false negative results. However, on the second sub-sample, one test performs better to detect the bidrigging cartel. The paper interprets these results, discusses alternative methods, and concludes with recommendations for competition agencies.
K40|Simple Statistical Screens to Detect Bid Rigging|The paper applies simple statistical screens to a bid-rigging cartel in Switzerland, and shows how well the screens detect it by capturing the impact of collusion on the discrete distribution of the bids. In case of bid rigging, the support for the distribution of the bids decreases involving a lower variance, illustrated by the coefficient of variance and the kurtosis statistic. Furthermore, when firms rig bids without side-payment, the difference between the first and the second lowest bids increases whereas the difference between the losing bids decreases, involving a negatively skewed distribution of the bids, highlighted by the relative distance and the skewness statistic. Finally, the collusive interaction screen shows that the behaviour of firms changed radically between the cartel and post-cartel periods. Therefore, the simple statistical screens proposed in this paper purpose to screen large dataset and to detect bidrigging cartels by using only information on bids.
K40|The WTO Dispute Settlement System 1995-2015: A Data Set and its Descriptive Statistics|In this paper, we provide some descriptive statistics of the first twenty years of the WTO (World Trade Organization) dispute settlement. The database used in this paper was assembled by the authors and has been publicly available (http://globalgovernanceprogramme.eui.eu/wto-case-law-project/). The statistical information that we present here is divided into three thematic units: the statutory and de facto duration of each stage of the process, paying particular attention to the eventual conclusion of litigation; the identity and participation in the process of the various institutional players, that is, not only complainants and defendants, but also third parties, as well as the WTO judges (panelists and Appellate Body members); and, finally, information regarding the subject-matter of various disputes, regarding the frequency with which claims regarding consistency of measures with the covered agreements (but also, at a more disaggregate level, e.g., specific provisions) have been raised. We call our work “descriptive statistics”, because, in an effort to provide raw material that will help researchers to conduct their research as they see fit, we have consciously refrained from systematically interpreting the data that we have assembled.
K40|Age-Dependent Court Sentences and Crime Bunching: Empirical Evidence from Swedish Administrative Data|According to Swedish penal code, there is a “rebate” on all prison sentences before the 21st birthday. We exploit this age discontinuity to investigate how individuals respond to harsher punishments. We use a large Swedish dataset, including dates for all crimes which led to convictions for cohorts born during the period 1973–1993. We find evidence of “bunching” in the sense that more crimes were committed during the week prior to a 21st birthday, followed by a reduction in crime during the week after this birthday. We do not, however, find that harsher punishment reduces the crime rate permanently.
K40|Voluntary Bankruptcy as Preemptive Persuasion|This paper examines the phenomenon of management-initiated, court-supervised reorganization of companies in U.S. bankruptcy court. The proposed in-court persuasion mechanism reconciles excessive reorganizations of non-viable companies (and subsequent repeat failures) with management-initiated filings and a judge who aims to always take appropriate action. In the model, management makes a preemptive voluntary filing to retain control of the process, and thereby engage in a game of Bayesian Persuasion with asymmetric information vis-à-vis the judge. This mechanism endogenously results in the reorganization of some non-viable companies, and exclusively management-initiated (i.e., voluntary) bankruptcy filings. This paper, therefore, explains why non-viable companies could be permitted to reorganize and why there are repeat offender firms that enter bankruptcy multiple times.
K40|Probabilistic Patents, Alternative Damage Rules and Optimal Trade Policy|This paper analyzes interdependencies between optimal trade policy and 'preferred' liability doctrine to assess infringement damages, when intellectual property rights are probabilistic, in a model of import competition between a foreign patentee and a domestic infringer. It shows two reversal results. First, a regime switch from protectionism to free trade reverses stakeholders' preferences over liability doctrines. In the free trade regime both the infringer and consumers prefer the 'unjust enrichment' rule, while the patentee prefers the 'lost profit' rule, over any convex combination of these two liability doctrines. In contrast, in the regime of trade policy intervention, the importing country's government prefers the 'lost profit' rule, which best protects interests of the infringer at the expense of both consumers and the patentee. Second, the optimal trade policy changes from an import tariff under the 'lost profit' rule to import subsidization under the 'unjust enrichment' rule, unless the patent is weak.
K40|Judicial Choice among Cases for Certiorari|How does the Supreme Court choose among cases to grant cert? In the context of a model that considers a strategic Supreme Court, a continuum of rule-following lower courts, a set of cases available for revision, and a distribution of future lower court cases, we show that the Court grants cert to the case that will most significantly shape future lower court case outcomes in the direction that the Court prefers. That is, the Court grants cert to the case with maximum salience. If the Court is rather liberal (conservative) then the most salient case is the one that moves the discretionary range of the legal standard as far left (right) as possible. But if the Court is moderate, then the most salient case will be a function of the skewedness of the distribution of ideologies of the lower courts and the likelihood that future cases will fall within the part of the discretionary range that is adjusted if the case is granted cert. Variations take place when the ideology of the Court is moderately liberal, moderately conservative or fully moderate. Extensions of the model allow us to identify the sensitivity of the results to the number of petitions for revision; the variety of legal topics covered by the petitions; and anticipation of whether the Court will confirm or reverse.
K40|Explaining Difference in the Quantity of Supreme Court Revisions: A Model for Judicial Uniformity|While civil law supreme courts (e.g., Italy, France, Chile) hear up to 90% of the petitions for revisions, common law supreme courts (e.g., U.S., U.K, Canada) hear as low as 1% of the same type of cases. In this study we postulate that these different commitments towards revisions are each consistent with different approaches by which the legal system provides judicial uniformity. We formulate a theoretical model that shows that a given level of uniformity in lower (or appeal) court decisions can be achieved either by fixing a given probability of judicial revision or a given monetary/non-monetary disutility associated with a reversal. Hence, despite the fact that common law legal systems are characterized by a lower probability of case revision, we cannot state a priori that judicial uniformity is greater in civil law systems, as this will depend upon the magnitude of the disutility associated with a reversed decision. Indeed, with the exception of the impact upon career concerns (which net effect is not clear) in terms of ideology, reputation and legal standards, reversal disutility seems to be much higher in common law systems than in civil law systems. In addition, we demonstrate that in an efficient legal system the optimal number of revisions increases with the size of the reversal disutility, but decreases with the probability that the supreme court makes erroneous decisions; the total number of cases soliciting revision and the intrinsic utility obtained by a lower court which enforces its desired rule. We also show that in an efficient legal system it is the judicial law-making role of a common law supreme court that explains why that Court revises fewer cases than a civil law supreme court.
K40|Convincing early adopters: Price signals and Information transmission|We study the optimal pricing strategy for a new product when consumers learn from both prices and early adopters’ purchase decisions. In our model, a long-lived monopolist faces a representative consumer each period. The monopolist is privately informed about his type, the probability of producing good-quality products. First-period consumers are early adopters, who learn quality before purchasing the product. Second-period consumers learn about product quality only after observing the public history, namely past price and early adopters’ purchase decisions. In this context, prices play a dual role, acting as signals of the firm’s type but also facilitating or impeding information transmission between early adopters and second-period consumers. Our main result is that separation might occur through either high or low prices (with respect to the full-information monopoly price), depending on the elasticity of demand. When demand for good-quality products is less elastic, high prices are less costly for high-type firms due to both a static (through demand) and dynamic (through information transmission) effects. On the one hand, high-type firms are marginally less affected by high prices, since they lose fewer consumers. On the other hand, early sales at higher prices carry good news about quality to second-period consumers, since such sales are more likely to come from a good than from a bad-quality product. The opposite happens occurs when demand for good-quality products is more elastic. We provide two market examples for each case and show that in the case of disruptive (incremental) innovations high (low) prices can be used as signals of quality. We finally discuss consumer welfare under the two resulting alternative equilibria, and show that the observability of early adopters’ purchase decisions improves consumer welfare when separation occurs through high prices.
K40|Mandatory Minimums and the Sentencing of Federal Drug Crimes|The US federal mandatory minimum sentences are controversial not only because of the length of the mandatory sentences for even first-time offenders but also because eligibility quantities for crack cocaine crimes are small compared with those for other drug offenses. This paper shows that the impact of these mandatory minimums on sentencing is quite nuanced. A large fraction of mandatory-minimum-eligible offenders, particularly first timers, are able to avoid these mandatory minimums. Moreover, despite lower eligibility thresholds for crack-related offenses, a smaller fraction of those convicted of crack-related offenses are eligible for mandatory minimums relative to those convicted of other drug offenses. Furthermore, while being just eligible for a mandatory minimum increases sentence length on average, the impact is not uniform across drug offenses. Notably, sentences for crack offenders are generally sufficiently long such that, on average, sentences for crack offenders are not impacted by eligibility for a mandatory minimum.
K40|Optimising Criminal Behaviour and the Disutility of Prison|We use rich microdata on bank robberies to estimate individual-level disutilities of imprisonment. The identification rests on the money versus apprehension trade-off that robbers face inside the bank when deciding whether to leave or collect money for an additional minute. The distribution of the disutility of prison is not degenerate, generating heterogeneity in behaviour. Our results show that unobserved heterogeneity in robber ability is important for explaining outcomes in terms of haul and arrest. Furthermore, higher ability robbers are found to have larger disutilities, suggesting that increased sentence lengths might effectively target these more harmful criminals.
K40|The Tragedy of Clientelism: Opting Children Out|Governments in new democracies launch social policies with the purported goal of alleviating the effects of poverty among the most vulnerable households, usually low income families with children. However, this goal is can be thwarted by the clientelistic distribution of social policies' benefits because politicians seek to maximize political support and children do not vote. Based on the main Argentine household survey and on personal interviews with 120 brokers, this paper shows that brokers collect information on family size and age composition and allocate temporary public works programs that are in excess demand discriminating against families with children not old enough to vote.
K40|Tullock on the common law: a loose-cannon iconoclast in action?|Abstract Gordon Tullock has been celebrated as an innovative thinker in many areas of public choice. He was also among the first to analyze the law based on the economic approach, yet, his contributions to Law and Economics have been met with skepticism or even outright ignorance. In this paper, I focus on Tullock’s papers dealing with the common law and argue that they contain important insights that have been ignored in the debate regarding legal origins.
K40|Right-to-Carry Laws and Violent Crime: A Comprehensive Assessment Using Panel Data and a State-Level Synthetic Control Analysis|This paper uses more complete state panel data (through 2014) and new statistical techniques to estimate the impact on violent crime when states adopt right-to-carry (RTC) concealed handgun laws. Our preferred panel data regression specification, unlike the statistical model of Lott and Mustard that had previously been offered as evidence of crime-reducing RTC laws, both satisfies the parallel trends assumption and generates statistically significant estimates showing RTC laws increase overall violent crime. Our synthetic control approach also strongly confirms that RTC laws are associated with 13-15 percent higher aggregate violent crime rates ten years after adoption. Using a consensus estimate of the elasticity of crime with respect to incarceration of 0.15, the average RTC state would need to roughly double its prison population to offset the increase in violent crime caused by RTC adoption.
K40|Juvenile Punishment, High School Graduation and Adult Crime: Evidence from Idiosyncratic Judge Harshness|This paper contributes to the debate on the impact of juvenile punishment on adult criminal recidivism and high school completion. We link the universe of case files of those who were convicted of a crime as a juvenile between 1996 and 2012 in a southern U.S. state to the public school administrative records and to adult criminal records. The detail of the data allows us to utilize information on the exact types of crimes committed, as well as the type and duration of punishment imposed, both as a juvenile and as an adult. We exploit random assignment of cases to judges and use idiosyncratic judge stringency in imprisonment to estimate the causal effect of incarceration on adult crime and on high school completion. Incarceration has a detrimental impact on high school completion for earlier cohorts, but it has no impact on later cohorts, arguably because of the school reform implemented in the state in the late 1990s. We find that incarceration as a juvenile has no impact on future violent crime, but it lowers the propensity to commit property crime. Juvenile incarceration increases the propensity of being convicted for a drug offense in adulthood, but this effect is largely driven by time spent in prison as a juvenile. Specifically, juvenile incarceration has no statistically significant impact on adult drug offenses if time spent in prison is less than the median, but longer incarceration increases adult drug conviction, arguably because longer prison stays intensify emotional stress, leading to drug use.
K40|Search Engines and Data Retention: Implications for Privacy and Antitrust|"This paper investigates whether larger quantities of historical data affect a firm's ability to maintain market share in Internet search. We study whether the length of time that search engines retained their server logs affected the apparent accuracy of subsequent searches. Our analysis exploits changes in these policies prompted by the actions of policymakers. We find little empirical evidence that reducing the length of storage of past search engine searches affected the accuracy of search. Our results suggest that the possession of historical data confers less of an advantage in market share than is sometimes supposed. Our results also suggest that limits on data retention may impose fewer costs in instances where overly long data retention leads to privacy concerns such as an individual's ``right to be forgotten."""
K40|The Role of Precedents on Court Delay - Evidence from a civil law country|Court delay frustrates economic behavior. Surprisingly, the impact of a coherent jurisdiction for the timely resolution of legal disputes has so far received little attention in civil law countries. Consequently, this paper examines the nexus between court delay and the availability of legal precedents. We model litigation as a two-stage rent seeking game, and find that precedents curb strategic behavior. Thus, the excessive use of party resources in litigation, such as time, is reduced if a precedent is applicable. Using judge-level data of a German trial court, we provide first empirical evidence on the role of precedents for case disposition time and the probability of reversal in a civil law country. Our results show that the availability of precedents significantly contributes to a reduction in delay, and also decreases the probability of reversal. Interestingly, we find no such influence for the citation of legal literature in verdicts.
K40|Pembiayaan Bank Syariah<BR>[Syariah Bank Financing]|This paper aims to describe more deeply the understanding of Islamic bank financing. As a country that is predominantly Muslim, it should be expected that the presence of Islamic banks in Indonesia is something to be expected. A bank is an industry that operates in the field of trust, which in this case is a financial intermediary between debtors and creditors. Islamic banks function as intermediary institutions, which function to collect funds from the community and redistribute these funds to the people who need them in the form of financing. namely to collect funds from the community and redistribute these funds to the people who need them in the form of financing. Financing is the largest source of income for Islamic banks, but at the same time is the biggest source of risk for business operations. Therefore, these funds must be used correctly, fairly, and must be accompanied by bonds and clear conditions that are mutually beneficial for both parties.
K40|Pembahasan Pembiayan Mudharabah<BR>[Discussion Of Mudharabah Financing]|abstract Mudharabah agreement is different from the financing agreement in banking in general (conventional banking). Conventional banking in general offers financing by determining certain interest rates and returns on capital that mudharib has used for a certain period of time. However, the mudharabah contract does not specify a certain interest rate on mudarib which uses mudharabah financing, but requires that the mudarib provide profit sharing from the benefits obtained by mudharib.
K40|Optimally vague contracts and the law|Many real-world contracts contain vague clauses despite the enforcement risk they entail. To study the causes and consequences of this phenomenon, we build a principal- agent model in which contracts can include vague clauses whose enforcement may be distorted by opportunistic litigants and biased judges. We find three results. First, the optimal contract is vague, even if courts are very imperfect. Second, the use of vague clauses is a public good: it promotes the evolution of precedents, so future contracts become more complete, incentives higher powered, and surplus larger. Third, as precedents evolve, vague contracts spread from sophisticated to unsophisticated parties, expanding market size. Our model sheds light on the evolution and diffusion of business-format franchising and equity finance.
K40|Free Markets, State Involvement, and the WTO: Chinese State Owned Enterprises (SOEs) in the Ring|The WTO has struggled with the treatment of nonmarket economies (NMEs). What was a nonissue in the original GATT (because of the homogeneity of participants) became quite an issue with the accession of formally centrally planned economies, which were not transformed to market economies, at least not in the eyes of the incumbents. Contracting this issue has proved to be so far always wanting, and leaving it to adjudicators has not produced good results either. With respect to Chinese SOEs this risks continuing to be an issue, since the contractually agreed deadline (2016) after which China should not be treated as NME anymore, risks proving to be full of holes and loopholes.
K40|Marginal Deterrence at Work|We test the rational economic model of marginal deterrence of law enforcement --- i.e., the need for graduating the penalty to the severity of the crime. We use a unique data set, which combines individual-level data on sentence length for a representative sample of US inmates with proxies for maximum punishment and monitoring costs across US states over 50 years. We show that the penalty is increasing in the level of the offense. Consistent with the marginal deterrence framework, we also document that a decrease in maximum penalty or an increase in monitoring cost are associated with longer sentences and higher monitoring rates. We also provide evidence that the effects of maximum penalty and monitoring cost are stronger in states where income inequality is higher. Finally, we show that steeper sanctions are associated with less harmful crimes. Overall, these findings favor the marginal deterrence framework over the maximal penalty principle and other competing theories of justice.
K40|Mediation in the case of disrespecting measures concerning the custody of the minor|In criminal cases relating to offences for which, according to the law, the withdrawal of the preliminary complaint removes the criminal liability, mediation may be the best solution for the parties to reach an out-of-court-settlement. The defendant or the injured party, if interested in solving the situation faster or recovering the injury, will initiate the criminal mediation proceeding by addressing a mediator. Failure to comply with measures regarding child custody presupposes that a minor child is retained by one parent, without the consent of the other one, or repeatedly prevents a parent from getting in touch with the child. The Criminal Code stipulates that this kind of offences is initiated upon the complaint of the injured person - for which mediation agreement completely removes criminal liability. In this case mediation can take place at any time during the criminal proceedings, including the appeal stage.
K40|Educating to Dialogue: connecting an argumentative approach to Mediation and Educational Transactional Analysis. Some tranSkills signposts for promoting inclusive and participative societies|The acquisition of relational skills is one of the main goals of an educational system that aims at promoting non-violent, inclusive and participative societies. Dialogue is the key factor for such purpose, acting both as a means and as a goal that education ought to achieve. According to this perspective, education to dialogue matches ethical-behavioural aspects (dialogue as expression of interconnectedness) and logical-argumentative competences (dialogue as instrument of communication). Such elements trace connected dimensions: (1) the ability of managing a healthy communication, which implies both correct reasoning and effective expression; (2) the ability of creating and managing a situation of communicative reciprocity, which is an instrument for preventing and transforming conflict. The goal of this paper is to outline some conceptual and methodological signposts for the education to dialogue in light of the classical notion of ?maieutic?, by drawing perspectives, concepts and methodologies from both Conflict Mediation and Educational Transactional Analysis. This transkills outline is directed to those who are professionally involved at all levels of education, with the purpose of offering a first conceptual framework for developing programmes and proposals aimed at introducing and empowering communicative attitudes and skills.
K40|Gender Gaps in Performance: Evidence from Young Lawyers|This paper documents the gender gap in performance among high-skilled professionals in the United States. On the basis of widely used performance measures in law firms, we find that male lawyers bill 10 percent more hours and bring in more than twice as much new client revenue as female lawyers. The differential impact across genders in the presence of young children and differences in aspirations to become a law firm partner account for a large share of the difference in performance. We show that accounting for performance has important consequences for gender gaps in lawyers’ earnings and subsequent promotion.
K40|The Sorry Clause (revision of CentER DP 2016-008)|This paper shows the existence of a sorry equilibrium in a game of imperfect public monitoring. In equilibrium, a self-imposed costly apology tendered after an accidental defection, makes private information public, allowing for continued cooperation. This cost cannot be too high or too low. Efficiency of the sorry equilibrium is evaluated and its welfare outcomes compared to other informal governance mechanisms and the formal legal system. With the possibility of accidental defections, it is shown that informal mechanisms have limitations, while formal legal systems can generate perverse incentives. The analysis demonstrates that apologies serve as a useful economic governance institution.
K40|The Sorry Clause (Revision of TILEC DP 2016-004)|This paper shows the existence of a sorry equilibrium in a game of imperfect public monitoring. In equilibrium, a self-imposed costly apology tendered after an accidental defection, makes private information public, allowing for continued cooperation. This cost cannot be too high or too low. Efficiency of the sorry equilibrium is evaluated and its welfare outcomes compared to other informal governance mechanisms and the formal legal system. With the possibility of accidental defections, it is shown that informal mechanisms have limitations, while formal legal systems can generate perverse incentives. The analysis demonstrates that apologies serve as a useful economic governance institution.
K40|Resisting Persuasion|Agents that are subject to persuasion attempts often employ strategies that allow them to effectively resist. In the context of Bayesian Persuasion (Kamenica and Gentzkow, 2011), we argue that if appropriate action-contingent payoff adjustments are available to the subject of persuasion, then payoff improvements are achieved. Remarkably, payoff-improving resistance strategies need not involve adding benefits to any action. We characterize the optimal resistance strategy when only costly payoff adjustments are allowed and we show that it induces a perfectly informative signal and a substantial increase in the agent’s welfare.
K40|Justice Delayed is Growth Denied: The Effect of Slow Courts on Relationship-Specific Industries in India|Are well-functioning formal judicial institutions important for economic development, or can informal contracting arrangements provide adequate substitutes? This paper aims to answer this question using variation across industries in their reliance on contracts along with variation across Indian states in the average speed of courts. The identification strategy is motivated by theory from the incomplete contracting literature in which it is argued that transactions involving relationship-specific investments are more exposed to post-contractual opportunism and hence have greater need for efficient contract enforcement. The paper finds that the interaction between state level court efficiency and industry level relationship-specificity is highly predictive of future growth in India's formal manufacturing sector. The threat of omitted variable bias is minimized by the inclusion of state and industry fixed effects, while a number of robustness checks and placebo tests rule out competing explanations and provide additional confidence in the hypothesized mechanism.
K40|An Institutional Approach to Trade Unions’ Density. The Case of Legal Origin and Political Ideology|Which institutions may be important in terms of trade unions’ density and how significant they are? However, trade unions’ status is very different among states, they are still a very meaningful component of labor markets. In this paper we contribute to the debate on the institutions, which may affect the outcome of trade unions in different legal systems. Firstly, we draw on theoretical underpinnings of trade unions’ activity and density. Then, we conduct an empirical analysis of the relationships between trade union density in a particular country, its legal origin and government’s ideology. In this way the paper enriches an underexploited niche in institutional research devoted to labor market issues.
K40|Judicial Independence in the EU – A Puzzle|Based on data from the EU Justice Scoreboard, we identify a puzzle: National levels of judicial independence (as perceived by the citizens of EU member states) are negatively associated with the presence of formal legislation usually considered as conducive to judicial independence. We try to resolve this puzzle based on political economy explanations and specificities of legal systems, but to no avail. We then ask whether cultural traits can help to put together the puzzle. And indeed, countries with high levels of generalized trust (and to a lesser extent individualistic countries) exhibit increased levels of de facto judicial independence and, at the same time, reduced levels of de jure judicial independence. The combination of these two effects can explain why judicial reforms that should be conducive to an independent judiciary may seem to have adverse consequences. We conclude that cultural traits are of fundamental importance for the quality of formal institutions, even in societies as highly developed as the EU member states.
K40|The Independence of Prosecutors and Government Accountability|Prosecutors are immensely influential in every judicial system, yet very little is known about the impact of their organization. Here we ask two questions: (1) whether crimes committed by public officials are more likely to be prosecuted when prosecutors are independent, and (2) whether this effect depends on the integrity of the prosecutors themselves. We employ a novel indicator for prosecutorial independence based on data from the World Justice Project to answer these questions. We find that prosecutorial independence favors the prosecution of different types of public officials and this effect is conditional on the level of prosecutorial corruption. For police officers, we find that prosecutorial independence is not decisive, but prosecutorial corruption matters for whether suspected misconduct is likely to be prosecuted.
K40|State-owned enterprises in the Russian market: Ownership structure and their role in the economy|This article analyzes the ownership structure of state-owned companies and their role in the Russian economy. Using a sample of 114 of the largest Russian companies, we estimated direct and indirect state participation as a percentage of shareholdings for direct and indirect federal property during the time period of 2006–2014. We used two methods to estimate the role of state-owned enterprises (SOEs), which allowed us to compare our results with OECD and Rosstat statistics for a broader sample of Russian companies owned by the public sector. This study revealed a decline in SOEs’ share in the capitalization of the Russian stock market and a slight increase in their share of total revenues and employment. The results indicated that public SOEs demonstrated significantly higher productivity compared to non-public SOEs and private companies had a distinct advantage in productivity compared with public SOEs. Despite the significant advantages in productivity of private companies over the SOEs, over a 9-year period, we observed that this gap narrowed. This may be due to conditions of high financial volatility and stagnation of the economy that result in certain advantages for SOEs in terms of access to sources of long-term funding and other forms of state support. However, SOEs with indirect state control experienced a rapid growth in revenue and productivity compared to other firms. This may indicate the presence of a specific stock selection mechanism for transferring more effective SOEs from direct state ownership to indirect control as an alternative to privatization.
K40|State-owned enterprises in the Russian market: Ownership structure and their role in the economy|This article analyzes the ownership structure of companies with state participation and their role in the Russian economy. Using a sample of 114 largest companies we have estimated direct and indirect state participation as percentage of shareholdings which are in direct and indirect federal property in 2006—2014. We have used two methods for estimating the role of state-owned enterprises (SOEs), which allowed us to compare our results with those of OECD and Rosstat statistics for the broader sample of Russian companies in the public sector. This article reveals the decline of SOEs’ share in the capitalization of the Russian stock market as well as a slight increase of their share in total revenue and employment. The results show that public SOEs, demonstrate significantly higher productivity compared to non-public SOEs and private companies have a distinct advantage in productivity compared with public SOEs. Despite the significant advantages in productivity of private companies over the SOEs, over 9-year period we observed a reduction of this gap. This may be due to the fact that in conditions of high financial volatility and stagnation of the economy SOEs had certain advantages in terms of access to sources of long-term funding and other forms of state support. However, SOEs with indirect state control had a rapid growth in revenue and productivity in comparison with the rest of them. This may indicate the presence of a specific stock selection mechanism for transferring more effective SOEs from direct state ownership to indirect control as an alternative to privatization.
K40|Who Benefits from Customary Justice? Rent-seeking, Bribery and Criminality in sub-Saharan Africa|In many African countries, customary and statutory judicial systems co-exist. Customary justice is exercised by local courts and based on restorative principles, while statutory justice is mostly retributive and administered by magistrates' courts. As their jurisdiction often overlaps, victims can choose which judicial system to refer to, which may lead to contradictions between rules and inconsistencies in judgements. In this article, we construct a model representing a dual judicial system and we show that this overlap encourages rent-seeking and bribery and yields to high rates of petty crimes and civil disputes. We illustrate our predictions with examples from Uganda.
K40|More than Politics: Ability and Ideology in the British Appellate Committee|We argue that a model of judicial behavior that accounts for differences in justices’ ability and ideology provides a fruitful alternative for the empirical analysis of judicial decision-making around the world, and illustrate this by focusing on the case of the United Kingdom. We show that the model explains the decisions of the Lords of Appeal remarkably well, and improves the fit of a purely ideological model. We use our estimates to tackle previously unaddressed questions about the relative role of justices’ preferences and ability in the Appellate Committee. (JEL C11, C13, D71, K40.)
K40|Trial and Error: Decision Reversal and Panel Size in State Courts|Using cross-state and within-court variation, I show that lower court decisions are reversed more frequently by larger, rather than smaller, panels of high court judges. Overall, conditional on being reviewed, the probability that a case is reversed by a high court judicial panel is less than one half. To understand these findings, I develop a simple framework that connects reversals and panel size with the extent to which judicial decision-making is congruent with the law. Assuming the high court rules correctly more often than not, my empirical results suggest that increasing judicial panel size erodes the quality of decision-making in high courts. These results are consistent with a large literature investigating small group size effects on productivity and output. (JEL D02, D71, H41, K40)
K40|Presidential Control of the Judiciary via the Appointment Power: Evidence from Russia|In many countries, the president is involved in appointing judges. Does this lead to selection of friendly judges who then promote the president’s interests? This question is explored here in the context of Russia, where judges are often said to favor the executive. I gather data on 2000 court cases, and analyze them by exploiting changes in the appointment rules. I find clear evidence that judges selected by the president favor the government more than do their peers. In the process, the article develops a new solution to the sample selection problem endemic to the analysis of court decisions. (JEL D02, K40, P37)
K40|Crime and unemployment in Greece: Evidence before and during the crisis|This paper explores the relationship between unemployment and crime in Greece before and during the crisis using panel data at the regional level. The results indicate the operation of a positive relationship between specific crime categories and male unemployment only during the crisis, a weaker effect of long term unemployment only on the total criminal activity and they reveal the existence of significant dynamics.
K40|French legal origins: A Tocquevilian view|"We provide an alternative explanation of French legal centralization. To do this we develop a rational choice model of the legal architecture around 1789 and the French Revolution. Following Tocqueville we propose to analyze the French movement towards legal centralization as the result of an increase in the aversion to inequality before the law. We show that legal centralization can be preferred to the ""Ancien Régime"" situation or intermediate legal decentralization if the aversion to legal differences is sufficiently strong. In addition, we show that when the legal system is centralized it is always optimal to allow some degree of judicial discretion. This result is consistent with the historical evidence that the Napoleonic codification, i.e., the culmination of French legal centralization, was associated with a higher degree of judicial discretion than at the beginning of the Revolution. This view contrasts with the interpretation of the Napoleonic codification as a means of transforming judges into automata."
K40|Secret ballots and costly information gathering: The jury size problem revisited|Suppose paying attention during jury trials is costly, but that jurors do not pool information (as in contemporary Brazil, or ancient Athens). If inattentive jurors are as likely to be wrong as right, I find that small jury panels work better as long as identical jurors behave symmetrically. If not paying attention makes error more likely than not, jurors may coordinate on two different symmetric outcomes: a “high attention” one or a “low attention” one. If social norms stigmatize shirking, jurors coordinate on the high attention equilibrium, and a smaller jury yields better outcomes. However, increasing the jury up to a finite bound works better if norms are tolerant of shirking, in which case coordination on the low attention outcome results. If jurors always act as if they are pivotal, a larger jury may work better. Allowing deliberations is efficient if the jury panel is relatively large, and if the police and prosecution are effective. However, barring deliberations is better at smaller jury sizes, specially if the police and prosecution are not too efficient.
K40|How Islamic is the Diminishing Musharkah Model used for Home Financing?|For financing consumer durables like houses, cars or computers, conventional banks use what are called the equated monthly installment (EMI) models. EMI is the fixed payment a borrower makes to a lender to pay off both interest and principal each month so that over a specified number of years, the loan amount is cleared in full. Islamic banks have followed the practice using EMI on diminishing musharakah partnership basis. The model is popularly known as the MMP, an abbreviation of its Arabic nomenclature. The defining character of this model is increasing amortization of capital through a customer buy back provision in the agreement. We have shown more than once that models of the sort invariably involve compounding of return on capital and pass the ownership of property to the client at a slower rate than the rate of capital amortization until the contract is concluded. This paper provides additional evidence and documentation to reiterate that the MMP exhibits the same characteristics and is not, therefore, Shari’ah compliant. We propose an alternative model free of the indicated blemishes, having additional advantages as well.
K40|Nature and Significance of Islamic Economics|Islamic economics has of late landed in confusion and neglect and much concern is being voiced on this state of affairs. The divergence of views on various aspects of the subject tends to grow, cohesive efforts are missing. It is in this context that the present paper takes a look at the nature and significance of Islamic economics and examines the issues of its definition, nature and scope, the questions of methods and methodology, system approach, the problems that seems to hinder its growth, the challenges Islamic economics faces today and how the same can be faced. Since the differences between the Islamicand mainstream economic disciplines stem from the divergent worldviews that condition them, the discussion opens on the topic as background material. This paper is a part of draft Chapter of a book under preparation on Islamic economics and finance. Comments and suggestions are welcome but the paper or its parts cannot be put to any commercial or unfair use.
K40|Concordian economics and the economic bubble|In Concordian economics, a bubble is defined as a separation of monetary values from values of real wealth. This separation is effected by the fundamental proposition of Concordian economics: Investment is income minus hoarding. This definition, in turn, allows us to identify a set of crucial relationships that exist in the economic process, namely more hoarding, less investment and less growth; more hoarding, more inflation; more hoarding, more poverty.
K40|The economic and legal significance of “full” deposit availability|Bank deposits have two characteristics: they are available on demand and at par value. Deposit redemptions face, at least given current technology, a lag between when they are requested and when they are delivered. This fact leads some to argue that as a deposit is not fully available, all deposits are, in fact, loans and that the legal obligation of the depository changes. We argue that this lag does not nullify the original economic intent of the deposit, and hence, does not alter the legal obligations that a depository faces. Deposits must be held safely to ensure that the depositor′s money will be available when an unforeseen event occurs. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2016
K40|Implementační zpoždění diskreční fiskální politiky<BR>[Implementation Lag of Discretionary Fiscal Policy]|The aim of this paper is to quantify the implementation lag of discretionary fiscal policy in the Czech Republic between 1997 and 2013. Based on a unique dataset created for this study, the length and structure of implementation lag is analysed. Dataset is extending the original dataset used by the Czech National Bank. This study further analyses factors with an impact on implementation lag. Implementation lag is the length of period between decision of the economic policy makers on the actual response to the fundamental change in the economy and implementation of this response to the legislation. Average implementation lag of discretionary fiscal policy in the Czech Republic is 2.4 quarters. The greatest deal counts for the implementation lag in the Chamber of Deputies. Length of implementation lag of discretionary fiscal policy is influenced especially by the total occupancy of the Chamber of Deputies, majority, which the government parties have in the Parliament, and the frequency of the veto power usage.
K40|Dark and Light: Entrepreneurship and Innovation in New Technology Spaces|Notable changes to human comfort are underway that add greatly to the complexity of existential processes. These are «inter-ethnic violence» and «economic polarisation». Historically, these have resisted resilience from urban recovery in intractable contexts. Among the «wicked problems» confronting future actors and agents of newly emerging frontiers of research and policy are those addressing the «dark side» of innovation and entrepreneurship. This is seldom studied in economic geography but such are the negativities associated with so many dimensions of not only technology but its deformations and inhuman inversions that there will, for sure, be future growth for a wide range of social, natural, applied sciences and technology fixes for human dilemmas into the foreseeable future. We consider «resilience» in prefatory remarks on two intractable cases. Contrariwise, in this brief paper on «new technological spaces», attention is devoted to two new «cybersecurity» spatial types, each of which consists in an under-explored «dark side». In this, not in the long term, the naturally optimistic research outlook of the academic will be obscured by the demands of a more pessimistic outlook for the short term. Two of our selected sub-fields, in cyber-security and structured finance, reference both the «dark web» for illegal and terroristic communication and «dark pools». The paper reviews the economic geographies of these «apocalypses» and draw conclusions.
K40|Der BREXIT und seine bildungsrechtlichen Auswirkungen|"Great Britain voted for the BREXIT. This situation affectsnearly all relevant areas of the economical and the juridical system. Also the higher educational law will be affected distinctly. Many changes will be the result, when the British higher education will get juridical „non-EU-education"". Privileges within the EUwon'tbevalid for British academic degrees."
K40|Dispute Settlement in the WTO. Mind over Matter|The basic point I advocate in this paper is that the WTO Dispute Settlement System aims to curb unilateralism. No sanctions can be imposed, unless if the arbitration process is through, the purpose of which is to ensure that reciprocal commitments entered should not be unilaterally undone through the commission of illegalities. There are good reasons though, to doubt whether practice guarantees full reciprocity. The insistence on calculating remedies prospectively, and not as of the date when an illegality has been committed, and the ensuing losses for everybody that could or could not be symmetric, lend support to the claim that the WTO regime serves ‘diffuse’ as opposed to ‘specific’ reciprocity. Still, WTO Members continue to routinely submit their disputes to the WTO adjudicating fora, showing through their behaviour that they would rather live in a world where punishment is curbed, than in world where punishment acts as deterrent since full reciprocity would be always guaranteed.
K40|MFN Clubs and Scheduling Additional Commitments in the GATT: Learning from the GATS|Scheduling additional commitments for policies affecting trade in goods in the GATT has been plagued by two sources of ambiguity: the treatment of changes introduced unilaterally by members subsequent to an initial commitment, and the treatment of new commitments by WTO members pertaining to nontariff policy measures affecting trade in goods. This is not the case for trade in services, as the GATS makes explicit provision for additional commitments to be scheduled. Neither secondary law, in the form of decisions formally adopted by the WTO membership, nor case law has clarified the situation for trade in goods. This matter is important for the WTO as it determines the feasibility of clubs of countries agreeing to new enforceable policy disciplines that bind only signatories but are applied on a non-discriminatory basis to all WTO members. In this paper, we discuss the legal state of play and the ‘policy space’ that WTO members have to establish new MFN club-based disciplines for nontariff measures.
K40|Private Standards and the WTO: Reclusive No More|Private standards are increasing in number, and they affect trade, but their status in the WTO remains problematic. Standards-takers are typically countries with little bargaining power, who cannot affect their terms of trade and thus, even if they possess domestic antitrust laws, will find it hard to persuade standard-setters to take account of their interests. Our concern is to bring more of these standards within the normative framework of the trade regime—that is, we worry that these private forms of social order can conflict with the fundamental norms of transparency and nondiscrimination. The WTO membership has consumed itself in endless discussions regarding mundane, legalistic issues, and has not moved at all towards addressing the real concerns of developing countries. We discuss one aspect of the problem: How reclusive should the WTO allow product standards to be? We argue that the WTO should adopt a “Reference Paper” that would encourage its members to apply WTO rules for adopting those standards that already come under the aegis of the WTO to private standards. In the absence of centralized enforcement, utopia in the WTO legal paradigm, transparency disciplines imposed on standard-setters is the best the WTO could offer to those who are negatively affected by private standards.
K40|The WTO Dispute Settlement System 1995-2016: A Data Set and its Descriptive Statistics|In this paper, we provide some descriptive statistics of the first twenty years of the WTO (World Trade Organization) dispute settlement, that we have extracted from the data set that we have put together, and made publicly available (http://globalgovernanceprogramme.eui.eu/wto-case-law-project/ ). The statistical information that we present here is divided into three thematic units: the statutory and de facto duration of each stage of the process, paying particular attention to the eventual conclusion of litigation; the identity and participation in the process of the various institutional players, that is, not only complainants and defendants, but also third parties, as well as the WTO judges (panelists and Appellate Body members); and, finally, information regarding the subject-matter of various disputes, regarding the frequency with which claims regarding consistency of measures with the covered agreements (but also, at a more disaggregate level, e.g., specific provisions) have been raised. We call our work “descriptive statistics”, because, in an effort to provide raw material that will help researchers to conduct their research as they see fit, we have consciously refrained from systematically interpreting the data that we have assembled.
K40|State bloc versus individual delegate voting at the constitutional convention: Did it make a difference?|Voting at the 1787 Constitutional Convention followed the procedure of requiring state votes to be determined by the majority vote of each state's present delegates, and the outcome of the vote to be decided by majority vote of the states. In establishing the new legislature, the adopted Constitution set rules such that a simple majority of all present representatives would determine the outcome of each legislative vote. We investigate how Convention vote outcomes might have changed if this voting rule was in place for the Convention. Using spatial models on 398 separate roll calls, we identify which vote outcomes would have differed under individual delegate voting. Analysis suggests only 16 of the vote outcomes would have changed but those that were predicted to change included considering unequal representation in the Senate (i.e., similar to representation in the House) and requiring two-thirds (rather than three-fourths) of states to ratify constitutional amendments.
K40|Deterring Rearrests for Drinking and Driving|This study assesses why some individuals are rearrested for driving while intoxicated (DWI). Using longitudinal data from North Carolina containing information on arrests and arrest outcomes, we test hypotheses that individuals prosecuted and convicted of DWI are less likely to be rearrested for DWI. We allow for possible endogeneity of prosecution and conviction outcomes by using instrumental variables for the prosecutor's prosecution rate and the judge's conviction rate. With a three-year follow-up, the probability of DWI rearrest was reduced by 6.6% if the person was prosecuted for DWI and, for those prosecuted, by 24.5% if convicted onthis charge. Prosecution and conviction for DWI deters rearrest for DWI.
K40|The scope of qualified law: comparative analysis|During the last decades, several countries have entrenched a special subcategory of law, which is adopted by stricter procedural rules, than the requirements of the ordinary legislative process. These laws are enacted by qualified majority, by the consent of the two chambers of the legislation, they are subject to mandatory constitutional review before their promulgation, or additional safeguards are implemented in the ordinary legislative process. In my article, I would compare the experiences of three legal systems, France, Spain, and Hungary, which provide three different frameworks of qualified law. Nevertheless, I would provide further examples from Europe , Africa and Latin America to demonstrate better the diversity of legal concepts. My aim is to identify the most contested issues from the legal nature of qualified laws, and to seek the proper solutions of these issues, as well as an ideal model of qualified law.-Firstly, on the ground of different national experiences, I would seek for a broadly acceptable definition of qualified law. -Secondly, I would briefly compare the historical background of the three emerges. An important common point would be the role of qualified laws during any process of democratic transition.-Thirdly, the scope of qualified law differs significantly from country to country, consequently, I would continue with this issue by arguing for a narrower scope of qualified law. -Fourthly, qualified law may have a special position in the hierarchy of norms, somewhere between statutory and the constitutional level, so I would cover this aspect. I would focus on the level of precision of constitutional articles in this regard.-Furthermore, the separation of powers perspective of qualified laws would be taken into consideration: the neglect of two-third majority, and the mandatory a priory review.-As the main outcome, certain points would be highlighted for a potential constitution-drafting process.
K40|Legal improvement on Public-Private Partnership for sustainable development of basic infrastructures in CLMV countries|According to Master Plan on ASEAN Connectivity, the cooperation among the member countries leads ASEAN to Highly Competitive Economic Region. Therefore, development of basic infrastructures is one of the key factors for closing the gap and connecting the member countries together. In order to enhance people's quality of life, governments of member countries have a mission to improve basic infrastructures. Especially, the governments in CLMV region (Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar and Vietnam), wherein the population of the member countries is almost 170 million people and economic growth rate is 6-8%. Nowadays, investment policies are focusing more on the foreign investors to develop the basic infrastructure, which has resulted in a significant increase in the number of foreign investors in the period of the economic crisis in Asia.The results revealed that to promote a policy significantly, private entities must be encouraged to invest in the government projects. Furthermore, promoting Public-Private Partnership can spur economic growth, resulting in a strong commitment between public and private sectors that will lead to the development in the country. However, the investment laws in the government projects and granting processes are different and constantly amended. Especially, investment patterns and requirements for each member state are vague and there is a lack of the laws for controlling investments of private entities. These problems as stated, thus, affect investors? confidence and incoming of investment funds from local and foreign investors.
K40|Bitcoin Literature: A Co-word Analysis|A technical article in 2008 and the follow-up open-source software in 2009 released by Satoshi Nakamoto have modified the concept of currency and seem to continue affecting our economic and financial thinking. In less than 8 years, bitcoin, a digital currency, is not only accepted as a mean of payment but also traded in numerous ?bitcoin exchanges?, which have accumulated a market capitalization of around 10.7 billion U.S. dollar. The phenomenon raised the interest of scholars across wide disciplines including finance, economics, law, and computer science. Research articles regarding bitcoin has gradually formed a growing body of literature, which reflects the state of the art of bitcoin research. However, there is no systematic survey of this literature up to now. The purpose of this study is to fill the gap by systematically surveying the bitcoin literature in the hope to uncover the main discussion topics and made suggestions for future research. We collect a total of 253 articles directly related to bitcoin from the Scopus database. In addition to providing basic descriptive statistics of this dataset, we apply co-word analysis to separate the literature into groups. This is done by establishing a network in which articles are nodes and co-usage of the key terms links these articles. The network is then separated into groups based on nodes? similarity in their connectivity. The result is a division of the articles into three groups each contain distinct discussion topics. The first group is a pool of technological articles which elaborates on improving various aspects of bitcoin technology. The second group focuses on bitcoin?s impacts to existing financial system and real economy. The discussions in the third group call for a legal framework to regulate bitcoin and other digital currency. In the end, we model the bitcoin research in a PEST (political, economic, social, and technological) analysis structure and suggest that the influence of bitcoin and the associated technology on society as a whole is a big gap waiting to be filled in future research.
K40|Dimensions Of Expert Report Complexity In Intellectual/Industrial Property. Case Study|The growing number of complex processes with the specific intellectual / industrial property demonstrated the need for highly qualified experts called in solving technical problems in the court files. The expertise in such field obliges to detailed knowledge of domestic and international law. However, those processes have as conjugate subjects: counterfeiting inventions, trademarks, industrial design; unfair competition; calculating damage that leads to highlighting the economic benefits, the latter requiring economic assessment of an intangible asset using in formula,in addition to economic data, micro - and macro-economic risk factors. Conflicts arise in a specific space. It is therefore necessary detailed knowledge of company law, competition law, that relating to interest, insolvency and bankruptcy in their developments. It should be considered domestic and European legal practice, as well as the rapid evolution of the meaning of legal terms and concepts. Experts have to understand solutions given in the prior complaints for correct interpretation of the provisions of the agreements, laws and regulations derived. The paper refersto one of the most complex expertise reports, which forced expert to integrated legislation acquaintances on patents, on insolvency and interest - in their evolution. But fundamentally, the expert had to understand the phenomenon of engineering and how to measure economic efficiency in the case of a divided invention.
K40|Lübnan Anayasal Düzeninde Egemenlik Dağılımı|Constitutional structure of Lebanon, has its own unique type that does not match with the classification of the classical political science. In the Twentieth Century, struggle between Lebanonization (Lebanese Nationalism) and Arab Nationalism was the core issue of the Lebanon politics. This struggle was the main obstacle to establish a parlamentary system in Lebanon. The Lebanese Constitution was amended which made France mandate as a supervisor of politics and economics during the France occupation period. In this context, the constitution, based on sharing the sovereignty between the religious and ethnic groups rather than constitutional rights. In the evaluation of the civil wars, have occured in the political history of Lebanon, constitutional structure which has institutionalized as an ethnic and the religious body shoud be considered as the vital point. The rights are igiven on the ethnic and religious bases rather than personal. This composition articulates the Lebanese politics in to the West and Arab politics. In the same manner political represantation in the Lebanese politics is not shared between the voters as in the clasical parlamentary regimes, shared by the ethnic and religious communities.
K40|Entrepreneurship and institutional change|Abstract Entrepreneurs do more than just buy low and sell high; they sometimes also change our institutions, including our categories of thought. New institutional economics has been examining incentives that drive individuals to bring about market-supporting institutional arrangements. There is, however, an aspect of entrepreneurship conducive to institutional changes that has been neglected by contemporary institutionalist theories and that remains underdeveloped in entrepreneurship research. When and how does entrepreneurship bring about institutional change? I suggest that entrepreneurs are agents of institutional change when cultural categorization is ambiguous with regard to the proper and permissible applications of novel artifacts. Motherhood, for example, used to be a simple category, but surrogacy changed that radically. Examining newspaper evidence, social surveys, statutory law, and judicial cases, I show how entrepreneurs, by provoking a change in interpretation and judgment, challenged the existing institutional legal ordering of procreation turning a technically feasible method of surrogacy into current practice.
K40|An Odd Couple: Monotone Instrumental Variables and Binary Treatments| This article investigates Monotone Instrumental Variables (MIV) and their ability to aid in identifying treatment effects when the treatment is binary in a nonparametric bounding framework. I show that an MIV can only aid in identification beyond that of a Monotone Treatment Selection assumption if for some region of the instrument the observed conditional-on-received-treatment outcomes exhibit monotonicity in the instrument in the opposite direction as that assumed by the MIV in a Simpson's Paradox-like fashion. Furthermore, an MIV can only aid in identification beyond that of a Monotone Treatment Response assumption if for some region of the instrument either the above Simpson's Paradox-like relationship exists or the instrument's indirect effect on the outcome (as through its influence on treatment selection) is the opposite of its direct effect as assumed by the MIV. The implications of the main findings for empirical work are discussed and the results are highlighted with an application investigating the effect of criminal convictions on job match quality using data from the 1997 National Longitudinal Survey of the Youth. Though the main results are shown to hold only for the binary treatment case in general, they are shown to have important implications for the multi-valued treatment case as well.
K40|The Sorry Clause|When players face uncertainty in choosing actions, undesirable outcomes cannot be avoided. Accidental defections caused by uncertainty, that does not depend on the level of care, require a mechanism to reconcile the players. This paper shows the existence of a perfect sorry equilibrium in a game of imperfect public monitoring. In the sorry equilibrium, costly apology is self-imposed in case of accidental defections, making private information public and allowing cooperation to resume. Cost of the apology required to sustain this equilibrium is calculated, the efficiency characteristics of the equilibrium evaluated and outcomes compared to those from other bilateral social governance mechanisms and formal legal systems. It is argued that with the possibility of accidental defections, other social mechanisms have limitations, while formal legal systems can generate perverse incentives. Therefore, apologies can serve as a useful economic governance institution.
K40|Reasonable doubt revisited|No abstract is available for this item.
K40|Common trends in the US state-level crime.What do panel data say?|This paper aims to investigate the long-run relationship between crime, inequality, unemployment and deterrence using state-level data for the US over the period 1978- 2013. The novelty of the paper is to use non-stationary panels with factor structures. The results show that: i) a simple crime model well fits the long run relationship; ii) income inequality and unemployment have a positive impact on crime, whereas deterrence displays a negative sign; iii) the effect of income inequality on crime is large in magnitude; iv) property crime is generally highly sensitive to deterrence measures based upon police activities.
K40|Hard Labour in the lab: Are monetary and non-monetary sanctions really substitutable?|The theory of optimal deterrence suggests the substitution of mon- etary sanctions over non-monetary sanctions whenever this is possible because non-monetary sanctions are more socially costly. This pre- scription is based on the assumption that monetary and non-monetary sanctions are perfect substitutes: there exists a monetary equivalent of a non-monetary sanction that, if used as a ne, produces the same level of deterrence. We test this assumption with an experiment. In our stealing game potential thieves face the possibility of punishment. Our non-monetary sanction treatments mimic hard labour: we require convicted individuals to carry out a tedious real e ort task. In the monetary treatments sanctions are insteadones, which are based on individuals' willingness to pay to avoid the effort task to ensure com- parability to the non-monetary treatment. A second manipulation of our experiment concerns the balance of errors in the adjudication pro- cedure (convictions of innocents and acquittal of guilty individuals). We and that stealing is reduced most e ectively by a sanction regime that combines non-monetary sanctions with a severe procedure. Our data is consistent with the notion that both monetary punishment and pro-defendant sanction regimes are less effective in communicat- ing moral condemnation of an act.
K40|Income Inequality Around The World|This paper aims to identify the significant determinants of income inequality in developed and developing countries. The empirical analysis of the panel of 147 countries over the period from 1980 to 2010 shows that for developed countries, the significant determinant of income inequality is public spending on education, and for developing countries, the significant determinants are public spending on education, affordability of financial resources, and infrastructural development. Furthermore, no significant evidence supporting the existence of Kuznets’ curve is found.
K40|Attorney fees in repeated relationships|Abstract We investigate contracts between a law firm and a corporate client involved in a repeated relationship. In contrast to the previous literature pertaining to one-time interactions between clients and attorneys, we find that the contingent fee is not the best arrangement. Rather, the contingent fee is dominated by a contract which, we argue, an outside observer could not distinguish from simple hourly fee contract. This contract includes an hourly fee equal to the law firm’s opportunity cost, a lump sum, and a retention function. The lump sum payment is independent of the number of hours worked by the law firm and the outcome of the case. The repeated nature of the relationship allows the client to create a contract where the desire to maintain the relationship induces the law firm to exert the optimal level of effort in the current case.
K40|Do open borders tempt a saint? Evidence from Schengen on crime rates in German border regions|The abolishment of passport and any other type of border controls at the German-Polish and German-Czech border in December 2007 provoked public concerns that open border would increase cross-border crime. Despite these widespread concerns, there is still little research on whether the public fears were justified. The paper evaluates the extent to which the implementation of the Schengen Agreement in Poland and the Czech Republic in 2007 affected crime rates in German regions bordering these two countries. Effects are identified by regression-adjusted difference-in-difference estimation on matched samples that allows evaluating the Schengen effects in a causal way. Preliminary results show that no significant Schengen effect can be observed for the most common types of criminal offense. This indicates that crime patterns did not change after the implementation of the Schengen Agreement in a statistically significant way. These findings suggest that in contrast to public concerns, border regions have not experienced an increase in crime as a result of Schengen. In light of the current discussion on the future of the Schengen zone and borderless Europe, this is quite an important, indicatory result.
K40|Do courts matter for firm value? Evidence from the U.S. court system|We estimate the impact of U.S. state court characteristics on firm value by exploiting a U.S. Supreme Court ruling that exogenously changed firms‘ exposure to different courts. We find that increased exposure to more business-friendly courts is associated with positive announcement returns. We find no such association for objective court quality. We confirm that this U.S. Supreme Court ruling impacted firm value through the legal environment channel. We show that this ruling reduced the ability of affected firms to remove cases from certain state courts, and we show that announcement returns are stronger for firms that have high litigation exposure.
K40|Do Open Borders Tempt a Saint? Evidence from Schengen on Crime Rates in German Border Regions|The abolishment of passport and any other type of border controls at the German-Polish and German-Czech border in December 2007 provoked public concerns that open border would increase cross-border crime. Despite these widespread concerns, empirical research on whether the public fears were justified is still scarce. Based on data from the official German Police Crime Statistic, the paper evaluates whether the implementation of the Schengen Agreement in Poland and the Czech Republic in December 2007 affected crime rates in German regions bordering these two countries. Effects are identified by regression-adjusted difference-in-difference estimation on matched samples that allows evaluating the Schengen effects in a causal way. Preliminary results show that no significant Schengen effect can be observed for the most common types of criminal offenses. These findings suggest that in contrast to public concerns, German NUTS3 regions bordering Poland and the Czech Republic have not experienced an increase in crime as a result of the implementation of the Schengen Agreement of its Eastern neighbors. In light of the current discussion on the future of the Schengen zone and borderless Europe, this is quite an important result.
K40|Global Commercial Law between Unity, Pluralism, and Competition: The Case of the CISG|The global legal system consists of a multitude of legal regimes of various origin, thus constituting a regulatory framework which is significantly different from the one of a nation state. In the absence of a world state, international and supranational law regimes, various domestic legal systems, and transnational law regimes such as the lex mercatoria each claim normative authority in the global sphere, which inevitably overlap and interfere in some issue areas. Not surprisingly, this messy state has attracted some attention among legal theory scholars, stimulating various different lines of thought on how global law is actually structured and which organizing principles ought to be in operation. In this paper we identify unity, pluralism, and competition as three paradigms, which qualify in particular to guide our discourse on the structure and the organizing principles of global law. Since theoretical debates tend to remain quite abstract and vague, if not opaque, we decided to flesh out the differences and commonalities between the approaches by applying the three paradigms to the concrete field of the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods (CISG) as a cornerstone of global commercial law. This brings together up to now more or less separate theoretical and dogmatic discourses in a fruitful cross-disciplinary way. As a result, we plea for a paradigmatic pluralism, meaning that global law should not be constructed according to one single organizing principle only. This paper serves as an introduction to three in-depth papers, which each explore the issue from the perspective of one paradigm. Altogether they will publish in a focus issue of the Uniform Law Review in 2016.
K40|Should the US Eliminate Entry Barriers to the Practice of Law? Perspectives Shaped by Industry Deregulation|States' requirements that lawyers obtain a license to practice law, as well as American Bar Association (ABA) regulations of legal practice, constitute barriers to entry to the legal profession. In this paper, we argue that eliminating entry barriers in legal services would generate benefits that are similar to those resulting from deregulating U.S. network industries (i.e., transportation, communications, and energy.) Specifically, prices would fall as competition from incumbent firms and new entrants intensifies; in the long run, competitive forces and operating freedom would incentivize firms to produce innovations that significantly benefit consumers and the broader economy.
K40|The consequences of not applying mutátis mutándis a decision of the Romanian Constitutional Court|"The article aims at procedural mechanism of application of art.147, paragraph 2 of Romanian Constitution, in the specific case of pronouncing an unconstitutionality decision which concerns a law in draft before its promulgation, but especially focuses on the effects produced by such a normative act adopted without consideration of the Constitutional Court Decision. In other words, the Parliament, although bound to reconsider those provisions to bring them into line with the Constitutional Court decision, for failure to comply with this obligation, it brings us into the situation of prevalence inability of this Constitutional Court Decision and breach of a law in force which was, moreover, declared unconstitutional still at the planning stage. In this way, we find that the effects in question are reflected in an unfavorable way; above all the interest of local collectivities; and raises a big question mark on the achievement of both the ""joint"" powers of Parliament's own, and the concept of ""local autonomy"" by those who exercise it, knowing your rights, obligations and limits allowed."
K40|Application of international double taxation conventions in Romania|In this article we sought to address the international double taxation phenomenon from two different standpoints. To begin with, in the first part we analysed the framework of international double taxation, and how this topic was tackled in both Romanian and international literature.International double taxation has been analyzed, mutatis mutandis, from an economic perspective, more precisely in terms of the implications that it generates on economies, on added value, on capital flows, on the internationalisation of business. Second, I believed it was important to analyse international double taxation from a legal perspective, through the jurisdictional effects of obtaining income or holding property at the European or international level. Romania's case is carefully approached in this paper, aiming to highlight the issues Romania is facing concerning cooperation in tax matters with authorities from other countries, how the more than 80 double taxation conventions are applied and interpreted, but also other aspects that should be considered by the Romanian tax authorities, based on the provisions of the Fiscal Code and the Fiscal Procedure Code. The article ends by presenting, commenting on and analysing two test cases in international double taxation, of remarkable importance and actuality for Romanian jurisprudence to observe how complex double taxation mechanisms operate in practice. The conclusion of this article emphasises the importance ofsignificant “steps” achieved by Romania on the path to creating a true “fiscal area” in the European Union, as well as the “corridors” that should be inserted to correct economic – legal and economic deficiencies and gaps, in order to strengthen the fiscal area.
K40|Considerations regarding the creative intention in unilateral legal acts by deciding the separation of intention and consent|In legal systems, the intention of people in certainty of legal performance plays the main role and the contracts & transaction attributes to persons' intention as the general & public principle. The people by their intention establish obligation & undertakings for themselves and others in the frame of contracts & unilateral obligations, in the realm of law to obtain the commitment force for his/her intention that causes establishing the commitments and the responsibilities of the peoples. The volition is consisted of intention & consent elements for establishing the commitment, in other words each of these elements, intention and consent are efficient in the situation of legal act through canceling or lack of legal act influence. The quality of this effecting and performance g uaranty of the lack of each main conditions in certainty of the volition in the field of contracts have been considered and the rule in the field of contracts has been clarified in civil code but in unilateral obligations, in respect of unilateral obligations, there are some ambiguities in the role and clarifying basic conditions which these ambiguities are the results of leaving unsaid the many regulations about unilateral obligations in civil code by the jurisprudents and the legislators. In this article creative intention in unilateral obligations to be surveyed and it would be a step for clarifying the opposed and agreed views.
K40|Historic evolutions of the effects of the European Union political instruments in the Romanian legal order – effects of the mechanism for cooperation and verification|Since the accession of Romanian to the European Union, many unsolved problems related to the accountability and efficiency of the legal system and of the law enforcement bodies have been identified, a reason for which the European Commission justified the institution of a Mechanism for Cooperation and Verification as a political instrument for the monitoring and optimization of the progresses made by Romania to attain certain reference objectives specific to the field of reform of the legal system and the fight against corruption. This mechanism has been instituted to improve the functioning of the legislative, administrative and legal system and to repair the serious deficiencies in the fight against corruption. The goal of the mechanism for cooperation and verification was and is to ensure the adoption of those measures that may guarantee the Romanians and other member states that the administrative and judiciary decisions, standards and practices in Romania meet those of the European Union. The progresses made in the field of reform of the legal system and the fight against corruption will allow Romanian citizens and trading companies to enjoy their rights in quality of citizens of the European Union.
K40|The relationship dynamics between legal positivism and the divisions of law, analyzed from a systemic perspective|This article is studying the dynamics of the relationship between legal positivism and the two divisions of law, respectively private law and public law. Legal positivism, envisions concepts of human intervention in the creation and application of the law, and so it finds application in both public law and private law. However, in private law, there are several principles which can be deduced from the doctrine of natural law, such as substitution, reversibility and others. To the contrary, in public law, legal positivism is all present, manifesting itself in all its branches. It is not, however, an exclusive presence, because there is a balance between natural law and legal positivism in each of the divisions of law. The two orientations of law, namely natural law and legal positivism coexist in each of the divisions and branches of the law, but with a different structure, dynamic or static, depending on specific branches of law. This paper presents in an analytical manner, the static and dynamic manifestations of legal positivism within the framework of the two divisions of law, namely private law and public law.
K40|Values and ethical principles for practicing as magistrate/legal advisor out of the perspective of the codes and national and international statements of principles|The coordinating and regulating role of the moral values, of the Deontological Code in practicing the magistrate/ legal advisor position is analysed in this article, so that their decisions correspond the universal imperative of practical accomplishment of justice, implicitly to the audience’s expectations with regard to the efficiency and efficacy of the services delivered by the institutions in the judicial system. The subject is of obvious actuality, fact which results in the existence of a relevant number of cases of violation, deforming of the ethical principles, of the specific deontological norms for the legal advisors, especially for the magistrates, which occur in performing the act of justice. The author highlights through examples, the harmful effects of some magistrates’ side-slipping from the ethical principles (Independence, Impartiality, Integrity) stipulated in the most important deontological codes, statements of principles or national and international conventions. The logical conclusion, resulting from the analyses, aims to perfection the judicial system, the moral part of the legal higher education, of the magistrates’ continuous training and assessment.
K40|The juridical status of the service firearm ownership and utilization procedure and the armament and munitions operations within the Romanian penitentiary administrative system|The general activity of the special status civil servants from within the Romanian penitentiary administration system, involves, due to the nature of the work-related duties, particular risks and tasks, therefore this activity cannot be conducted without ensuring a distinct and efficient juridical regime, ensuring the protection and safeguarding the fundamental rights of people deprived of their freedom. This paper aims to present the adoption of the current juridical regime of the procedure of owning and using the worksupplied weapons and the weapons and ammunition operations in the Romanian prison system, the no. 23/2016 Law regarding the possession and use of the work-supplied weapons and the weapons and munitions operations in the penitentiary administrative system, namely the use of weapons, munitions and military devices, by the civil servants with a special status from the penitentiary administrative system, being allowed only in the specially designed, approved and authorized shooting ranges, for this purpose; the situations in which the civil servants from the penitentiary administrative system, carrying lethal weapons, in the line of duty, are entitled to use their lethal or nonlethal weapon, depending on the case, only after the official warning has been made, as well as the situations in which they can use their weapons, without warning, if there is no time for this: in case of self-defense or in case of a state of emergency.
K40|Theoretical and jurisprudential considerations on res judicata authority|One of the effects of judgment, established by both the old and the current Code of Civil Procedure, is res judicata authority. This prevents retrial of a dispute on the basis of the triple identity of parties, object and cause. The paper will analyse some of its aspects from the perspective of civil procedural legislation, ECHR case law and national jurisprudence.
K40|Fragile markets: An experiment on judicial independence|Contract enforcement does not only affect single transactions but the market as a whole. We compare alternative institutions that allocate enforcement rights to the different parties to a credit transaction: either lenders, borrowers, or judges. Despite all parties having incentives to enforce and transact, the market flourishes or disappears depending on the treatment: paying judges according to lenders’ votes maximizes total surplus and equity; and a similar result appears when judges are paid according to average earnings in society. In contrast, paying judges according to borrowers’ votes generates the poorest and most unequal society. These results suggest that parties playing the role of borrowers understand poorly the systemic consequences of their decisions, triggering under-enforcement, and hence wasting profitable trade opportunities.
K40|Effective European Antitrust : Does EC Merger Policy Generate Deterrence?|We estimate the deterrence effects of European Commission (EC) merger policy instruments over the 1990–2009 period. Our empirical results suggest phase-1 remedies uniquely generate robust deterrence as - unlike phase-1 withdrawals, phase-2 remedies, and preventions - phase-1 remedies lead to fewer merger notifications in subsequent years. Furthermore, the deterrence effects of phase-1 remedies work best in high-concentration industries, that is, industries where the Herfindahl Hirschman Index is above the 0.2 cut-off level employed by the EC. Additionally, we find phase-1 remedies do not deter clearly pro-competitive mergers, but do deter potentially anti-competitive mergers in high-concentration industries.
K40|Effective European Antitrust: Does Ec Merger Policy Generate Deterrence?|We estimate the deterrence effects of European Commission (EC) merger policy instruments over the 1990-2009 period. Our empirical results suggest that phase-1 remedies uniquely generate robust deterrence as – unlike phase-1 withdrawals, phase-2 remedies, and preventions – phase-1 remedies lead to fewer merger notifications in subsequent years. Furthermore, the deterrence effects of phase-1 remedies work best in high-concentration industries; i.e., industries where the HHI is above the 0.2 cut-off level employed by the EC. Additionally, we find that phase-1 remedies do not deter clearly pro-competitive mergers, but do deter potentially anti-competitive mergers in high-concentration industries.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
K40|Analyse statistique des affaires d’ententes dans l’UE (2004-2014)|Our paper brings together an original dataset comprising all cartels fined by the European Commission since May 2004.?We present a set of statistical results relating to cartel design and cartel enforcement both at the Commission and General Court?s level.?The research highlights the importance of leniency applications and recidivist considerations.?We show that more than half of the undertakings are leniency applicants.?These benefit from a 37% fine reduction on average.?Further, recidivism is quite frequent as it concerns 27% of cases. Nevertheless, the fine increase is not systematic.?Our research puts in perspective the importance of ?appeals? before the General Court where 63% of the fines are upheld.?Lastly, our research focuses on the factors influencing the outcome of an appeal, notably the importance of the case. Classification JEL?: K21, K40, L41.
K40|Les coûts des expertises judiciaires dans les procédures inquisitoire et accusatoire|We compare the inquisitorial and the adversarial procedures, in a framework close to the one of Dewatripont and Tirole [1999], according to two criteria?: the expected cost of expertise and the expected cost of errors. Our main contribution concerns the cost of the research efforts of the experts. We assume that an expert may benefit from economies of scale during the conduct of his expertise. When economies of scale are important, the expected cost of expertise is lower in the inquisitorial procedure. For lower values of the economies of scale, the results are ambiguous. The expected cost of errors is lower in the adversarial procedure. Thus, our results show that, during the choice of the procedure to be used, there may be a trade-off between the expected cost of expertise and the expected cost of errors. Classification JEL?: K40, D81.
K40|In brief... Rapid response policing: the impact on crime detection|Rapid response policing not only boosts crime detection but also reduces the time it takes to find the offenders. That is the central finding of analysis of data from the Greater Manchester Police by Jordi Blanes i Vidal and Tom Kirchmaier. Their research examines whether it is worth police officers aiming to get to the scene of a crime as soon as possible after being alerted by a member of the public. They find that faster response times make it more likely that victims or witnesses will name a suspect. In contrast, longer response times reduce the likelihood of crimes being detected, especially thefts and robbery.
K40|The Duration of Judicial Deliberation: Evidence from Belgium|We utilize case-level data from a large Belgian court to study a policy-relevant but thus far empirically unexplored aspect of judicial behavior: the time that a judge takes to deliberate on a case before rendering a verdict. Exploiting the de facto random administrative assignment of filed cases among the serving judges and using survival-analysis methods, we find that the duration of judicial deliberation varies not only with measures of case complexity, but also with judge and disputing-party characteristics. We further find evidence consistent with the hypothesis that longer judicial deliberation improves the quality of judicial decisions.
K40|Different forms of decentralization and their impact on government performance: Micro-level evidence from 113 countries|This study of the effect of decentralization on government performance differs from the vast literature on the topic in three major ways. First, we compare the effects of four different forms of decentralization, namely, fiscal decentralization, administrative decentralization, federalism, and aggregate decentralization. Second, we study the effect on three dimensions of government performance, namely, tax administration, business licensing and permits, and corruption. Third, the effects are judged in terms of the perceptions of nearly 100,000 business leaders located in 113 countries. Seven statements summarize our findings. First, fiscal and administrative decentralization improve perceptions of government performance. Second, federalism is associated with worse perceptions. Third, the effect of aggregate decentralization is ambiguous. Fourth, service industries tend to perceive decentralization more favorably than others. Fifth, large firms perceive decentralization less favorably than other firms. Sixth, the effect of the same form of decentralization varies in magnitude across the three government activities. Seventh, therefore, decentralization may not be oversold as a policy prescription to improve government performance; the form of decentralization and its contextualization in terms of the targeted area of government activity need careful consideration.
K40|Legal uncertainty as a welfare enhancing screen|Consider legal uncertainty as uncertainty about the legality of a specific action. In particular, suppose that the threshold of legality is uncertain. I show that this legal uncertainty raises welfare. Legal uncertainty changes deterrence in opposite directions. The probability of conviction increases for firms below the threshold, while the probability of conviction decreases for firms above the threshold. Hence, legal uncertainty acts as a welfare enhancing screen and increases welfare. Legal uncertainty discourages some actions with low private benefits, while it encourages other actions with high private benefits.
K40|¿Costumbre o Reaccio?n? El efecto de ser vi?ctima de delitos y corrupcio?n en la satisfaccio?n con la vida de los colombianos|Colombia ha sido un pai?s con una larga historia de violencia y corrupcio?n, por lo que se hace importante analizar la relacio?n entre la victimizacio?n de dichos delitos sufrida por los individuos y su percepcio?n de satisfaccio?n con la vida. Se utiliza informacio?n entre 2004 y 2014 contenida en LAPOP, a manera de secciones transversales repetidas. Con el fin de encontrar dicho efecto, se estima robustamente un modelo probabili?stico ordenado, en donde los resultados sugieren que la victimizacio?n del u?ltimo an?o reduce en 6.7 puntos porcentuales la probabilidad de sentirse muy satisfecho con la vida y el haber sido vi?ctima de algu?n soborno en 5 puntos porcentuales.
K40|A Jury of Her Peers: The Impact of the First Female Jurors on Criminal Convictions|This article uses an original data set of more than 3,000 cases from 1918 to 1926 in the Central Criminal Courts of London to study the effect of the Sex Disqualification (Removal) Act of 1919. Implemented in 1921, this Act made women eligible to serve on English juries. Results based on a pre-post research design imply that the inclusion of women had little effect on overall conviction rates but significantly impacted conviction rates on particularly female salient cases: sex offences, violent offences with female versus male victims and female defendants charged with ‘other’ (largely abortion related) offences.
K40|Expert opinion in a tort litigation game|We investigate the potential impact of various proposed reforms intended to improve the quality of expert testimony while reducing its cost, and to facilitate the work of judges in appointing experts and reading their reports. To do so, we present a unilateral care model under strict liability in which the court cannot perfectly observe the amount of harm a tortfeasor has caused to a victim. However, the judge may appoint an expert to improve his chance of reaching a correct decision. In this context, we find that the likelihood of a victim filing a lawsuit decreases with the quality of the expert testimony and with the cost of the expertise procedure, and increases with the non-monetary cost for the judge to appoint an expert. Moreover, we find that the effects of these parameters on the injurer’s level of precaution are ambiguous. We also find that the injurer’s level of care is suboptimal. Finally, we make some public policy recommendations in order to (i) increase the injurer’s level of care and (ii) reduce the expected cost of a trial in the event of an accident. We find that the policy maker faces a trade-off between these two objectives.
K40|Paying by the Hour: The Least Appealing Option for Clients of Lawyers|In this study, we analyze a client’s choice of contract in auctions where Dutch law firms compete for cases. The distinguishing feature is that lawyers may submit bids with any fee arrangement they wish. We find robust evidence that bids offering hourly rates are less attractive to clients. Our findings tentatively contradict lawyers’ often-made argument that hourly rates are in a client’s best interest.
K40|Clients Prefer Flat Fee Contracts: Ten Questions to Jo Seldeslachts|No abstract is available for this item.
K40|Mandanten von Anwälten wollen kein Stundenhonorar|We analyse a client’s choice of contract in auctions where Dutch law firms compete for cases. In these auctions lawyers may submit bids with any fee arrangement they prefer. We find robust evidence that hourly rate bids are a client’s least-preferred choice. Our findings tentatively contradict lawyers’ often made argument that hourly rates are in a client’s best interest. Wir analysieren die Vertragswahl von Mandanten bei Auktionen, in denen niederländische Anwaltskanzleien um Fälle konkurrieren. Dabei können Anwälte Angebote mit der von ihnen bevorzugten Honorarregelung einreichen. Die Untersuchung bietet eindeutige Belege dafür, dass Angebote mit Stundenhonorar jene sind, die von den Mandanten am seltensten ausgewählt werden. Unsere Ergebnisse widersprechen dem von Anwälten oft vorgebrachten Argument, dass Stundenhonorare einen Vorteil für den Mandanten darstellen.
K40|Expert opinion in a tort litigation game|We investigate the potential impact of various proposed reforms intended to improve the quality of expert testimony while reducing its cost, and to facilitate the work of judges in appointing experts and reading their reports. To do so, we present a unilateral care model under strict liability in which the court cannot perfectly observe the amount of harm a tortfeasor has caused to a victim. However, the judge may appoint an expert to improve his chance of reaching a correct decision. In this context, we find that the likelihood of a victim filing a lawsuit decreases with the quality of the expert testimony and with the cost of the expertise procedure, and increases with the non-monetary cost for the judge to appoint an expert. Moreover, we find that the effects of these parameters on the injurer's level of precaution are ambiguous. We also find that the injurer's level of care is suboptimal. Finally, we make some public policy recommendations in order to (i) increase the injurer's level of care and (ii) reduce the expected cost of a trial in the event of an accident. We find that the policy maker faces a trade-off between these two objectives.
K40|Protección de los acreedores, intercambio de información y crédito para pequeñas y medianas empresas: datos comparativos entre países|Utilizando la Encuesta mundial sobre el ambiente de los negocios (World Business Environment Survey o WBES) para empresas en 61 países y variables ficticias que permiten abordar los componentes específicos, observados y no observados, de cada uno de ellos, así como una endogeneidad parcial, se analiza el papel de la protección de los acreedores (por ejemplo, la ejecución de contratos de crédito) y del desarrollo de mecanismos de información crediticia (como los registros de préstamo) en la determinación de la disponibilidad de financiación bancaria para pequeñas y medianas empresas (PYMEs). Se encuentra que una mejor protección de los acreedores y el desarrollo de mecanismos de intercambio de información reducen la brecha de financiamiento existente entre las pequeñas y las grandes empresas. Los países con un bajo nivel de protección de los acreedores pueden compensar esta falencia mediante la implementación de mecanismos de información crediticia.
K40|Fairness and persuasion|We study experimentally to what extent distributive fairness decisions by impartial authorities are influenced by stakeholders’ fairness opinions. In a three-player allocation game, we compare Communication treatments, in which one of the stakeholders states her opinion prior to the allocation decision, to a Baseline without communication. We find that stakeholders who state their opinion are allocated significantly less money than their counterparts in the Baseline. Asymmetric reactions to the statements appear to be the driving force behind this result: Authorities deviate from their initial fairness judgment and follow stakeholders’ opinions if the requests are moderate; they largely ignore high monetary requests.
K40|Courts in a transition economy: Case disposition and the quantity–quality tradeoff in Bulgaria|The lack of an effective judiciary in post-socialist countries has been a pervasive concern and successful judicial reform an elusive goal. Yet to date little empirical research exists on the functioning of courts in the post-socialist world. We draw on a new court-level panel dataset from Bulgaria to study the determinants of court case disposition and to evaluate whether judicial decision-making is subject to a quantity–quality tradeoff. Addressing endogeneity concerns, we find that case disposition in Bulgarian courts is largely driven by the demand for court services. The number of serving judges, a key court resource, matters to a limited extent only in a subsample of courts, a result suggesting that judges adjust their productivity based on the number of judges serving at a court. We do not find evidence implying that increasing court productivity would decrease adjudicatory quality. We discuss the policy implications of our findings.
K40|Sentencing discretion and burdens of proof|In the US, judges typically retain sentencing discretion in criminal cases, but in some states this discretion is given to juries. One criticism of jury sentencing is that jurors will be tempted to issue “compromise verdicts,” where they return a guilty verdict but a light sentence when they are uncertain about the facts of a case. A simple expected utility model shows that any fact finder with sentencing discretion should engage in behavior that is observationally equivalent to a compromise verdict. Intuitively, the fact finder chooses a more lenient sentence than the punishment that fits the crime because he wants to mitigate the potential cost of a wrongful conviction; in turn, a lower cost of a wrongful conviction leads him to reduce his standard of proof. Although critics of jury sentencing intuit the risk of compromise, a bench trial poses the same risk for a judge. Alternatively, the jury trial format (jury verdict, judge sentence) can lessen the risk of compromise if juries are denied punishment information.
K40|Endogenous legal traditions|A key feature of a legal system is the set of institutions used to aggregate the citizens’ preferences over the harshness of punishment, i.e., the legal tradition. While under common law appellate judges’ biases offset one another at the cost of volatility of the law, under civil law the legislator chooses a certain legal rule that is biased only when he favors special interests, i.e., when preferences are sufficiently heterogeneous and/or the political process is sufficiently inefficient. Hence, common law can be selected only under this last scenario. This prediction is consistent with a novel dataset on the lawmaking and adjudication institutions in place at independence and in 2000 in 155 transplants, many of which reformed the transplanted legal tradition.
K40|Magna Carta revisited: parchment, guns, and constitutional order|This paper revisits the question of substantive rules versus procedural rules to enforce constitutions. Scholars engaging in positive analysis of constitutional rules argue that procedural rules are more durable and act as better safeguards for constitutional maintenance. Chapter 61 of the Magna Carta, also known as the ‘security clause,’ lays out the procedural component for enforcement of the Charter. The clause provides for a council of twenty-five barons to enforce the Charter, with provisions to choose and replace the members, outline their powers, and constrain executive action. It is therefore puzzling that Chapter 61 is absent in the 1216 issue of the Magna Carta, and all reissues thereafter. On the other hand, substantive protections like Chapter 40 have been maintained through the evolution of constitutional rules over 800 years. It is even more puzzling that the Magna Carta survived for 800 years without the main clause to enforce it. This paper argues that the procedural-versus-substantive distinction is superficial, and instead focuses on polycentric arrangements creating opposing interests, to understand self enforcing constitutions and explain the failure of the 1215 Charter and the longevity of the reissues of the Charter.
K40|Endogenous legal traditions and economic outcomes|Outcomes are deeply influenced by the set of institutions used to aggregate the citizens’ preferences over the harshness of punishment, i.e., the legal tradition. I show that while under common law appellate judges’ biases offset one another at the cost of legal uncertainty, under civil law the legislator chooses a certain legal rule that is biased only when he favors special interests, i.e., when preferences are sufficiently heterogeneous and/or political institutions are sufficiently inefficient. Thus, common law can produce better outcomes only under this scenario. To test this prediction, I construct a novel continuous measure of legal traditions for 49 transplants, many of which reformed the transplanted institutions, and I devise an instrumental variables approach dealing with the endogeneity of both legal and political institutions. The evidence I obtain is robust across several strategies, confirms the model implications, and stresses the relevance of distinguishing between proxies measuring only the technological efficiency of the law and those picking up also the citizenry’s satisfaction with its cultural content.
K40|Formal law and customary change: A lab-in-field experiment in Ethiopia|Do customary courts strategically adapt arbitration outcomes if they face increased competition by the formal law? Through a lab-in-field experiment with villagers and real customary judges in rural Ethiopia, we show that post-arbitration payouts to agents disfavored by the customary system are downwardly biased. Introducing a costly formal law reduces these biases and draws the decisions of customary judges significantly closer to the law. At the same time agents advantaged by the law do not exploit their increased bargaining power. Instead, they make offers that are less advantageous to themselves and, in equilibrium, only a fraction of them make direct use of the formal law. Our results suggest that local customary dispute resolution institutions may have a role to play in shifting preexisting customs toward a desired outcome. In areas where formal legal institutions have limited outreach, the effects of increased competition between formal law and customary legal institutions may rise from changes in the latter, rather than from plaintiffs seeking justice under the rule of law.
K40|A Darwinian theory of institutional evolution two centuries before Darwin?|How effective institutions come about and how they change are fundamental questions for economics and social science more generally. We show that these questions were central in the deliberations of lawyers in 17th century England, a critical historical juncture that has motivated important institutional theories. We argue that the lawyers held a conceptualization of institutional development that foreshadowed many elements of Darwinism, more than two centuries before Darwin’s great contributions. To this end, we first identify a set of features characteristic of Darwinian evolutionary social-science theories. We then match the lawyers’ own words to these features, revealing the many congruities between a Darwinian approach and the lawyers’ evolutionary model of institutional construction and change. Finally, we analyze the normative conclusions on institutional development that the lawyers drew from their evolutionary analysis.
K40|An Empirical Analysis of the Public Spending Decomposition on Organized Crime|The aim of this paper is to investigate, empirically, what components of the public spending imply a decreasing effect on the organized crime and what components create opportunities for the organized crime, discussing also the role of government efficiency. The findings show a strikingly consistent pattern. Organized crime mainly operates in the distribution of the public spending for health, housing and community amenities. There is a decreasing effect on organized crime of the public expenditure devoted to education and to create morality values, such as the expenditure for recreation, culture and religion. Finally, government efficiency in public spending is beneficial for reducing the opportunities of the organized crime.
K40|Screening for bid-rigging - does it work?|This paper proposes a method to detect bid-rigging by applying mutually reinforcing screens to a road construction procurement data set from Switzerland in which no prior information about collusion was available. The screening method is particularly suited to deal with the problem of partial collusion, i.e. collusion which does not involve all firms and/or all contracts in a specific data set, implying that many of the classical markers discussed in the corresponding literature will fail to identify bid-rigging. In addition to presenting a new screen for collusion, it is shown how benchmarks and the combination of different screens may be used to identify subsets of suspicious contracts and firms in a data set. The discussed screening method succeeds in isolating a group of “suspicious” firms exhibiting the characteristics of a local bid-rigging cartel operating with cover bids and a – more or less pronounced – bid rotation scheme. Based on these findings the Swiss Competition Commission (ComCo) decided to open an investigation.
K40|Corrupt Bureaucrats: The Response of Non-Elected Officials to Electoral Accountability|Modern state bureaucracies are designed to be insulated from political interference. Successful insulation implies that politicians' electoral incentives do not affect bureaucrats' corruption. I test this prediction by assembling a unique dataset on corruption, promotions and demotions for more than 4 million Indonesian local civil servants. To identify the effect of reelection incentives, I exploit the existence of term limits and a difference-indifference strategy. I find that reelection incentives decrease the corruption behaviour of both top and administrative bureaucrats, which constitutes new evidence of the deep, farreaching effects of politicians' accountability on local civil servants. I explore a mechanism where bureaucrats have career concerns and politicians facing reelection manipulate such concerns by increasing the turnover of top bureaucrats. Consistent with this mechanism, I find that reelection incentives increase demotions of top bureaucrats and promotions of administrative bureaucrats.
K40|Partners in Crime: Schools, Neighborhoods and the Formation of Criminal Networks|Why do crime rates differ greatly across neighborhoods and schools? Comparing youth who were assigned to opposite sides of newly drawn school boundaries, we show that concentrating disadvantaged youth together in the same schools and neighborhoods increases total crime. We then show that these youth are more likely to be arrested for committing crimes together – to be “partners in crime”. Our results suggest that direct peer interaction is a key mechanism for social multipliers in criminal behavior. As a result, policies that increase residential and school segregation will – all else equal – increase crime through the formation of denser criminal networks.
K40|Sustainable Forestry in EU; Romania, United Kingdom and Sweden Case Studies|Being an essential element of the environment and source of the economic development in many counties of the world, the forest is a central subject in the sustainable development policies in the last decades. European Union, as many other international organizations, has complex forestry legislation and regulations. The basic law, adopted in 2013, EU Forest Strategy: for forests and the forest-based sector puts forests and the forest sector at the heart of the path towards a green economy and to value the benefits that forests can sustainably deliver, while ensuring their protection. Taking into account the need for an agreed holistic strategic vision on forest issues, and for ensuring that linked EU policies are fully taken into account in national forest policies, many counties have adopted a new attitude towards forestry and sustainable development. In this context many new laws and regulations passed in the last two decades in all the EU member countries. Although there are many common points in this legislation, taking into account the important differences in the forestry development on the European continent, a comparison between the different countries is needed. This paper is presenting the characteristics of the forests and forestry in 3 countries, as well as the specificity of their legal frameworks.
K40|Towards a Tribunal Services Agency|The performance of Indian tribunals has been unsatisfactory. Yet, policy-makers continue to rely heavily on tribunals to achieve their end objective. One example of this are the tribunals which will adjudicate in the proposed Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2015. This is premised on the assumption that the tribunals will be able to dispose of cases within hard deadlines. A natural key question that arises is how Indian tribunals can perform better in this matter when they cannot in others? This paper proposes that administrative functions of tribunals should be hived off into a separate agency - Tribunal Services Agency - which will help improve the performance of the administrative functions of tribunals and, in turn, improve their judicial functioning in general.
K40|Regulatory responsiveness in India: A normative and empirical framework for assessment|This paper seeks to measure the extent to which Indian regulators are responsive in the performance of their functions. The paper focuses on one function common to all Indian statutory regulators, namely, regulation making. To measure responsiveness, the paper constructs an index of benchmarks of responsive conduct, with corresponding quantifiable outputs. It empirically measures the responsiveness of the telecom and securities markets regulators in India, on this index. The paper finds that there are significant differences among the laws governing Indian regulators in the context of the requirement to be responsive, and that the degree of responsiveness of Indian regulators is directly proportional to the legal requirement for following participatory processes.
K40|The Analysis of Prison-Prisoner Data Using Cluster-Sample Econometrics: Prison Conditions and Prisoners' Assessments of the Future|The study investigates whether and how strong prison conditions contribute to the perceived propensity to recidivate after controlling for personal characteristics and criminal background. In order to combine different sources of information on personal characteristics of prison inmates and administrative prison data in an efficient way, we propose the use of matched prison-prisoner data and application of cluster-sample methods such as GEE (generalized estimating equations). Estimated average partial effects based on GEE and random-effects Probit modeling reveal that prison conditions show significant effects on the perceived likelihood of future reincarceration. Particularly, we find that inmates facing prison overcrowding show a reduced likelihood of recidivism.
K40|Mandatory Minimum Policy Reform and the Sentencing of Crack Cocaine Defendants: An Analysis of the Fair Sentencing Act|The Fair Sentencing Act of 2010 (FSA) affected the U.S. federal mandatory minimum sentencing laws for to crack cocaine offenders, and represented the first Congressional reform of sentencing laws in over 20 years. A primary goal of this legislation was to lessen the harshness of sentences for crack cocaine offenders and decrease the sentencing gap between crack defendants and powder cocaine defendants. While both the mean sentence length for crack offenders fell following the implementation of the FSA, these changes appear to primarily reflect the continuation of on-going sentencing trends that were initiated by a variety of non- Congressional reforms to federal sentencing policy that commenced around 2007. However, the FSA appears to have been helpful in allowing these trends to continue past 2010.
K40|Does crime deter South Africans from self-employment?|The very high crime rate in South African cities is often argued to be the main reason for the country's small share of business ownership and self-employment. This paper revisits this hypothesis. We estimate the effect of crime on business ownership and performance using a matched dataset of census, survey and police data. In contrast to previous studies, which take into account perceived rather than actual crime and often focus on specific geographic areas, we do not find robust evidence that high crime rates have a negative impact on business ownership. Even though our estimate of the effect of crime is statistically significant and negative, it is economically small. Further, we find no evidence for a negative effect of actual crime on sales, profits and investment of informal businesses. This may imply that the low share of business ownership and self-employment in South Africa must have other reasons. These results may also suggest that crime may not be in general a serious threat for small businesses in low and middle-income countries, however, this needs further empirical research.
K40|Inside post-socialist courts: the determinants of adjudicatory outcomes in Slovenian commercial disputes|Despite the judiciary’s central role in the capitalist market system, micro-level empirical analyses of courts in post-socialist countries are remarkably rare. This paper draws on a unique hand-collected dataset of commercial claims filed at Slovenian courts to examine the determinants of two salient adjudicatory outcomes: whether a case was resolved via trial or settlement and if the case was tried, whether the plaintiff was awarded the initial claim. Consistent with the divergent expectations theories of litigation, we find that trial-based resolution is less likely when parties use mediation and more likely when the case is complex as proxied by appointment of an expert. In contrast, stakes do not predict the prospects of trial. Addressing sample selection concerns, we show that defendants’ legal representation, plaintiffs’ profitability, and court identity are robust predictors of plaintiff victory at trial. We discuss possible explanations for these data patterns. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2016
K40|Islamic finance for SMES|Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) make up the bulk of the economic tissue of the economy. In developing countries, they represent the majority of employment, including female employment. Investing in SMEs is a long-term and smart strategy, with sustainable returns that multiply across regions, countries and societies. SMEs constitute the overwhelming majority of firms. Globally, SMEs make up over 95% of all firms, account for approximately 50% of GDP and 60%–70% of total employment, when both formal and informal SMEs are taken into account. This amounts to between 420 million and 510 million SMEs, 310 million of which are in emerging markets. Promoting access to finance for SMEs has been on the global reform agenda since the global financial crisis. The purpose of this paper is to investigate the opportunities of development and growth as well as the main challenges to Islamic finance for SMEs. This paper will help to deepen understanding of the concepts of Islamic finance as well as SMEs. In addition to evaluate how Islamic financial institutions can support SMEs.
K40|A careerist judge with two concerns|This paper analyzes the effect of media coverage on the incentives of a careerist judge to act on her information. The novelty of our approach is to consider a judge who seeks to signal both \textit{expertise} and (absence of) \textit{bias}. To this, we incorporate three types of judges: the high quality or wise judge, the normal judge and the biased/lenient judge. Our results show that whether media coverage of judicial cases leads to better sentencing practices or not, deeply depend on the proportion of lenient judges in the population. In particular, we obtain that when this proportion is either too low or too high, media coverage does not affect a judge's behavior. However, her behavior if very different in one case than in the other. We also obtain that when the perceived proportion of lenient judges is neither too strong nor too weak, media coverage of judicial cases can induce a judge to act less on her information and to pass harsher sentences.
K40|Patent Settlements in the Pharmaceutical Industry: What Can We Learn From Economic Analysis?|"Patent settlements between originator and generic firms in the pharmaceutical industry have been challenged by antitrust and competition authorities in the U.S. and the EU. Particularly settlements with large ""reverse payments"" to generic firms raise the concern of collusive behaviour for protecting weak patents and delaying price competition through generic entry and therefore harming consumers. However, it is still heavily disputed under what conditions such patent settlements are anticompetitive and violate antitrust rules. This article scrutinizes critically what economic analysis has so far contributed to our knowledge about the effects of these patent settlements and the possible rules for their antitrust treatment. An important claim of this paper is that the problem of patent settlements can only be understood, if we analyze it not only from a narrow antitrust perspective but also take into account its deep interrelationship with the problems (and the economics) of the patent system. Therefore we identify three different channels of effects, how patent settlements can influence consumer welfare: (1) price effects, (2) innovation incentive effects, and (3) effects via the incentives to challenge weak patents. The paper critically analyzes the existing economic studies and identifies a number of research gaps, especially also in regard to trade offs between different effects. It also suggests that policy solutions for these patent settlements should also be sought in combination with patent law solutions."
K40|Cost-Benefit Analysis of Class Actions: An Israeli Perspective|We propose an analytical framework for evaluating the effectiveness of class actions, in which their costs are estimated against the benefits they produce in attaining three objectives: law enforcement and deterrence; access to courts; and compensation. We outline parameters for measuring the social costs and benefits relevant to these objectives and evaluate them for Israeli class actions, based on original data including all class actions filed between 2006 and 2012 (n = 2,056). Findings indicate that class actions did not substantially facilitate access to courts and compensation, and that they had limited success in realizing law enforcement and deterrence.
K40|Forms of Manifestation regarding Tax Evasion: New Approaches|Tax evasion has existed, exists and will exist as long as the state and the tax will continue to exist, but the forms and ways of achievement are perfectly in time. In terms of how can be committed, the ratio that exists between this phenomenon and the current legislation, tax evasion, there are two manifestations: the lawful tax avoidance (performed at the shelter law); unlawful tax evasion (fraudulent) or fraud. In terms of space can be identified: tax evasion and tax avoidance at national and international level. In recent years circumvention actions are transferred, increasingly more inside from national tax systems across state borders, action driven by trends economic globalization, political and social.
K40|Normative contents of Constitution in the context of constitutional reform|The modification of the fundamental law of a state represents a very special political and juridical act with major significances and implications in the political social system as in the state’s one, but also at each individual level. That’s why such an approach needs to be well justified, to answer to some juridical and political social needs well defined, but mainly to correspond to the principles and rules specific to a constitutional and state’s democratic system providing to the state the stability and functionality it needs. In this study we analyze the necessity of such a constitutional reform in Romania, and also some provisions from the report of the Presidential Commission for the analysis of the political and constitutional regime in our country. We formulate our opinions in relation to the justifying some constitutional regulations. In this context, we consider that there are arguments for the maintaining of the bicameral parliamentary system and an eventual revising of the fundamental law needs to consider the measures needed to guarantee the political and constitutional institutions specific to the lawful state.
K40|The Procedure of Guilt Recognition in Romania, a Real Negotiation or just a Formal Institution also for the Minor Offenders? The Common Law System|Common law adversarialism is generally contrasted with West European inquisitorialism, which is said to be characterized by an active role for the fact-finder, by decisions based on full judicial inquiry and by truth-seeking rather than proof-making. The main differences lie in the role of examining or investigating judges or magistrates, at least in relation to serious offences. European systems do not have jury trials in exactly the same form as common law systems, although lay persons sit on the bench in some cases and jury trials that are more akin to common law trials are exceptional and reserved for the most serious crimes. Inquisitorial systems have not generally recognized guilty pleas, and plea-bargaining is only a recent innovation in some jurisdictions. There is a traditional, but gradually shrinking, divided between jurisdictions that adhere to the principle of legality, whereby the prosecutor is required by law to prosecute where there is sufficient evidence that a crime has been committed. The actual regulations concerning plea barganing (an addmisssion of guilt in Romania) is, if we may say so, totally different from the common law system, mostly because that was not a tradition in our country, and now, somehow, its seems odd to have in our juridical penal system such an institution.
