K49|Negotiating for Justice: Judge's Perception of the Plea-Bargaining Process in Malaysia|Objective - This paper aims to examine the role of judges and the reality of the plea-bargaining process from the perspective of the judiciary, focusing primarily on their perceptions on the new law and their role and the problems facing them in implementing the law. Methodology/Technique - This paper adopts a qualitative methodology, in which the primary data is obtained from semi-structured interviews with 20 respondents comprising of the stakeholders in the criminal justice system. The secondary data is obtained from analysing the CPC and other library-based sources. Findings - The research reveals that judges are facing some problems derived from the law itself which makes the new plea-bargaining process unappealing to them. Consequently, judges have invented their solutions either by reverting to the old practice or imposing on the parties their terms in disposing of the case through judge-prompted plea-bargain. Novelty - This paper is significant in providing some evidence of the procedural difficulties faced by judges in hearing plea-bargaining application at the pre-trial stage.
K49|Combating Malaysia's Involvement in Worldwide Organ Trafficking by Tapping into the Potential of Bioprinting|Objective - Organ shortages have caused many Malaysian people to travel to India or China to purchase organs illegally and to have those organs transplanted into their body, thus contributing to the worldwide problem of organ trafficking. Bioprinting presents the potential to develop human organs in the future. The objective of this study is to explore, through empirical research, the potential of bioprinting as a means of addressing Malaysia's organ shortages, thereby discouraging Malaysians from obtaining illicitly acquired organs abroad. Methodology/Technique - This is a qualitative study involving primary data including binding international agreements, soft law (non-binding documents issued by international organizations) and Malaysian legislation dealing with organ trafficking. These legal documents are interpreted through a textual analysis. A content analysis was also conducted on the secondary resources consisting of journals, book chapters, conference and working papers, newspaper reports, and other internet materials. Findings - The results of the study show that between 2014 and 2018, Malaysia experienced significant organ shortages, particularly shortages of kidneys. They also suffered from a lack of transplant specialists and medical teams as well as overburdened government hospitals. The Organ and Tissue Transplantation Bill, a new law replacing the Human Tissues Act of 1974, aims to ban organ trading and regulate organ donations. Malaysian research universities have embraced bioprinting through the production of blood vessels and skin, and the Malaysian government has introduced grants and technology transfers that are hoped to accelerate bioprinting. This has the potential to curb Malaysian involvement in worldwide organ trafficking. Novelty - This study is novel as it proposes bioprinting as a technological solution to illicit organ trading and transplantation within the Malaysian context, which has not been previously suggested.
K49|Learning to cooperate in the shadow of the law|How does the exposure to past institutions affect current cooperation? While a growing literature focuses on behavioral channels, we show how cooperation-enforcing institutions affect rational learning about the group’s value. Strong institutions, by inducing members to cooperate, may hinder learning about intrinsic values in the group. We show, using a lab experiment with independent interactions and random rematching, that participants behave in accordance with a learning model, and in particular react differently to actions of past partners whether they were played in an environment with coercive enforcement or not.
K49|Learning to cooperate in the shadow of the law|How does the exposure to past institutions affect current cooperation? While a growing literature focuses on behavioral channels, we show how cooperation-enforcing institutions affect rational learning about the group's value. Strong institutions, by inducing members to cooperate , may hinder learning about intrinsic values in the group. We show, using a lab experiment with independent interactions and random rematching, that participants behave in accordance with a learning model, and in particular react differently to actions of past partners whether they were played in an environment with coercive enforcement or not.
K49|The Tort Law and the Nucleolus for Generalized Joint Liability Problems|We analyze a legal compensation scheme axiomatically under the situation where causation of the cumulative injury appears in multiple sequences of wrongful acts caused by tortfeasors. This situation is a generalization of joint liability problems on tort law, and it is described by a rooted-tree graph. We show that there is a unique compensation scheme that satisfies three axioms, one about lower bounds of individual compensations, one about upper bounds of individual compensations, and one about case-system consistency. These axioms are derived from legal observations on tort law. The unique compensation scheme satisfying the three axioms yields the Nucleolus of an associated liability game.
K49|Ethics and the public function: Evaluation of legislative effectiveness in Mexico|This paper addresses the study of the ethics of responsibility in the legislative function of the Chamber of Deputies of the H. Congress of the Union, from the perspective of evaluating the work of federal deputies, and seeks to answer the following question: Is the work of the Federal Deputies in the Chamber of Deputies efficient? The purpose is how to measure and evaluate the performance in the legislative function of the Federal Deputies? and with that, to approach to identify if is the work performed by these public representatives efficient and ethical? The work is integrated in three parts. The first is the concept of the ethics of responsibility and the legislative function. In the second section, the proposal of an indicator to measure legislative efficiency is presented and the case of the federal deputies of the LXI Legislature representing the State of Veracruz of Ignacio de la Llave is analyzed. Finally, the third part presents a proposal for citizen action based on information on legislative efficiency and the need to demand compliance with ethical responsibility in the legislative function. As important conclusions of the evaluation of the legislative efficiency of the federal deputies of the LXI Legislature, it shows at least two important results: i) The legislative effectiveness index (IEL) shows very low levels, both at the plenary level of the Chamber of Deputies, as at the level of the study group of federal deputies representing the State of Veracruz. ii) In both cases, they show a very high legislative lag index. An alternative is the citizen's demand for ethical compliance with responsibility in the legislative function when knowing the evaluation of results, which serves as a reference to identify scenarios of political choice based on results.
K49|Legal Reform of Asset Declaration system: A Strategy to prevent and combat corruption in Thailand|Declaration of assets and liabilities by politicians and public officials can be a powerful tool to prevent and fight corruption. Politicians and public officials are obliged by the Organic Act on Counter Corruption B.E. 2542 to submit an account showing particulars of their assets and liabilities and to disclose such account to the public. It has been acknowledged that a number of the assets declaration reports have been left unverified by the National Anti-Corruption Commission (NACC), thus making the system ineffective. The purpose of this study is to examine, analyze, and compare the asset declaration systems in Thailand and in other countries, as well as the problems and obstacles in practice. This study found that in order to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the asset declaration system, NACC should make it compulsory for all types of public officials to submit an account showing particulars of their assets and liabilities but verify an account only when there are doubts about a submitted account or only for positions with high risk of conflict of interest. The deployment of information technology in the asset declaration system especially for the filing process and the verification process as well as linking the information from other government agencies and private organizations shall increase the efficacy of the system. The disclosure of account showing particulars of assets and liabilities should be required from everyone who is holding a political position and from every public official so that the general public will be able to examine the disclosed information. Finally improving the organizational structure of NACC to be in line with the asset verification system can increase the effectiveness of the system.
K49|A Victim-Oriented Justice Dispute in the context of the Judicial System Reform in Albania|The position and status of victims in the criminal justice process have been the subject of recent developments at the domestic, European and international levels in many aspects. The adoption of domestic legislations reflects the understanding of the challenges faced by victims and their commitment to a progressive judicial system. In this context, the recent amendments to its Code of Criminal Procedure in light of the recent Judicial System Reform by Albania seem to be a positive development towards the extensive participation of victims of crime in criminal proceedings. However, there are debates whether the right to participate is practically implemented and what is its impact on the criminal trial. This research shows the demand for the establishment of a neutral support mechanism to assist victims at all stages of the judicial process - from investigation to a final judgment. This paper addresses the perceptions and expectations of the judicial staff to address all the issues pertaining to victims? needs in and outside the criminal proceedings. This article aims: (1) to shed a light on the reasons behind the Judicial System Reform approach to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure rather than to adopt a comprehensive and comprehensible victim-oriented justice; (2) to reflect upon the role and rights of victims in the Albanian criminal justice system; and (3) to conclude with the recommendation to set up an effective long-term mechanism with the sole responsibility to provide the required support and assistance to the victims in Albania and in the context of the Kosovo Specialist Chamber.
K49|Is It Worth Having the Sopranos on Board? Corporate Governance Pollution and Organized Crime: The Case of Italy|We examine the corporate consequences of having board directors connected with the organized crime. Given that in principle such as connections can trigger both pros and cons, the question is genuinely empirical: using an original data base of Italian corporations (108,332 observations for the period 2006-2013) we offer two results. On the one side, we find that firms with at least one director, whose criminal record displays potential involvement with criminal organizations (i.e., tainted director), show lower levels of cash holdings and lower profitability. Two alternative explanations can be offered: the firms are likely to use financial policies to lower cash holdings, thereby reducing the risk of being expropriated by tainted directors; the firms are completely captured by such as directors, that use the corporations for money laundering purposes, and therefore manage the cash holdings in order to minimize the risk of detection. On the other side, the firm profitability is inversely associated with the presence of tainted directors, suggesting that the tainted directors can use firm resources for their own private benefits, which harms the firm profitability. Results from this study are informative to regulators, policy makers and politicians, interested in preventing the pollution of criminal organizations in the legal economy.
K49|Ajuste de modelos garch clásico y bayesiano con innovaciones t—student para el índice COLCAP|Resumen En este artículo se ajustan dos modelos de Heterocedasticidad Condicional Generalizados (GARCH) para el índice financiero COLCAP. El primero, desde una perspectiva clásica (o frecuentista) estimando los parámetros mediante Máxima Verosimilitud y el segundo, a partir de un enfoque bayesiano haciendo uso del algoritmo de Metropolis—Hastings. Para ambos casos se asumen las innovaciones con distribución t—Student. Mediante distintos criterios de información se evalúa el ajuste del modelo bajo las aproximaciones bayesiana y clásica. Palabras clave: Modelos de Heterocedasticidad Condicional, Algoritmo de Metropolis—Hastings, Índice COLCAP. Clasificación JEL: K49.
K49|Spillovers, Persistence and Learning: Institutions and the Dynamics of Cooperation|"We study how cooperation-enforcing institutions dynamically affect values and behavior using a lab experiment designed to create individual specific histories of past institutional exposure. We show that the effect of past institutions is mostly due to "" indirect "" behavioral spillovers: facing penalties in the past increases partners' cooperation in the past, which in turn positively affects ones' own current behavior. We demonstrate that such indirect spillovers induce persistent effects of institutions. However, for interactions that occur early on, we find a negative effect of past enforcement due to differential learning under different enforcement institutions."
K49|Spillovers, Persistence and Learning: Institutions and the Dynamics of Cooperation|"We study how cooperation-enforcing institutions dynamically affect values and behavior using a lab experiment designed to create individual specific histories of past institutional exposure. We show that the effect of past institutions is mostly due to ""indirect"" behavioral spillovers: facing penalties in the past increases partners' cooperation in the past, which in turn positively affects ones' own current behavior. We demonstrate that such indirect spillovers induce persistent effects of institutions. However, for interactions that occur early on, we find a negative effect of past enforcement due to differential learning under different enforcement institutions."
K49|Understanding Judicial Delay at the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal in India|Most performance statistics using aggregate level data about courts in India show delays. There is limited analysis of the actual duration and trajectories of cases. In this paper, we create a de novo data-set using publicly available data on cases at the Indian Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT). We apply statistical techniques of hazard models to address questions around case duration at the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT).We describe patterns in case life-span, compare these patterns among groups, and build statistical models of the risk of case completion over time. We find differences in the probability of case completion between the ITAT benches in Mumbai and Delhi. We also find that probability of case completion differs by case type. Our results point to the need to study case trajectories to better understand the causes of delays in order to design appropriate policy solutions to improve the performance of courts and tribunals.
K49|The Duration of Judicial Deliberation: Evidence from Belgium|We utilize case-level data from a large Belgian court to study a policy-relevant but thus far empirically unexplored aspect of judicial behavior: the time that a judge takes to deliberate on a case before rendering a verdict. Exploiting the de facto random administrative assignment of filed cases among the serving judges and using survival-analysis methods, we find that the duration of judicial deliberation varies not only with measures of case complexity, but also with judge and disputing-party characteristics. We further find evidence consistent with the hypothesis that longer judicial deliberation improves the quality of judicial decisions.
K49|Sandu Tudor, The Mentor And The Catalyst Of Spiritual Movement From Antim. The Evolution Of Association „Burning Altar”|The present paper, as announced the title, it proposes to treat the Association „Burning Altar”, legal stage spiritual movement whose mentor is Sandu Tudor. The „Burning Altar” movement was a group of some of the most important intellectuals (theologians and laity) of the era that, given the deep ties of friendship between them, come together around a common spiritual pursuits. The catalyst was Sandu Tudor. Ostracized under communist totalitarianism, both secular intellectuals and clerics were aware of their duty to discover the deep spiritual levels of Christianity to provide a possibility of human survival as a person in the face of aggression an aberrant modernity. In our attempt to reconstruct as truthful image of „Burning Altar”, of that time, we conjunction the documents from the archive C.N.S.A.S. with memoir literature but also with the interview of the only person who,nowadays, can testify about what the prayer of the heart meant for students, but also for „elders” integrated in this spiritual movement - Father Nicolaie (Nicholas) Bordașiu.
K49|Expert opinion in a tort litigation game|We investigate the potential impact of various proposed reforms intended to improve the quality of expert testimony while reducing its cost, and to facilitate the work of judges in appointing experts and reading their reports. To do so, we present a unilateral care model under strict liability in which the court cannot perfectly observe the amount of harm a tortfeasor has caused to a victim. However, the judge may appoint an expert to improve his chance of reaching a correct decision. In this context, we find that the likelihood of a victim filing a lawsuit decreases with the quality of the expert testimony and with the cost of the expertise procedure, and increases with the non-monetary cost for the judge to appoint an expert. Moreover, we find that the effects of these parameters on the injurer’s level of precaution are ambiguous. We also find that the injurer’s level of care is suboptimal. Finally, we make some public policy recommendations in order to (i) increase the injurer’s level of care and (ii) reduce the expected cost of a trial in the event of an accident. We find that the policy maker faces a trade-off between these two objectives.
K49|Expert opinion in a tort litigation game|We investigate the potential impact of various proposed reforms intended to improve the quality of expert testimony while reducing its cost, and to facilitate the work of judges in appointing experts and reading their reports. To do so, we present a unilateral care model under strict liability in which the court cannot perfectly observe the amount of harm a tortfeasor has caused to a victim. However, the judge may appoint an expert to improve his chance of reaching a correct decision. In this context, we find that the likelihood of a victim filing a lawsuit decreases with the quality of the expert testimony and with the cost of the expertise procedure, and increases with the non-monetary cost for the judge to appoint an expert. Moreover, we find that the effects of these parameters on the injurer's level of precaution are ambiguous. We also find that the injurer's level of care is suboptimal. Finally, we make some public policy recommendations in order to (i) increase the injurer's level of care and (ii) reduce the expected cost of a trial in the event of an accident. We find that the policy maker faces a trade-off between these two objectives.
K49|The two sides of Magna Carta: How good government sometimes wins out over public choice|This article examines two rival interpretations of Magna Carta. It rejects the view that Magna Carta is largely a special interest deal between the King and the Barons, and defends the proposition that by and large it works as a public-regarding document that did much to cure the defects of the feudal and judicial systems that had evolved under King John. A clause-by-clause analysis of the document, dealing with such matters as tenurial succession, marriage, courts and judicial procedures, debtor and creditor arrangements, and property rights and liberties shows that Magna Carta exhibited a high degree of technical excellence. By constantly referring back to ancient customs, Magna Carta introduced sensible reforms, some of which were peculiar to the feudal system, but others of which carry over to similar problems today. The durability of the Magna Carta is justified by its political and legal achievements.
K49|Personal Insolvency Dynamics in Germany and the UK -- A SUR-TAR Approach|This paper analyses the dynamics of personal insolvencies in Germany and the UK, focusing on the recent recession. These countries are particularly interesting as they are both member countries of the European Union, yet have completely different approaches to deal with overindebted individuals. In Germany unfortunate households who file on their debt are required to undergo a relatively long restructuring period until they eventually receive debt relief, whereas British debtors can choose proceeding out of many alternatives to manage their debt. Even under the official bankruptcy option, debt gets discharged relatively fast. In line with their different insolvency procedures, the two countries also represent two different financial systems: the German system is rather bank-based and the UK system rather market-based. The underlying financial systems already point to different patterns of lending across countries and hence, also to different structures of debt. Specifically, we are interested in the dynamics of petitions and actual insolvencies during the crisis as well as their reaction to exogenous macroeconomic and financial conditions. The findings suggest that insolvencies are more persistent in the UK than in Germany, i.e. after an external shock it takes longer for insolvencies to return to their previous level in the UK. In both countries, the recent recession has no effect on petitions to default, but it has an effect on actual insolvencies in the UK suggesting that debtors rather opted for official procedures during the recession.
K49|The Role of Lawyers in Social Changes in Developing Countries: Evidence from Russia|This paper reviews the activity of professional legal organizations as factors in the transfer from limited access order (LAO) to open access order (OAO) according to the theory of North, Wallis and Weingast. By analyzing the experience of lawyers’ collective action in developing countries, this paper proposes a decision tree explaining the process of the mobilization of the legal community to counter violations of the law by the ruling elite. It shows that this collective action plays a significant role in implementing the rule of law. However, the efficiency of such collective action in a particular country depends on the institutional capacity of its legal association and on the position of the professional elite leading it. The history of the development of Russian legal advocacy shows that exogenous shocks actually stimulate the collective action of lawyers, which in turn compels the government to respond
K49|"Introdução à “Deep Web” [Introduction to ""Deep Web""]"|Deep Web is the part of the Internet that is not indexed, not being possible to access through the traditional web search engines. It is necessary to use software that preserves the identity of the users, for instance, Tor, which is the most well-known. Concepts such as Deep Web, Darknet and Dark Web are mistakenly confused but this article will clarify it. Another theme approached is the negative connotation that is usually assigned to the Deep Web phenomenon. Because protects the users’ anonymity, a lot of people take advantage of it to commit illegal businesses, for example drugs and weapons transactions. We reach to the central question of our debate: on the one hand, the Tor software preserves the intimacy of the users’ communications and allows the consult of several articles and blogs that does not exist on the Surface Web; on the other hand the anonymity serves as a tool for the practice of illegal activities. There is a very thin line that separates public space and private space. Tor software reinforces the security of using the Internet. The application that people utilize it is up to them.
K49|European Funds Fraud: The Impact on the Process of Absorption of Structural and Cohesion Funds in Romania|The increase of the degree of absorption of European funds offered to Romania by the European Union represents one of its main objectives in the present and future situation. One of the main reasons that the funds are so important is the fact that, taking into consideration the microeconomic and macroeconomic situation that Romania is in, it represents an alternative financing mechanism of the economy that Romania can benefit in very advantageous conditions. Even under these conditions Romania- within 2007-2013 period of programming – couldn’t benefit from it by attracting as many structural and cohesion funds as possible, at least in comparison to other member states. In our opinion, that of the authors’ one of the reasons that led to such a low rate of absorption, alongside with the low administrative capacity of the state is the excessive bureaucracy, an inefficient legislative framework which is not harmonized with the European one, the lack of experience in using and administrating of European funds, the beneficiaries’ incapacity to sustain the financial support of the project (to assure the co-financing of the project), a low involvement of Romanian banking institutions in the process of supporting the beneficiaries of European funds. Another cause is the European funds fraud that happened in Romania. In the present article, the authors have decided to analyze the influence of European funds fraud on the degree of absorption of structural and cohesion funds in Romania. Classification-JEL: E10, E19, E29, E59, E60, E69, G23, K49, O20, O52, P50.
K49|Short Overview Of International Arbitration Ruling In Romania From The Perspective Of The Rules Of Newly Established Arbitration Forums|In Romania there are several traditional or new arbitral Courtsthat are willing to provide their services to legal entities in an international context and in a competent and efficient semblance. Two of these, the Arbitration Court of the Romanian-German Chamber of Industry and Commerce and Bucharest International Arbitration Court, adopted their Rules relatively recent and eluded from practitionersreviews. Therefore, the present article will analyze the Rules of the mentioned arbitral Courts by comparison with the ICC Rules, LCIA Rules and HKIAC Rules, starting from the most valuable characteristics of international arbitration, as determined in the 2015 International Arbitration Survey, with the purpose of concluding if the new arbitral Courts of Romania are important competitors in the field and if their recommended arbitration agreement should be included in the commercial agreements.
K49|The Effect of Private Sector Work Opportunities in Prison on Labor Market Outcomes of the Formerly Incarcerated|Abstract This paper examines the effects of a private-sector prison work program called the Prison Industry Enhancement Certification Program (PIECP) on formal unemployment duration, duration of formal employment, and earnings of men and women released from various state prisons between 1996 and 2001. It also investigates the labor market dynamics of formerly incarcerated men and women. The program is found to increase reported earnings and formal employment on the extensive margin, with a stronger impact on the formal employment of women. There is little evidence that it increases formal employment along the intensive margin (i.e., duration of formal employment). Contrary to segmented labor market theories, superior employment (i.e., higher-paying jobs) does not lead to increased job stability. Roughly 92 % of individuals who obtained formal employment in the sample experienced job loss; however, reincarceration rates are too low to explain this fact. An evaluation of labor market dynamics reveals that traditional human capital variables, criminogenic factors, and a few demographic characteristics determine job loss. In addition, black women, single women, and women with more extensive criminal histories face greater barriers in the labor market than their male counterparts.
K49|Electronic monitoring and recidivism. Quasi-experimental evidence from Norway|The replacement of custodial with non-custodial sanctions holds the potential to reduce recidivism as well as other costs associated with imprisonment. However, the causal impacts on recidivism of noncustodial sanctions in general, and electronic monitoring (EM) programs in particular, remain unclear. We estimate the effect of EM on recidivism by exploiting an EM program that was gradually introduced in Norwegian counties from 2008, using difference-in-differences and instrumental variable designs. Results show that introducing EM reduced 2-year recidivism rates by about 10 percent, which corresponds to about 19 percent for those actually serving on EM. We find no effects on recidivism intensity or severity. Subsample analyses show that the effect estimates are strongest among offenders without previous imprisonment or recent unemployment spells, and although between-groups differences are statistically non-significant, this suggest that avoiding prison stigma and maintaining workplace relations can be important to reduce recidivism and promote desistance. The reliability of our results is somewhat challenged by unstable pre-implementation trends and signs that more people are convicted to EM-qualifying sentences when EM is introduced.
K49|An Axiomatic Analysis of Joint Liability Problems with Rooted -Tree Structure|For joint liability problems concerning tort law, a legal compensation scheme may be based on lower and upper bounds of compensation for injury and on case-system consistency. Introducing several properties inspired from this observation, we analyze compensation schemes axiomatically under the situation where causation of the cumulative injury appears in multiple sequences of wrongful acts. The situation underlying the model is described by a rooted-tree graph. We show that there is a unique compensation scheme that satisfies three axioms, one about lower bounds of individual compensations, one about upper bounds of individual compensations, and one about case-system consistency. This unique compensation scheme is the nucleolus of an associated liability game.
K49|Does Longer Incarceration Deter or Incapacitate Crimes? New Evidence from Truth-in-Sentencing Reform|This paper estimates how violent crimes respond to a policy change which requires violent offenders to serve a substantial proportion of their sentenced terms before being eligible to release to community supervision. Focusing on states with effective TIS laws which meet the federal 85 percent rule, we utilize the differences-in-differences design to investigate both deterrent and incapacitative effect of TIS on crimes. We observe statistically significant -7 percent deterrent effect of TIS on growth of violent crime two years after its passage. A series of placebo tests confirm the robustness of the estimates and inferences. In the long-run, additional incapacitative effect also becomes significant, making the treatment effect of TIS even greater in magnitude. Even though insignificant in the first two years after TIS was passed, growth of non-violent property crime rates decreases by 7 percent in the long-run in TIS states, indicating relative greater importance of incapacitative effect which locks up offenders who commit both types of crimes. A rough approximation shows that TIS is an economically efficient method to decrease crimes.
K49|Global Commercial Law between Unity, Pluralism, and Competition: The Case of the CISG|The global legal system consists of a multitude of legal regimes of various origin, thus constituting a regulatory framework which is significantly different from the one of a nation state. In the absence of a world state, international and supranational law regimes, various domestic legal systems, and transnational law regimes such as the lex mercatoria each claim normative authority in the global sphere, which inevitably overlap and interfere in some issue areas. Not surprisingly, this messy state has attracted some attention among legal theory scholars, stimulating various different lines of thought on how global law is actually structured and which organizing principles ought to be in operation. In this paper we identify unity, pluralism, and competition as three paradigms, which qualify in particular to guide our discourse on the structure and the organizing principles of global law. Since theoretical debates tend to remain quite abstract and vague, if not opaque, we decided to flesh out the differences and commonalities between the approaches by applying the three paradigms to the concrete field of the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods (CISG) as a cornerstone of global commercial law. This brings together up to now more or less separate theoretical and dogmatic discourses in a fruitful cross-disciplinary way. As a result, we plea for a paradigmatic pluralism, meaning that global law should not be constructed according to one single organizing principle only. This paper serves as an introduction to three in-depth papers, which each explore the issue from the perspective of one paradigm. Altogether they will publish in a focus issue of the Uniform Law Review in 2016.
K49|Exposure to media and corruption perceptions|We analyse the impact of exposure to corruption news on individuals’ perceptions about the extent of the phenomenon. To this purpose, we take information on individuals’ perceptions of the likelihood that corruption events may occur in everyday life and combine it with a dataset containing the number of news items related to corruption that appeared on the homepages of the websites of the 30 most widely read national and local newspapers on the day on which the individual was interviewed. Results show that increasing potential exposure to corruption news by one standard deviation causes an increase in corruption perception of about 3.5 per cent and a decrease in trust in justice effectiveness of about 5.2 per cent. We suggest that these effects are mainly driven by a persuasive mechanism rather than by a learning process so that individuals’ perceptions about corruption appear to be biased by media content.
K49|Lead Exposure And Behavior: Effects On Antisocial And Risky Behavior Among Children And Adolescents| It is well known that exposure to lead has numerous adverse effects on behavior and development. Using data on two cohorts of children from the National Longitudinal Survey of Youth (NLSY), this paper investigates the effect of early childhood lead exposure on behavior problems from childhood through early adulthood. I find large negative consequences of early childhood lead exposure, in the form of an unfolding series of adverse behavioral outcomes: behavior problems as a child, pregnancy and aggression as a teen, and criminal behavior as a young adult. At the levels of lead that were the norm in United States until the late 1980s, estimated elasticities of these behaviors with respect to lead range between 0.1 and 1.0. (JEL I18, J13, K49, Q53, Q58)
K49|Judicial Independence, Judges’ Incentives and Efficiency|Although often assumed by economic theory, the idea of an efficient judicial system often sounds like an oxymoron. In this work, we suggest an innovative approach to investigating the determinants of court performance. Our focus is on determining the ideal institutional environment for fostering the appropriate set of incentives for judges to operate efficiently. In this setting, we find evidence that greater independence enjoyed by the judiciary from politics induces more competition among judges to obtain professional upgrades. Such an environment will incentivize ambitious individuals to be more efficient, thus positively affecting the aggregate performance of the judiciary.
K49|Litigation and the timing of settlement: evidence from commercial disputes|Abstract Although an overwhelming proportion of all legal disputes end in settlement, the determinants of the timing of settlement remain empirically underexplored. We draw on a novel dataset on the duration of commercial disputes in Slovenia to study how the timing of settlement is shaped by the stages and features of the litigation process. Using competing risk regression analysis, we find that events such as court-annexed mediation and the first court session, which enable the disputing parties to refine their respective expectations about the case outcome, in general reduce case duration to settlement. The magnitude of the respective effects, however, varies with time. Completion of subsequent court sessions, in contrast, does not affect the time to settlement. Judicial workload affects the timing of settlement indirectly, via the effect on the timing of the first court session. We also examine the effect of other case and party characteristics.
K49|Los derechos económicos en una sociedad decente y en teorías de la justicia|En este artículo se demuestra mediante un análisis documental, con metodología hermenéutica, que los derechos económicos tienen una base ética pero que son más que esto, porque pueden reclamarse en los aspectos nacional, regional e internacional, a pesar de ser progresivos. La contribución de la investigación es subsanar errores en el tema de derechos económicos, situarlos en una “sociedad decente” y mostrar posibilidades y límites de las teorías sobre la justicia de John Rawls, Thomas Scanlon y Amartya Sen, con respecto a este tema. Se proponen nuevos derechos para darles mayor eficacia a los existentes. ****** It has been demonstrated by applying a document analysis using a hermeneutic method, that economic rights are based on ethics, but that, moreover, they could be claimed at a national, regional and international level, even with their progressive nature. The research contribution is to correct errors in the economic rights thematic, to place them in a “decent society” and prove the possibilities and limitations in the justice theories of John Rawls, Thomas Scanlon and Amartya Sen, concerning this thematic. New rights are proposed to cause the current laws to become effective.
K49|How Uncertainty about Judicial Nominees Can Distort the Confirmation Process|Why are judicial nominees allowed to refuse to answer questions about important issues that could come before the courts? We address this question by examining the information environment surrounding judicial nominations. Using the Supreme Court as our example, we formulate a model that departs from the existing literature by incorporating the fact that the Senate often does not know what type of candidate the President is trying to appoint. Our model shows when the President and Senate are ideologically divergent, low information about nominees' views results in the Senate occasionally rejecting acceptable nominees. However, when the President and Senate are ideologically close, the President benefits from leaving the process opaque-that is, allowing his nominees to avoid answering tough questions. Thus, even though low information can be costly to both parties, keeping the process nontransparent shields the President from being penalized for selecting more like-minded (and possibly extreme) judges.
K49|The Politics of Selecting the Bench from the Bar: The Legal Profession and Partisan Incentives to Politicize the Judiciary|The American judiciary has increasingly come under attack as polarized and politicized. Using a newly collected dataset that captures the ideological positioning of nearly half a million judges and lawyers who have made campaign contributions, we present empirical evidence showing politicization through various tiers of the judicial hierarchy. We show that the higher the court, the more conservative and more polarized it becomes, in contrast with the broader population of attorneys, who tend to be liberal. These findings suggest that political actors not only appear to rely on ideology in the selection of judges, but that they strategically prioritize higher courts. To our knowledge, our study is the first to provide a direct ideological comparison across tiers of the judiciary and between judges and lawyers, and also the first to document how--and why--American courts are politicized.
K49|Obveznopravni odnos stjecanja bez osnove|Stjecanje bez osnove, uz prouzroèivanje štete, poslovodstvo bez naloga, javno obecanje nagrade i vrijednosne papire, ubraja se u izvanugovorne obveznopravne odnose. Za nastanak izvanugovornih odnosa nije potrebno sukladno oèitovanje volja dviju osoba vec oni nastaju na temelju odrecenih èinjenica (radnja, stanja, svojstava) uz koje pravo veže postanak obveznog odnosa. Pod stjecanjem bez osnove podrazumijevamo izvanugovorni obveznopravni odnos na osnovi kojega je stjecatelj obvezan na povrat ili naknadu vrijednosti onog dijela imovine ili imovinske koristi koje je stekao bez pravom priznate osnove odnosno po osnovi koja se nije ostvarila ili je poslije otpala. Opce pretpostavke nastanka ovog izvanugovornog obveznopravnog odnosa jesu: povecanje imovine na jednoj strani, umanjenje imovine na drugoj strani, kauzalna povezanost izmecu umanjenja i povecanja, nepostojanje odgovarajuce osnove, èinidba zbog koje je došlo do promjene u imovini ne bi smjela biti štetna radnja. Tužba kojom se traži povrat steèenog bez osnove naziva se kondikcija. Postoji nekoliko tipiènih sluèajeva stjecanja bez osnove, a to su:placanje neduga (condictio indebiti),stjecanje s obzirom na osnovu koja se nije ostvarila (condictio causa dana, causa non secuta),stjecanje po osnovi koja je poslije otpala (condictio ob causam finitam),uporaba stvari na tucu korist,uporaba tuce stvari u svoju korist,izdatak za drugog. Stjecatelj je dužan steèeno bez osnove vratiti. Iznimno, ako povrat steèenog bez osnove nije moguc, stjecatelj je dužan naknaditi vrijednost postignute koristi. Uz povrat steèenoga, takocer se moraju vratiti i plodovi te platiti zatezne kamate, s time da se u obzir pritom uzima savjesnost odnosno nesavjesnost stjecatelja. U odredbama Zakona o obveznim odnosima koje se odnose na zastaru, nije predvi- cen poseban rok zastare za kondikcijski zahtjev pa se, prema tome, smatra da vrijedi opci rok za zastaru od pet godina od dana stjecanja bez osnove.
K49|Obvezno pravni odnos stjecanja bez osnove|Stjecanje bez osnove, uz prouzročivanje štete, poslovodstvo bez naloga, javno obećanje nagrade i vrijednosne papire, ubraja se u izvanugovorne obveznopravne odnose. Za nastanak izvanugovornih odnosa nije potrebno sukladno očitovanje volja dviju osoba već oni nastaju na temelju određenih činjenica (radnja, stanja, svojstava) uz koje pravo veže postanak obveznog odnosa. Pod stjecanjem bez osnove podrazumijevamo izvanugovorni obveznopravni odnos na osnovi kojega je stjecatelj obvezan na povrat ili naknadu vrijednosti onog dijela imovine ili imovinske koristi koje je stekao bez pravom priznate osnove odnosno po osnovi koja se nije ostvarila ili je poslije otpala. Opće pretpostavke nastanka ovog izvanugovornog obveznopravnog odnosa jesu:povećanje imovine na jednoj strani, umanjenje imovine na drugoj strani, kauzalna povezanost između umanjenja i povećanja, nepostojanje odgovarajuće osnove, činidba zbog koje je došlo do promjene u imovini ne bi smjela biti štetna radnja.Tužba kojom se traži povrat stečenog bez osnove naziva se kondikcija. Postoji nekoliko tipičnih slučajeva stjecanja bez osnove, a to su: plaćanje neduga (condictio indebiti), stjecanje s obzirom na osnovu koja se nije ostvarila (condictio causa dana, causa non secuta), stjecanje po osnovi koja je poslije otpala (condictio ob causam finitam), uporaba stvari na tuđu korist, uporaba tuđe stvari u svoju korist, izdatak za drugog. Stjecatelj je dužan stečeno bez osnove vratiti. Iznimno, ako povrat stečenog bez osnove nije moguć, stjecatelj je dužan naknaditi vrijednost postignute koristi. Uz povrat stečenoga, također se moraju vratiti i plodovi te platiti zatezne kamate, s time da se u obzir pritom uzima savjesnost odnosno nesavjesnost stjecatelja. U odredbama Zakona o obveznim odnosima koje se odnose na zastaru, nije predviđen poseban rok zastare za kondikcijski zahtjev pa se, prema tome, smatra da vrijedi opći rok za zastaru od pet godina od dana stjecanja bez osnove.
K49|Arbitral Tribunal Power to Disqualify Unethical Counsel|In specific matters of conflicts of interest ethical issues in connection with the parties' legal representatives could occur in the course of arbitration proceedings. The purpose of this paper is to identify and investigate the current status of the arbitral tribunals and arbitral institutions power to sanction counsel's misconduct in the event of conflicts of interest. Parties have a fundamental right to choose the counsel and in the same time the right to an independent and impartial tribunal, therefore the source of the arbitral tribunal power to disqualify a counsel is a hot topic. There are no express provisions granting arbitrators such power, only soft law instruments, but which have no binding effect as long as the parties do not agree on them. For these reasons, two renowned cases where international arbitral tribunals have dealt with the subject are examined. Different set of international and domestic rules have been applied by the arbitral tribunals and even if they held that arbitrators are empowered to sanction counsel's misconduct, different outcomes on the issue have been retained: one tribunal found that the counsel is excluded from the proceedings, while the other deny this request and stated that such power would be exercised only rarely and in the most compelling situations. Therefore, developing 'truly transnational' ethical rules and their implementation by the arbitral institutions might be a solution. Arbitral tribunals are establishing this issue on the basis of the undertaken and applied international soft law (professional guidelines) which gained credibility and popularity and also became accepted international standards in the arbitration field.
K49|Collective Claims: Ex Ante Analysis of Their Filing in Bulgaria|Ex ante analysis of the initiation of collective legal procedure in Bulgaria has been made in the article. Eventual filers of such claim antici­pate what the financial consequences will be for them. Adopting the approach of the economic analysis of law, we prove that in our country a group of natural persons, rational individuals, will not initiate collective procedure. It is rarely that associations of consumers would file such ac­tions, as opposed to the Commission for con­sumer protection.
K49|Power, Composition, and Decision Making: The Behavioral Consequences of Institutional Reform on Brazil’s Supremo Tribunal Federal|How does a court’s policy-making authority shape the nature of judicial behavior? We argue that judicial systems that limit policy-making authority also discourage the politicization of courts, encouraging judges to think narrowly about the interests of litigating parties. In contrast, granting a court high policy-making authority—affecting potentially thousands of cases and other branches of government—naturally encourages judges to consider broader ideological principles. Typically, unraveling cause and effect would be difficult, as judicial behavior and institutions are usually stable and endogenous. But an especially stark sequence of political and institutional changes in Brazil affords analytic leverage to explore these questions. A series of judicial reforms greatly expanded the Brazilian Supreme Court’s authority, and our analysis of judicial decisions shows the emergence of a political cleavage on the court after these reforms. (JEL C140, K39, K49)
K49|Annulment Of The Arbitration Award|The action for annulment appears to be the unique means of appealing that can be exercised against the arbitration award, similar in content and effects to the recourse against judgments, though being not a devolutive appeal. As the legal nature of this means of appeal is concerned, it is determined by the conclusive feature of the arbitration award which is not likely to be appealed and may be put into force. Since in the common law procedure, such a decision can be challenged only by recourse, the action for annulment is a means of appeal having similar characteristics to the recourse, though with some peculiarities arising from the reasons which may be invoked in support thereof and, with the entire regulatory similarity they are not identical to the cases of annulment in the matter of recourse. This study aims to analyze the reasons for which the action for annulment of the arbitration award may be exercised in the Romanian law in the light of doctrine and jurisprudence.
K49|Infringement Proceedings – Romanian Setting And European Trends|Infringement proceedings provided for by the Treaties of the European Union have not yet been used at full by or against Romania. The research aims to provide an analytic description of the legal framework, of the pending proceedings and of the effects that completed cases have on Romanian law.
K49|Considerations On The Legal Framework Of Arbitration. National And International Regulations|Arbitration, as an alternative jurisdiction with a private feature, displays a number of advantages that have determined the international organizations to encourage, in this way, the resolution of international commercial disputes and therefore, they promoted a number of international conventions in this regard. This study aims to analyze the legal framework of arbitration by completing a presentation of national and international regulations in this matter.
K49|The Statement Of Defence And The Counterclaim In The Arbitration Process|In the arbitration process, the defendant is required to answer the claimant’s request, the contents of this answer being covered by most national legislations and rules of arbitration institutions. Also, if the defendant has its own claims against the claimant arising from the same legal relationship he may promote a counterclaim. This study aims to analyze the statement of defence and the counterclaim in the light of the regulations of the national law and of the comparative law.
K49|Responasbility Of Arbitrators|Whether an arbitrator may or may not be held liable has been lively discussed in the legal literature. In favor of granting immunity there have been arguments regarding the fact that arbitrators fulfill a quasi-judicial position, so that they should not become subjects of the discontent parties. At the same time, the idea that the arbitrators could be exonerated from liability gave rise to the concern that this would only encourage indifference, fraud or abuse by the use of their power. This study aims to examine the liability of arbitrators in the light of the rules contained in the international conventions relating to arbitration, in the national laws and in the rules of the main arbitral institutions.
K49|Corruption and the shadow economy at the regional level|The links between corruption and the shadow economy have mostly been studied empirically at the country level. This paper contributes to this literature by examining the relationship at the sub‐national level. We also add value to the existing literature in that we employ data capturing the extent to which the shadow economy and corruption are viewed as problems by firms as opposed to the standard measures of corruption and the size of the shadow economy. Using World Bank Enterprise Survey data, we find that sub‐national units in which more firms report that corruption is an obstacle to their operations also tend to have more firms that report that the practices of informal competitors are an obstacle and vice versa. Sub‐Saharan Africa is different in that neither of these findings is evident in that sub‐sample.
K49|Zur Vereinbarkeit des OMT-Programms mit dem Unionsrecht – Vorlagebeschluss des BVerfG und Vorabentscheidung des EuGH in der Rechtssache C-62/14 (Gauweiler u.a.)|Die Europäische Zentralbank (EZB) darf Staatsanleihen von Krisenländern kaufen, um die Währungsstabilität zu gewährleisten. Das ist der Tenor der Entscheidung des Europäischen Gerichtshofs (EuGH) in Luxemburg vom 16.06.2015 (Rs. C-62/14). Das umstrittene „Outright Monetary Transactions“-Programm (OMT) der EZB ist damit rechtmäßig. Es überschreite nicht die Kompetenzen der EZB, so die Richter des EuGH. Jedoch dürfe die EZB solche Anleihekäufe nicht ankündigen und müsse eine Mindestfrist einhalten. Zudem habe die EZB bei der Durchführung des Programms den Grundsatz der Verhältnismäßigkeit zu wahren. Dabei stehe der EZB jedoch ein weites Ermessen zu, vor allem, um der Komplexität der Fragestellung gerecht zu werden. Verfahrensrechtlich habe die EZB sorgfältig und unparteiisch die relevanten Gesichtspunkte zu untersuchen und ihre Entscheidungen hinreichend zu begründen. Der Autor untersucht den Vorlagebeschluss des BVerfG und die Entscheidung des EuGH und unterzieht die wesentlichen Aussagen einer kritischen Würdigung. Der Autor hält die Entscheidung des EuGH im Ergebnis für vertretbar; die Spielräume der EZB bei ihren Entscheidungen würden eingeschränkt. Im Ergebnis bleibt jedoch das weite Ermessen der EZB bei währungspolitischen Maßnahmen problematisch.
K49|Arbitral Tribunal Power to Disqualify Unethical Counsel|In specific matters of conflicts of interest ethical issues in connection with the parties' legal representatives could occur in the course of arbitration proceedings. The purpose of this paper is to identify and investigate the current status of the arbitral tribunals and arbitral institutions power to sanction counsel’s misconduct in the event of conflicts of interest. Parties have a fundamental right to choose the counsel and in the same time the right to an independent and impartial tribunal, therefore the source of the arbitral tribunal power to disqualify a counsel is a hot topic. There are no express provisions granting arbitrators such power, only soft law instruments, but which have no binding effect as long as the parties do not agree on them. For these reasons, two renowned cases where international arbitral tribunals have dealt with the subject are examined. Developing “truly transnational” ethical rules and their implementation by the arbitral institutions might be a solution. Arbitral tribunals are establishing this issue on the basis of the undertaken and applied international soft law (professional guidelines) which gained credibility and popularity and also became accepted international standards in the arbitration field.
K49|Crime and the transition to teenage parenthood|Age-graded social control theory suggests that parenthood can have a preventive effect on crime among adults, but it is unclear whether and how this applies to teenagers, as teenage parenthood and affiliation with crime can have mutual confounding causes. Using individual-level Norwegian administrative register data on the total population of fifteen to nineteen year olds, we assess the relationship between teenage parenthood and criminal activity. We find that teenage parents have an elevated risk of offending compared to non-parents, but that the transition to parenthood is nevertheless related to a within-individual decline in offending. This decline does not seem to be of permanent nature for girls, but for the boys it appears to stabilize on a lower level than before the transition to teenage fatherhood.
K49|Characteristics of Bitcoin users: an analysis of Google search data| The anonymity of Bitcoin prevents analysis of its users. We collect Google Trends data to examine determinants of interest in Bitcoin. Based on anecdotal evidence regarding Bitcoin users, we construct proxies for four possible clientele: computer programming enthusiasts, speculative investors, Libertarians and criminals. Computer programming and illegal activity search terms are positively correlated with Bitcoin interest, while Libertarian and investment terms are not.
K49|Constitutional rights and education: An international comparative study|We investigate whether the inclusion of educational rights in political constitutions affects the quality of education. We rely on data for 61 countries that participated in the 2012 PISA tests. Our results are strong and robust to the estimation technique (least squares or instrumental variables): there is no evidence that including the right to education in the constitution has been associated with higher test scores. The quality of education depends on socioeconomic, structural, and policy variables, such as expenditure per student, the teacher-pupil ratio, and families’ background. These results are important for emerging countries that are discussing the adoption of new constitutions, such as Thailand and Chile.
K49|Commuting Time and Urban Violence in Brazil|Empirical evidence about the influence of exposure to public spaces on victimization strongly support the routine activities theory but, maybe reflecting the difficult of available data, specific evidence about the influence of the commuting on probability of victimization is not abundant. As registered by United Nation Office on Drugs and Crimes (UNODOC, 2012), Brazil is one of the most violent country of the world, with homicide rates around 27.1 (homicides per one hundred thousand people) in 2011, the third highest rate among Latin America countries (behind of only Colombia and Venezuela). This situation, in fact, reflect a general situation of high violence related to other kinds of crime in the country; as related to the violence associated to robbery, for example, the numbers of UNDOC (2012) for 2010 put Brazil, with rates (occurrences per one hundred thousand) of robbery and of theft among the three most violent Latin American Countries. But the problem of urban violence is neither the only substantive urban problem of Brazilian big urban centers, nor it is dissociated to other urban problems in these centers. Besides the risk of being victim of urban violence, visitors or inhabitants of Brazilian metropolitan regions must face with the problem of low mobility in these cities. The very bad quality of public transport together with public indirect subsidies for using individual transport make short distance locomotion a very high time demand action (IPEA, 2013). According to the more recent information of PNAD (PNAD 2012), the average commuting time for the inhabitant of Brazilian metropolitan regions was around 40.8 minutes in 2012, a very high number if compared to metropolitan regions around the world (Pereira and Schwanen, 2013; Silveira Neto et al. 2014). In this paper, we analyze this relationship using a large nationally representative cross-section sample of Brazilian individuals for 2009 using more traditional multivariate regressions and propensity score matching techniques to create counterfactuals. We also perform robustness checks, by applying different estimators (Abadie and Imbens, 2002), and implement a simulation-based sensitivity analysis that supports a causal interpretation of the results (Ichino wt al. 2008). We find that individuals with more than one hour of commuting have an overall 2.1% increase in the probability of being victim of robbery, with no robust impact on theft. Also, following the exposure literature we find larger effect on the probability of robbery victimization on women when compared with men, 2.5% and 2.2% respectively.
K49|Eine explorative Analyse der Zusammenarbeit zwischen Veterinärämtern und Staatsanwaltschaften bei Verstößen gegen das Tierschutzgesetz|Ziel der explorativen Untersuchung war es, mögliche Probleme in der Verfolgung von Verstößen gegen Tierschutzgesetze im Nutztierbereich zu identifizieren und Verbesserungsvorschläge zu sammeln. Der Ausgangspunkt für die Studie war die Aussage von Amtstierärzten, dass eindeutige Verstöße gegen das Tierschutzgesetz von den Justizbehörden (Staatsanwaltschaften, Gerichten) nicht als solche gesehen und entsprechend nicht strafrechtlich verfolgt würden. Da keine Sekundärdaten vorliegen, anhand derer die Aussagen der Veterinäre überprüft werden können, wurden zwei Gruppendiskussionen mit Amtstierärzten und Staatsanwälten aus Hessen, Nordrhein-Westfalen und Niedersachsen durchgeführt. In den beiden Diskussionsgruppen wurde übereinstimmend eine Reihe von Problemen im Zusammenhang mit der Verfolgung von strafrechtlich relevanten Verstößen gegen Tierschutzgesetze genannt. Beispiele sind die vielen Einstellungen von Tierschutzverfahren, die hohe Anzahl sehr langer Verfahren und die geringen Strafmaße. [...]
K49|Lex mercatoria|Lex mercatoria or Law Merchant (‘LM’) is said to be the self-made law of international commerce. According to its proponents, LM is an autonomous legal order that not only supplements state commercial law, but works as a substitute for it. The ‘ancient’ LM, which accompanied the commercial revolution in late medieval Europe, is taken as a blueprint for ‘new’ LM, a transnational law that develops in international commercial arbitration to govern modern global commerce. According to its opponents, ancient LM as a uniform customary law of Europe never existed. Rather it was dreamed-up in order to support the neo-liberal agenda of new LM. This paper investigates the historical and empirical foundations of these claims in the three dimensions of transnational dispute resolution, norm making, and enforcement. It is concluded that truly autonomous transnational legal regimes are industry-specific exceptions, where socio-economic sanctions are formally organized. Transnational commercial law in general is characterised by a hybrid mode of governance, which combines institutions of private (norms, arbitration, and social sanctions) and public (laws, courts, and enforcement) origin. However, the latter are disembedded from their domestic context to a considerable extent.
K49|Lex Maritima: Vanishing Commercial Trial – Fading Domestic Law?|This paper elaborates on a fundamental transformation of maritime law. On the basis of statistics it is argued that the London Maritime Arbitration Association (LMAA) has become the dominant provider on the global market for dispute resolution in the maritime industry, but currently is challenged by this very success. In the first part of the paper, we present some statistics on the development of the caseload of German and English Commercial Courts and – more specifically – some data and estimates on the caseload of these courts in maritime law. The upshot is that the commercial trial is vanishing in favour of arbitration. As long as arbitration is only an alternative to litigation there are no problems regarding the maintenance of law through precedent. However, as we illustrate in the second part of the paper, the LMAA nowadays has taken over the role of the ‘general jurisdiction’ of the shipping industry. This raises concerns regarding legal certainty as a public good and the development of law in general, because arbitral awards – even where published – do not carry precedential value. Thus, if arbitration becomes the dominant method of dispute resolution, maritime law may turn into dead ‘law in the books’. In principle, arbitral awards could be used as persuasive precedent, thus contributing to the further development of shipping law. In order to ascertain, whether or not awards could function as a new private source of maritime law, we analysed a series of LMAA and SMA awards, which were published in 2014. We conclude that the analysed awards do not qualify to carry precedential value and discuss a variety of reasons as well as potential solutions. As a result, we remain sceptical with regard to the potential role of arbitration in the maintenance of maritime law.
K49|Paramilitarismo en la ciudad de Barranquilla. Crimen organizado y mercados de violencia|Este artículo tiene como objetivo hacer una aproximación —a partir de teorías explicativas del crimen organizado—, a los medios y fines utilizados por el paramilitarismo, más específicamente por el Frente José Pablo Díaz del Bloque Norte de las Autodefensas Unidas de Colombia en la ciudad de Barranquilla. También se busca demostrar que la presencia del paramilitarismo en la ciudad de Barranquilla (Colombia) no obedeció a una estrategia contrainsurgente sino a sus estrechos vínculos con el narcotráfico y el crimen organizado.
K49|The meaning of a trainers profession deregulation in nowadays sport|According to recent act of trainer/instructor profession deregulation in Poland, no courses or exams are required to become a trainer or sport instructor. After changes, any common person is allowed to practice sports coaching. The aim of the research was to become familiar with the parents opinion on the act and on their children’s attendance to the sport classes. The tool to acquire responds was a 10-question questionaire of author’s project which has been completed by 378 citizens of Malopolska. The results revealed discrepancies in perception of trainer/instructor profession deregulation. Among others, around 60% of parents declared they never checked pro’s qualifications and would not mind their work if they had no certifications. Most parents do not focus on the trainers’ faculties and legal force of their title. It should be thought-provoking as kids’ safety is expected to be priority. There comes the conclusion that the act of deregulation, which is strongly depreciated by experts, is not being depreciated among parents of children practicing sports. There should be introduced educational campaign which would increase parents’ awareness.
K49|The externalities of crime: The effect of criminal involvement of parents on the educational attainment of their children|The empirical literature on education and crime suggests that both criminal behavior and educational attainment are transferred from parents to children. However, the impact of criminal behavior of parents on educational outcomes of children is generally ignored, even though the entailed social costs may be substantial. This study examines the effect of parents’ criminal involvement on the educational attainment of their children. To identify this effect, we combine a multinomial logit model with a Mahalanobis matching approach. The findings suggest that having criminally involved parents (1) increases the probability of finishing primary education as the highest education level attained (7–9 percentage points), and (2) decreases the probability of attaining higher education (2–6 percentage points). These results are robust to various specifications and are unlikely to be fully driven by differences in unobservables.
K49|Institutions, Policy and Banking Sector Development: A Reassessment|This paper investigates the links between institutional quality and government policy in banking sector development, using data from 80 low-, middle- and high-income economies during 1985–2007. In order to investigate the effect of economic, political and social institutions on bank-based development, we employ dynamic panel techniques and, more specifically, the system-GMM estimator, which controls for endogeneity among variables. The results demonstrate that: i) economic institutional quality, and especially the legal dimension, is the main determinant for banking sector development; ii) social institutions have a greater impact for low- and middle-income countries, while political institutions have a greater impact for high-income countries; and iii) government policy, in terms of government size, is crucial regardless of the stage of economic development.
K49|Who Demands Collective Action In An Imperfect Institutional Environment? A Case-Study Of The Professional Community Of Attorneys In Russia|We analyse the professional community of attorneys in Russia in order to understand their potential for collective action in an imperfect institutional environment. In 2013 we conducted a survey of 372 attorneys in 9 regions of Russia. Two main hypotheses are tested: 1) lawyers with strong ethical values have higher demand for collective actions; 2) the negative experience of clients rights violation by law enforcement officers can motivate attorneys to support the foundation of a strong professional association. Also we suggest that attorneys’ professional community with bona fide members at the core could be an instrument for an estimation of the quality of law enforcement in Russia.
K49|Privacy Concern in Western Balkan Countries: Developing a Typology of Citizens|This study examines which segments of population with similar attitudes towards privacy, data protection and surveillance exist in selected Western Balkan countries, and whether they can be differentiated by demographic characteristics and by country of residence. The data collected by survey were analyzed using factor analysis, k-means cluster analysis and chi-square test. The findings indicate that there are three groups of citizens with similar attitudes in selected Western Balkan countries: (1) pro-surveillance oriented citizens, (2) citizens concerned about being surveilled, and (3) citizens opting for better data protection. The identified groups of citizens differ in age, education, employment and country of residence. The results provide insights on how individuals form their attitudes on contemporary privacy, data protection and surveillance issues.
K49|Pirates, prisoners, and preliterates: anarchic context and the private enforcement of law|This paper investigates institutions that develop to strengthen or expand the discipline of continuous dealings as a mechanism for privately enforcing law. I consider three such institutions in three different anarchic contexts: that of Caribbean pirates; that of drug-dealing gangs and prison inmates; and that of preliterate tribesmen. These cases highlight several ways in which different anarchic contexts give rise to different private law enforcement institutions. The varieties of private law enforcement institutions that emerge in different anarchic contexts reflect the particular problem situations that persons who rely on those institutions confront in their attempts to protect property rights without government. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014
K49|Searching for the source of technical inefficiency in Italian judicial districts: an empirical investigation|In this paper, we conducted a two-stage analysis of technical efficiency in Italian judicial districts by focusing on civil cases in 2006. Unlike most of the works that apply the Data Envelopment Analysis technique to study the justice sector, in the first stage, we employed the smoothed bootstrap procedure to generate unbiased technical efficiency estimates. In the second stage, we used a semi-parametric technique (Simar and Wilson in J Econom 136(1): 31–64, 2007 ) that produces a robust inference for an unknown serial correlation between efficiency scores. Our results show that technical efficiency is explained by demand factors and supports the conclusion that opportunistic behaviour from both claimants and lawyers negatively affects technical efficiency in Italian judicial districts. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2014
K49|Child support order: how do judges decide without guidelines? Evidence from France|The paper presents a model of family judges’ child support orders when no guidelines are available. Based on the French case, it argues that judges weigh up their wish to comply with their institutional environment against their discretion and their willingness to find a compromise, by basing their decision on the parties’ average offer. Using experimental data consisting of child support awards set by approximately 80 French judges, the findings of the paper suggest that family judges promote parents’ child support offer when there is an agreement between them, particularly when their offer is lower than the amount deemed necessary to preserve the child’s interest. There is also some evidence that female judges are likely to be more generous than male judges, although in small amounts and under certain circumstances. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014
K49|Global corruption and the shadow economy: spatial aspects|Using a large sample of nations, this paper examines the relation between corruption and the shadow economy, focusing especially on geographic spillovers. The results point to complementarity between corruption and the shadow economy. We find evidence of own contagion across nations in both corruption and shadow economy activity, while cross-contagion mostly points to substitution between own shadow economy (corruption) and neighboring corruption (shadow economy). These findings are fairly robust across different estimation techniques and measures of the shadow economy. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014
K49|The Evolution of Legislative Framework with Impact on Raising the “Fiscal Union”|The evolution of the legislative framework involves a permanent improvement of the previous measurements establishing, at the same time, certain “precise targets” upon which steps will be taken in conformity with the governing programs and strategies drawn up at the national level. In agreement with all these aspects, the paper below speaks about the main documents that certify the evolution of the European legislative framework, which was to produce a particular effect over the structure, nature, dimension and financial stability; in other words, to complete an “ambitious European project” named “Fiscal Union”.
K49|Lead Exposure and Behavior: Effects on Antisocial and Risky Behavior among Children and Adolescents|It is well known that exposure to lead has numerous adverse effects on behavior and development. Using data on two cohorts of children from the NLSY, this paper investigates the effect of early childhood lead exposure on behavior problems from childhood through early adulthood. I find large negative consequences of early childhood lead exposure, in the form of an unfolding series of adverse behavioral outcomes: behavior problems as a child, pregnancy and aggression as a teen, and criminal behavior as a young adult. At the levels of lead that were the norm in United States until the late 1980s, estimated elasticities of these behaviors with respect to lead range between 0.1 and 1.0.
K49|Lawmaking as an Endogenous Process|Although democracy is today the most common form of government, the Law and Economics literature has neglected for a long time the role of social preferences in lawmaking. This article aims at capturing the endogenous process of lawmaking: in democracies, people partly determine the law they have to respect. To do so, I construct a theoretical model of lawmaking in democratic countries with three agents: the population, the legislator and the judge. The normative analysis focuses on systems that favor legal stability. The article concludes that the judge’s interpretation power should be higher in the case of sensitive legal fields. I use this framework to derive guidelines for policy-making in the field of copyright infringement. (JEL codes: D72, D78, D02, K00, K49)
K49|"""God Damn"": The Law and Economics of Monastic Malediction"|"Today monks are known for turning the other cheek, honoring saints, and blessing humanity with brotherly love. But for centuries they were known equally for fulminating their foes, humiliating saints, and casting calamitous curses at persons who crossed them. Clerics called these curses ""maledictions."" This article argues that medieval communities of monks and canons used maledictions to protect their property against predators where government and physical self-help were unavailable to them. To explain how they did this I develop a theory of cursing with rational agents. I show that curses capable of improving property protection when cursors and their targets are rational must satisfy three conditions. They must be grounded in targets’ existing beliefs, monopolized by cursors, and unfalsifiable. Malediction satisfied these conditions, making it an effective institutional substitute for conventional institutions of clerical property protection. (JEL D83, K11, K42, K49, N43, Z12)"
K49|Why Do Countries Adopt Constitutional Review?|In recent decades, there has been a wide-ranging global movement towards constitutional review. This development poses important puzzles of political economy: Why would self-interested governments willingly constrain themselves by constitutional means? What explains the global shift toward judicial supremacy? Though different theories have been proposed, none have been systematically tested against each other using quantitative empirical methods. In this article, we utilize a unique new dataset on constitutional review for 204 countries for the period 1781–2011 to test various theories that explain the adoption of constitutional review. Using a fixed-effects spatial lag model, we find substantial evidence that the adoption of constitutional review is driven by domestic electoral politics. By contrast, we find no general evidence that constitutional review adoption results from ideational factors, federalism, or international norm diffusion. (JEL: K00, K19, K49)
K49|Considerations On The Cost Of Arbitration|"The expenses necessary for the unfolding arbitral process are generally higher than those incurred by the parties in the case of proceedings before national courts, reason for which arbitration is considered a ""luxury justice"". This study aims to analyze the content of the concept of costs within the international commercial arbitration, considering the provisions contained in the relevant regulations of the arbitration institutions and the opinions expressed by the Romanian and foreign legal literature but also by the relevant case law."
K49|Considerations On Probation In International Commercial Arbitration|A general rule of international trade arbitration is that all the parties have to prove their affirmations. Moreover, it is a consecrated right of the arbitral tribunal to ask for any other evidence in a determined period of time. The regulations referring to the administration of evidence stipulate that these should remain at the discretion of the arbitral tribunal, which has the opportunity to apply a flexible procedure for stating the situation of fact. The efforts to eliminate the existing differences between different legal systems have concretized lately by the creation of an international legal system for processes in international trade arbitration. This study aims to analyze the probation in international commercial arbitration, considering the provisions contained in the relevant regulations of the arbitration institutions and the opinions expressed by the Romanian and foreign legal literature but also by the relevant case law
K49|The right of foreigners to purchase agricultural lands in Romania. Cross-border conflict mediation|Ever since becoming a member state of the European Union, Romania had to adapt its internal laws so that the citizens of other EU member states, or those of other entities for which this right is acknowledged by Law 17/2014, stateless persons residing in these states and legal persons established in accordance with the internal laws of these states can benefit from a regulatory framework in virtue of which they can acquire the right of private property over Romanian agricultural fields, under the same conditions as Romanian citizens, stateless persons based in Romania or Romanian legal persons. Outsourcing the civil circuit over the Romanian agricultural fields raises a serious question over the reaction of the society, which is still vibrant to anything that concerns the preservation of property over the ancestral land.
K49|Migrants Coping with Legality: The Views and Experiences of Older Peruvians and Moroccans|Migrants’ and their family members’ living conditions in origin and destination countries have come to depend very much on how they cope with the laws and legal systems that affect them. Attached to the importance of acquiring a legal status, there are specific areas of juridical and administrative regulation that are of enormous interest for older people living in a family context of migration, such as pensions and the capacity to move to be closer to loved ones. Based on qualitative research with people aged 50 and over in Spain, Peru and Morocco, the article explores older individuals´responses to the legal frameworks, and, especially, inquires on the practices that help them benefit from or overcome the laws. It reveals that, as a result of states’ unclear legal actions, together with the desire to overcome barriers in these specific areas, interviewees are forced to act against or at least partially behind the law.
K49|Are the conditions of statehood sufficient? An argument in favour of popular sovereignty as an additional requirement for statehood, on the grounds of justice as a moral foundation of international law|The Montevideo Convention of the Rights and Duties of States (1933) codified the declarative theory of statehood as accepted as part of customary international law and laid down the five requirements for statehood which are often summarized as 'the principle of effectivity': (a) permanent population, (b) defined territory, (c) organised power (government) and (d) ability to enter into relations with other states. The aim of this article is to discuss the possibility of an additional requirement: popular sovereignty in a specific historic sense. I will also discuss whether this requirement should be regarded as a necessary and/or sufficient condition for statehood. The importance of this additional condition will be explained in the light of the legitimacy of exercise of power. Furthermore, it will be argued that this additional requirement may help promote the suggested primary goal of international law, that being justice (instead of peace as easily inferred by the UN Charter) in the specific sense of the protection of basic human rights, as suggested by Buchanan in Justice, Legitimacy and Self-Determination. It has to be noted that both main points, namely Buchananâ??s suggested notion of justice as the primary goal of international law and my main argument of popular sovereignty in a specific historical sense as a requirement of statehood are not to be regarded as relating to any form of Natural law Theory. It is not the case that I maintain that any international norm which violates justice as ethical foundation of international law is, because of that reason, legally invalid. Although the Legal Positivism vs Natural Law Theory is certainly not the focus of this paper, if one wishes to regard Legal Positivism and Natural Law Theory as mutually exclusive, my suggestion falls entirely under the umbrella of Legal Positivism for reasons that will be explained.
K49|Albanian Customary Law In Relation With Blood Feud, Impact Of Canon And Law In Its Prevention|Albanians still occur assassinations and which in the opinion presented as blood feud murders committed by and on behalf of the canon, as murders committed due to the lack of force of law. Are such these murders, and as is acceptable to the people that they were carried out according to of customary law, canon, it is another thing!The Albanian customary law through the main canons summarized and codified, has clearly defined categories and ways of murder, who can be killed, when they can be killed, which can be killed, how could kill, and for which murder the perpetrator will not be consequences. There are few opportunities that do not have a murder and assessed punishment as murder committed by canon, as permitted murder, that now at this time, hardly any murder committed can be assessed as such. That's because the Albanian customary law, through canons, is established under the moral law of the Albanian society, its conservation, preservation of honor and morality, freedom of movement, gender, age, religion, etc., and not to extinguished precisely these values and quality.In this study will be the analysis and interpretation of the provisions of the Canon of Leke Dukagjini that is widespread in the territory of northern Albania, the Canon of Skanderbeg who is widespread in the territory of Middle Albania and Canon of Laberia that is widespread in the territory Southern Albania. Interpretation will be made in relation to the blood feud, and pulling a small and comparable parallel with current legislation and standing position following with each other in preventing and combating blood feuds.Also in this study will be presented several abuses made by various associations and organizations created alleged for combating blood feud, and in fact they are abusing the customary law and canons, and benefit economically at the expense the murdered victims and families involved in the killings.At the end of this study will become apparent that the attitude that most Albanians murders committed according to canon law, there is no scientific support. The customary law, related to Canon along with more severe criminal penalties for perpetrators on murder would impact the fighting blood feud. So, blood feud is not a result of the implementation of the canon, but is a result of abuse of Canon and failure law.
K49|Are the conditions of statehood sufficient? An argument in favour of popular sovereignty as an additional requirement for statehood, on the grounds of justice as a moral foundation of international law|The Montevideo Convention of the Rights and Duties of States (1933) codified the declarative theory of statehood as accepted as part of customary international law and laid down the five requirements for statehood which are often summarized as 'the principle of effectivity': (a) permanent population, (b) defined territory, (c) organised power (government) and (d) ability to enter into relations with other states. The aim of this article is to discuss the possibility of an additional requirement: popular sovereignty in a specific historic sense. I will also discuss whether this requirement should be regarded as a necessary and/or sufficient condition for statehood. The importance of this additional condition will be explained in the light of the legitimacy of exercise of power. Furthermore, it will be argued that this additional requirement may help promote the suggested primary goal of international law, that being justice (instead of peace as easily inferred by the UN Charter) in the specific sense of the protection of basic human rights, as suggested by Buchanan in Justice, Legitimacy and Self-Determination. It has to be noted that both main points, namely Buchananâ??s suggested notion of justice as the primary goal of international law and my main argument of popular sovereignty in a specific historical sense as a requirement of statehood are not to be regarded as relating to any form of Natural law Theory. It is not the case that I maintain that any international norm which violates justice as ethical foundation of international law is, because of that reason, legally invalid. Although the Legal Positivism vs Natural Law Theory is certainly not the focus of this paper, if one wishes to regard Legal Positivism and Natural Law Theory as mutually exclusive, my suggestion falls entirely under the umbrella of Legal Positivism for reasons that will be explained.
K49|Estimating the impact of Mexican drug cartels on crime|We estimate the impact of drug cartels and drug-related homicides on crime and security perceptions in Mexico. For this purpose, we combine surveys on crime victimization with indicators of where drug cartels operate with and without drug-related homicides. Using the difference-in-difference estimator, we find that people living in areas that experienced drug-related homicides are more likely to take extra precautions to guard their security, yet these areas also more likely to experience some crimes, particularly thefts and extortions. In contrast, these crimes and perceptions of unsafety do not change in areas where cartels operate without leading to drug-related homicides.
K49|The good, the bad and the ugly: The socio-economic impact of drug cartels and their violence in Mexico|This paper assesses the impact that drug cartels and their associated violence have had on development in Mexico. For this purpose, we monitor official and media reports to identify where cartels have operated with and without drug related homicides. Using the difference-in-difference kernel matching method, we find that on the one hand, inequality declined to a large extent in areas where cartels were active without incidents of drug related homicides. On the other, poverty increased in areas that had both the lowest and the highest rates of drug related homicides. Two reasons could explain this increase in poverty. In the most violent areas the number of employers and remunerations declined in key industries, such as manufacturing. In the least violent areas poverty increased possibly due to people migrating from the more violent places.
K49|A Research On Employees’ Perception Of Organizational Justice And Their Propensity To Leave: Case Study Of 4 And 5 Star Hotels In The Province Of Antalya|The justice is a perceptual concept, and therefore it has been interpreted in various ways either in social or in work environments. This study aims to identify the employees’ perceptions of justice and its relation to their propensity to leave. The scope of the study includes the employees of four and five star hotels (all departments) located in the province of Antalya. A quantitative survey method has been used during the research; the questions and statements had been prepared in a manner that they will not lead the interviewed towards a certain answer in anyway. The data were collected through face to face interviews, online survey portal and email communications. Research findings suggest that, the propensity to leave effects interactional justice, although on a low-scale. It can be said that employees with a tendency to leave develop a higher perception of interactional justice. However, propensity to leave does not have an effect on procedural or distributive justice.
K49|Food markets in Russia: dynamics of their integration|In the context of an integrated market, a price of any product in regions depends on its demand in a national market rather than in a regional one. Applying the econometric model based on this theoretical statement, the paper assesses to what degree the markets of some food products are integrated. The fact that since nearly 1994 the growth of segmentation in such markets changes to the tendency of their integration has been observed. The authors conclude that there is an integrated food market in Russia, and its integration has been just the same as that one in the counties of developed market economy.
K49|Food markets in Russia: dynamics of their integration|In the context of an integrated market, a price of any product in regions depends on its demand in a national market rather than in a regional one. Applying the econometric model based on this theoretical statement, the paper assesses to what degree the markets of some food products are integrated. The fact that since nearly 1994 the growth of segmentation in such markets changes to the tendency of their integration has been observed. The authors conclude that there is an integrated food market in Russia, and its integration has been just the same as that one in the counties of developed market economy.
