L00|"Fast, ""Robust"", and Approximately Correct: Estimating Mixed Demand Systems"|"Many econometric models used in applied work integrate over unobserved heterogeneity. We show that a class of these models that includes many random coefficients demand systems can be approximated by a ""small-sigma"" expansion that yields a straightforward 2SLS estimator. We study in detail the models of market shares popular in empirical IO (""macro BLP""). Our estimator is only approximately correct, but it performs very well in practice. It is extremely fast and easy to implement, and it accommodates to misspecifications in the higher moments of the distribution of the random coefficients. At the very least, it provides excellent starting values for more commonly used estimators of these models."
L00|Being in the Right Place: A Natural Field Experiment on the Causes of Position Effects in Individual Choice|This paper uses a natural field experiment to better understand why individuals tend to select items at the top of lists. After randomizing the order in which new economics research papers are presented in email alerts and measuring the subsequent downloads, we provide robust evidence of position effects. Moreover, our novel user-level data offers two key findings: i) most users exhibit both top and bottom position effects, and ii) distinct groups of users consider the listed items in different orders. These results allow us to conclude that the causes of top position effects are complex and heterogeneous across individuals, but are most consistent with a version of choice fatigue where users consider the listed items in a non-monotonic order.
L00|Social power as a solution to the Bertrand Paradox|We show that in a duopoly with homogeneous consumers, if these are negatively influenceable by each other behavior (e.g. congestion/ snob/ Veblen/ network effects), a pure price equilibrium with positive profits for both firms exists. Furthermore, even in the case products are undifferentiated, an equilibrium where firms charge different (positive) prices and have different profits exists. Thus, when firms engage in uniform price competition, heterogeneity, and in particular non-atomicity in the distribution of preferences, is neither a necessary condition to ensure existence, nor to achieve asymmetries. We further show that in the case products are differentiated, social differentiation overcomes the effect of standard differentiation in creating price asymmetries.
L00|Digital Transformation and Lean Management. Challenges in the Energy Industry of Utilities. A Review|In an era of increasing technological transformation, industries, competitors, and companies are combining platforms to create unique methods for engagement. Survival and growth in a rapidly changing marketplace require companies to embrace internal innovation that adds value for both channel members and customers. The fourth industrial revolution has already begun to take shape, on the road to an end-to-end value chain, by using Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) and decentralized intelligence in manufacturing, production and logistics. The world is heading toward a digitized future. Already, an entire generation has grown up immersed in the digital world. This paper focus on the following fields: General Strategy and Procedural Aspects of Digital Transformation, Digital Transformation and Lean, Lean Digital Management, Applying Lean Digital Transformation and Transformation of Enterprise Resource Planning Systems to Smart Engaged Systems. Finally, this research study the challenges of Digital Transformation in Energy Industry of Utilities.
L00|The Importance of Defense Industry in Turkish Economy|This study analyzes the extent of economic importance of defense industry in Turkey by using SIPRI database for the period 1953 through 2018. For this purpose, firstly, the development pattern of Turkish total military expenditure (in constant 2017 US$) is evaluated over 66 years from 1953 to 2018. Next, the statistics on the military expenditure per capita (1988-2018) is analyzed in order to analyze how a change occurs on the expenditure with increasing population. In order to determine how the defense industry evolved in a developing economy, we also examine the expenditure statistics as a share of Turkish government expenditure (2000-2018 period) and GDP (1960-2018 period). Finally, the position and importance of the Turkish defense industry in the world, and in Europe and Middle East region is revealed when compared to other 173 countries. Main findings of the study could be summarized in the following way. The statistics reveal that the industry ranks 14th in the world and 6th in Europe, with a total expenditure of US$ 22B in 2018. Among top 100 arms-producing companies in the world, there are two Turkish companies, ASELSAN and Turkish Aerospace Industries, ranked as 61st and 70th in 2017, respectively. Although it is seen an increasing trend in the expenditures over 1960-2018 period, its share in GDP continuously falls over the same period, and reached to 2.5% in 2018. As the expenditures as a share of GDP, the industry ranks 27th in the world and 5th in Europe in 2018. When we examine per capita expenditures, it is seen an increasing trend over 1988-2018 period, and we see that there is five times increase from $50 in 1988 to $250 in 2010, and the industry ranks 46th in world with $232 per capita expenditure in 2018. When we analyze the share of expenditures in Turkish government spending over 2000-2018 period, it is found that the average is around 7% for 19 years, with the lowest 5.5% in 2015 and the highest 9.2% in 2000. As a share of government spending, there is a rapid downward trend in the expenditures from 2000 to 2015, this corresponds to 40% decrease, but this process is reversing after 2016, and reached to 7.1% in 2018.
L00|Let’s meet as usual: Do games on non-frequent days differ? Evidence from top European soccer leagues|Balancing the allocation of games in sports competitions is an important organizational task that can have serious financial consequences. In this paper, we examine data from 9,930 soccer games played in the top German, Spanish, French, and English soccer leagues between 2007/2008 and 2016/2017. Using a machine learning technique for variable selection and applying a semi-parametric analysis of radius matching on the propensity score, we find that all four leagues have a lower attendance as the share of stadium capacity in games that take place on non-frequently played days compared to the frequently played days. In addition, we find that in all leagues except for the English Premier League, there is a significantly lower home advantage for the underdog teams on non-frequent days. Our findings suggest that the current schedule favors underdog teams with fewer home games on non-frequent days. Therefore, to increase the fairness of the competitions, it is necessary to adjust the allocation of the home games on non-frequent days in a way that eliminates any advantage driven by the schedule. These findings have implications for the stakeholders of the leagues, as well as for coaches and players.
L00|Price Discrimination in International Airline Markets|We develop a model of inter-temporal and intra-temporal price discrimination by airlines to study the ability of different discriminatory mechanisms to remove sources of inefficiency and the associated distributional implications. To estimate the model’s multi-dimensional distribution of preference heterogeneity, we use unique data from international airline markets with flight-level variation in prices across time and cabins, and information on passengers’ reason for travel. We find that current pricing practices grant late-arriving business passengers substantial informational rents and yield 81% of first-best welfare, with stochastic demand and asymmetric information accounting for 65% and 35% of the gap, respectively.
L00|Prediction and Identification in Two-Sided Markets|I introduce a reduced form two-sided market model to study prediction and identification in two-sided markets. The model generates the hallmark features of two-sided markets: potentially below cost or even negative prices to one side of the market, and the “see-saw” or “waterbed” effect of a tendency for price movements across sides to be negatively correlated. I show that the standard “one-sided” model of complements is a special case of the two-sided model, and that it generates those same hallmark features of two-sided markets. The model of complements also performs well in predicting price effects even when the data is actually generated by the two-sided market model; the “wrong” model often delivers the right answers and can be used to estimate market power and pass through rates. I show that even a naive one-sided model that ignores any relationship across goods/sides can perform well when prices to one side of the market are censored at zero, a very common outcome in two-sided markets. The main cost to using a model of complements to estimate cross-group effects in a two-sided market is that it invites the use of invalid instruments. I show that these findings are consistent with the empirical regularities and identification strategies in the existing two-sided market and indirect network effects literatures. I conclude by discussing the general difficulty of separately identifying whether price differences across subgroups of users of a platform are driven by pricing of network effects or simple price discrimination based on price elasticity.
L00|The commodification of knowledge and information|In this paper we present an analysis of the commodification of knowledge and information in contemporary capitalism. We provide a consistent account of how information as a commodity effects the workings of both capitalism and of Marxist theory. The first part of the paper critically revisits Marx’s own writings on the commodification of knowledge and how the immaterial labour hypothesis initially interpreted these writings. Based on the new categories knowledge-commodity and knowledge-rent, we then present our own approach in response to the challenges raised by the immaterial labour hypothesis. Lastly, we analyse the more recent contributions on the commodification of knowledge and information within the Marxist literature. The current debate on the value of knowledge has been divided between two camps: the reproduction cost approach, and the average cost approach. At the end of the paper we present empirical estimates of the magnitudes of knowledge-rents.
L00|Access to digital car data and competition in aftersales services|This study looks at car data markets from an economic perspective. We start from several options for the technical characteristics of data access points that have been discussed among stakeholders in the automotive industry. We examine the structure of data markets that are likely to emerge from these characteristics and the implications for the welfare of manufacturers, aftermarket service providers and drivers. Car manufacturers face competition in car markets and aftersales services. However, they can design the car data architecture to ensure their exclusive access to the data. That would give them a monopoly in the market for car data from their brand. They can use this to increase their leverage on aftersales services markets. Our baseline scenario is the Extended Vehicle proposal that manufacturers prefer. This ensures their data access monopoly and enables them to maximizes revenue from data and data-driven aftersales services. It reduces welfare for drivers and aftersales service providers. Two technical variations on the baseline scenario reduce manufacturers' leverage over data server governance and their monopolistic power. That could reduce social welfare losses and transfer more surplus to drivers and service providers, compared to the baseline scenario. Other scenarios examine alternative data access gateways, for instance by keeping the OBD plug open and by applying real time data portability under the GDPR. These scenarios may offer some scope for regulators if they wish to keep alternative data access channels open in order to stimulate competition in aftersales services markets. However, they entail additional hardware and switching costs for consumers, compared to the baseline and are therefore partial and imperfect substitutes. In two final scenarios we examine the market position of B2B data marketplaces and consumer media services platforms. The potential for data aggregation across car brands and other sources creates some possibilities for these platforms to provide a counterweight to monopolistic behaviour by the manufacturers. However, manufacturers' control over the data supply and access to the in-car human interface ensures that they retain substantial leverage over these platforms. Regulators may consider creating the conditions for a more level playing field between OEM services and third-party aftersales service providers. As a next step in this research, the general scenario-based observations in this study would have to be complemented with empirical evidence on the data market power of car manufacturers.
L00|The impact of data access regimes on artificial intelligence and machine learning|Digitization triggered a steep drop in the cost of information. The resulting data glut created a bottleneck because human cognitive capacity is unable to cope with large amounts of information. Artificial intelligence and machine learning (AI/ML) triggered a similar drop in the cost of machine-based decision-making and helps in overcoming this bottleneck. Substantial change in the relative price of resources puts pressure on ownership and access rights to these resources. This explains pressure on access rights to data. ML thrives on access to big and varied datasets. We discuss the implications of access regimes for the development of AI in its current form of ML. The economic characteristics of data (non-rivalry, economies of scale and scope) favour data aggregation in big datasets. Non-rivalry implies the need for exclusive rights in order to incentivise data production when it is costly. The balance between access and exclusion is at the centre of the debate on data regimes. We explore the economic implications of several modalities for access to data, ranging from exclusive monopolistic control to monopolistic competition and free access. Regulatory intervention may push the market beyond voluntary exchanges, either towards more openness or reduced access. This may generate private costs for firms and individuals. Society can choose to do so if the social benefits of this intervention outweigh the private costs. We briefly discuss the main EU legal instruments that are relevant for data access and ownership, including the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) that defines the rights of data subjects with respect to their personal data and the Database Directive (DBD) that grants ownership rights to database producers. These two instruments leave a wide legal no-man's land where data access is ruled by bilateral contracts and Technical Protection Measures that give exclusive control to de facto data holders, and by market forces that drive access, trade and pricing of data. The absence of exclusive rights might facilitate data sharing and access or it may result in a segmented data landscape where data aggregation for ML purposes is hard to achieve. It is unclear if incompletely specified ownership and access rights maximize the welfare of society and facilitate the development of AI/ML.
L00|Flexible Work Organization and Employer Provided Training: Evidence from German Linked Employer-Employee Data|We examine the hypothesis that flexible work organization involves greater skill requirements and, hence, an increased likelihood of receiving employer provided training. Using unique linked employer-employee data from Germany, we confirm that employees are more likely to receive training when their jobs are characterized by greater decision-making autonomy and task variety, two essential elements of flexibility. Critically, the training associated with workplace flexibility does not simply reflect technology. Skill-biased organizational change plays its own role. Moreover, we show that the training associated with workplace flexibility is disproportionately oriented toward employees with a greater formal education. Our results also provide modest evidence of an age bias of workplace flexibility. However, the link between workplace flexibility and training does not appear to differ by gender.
L00|Insegnare Economia Industriale ‘in a digital age’|Negli ultimi decenni l’insegnamento dell’economia industriale è stato sottoposto a notevoli tensioni. Le novità che si sono affermate rendono necessaria una riflessione sui contenuti sviluppati e sulle metodologie adottate. Una recente indagine, rivolta ai docenti di economia industriale e di materie ‘affini’ che insegnano nelle università italiane, consente di approfondire alcuni aspetti del cambiamento in corso. I risultati mostrano che a) l’insegnamento dell’economia industriale ha seguito sentieri evolutivi diversificati e con marcate connotazioni specialistiche; b) sembra ridursi il nucleo tematico condiviso nei diversi corsi; c) sono state sperimentate in modo diffuso pratiche didattiche innovative, ma rimangono aperti spazi per ulteriori miglioramenti, in particolare nella didattica con strumenti web e nei metodi di coinvolgimento attivo degli studenti.
L00|Loss Minimization through the Allocation of DGs Considering the Stochastic Nature of Units|Smart grid as the cleaner alternative to the legacy power system can improve technical, economical, and environmental aspects of the system up to a considerable degree. In smart grids, Distributed Generation (DG) units; which play an important role, should be optimally allocated. In this paper, DG placement is conducted with the goal of loss minimization of the grid considering the technical limitations associated with the voltage profile of the buses as well as the stochastic nature of the DGs. In this paper, three different kinds of DGs are included which are wind turbines, solar panels, and biomass generators. The results related to the case study which is IEEE standard 33 bus system reveals that the costs can be dramatically decreased.
L00|Simulation of Spar Type Floating Offshore Wind Turbine Subjected to Misaligned Wind-Wave Loading Using Conservation of Momentum Method|Floating wind turbines are subjected to stochastic wind and wave loadings. Wind and wave loadings are not essentially aligned. The misalignment between wind and wave loadings affects the dynamical response of the floating wind turbines which needs to be studied. For this purpose, the nonlinear equations of motion of the spar-type floating wind turbine is derived using the Newton’s second law and conservation of angular momentum theory. The aerodynamic, hydrodynamic, mooring and buoyancy forces are determined and coupled with the system. The dynamic responses of the system are calculated and compared for different wind-wave misalignment angles. The simulation results demonstrate the importance of consideration of wind-wave misalignment angle on the dynamic response for the floating offshore wind turbine.
L00|A New Optimal Operation Structure For Renewable- Based Microgrid Operation based On Teaching Learning Based Optimization Algorithm|This paper proposes a new optimization framework for the optimal power dispatch in both grid-connected and islanded microgrid modes. Solving the microgrid operation by the evolutionary algorithms can be faster than analytical models due to the complexity of the problem. To demonstrate the efficiency and high performance of the proposed technique, it is applied on the IEEE 33 bus test network. Also, the proposed technique is compared with the analytical model, and also well-known heuristic methods such as particle swarm optimization (PSO), genetic algorithm (GA).
L00|Modified Genetic Algorithm Framework for Optimal Scheduling of Single Microgrid Combination with Distribution System Operator|In this paper, new reformed genetic algorithm (GA) according to the multicellular organism mechanism is developed for power management of single microgrid incorporation with the distribution system operator (DSO). Integration of single microgrid into the conventional grids cann enhance the complexity of the problem due to ability of disconnecting from the main grid as a standalone small electricity network. Hence, in this paper, a new evolutionary algorithm is developed to address the complexity of the problem. The main objective of the proposed model is to minimize the total operation cost of the microgrid in both utility connected and off utility connected modes; that means the objective is based on the economic consideration. To demonstrates the high performance and ability of the proposed method, a modified IEEE 33 distribution bus test network is selected and examined. Finally, the results are compared with the famous evolutionary algorithms such as particle swarm optimization (PSO). In it worth noting that the results are only based on the economic consideration.
L00|The Environmental Kuznets Curve in Small Geographies|Finding a theoretical explanation of the Environmental Kuznets Curve (EKC) has been difficult. Given that environmental quality improves as income and consumption increase, ceteris paribus, there must be an increase in remediation/abatement activity. In this paper, we provide theoretical conditions for an existence of a locality-based EKC when both output and abatement expenditures are increasing in income. We validate these predictions empirically using a detailed firm-level dataset in which environmental policies are uniform across locations. We also show that firms engaging in abatement activity tend to locate near polluting firms while income also plays a significant role in location choice.
L00|Environmental Quality and Monopoly Pricing|This paper investigates various aspects of a monopolist’s pricing and environmental quality choice, as two simultaneous decisions and with each as a separate decision, the other variable being exogenously fixed. Green quality is modeled as in Spence (1975), and the present analysis builds on his pioneering work. We contrast the private and the first-best socially optimal solutions. While the latter follows the intuitive property of assigning a higher price to higher quality, the former solution does so under a natural condition of log-supermodular demand. This condition is studied in some detail, and related to properties of an underlying utilty function. We complete this characterization of optimal pricing by providing two different counter-intuitive examples where the two-dimensional interaction is such that the monopolist ends up charging a lower optimal price than the social planner, as well as producing a lower quality. Finally, we investigate respective sufficient conditions under which (i) the private and first-best solutions coincide, and (ii) the two-dimensional problem reduces to a one-dimensional problem where the firm picks a single quality-price ratio.
L00|Flexible Work Organization and Employer Provided Training: Evidence from German Linked Employer-Employee Data|We examine the hypothesis that flexible work organization involves greater skill requirements and, hence, an increased likelihood of receiving employer provided training. Using unique linked employer-employee data from Germany, we confirm that employees are more likely to receive training when their jobs are characterized by greater decision-making autonomy and task variety, two essential elements of flexibility. Critically, the training associated with workplace flexibility does not simply reflect technology. Skill-biased organizational change plays its own role. Moreover, we show that the training associated with workplace flexibility is disproportionately oriented toward employees with a greater formal education. Our results also provide modest evidence of an age bias of workplace flexibility. However, the link between workplace flexibility and training does not appear to differ by gender.
L00|Product Market Competition and Employer Provided Training in Germany|Using German establishment data, this paper examines the relationship between product market competition and the extent of employer provided training. We demonstrate that high product market competition is associated with increased training except when the competition is so severe as to threaten liquidation to a firm. We take this as evidence of an inverted U-shaped relationship. We also make clear that while this relationship is very evident for the service sector it is largely missing for manufacturing where we confirm earlier results of no relationship.
L00|Are you the right partner? R&D agreement as a screening device| This paper focuses on the strategic use of firms' R&D agreements to overcome R&D inefficiencies under asymmetric information and research spillovers. We introduce a duopoly game where initially one firm is not fully informed on its rival's R&D productivity. We show that, without R&D agreements, the usual underinvestment problem can be exacerbated by the presence of asymmetric information. However, the R&D agreement can be used strategically as a screening device to assess the true type of the firm with private information, hence solving the inefficiencies generated by asymmetric information. According to the model, firms are more likely to pursuit R&D agreements in presence of similar productivity and less when their productivity gap is high. This is consistent with the empirical findings highlighting the importance of firms' similarities for R&D collaborations.
L00|An integrated dataset of Italian firms: 2005-2014|In this paper we describe the steps followed to build a new dataset covering the universe of active private non-financial firms in Italy between 2005 and 2014. The construction of the dataset is the outcome of a collaboration between the Bank of Italy and the Italian National Statistical Agency and made use of statistical, administrative and fiscal sources. The dataset, that contains information on firms’ location, legal form, date of incorporation, industry classification, employed persons, turnover and value added, is suitable for studying the evolution of the Italian productive sectors since the mid-2000s.
L00|Time to Stop Playing Games with Industrial Policy? What Government & Business Might Learn from Team GB|This paper investigates the degree to which the British elite sport policy model might inform a strategy for building international competiveness in UK industry. The methodology is qualitative, based on in-depth interviews with key figures in the British elite sport system, including UK Sport's CEO, Performance Directors of National Sport Governing Bodies whose athletes competed in London 2012 and Rio 2016 and Olympic athletes. The analysis also draws upon detailed case studies of sectors that are currently competing successfully in international markets – despite decades of ill-informed industrial policy, if not neglect. Areas standing out as key to the UK elite sport policy model's success include: an institutional structure to provide strategic leadership, identify talent and support the development of internationally competitive athletes and teams, whilst at the same time insulating them from interference by short-term political (and sporting) interests; an enabling competitive environment with access to a reliable source of finance; and an institutional system that encourages learning, innovation and responsiveness to opportunities and constraints. Taken together, these – if available to British businesses, clusters and sectors – would likely facilitate improvement in the UK's industrial performance. The significance of the elite sport case is that not only was it developed and successfully implemented in the British cultural, institutional and political context, in many respects elite sport can be considered a high performance industrial sector. It therefore offers a starting point for evolving strategy for building international competitiveness in comparable sectors of British industry.
L00|Duplicative research, mergers and innovation|We show that in the model of Federico et al. (2017) horizontal mergers may actually spur innovation by preventing duplication of R&D efforts. Federico et al. do not notice this result because they presume that the merged firm spreads its R&D expenditure evenly across the research units of the merging firms—a strategy which is optimal, however, only if the probability of failure is log-convex in the RD effort. The possibility that mergers spur innovation is more likely, the greater is the value of innovations and the less rapidly diminishing are the returns to R&D.
L00|A theological approach to organizational visual representations|We argue that analytical and critical aspects of theology can contribute to organizational research, and potentially assist in elaborating new concepts. To lay this out, we use Christian orthodox theology of icons as an analytical framework to study organizational visual representations. We generate three important insights. First, we point to the need, so far neglected, to question and theorize the relation between the representation and what is represented. Second, we highlight the prominence of symbolism over aesthetic aspects. Third, we underline that images are both embedded within meaningful relationships with other images, and used in social and power relationships. Building on these insights, we elaborate the notion of epistemic power to account for the capacity of visual representations to provide knowledge of an object of inquiry which cannot be immediately conscripted nor clearly perceived in its entirety. We contribute to the integration of theological analysis in organizational research by showing how it can further extend our understanding of secular organizational settings.
L00|The Effects of a Day Off from Retail Price Competition: Evidence on Consumer Behavior and Firm Performance in Gasoline Retailing|First, we analyze how regular days off from competition and a time-dependent price pattern affect firm performance. Second, we examine the effects on firms' profitability from consumers’ changing search- and timing behavior. We use microdata from gasoline retailing in Norway. Since 2004, firms have practiced an industry-wide day off from competition, starting on Mondays at noon, by increasing prices to a common level given by the recommended prices (decided and published in advance). In turn, a foreseeable low-price window is open before every restoration. During the data period, we observe an additional weekly restoration on Thursdays at noon. The additional day off from competition increases firm performance. As expected, a conventional price search of where to buy reduces firms’ profitability. In contrast, consumers who are aware of the cycle and spend effort on when to buy have a positive impact on firms’ profitability. If consumers spend effort on when to buy, they attempt to tank during low price windows. By its very nature, this shrink consumers’ ability to compare prices at several outlets. Consequently, more attention to when to buy may soften price competition.
L00|Does One Size Fit All? Investigating Different Empowerment Orientations in the Heterogeneous Workforce of the Swedish Retail Sector|Empowerment research and practice is guided by the idea that empowered employees perform better due to a greater sense of self-efficacy and capability. Underlying this idea, there often seem to be two tacit, unexamined assumptions: first, that employees generally would prefer an empowered workplace to a less empowered one; and second, that all employees can be empowered by means of the same measures and changes as defined by empowerment research. The main research question asked in this study is whether those aspects typically associated with structural and psychological empowerment efforts at the workplace are indeed perceived as desirable and positive by all types of employees. Employees’ attitudes toward the success of empowerment efforts, and the relevance of such attitudes, are investigated by analyzing survey data from 268 employees in the Swedish retail sector. Results indicate that age and work intensity (part-time vs. full-time) as well as cohabitation have significant impacts on how empowerment efforts are viewed by employees in the sample.
L00|It Takes Two to Empower: The Communicative Context of Empowerment Change in the Workplace|Empowerment efforts at the workplace are typically divided into two analytical categories: social-structural and psychological empowerment. These have been extensively researched in terms of their application and handling as well as their outcome and general usefulness in human resource management. However, less research has dealt with communicative aspects of empowerment and the communicative interactions between change agents (managers) and recipients (employees) that frame empowerment efforts. To contribute to a more nuanced empowerment discourse, this paper uses a micro-/individual-oriented perspective on empowerment communication and theorizes why empowerment change efforts sometimes end up being counterproductive – leading to disempowerment rather than empowerment. As starting point for theorizing empowerment communication, a “basic communicative structure” is identified and analyzed as comprising a contractual and a communicative context, referring to conditions as outlined in written employment contracts on the one hand, and implicitly shared and understood definitions of the social employment situation on the other. Building on sociological and social-psychological theories of communicative interaction, it is argued that focusing on change agents’ and recipients’ mutual ascriptions of meanings to each other’s communicative messages might improve empowerment outcomes: A communicative analysis of common empowerment efforts suggests that recipients’ sensemaking of their roles and situations as defined by written employment and/or psychological contracts is not necessarily in line with the communicative meanings they ascribe to the change agents’ actions, and vice versa.
L00|Take a Chance on ABBA|The order of actions in contests may generate different psychological effects which, in turn, may influence contestants' probabilities to win. The Prouhet-Thue-Morse sequence in which the first 'n' moves is the exact mirror image of the next 'n' moves should theoretically terminate any advantage to any of the contestants in a sequential pair-wise contest. The tennis tiebreak sequence of serves is the closest to the Prouhet-Thue-Morse sequence that one can find in real tournament settings. In a tiebreak between two players, A and B, the order of the first two serves (AB) is a mirror image of the next two serves (BA), such that the sequence of the first four serves is ABBA. Then, this sequence is repeated until one player wins the tiebreak. This sequence has been used not only in tennis, but also recently in the US TV presidential debates. In this study we analyse 1,701 men's and 920 women's tiebreak games from top-tier tournaments between the years 2012 to 2015. Using several different strategies to disentangle the effect of serving first from the effect of selection, we find that, for both genders, serving first does not have any significant effect on the winning probabilities of the two players, implying that the ABBA sequence is fair. We thus argue that it might be useful for other sports and contests in general to consider adopting the ABBA sequence in order to improve fairness.
L00|Activity Based Costing (ABC) as a tool for Lean Transformation: The Case of the Greek Power Public Corporation (PPC)|This research highlights the malfunctions and the inaccurate information of the conventional cost methods that are used nowadays in most Greek public companies. It poses as a research topic the resolution of the above mentioned problem with the development of a reliable and accurately informative cost system based on the ABC method, which will offer support to those companies concerning the amelioration of their total performance and function. This paper also shows the ability of the ABC costing method as a tool which contributes to the transition from a traditional public corporation to a lean corporation after the fulfillment of three fundamental points. First prevents distortions of the cost of activities of a company with the provision of exact measure of the cost of those activities then defines the non value added activities so it limits the wastefulness in a corporation and final introduces the mentality of lean thinking to the employees of the corporation, since each employee knows the flow of the action he performs, its cost and value. This paper includes a contrast on a theoretical basis of the traditional cost systems and the ABC method, presents an application of ABC and a case study of applying ABC to a Greek Public Company investigating its use as a lean tool that helps the saving of resources and the transition to a lean production model.
L00|Using ABC costing method with in a KPI- based framework to a Lean transformation of a Greek Public Company|This research paper deals with the investigation, whether from the results of the implementation of the ABC costing method to a public company, a suitable KPI framework can be created so that it functions as a useful tool which will contribute to the company‟s transition to a lean function. The subject of accurate measurement cost for the transition of a traditional Public Company to a lean Company has received little attention within management costing, since little empirical research has been performed on this subject. It seems that the reluctance to change an entrenched traditional costing system is fed by a lack of empirical evidence of the value the change may bring (Fullerton and Kennedy 2009). The aim of the study is thus to contribute to the overall knowledge on Lean thinking.
L00|Integrated vs. add-on: A multidimensional conceptualisation of technology obsolescence|In the past two decades, technology obsolescence has become an increasingly common feature of the global economy, often precipitated by new technological breakthroughs and innovations. Although a number of companies persist with obsolete technologies until disaster strikes, our understanding of the dynamics of technology obsolescence and why some firms persist with obsolete technologies remains largely underexplored. This conceptual paper seeks to fills these gaps in our understanding by developing a four-domain framework to explicate the dynamics of technologies’ obsolescence, which takes into account the components in determining different types of obsolescence. The framework articulates two types of life-cycle match and two types of life-cycle mismatch. The article also contributes to the literature by delineating an integrated framework of firm-specific and market-based factors which account for some firms’ persistence with obsolete technologies. Amassing and utilising the latest information to update their technologies can help firms enhance their competitiveness. The wider implications of the analysis for public policy and directions for future research are examined.
L00|Türkiye Ekonomisinde Sürükleyici Endüstri Analizi:2002-2012 Karşılaştırması<BR>[Key Sector Analysis in Turkish Economy: A Compare Between 2002-2012]|"Interindustry analysis that researches alterations in qualitative and quantitative structures of industrial activity is being used as an analytical tool in the matter of monitoring development performance of economy. The aim of this study is to calculate backward linkages by Leontief approach and forward linkages by Ghosh approach based on 2002 and 2012 input output tables and analyse evolution in key sectors. Linkage findings reflecting the 'feedback' and 'stimulant' power of industries are utilized as indicators for optimization in allocation of resources and taking investment decisions. Findings of the study reveal that ""manufacture of chemicals, chemical products"", ""manufacture of fabricated metal products"", ""recycling"" and ""research and ""development"" industries have lost the property of being key industry in relevant period. However only ""basic metals” became as a key industry thereby reducing its import dependency. By the results of this study, it is expected to contribute to policymakers in developing policy."
L00|Networks, Frictions, and Price Dispersion|This paper models frictions in buyer-seller markets using networks, where buyers are linked with a subset of sellers and sellers are linked with a subset of buyers. Sparser networks are associated with higher search frictions. We use the model to characterize pairwise stable allocations and their supporting prices. Our approach allows for network effects, where a buyer who is not linked to a seller affects the price obtained by that seller. Network effects generate the central finding of our paper: even relatively sparse networks lead to price distributions and allocations that are close to the perfectly competitive outcome where the law of one price holds. We then investigate the role of network effects in a dynamic setting by studying wages in the context of an on-the-job search model. We find two novel predictions relative to the search literature. Lowering frictions (so that workers receive job offers at a higher rate) leads to: (1) lower worker mobility and lower expected wage growth and (2) lower expected wages in markets with high unemployment. We argue that our framework is suited to the analysis of a wide range of real-world markets, such as the labor market and buyer-seller trading platforms like eBay or Amazon.
L00|Determinants of Net Entry and Exit in Agriculture Sector: A Case Study of US for 1990-2002|This empirical investigate focuses on determinants of Net Entry and Exit in US agriculture sector for 1990-2002. We find that net entry is positively related to Labor Factor Productivity in agriculture (LFP) and Aggregate Agricultural Output (AAO), and negatively related to GDP Per Capita (GDP). The latter supports the assertion that net entry is inversely related to GDP--a counter-cyclical activity. Variables? coefficients are: +3.24 (LFP), +4.48 (AAO) and -0.60 (GDP). Whereas, P value for LFP approximates ?highly significant? level (0.0019), AAO?s is less significant (0.0814) and GDP?s is insignificant (0.0264). We also considered the effects of the cost of capital and cost of borrowing in the Net Entry model. We omitted them as they showed negligible and insignificant effects. Since determinants of net entry depend on combined factors that influence both entry and exit, it is plausible that they differ for exit. Thereby, we consider a separate model for Exit. The independent variables for this model encompass: Farm Household Income (FHY), number of large establishments with 1,000 or more employees (LARGE) and GDP per capita. We show that Exit rates in our data are negatively related to both Farm Household Income and GDP, with respective coefficient of - 0.07 and -1.12. Whereas LARGE has a coefficient of + 0.46; hence accounts for 46% of establishments? exits in our sample, with high statistical significance (P= 0.0019). The P value for FHY (0.266) shows statistical weakness. For GDP per capita, P=0.006, approximates the ?significant? level. Accordingly, the establishment size is the most influential variable in the model. Overall our regressions capture most variations in their Dependent Variables. R2 for Net Entry estimation is 0.87 (F=16.03) and 0.78 (F=10.71) for the Exit Model. The residual values are quite low in both estimations. This research shows that presence of large firms within the agriculture sector in US leads to higher establishments? exit rates?an endogenous hinder to competition, ceteris paribus. As in any empirical exercise, our results could be affected by omitted variables and data aggregation biases. Repeated validation of this empirical exercise that would stand to alternative specifications would affirm the endogeneity of potential threat to competition in a sector that supports the model of Perfect Competition. CR4s for six major US agriculture sectors range 55%-93%, all above 45%, necessary for a competitive structure. With our investigative modeling and regression results, we question the stylized facts of the theory of Perfect Competition.
L00|Product Market Competition and Employer Provided Training in Germany|Using German establishment data, this paper examines the relationship between product market competition and the extent of employer provided training. We demonstrate that high product market competition is associated with increased training except when the competition is so severe as to threaten liquidation to a firm. We take this as evidence of an inverted U-shaped relationship. We also make clear that while this relationship is very evident for the service sector it is largely missing for manufacturing where we confirm earlier results of no relationship.
L00|The Optimal Design Of Round-Robin Tournaments With Three Players|We study the optimal design of round-robin tournaments with three symmetric players. We characterize the subgame perfect equilibrium in these tournaments with either one or two prizes. Our results show that the players who wish to maximize their expected payoffs or their probabilities of winning have different preferences about the order of games under tournaments with one or two prizes. We analyze the optimal allocations of players for a designer who wishes to maximize the players' expected total effort in the tournaments with one and two prizes, and by comparing between them, it is demonstrated that in order to maximize the players' expected total effort the designer should allocate only one prize.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L00|Discouragement Effect and Intermediate Prizes in Multi-Stage Contests: Evidence from Tennis’s Davis Cup|Discouragement effect of the lagging player in multi-stage contests is a well-documented phenomenon. In this study, we utilize data from 2,247 Davis Cup matches in teams’ tennis tournaments to test the effect of ahead-behind asymmetry on individuals’ performance with and without intermediate prizes. Using several different strategies to disentangle the effect of being ahead in the interim score from the effect of selection, we find that a higher-ranked player has higher probability of winning if his team is leading before the respective match. However, this effect disappears in matches in which a winner receives ranking points. This result is driven by an increased winning probability of the lagging favorite. Our findings suggest that, as predicted by previous theoretical studies, intermediate prizes may mitigate or even terminate the ahead-behind effects that arise in multi-stage contests.
L00|Industry Vietnam 2005-2014: Status, Issues and Development Orientation|Although with a low starting point, Vietnam’s industry has achieved positive results with the average growth rate of over 10% per year, a positive contribution to the economic- social development in Vietnam. However, from 2010 to now, the average growth rate of industrial output value has declined. In fact, growth of industry that bases on outsourcing (outputs of manufacturing based on mainly inputs from foreign markets) has lasted for many years. This has clearly revealed the inefficiency and lack of sustainability of the domestic industry. Vietnam's industry is currently characterized by the industries belong to first generation, including industrial products that using more labor, unskilled labor and the products of industry that base on outsourcing). The imbalance in industrial structure of Vietnam is one of the problems noted in the recent years. This is reflected in the lack of supporting industries to manufacture capital goods and industries have high scientific content. In addition, development of industries still has spread over country, lack of key industries to make tower cranes for the development of whole industry. Therefore, in order to become a developed industrial country with over 80 million inhabitants, Vietnam’s industry require to have an accelerated development strategy and reasonable implement policy.
L00|Identification and Estimation of Risk Aversion in First-Price Auctions with Unobserved Auction Heterogeneity|This paper shows point identification in first-price auction models with risk aversion and unobserved auction heterogeneity by exploiting multiple bids from each auction and variation in the number of bidders. The required exclusion restriction is shown to be consistent with a large class of entry models. If the exclusion restriction is violated, but weaker restrictions hold instead, the same identification strategy still yields valid bounds for the primitives. We propose a sieve maximum likelihood estimator. A series of Monte Carlo experiments illustrate that the estimator performs well in finite samples and that ignoring unobserved auction heterogeneity can lead to a significant bias in risk-aversion estimates. In an application to U.S. Forest Service timber auctions we find that the bidders are risk neutral, but we would reject risk neutrality without accounting for unobserved auction heterogeneity.
L00|Why Don’t Prices Rise during Periods of Peak Demand? Synchronize Demand to Relax Competition|During periods of peak demand, frequent markdowns present an empirical puzzle. Based on the idea that stores face capacity constraints in times of high shopping volume, we show that stores keep their off-season prices high in order to lure all consumers to shop around the same time. This relaxes competition and allows stores to raise prices. Due to binding capacity constraints, stores randomize their prices. Thus, our model offers a unified explanation for both the countercyclicality and the high frequency of price changes during periods of peak demand.
L00|Monitoring the Quality of Services in Electronic Banking|Successful development of electronic banking is in direct correlation with the quality of services in electronic banking. Therefore, it is necessary that the banks are familiar with the attributes of electronic services on which clients assess the bank’s quality and client’s satisfaction with them, in order to be able to monitor, correct and improve the performance of electronic banking. We start from the hypothesis that there are already developed theoretical models for measuring the quality of e-banking services but they must be adjusted to the specific environment that is analysed in order to obtain reliable and quality information. The qualitative and quantitative research methods are applied in this paper in order to a get adjusted theoretical model (instrument) for measuring the quality of electronic banking services. As a result of the conducted analysis, the initial theoretical model has been modified, so that the final version of the model (instrument) for measuring quality of online banking allows obtaining reliable data, and information in the particular environment. And the results are: significant information about the quality of e-banking, modified theoretical model, information about the dimensions of quality of e-banking, customer satisfaction, and pathways and guidelines for the improvement of e-banking. The measuring of quality of electronic banking services in not one time activity but repeated one, as permanent monitoring strategy. This research is widely applicable even though it was conducted in the context of Montenegrin e-banking, since most of the banks in Montenegro are owned by well-known European banks, and it is expected that the obtained knowledge and information can be generalized.
L00|Co-operation in Production, the Organization of Industry & Productive Systems: A Critical Survey of the 'District' Form of Industrial Organisation & Development|Liberal economics has traditionally put strong emphasis on individualisation and specialisation – and has struggled with the notion of co-operation. Thus, Alfred Marshall's pioneering work on the English industrial districts of his day posed a significant challenge to the conventional wisdom, which embraced laissez-faire markets and Adam Smith's claim that improvements in efficiency depend upon the increased division of labour within firms competing in them. Marshall found that an important determinant of the competitive success of industrial districts was effective co-operation within and between firms, supported by a dense network of institutions, and markets regulated by agreed rules, norms and standards. He theorised that these generate external economies of scale and scope that enable the district and its constituent small firms to successfully compete with large, vertically integrated firms. From the mid-1920s, however, with the emergence and growth of very large, highly successful firms, the conventional wisdom shifted to suppose that the historical tendency in capitalist development was towards large firm dominance; and the small firm sector was progressively reduced to a residuum. However, the rediscovery of the industrial district by Italian scholars during the 1960s revived interest in Marshall's notion of localised productive systems and attracted considerable attention to this form of industrial organisation. This paper traces themes within this literature, from the earliest theorising by the Classical Political Economists to the present, focusing on the role of co-operation in production, the relationship between the organisation of production and markets, and the nature and functioning of productive systems.
L00|Research in Food Economics: past trends and new challenges| Over the past 30 years, food chains in Europe have undergone a dramatic transformation resulting from technological, economic and other societal changes. In turn, this evolution has opened multiple new areas of research for food economists, and this review attempts to summarise major developments in the field by focusing on four salient topics: (i) the formation of retail food prices in the context of rising concentration in the food chain; (ii) the continuous process of differentiation of the goods exchanged on food markets, and concurrent decline in the importance of commodity markets; (iii) the issue of consumer trust in the safety of the goods supplied by the food chain, following several food scares; and (iv) the problem of the growing burden of diet-related chronic diseases. After summarising the main methodological and empirical contributions in the analysis of those issues, we conclude by identifying gaps in knowledge and unanswered questions which food economists may want to turn their attention to in the coming years.
L00|Research in Food Economics: past trends and new challenges|Over the past 30 years, food chains in Europe have undergone a dramatic transformation resulting from technological, economic and other societal change
L00|Research in Food Economics: past trends and new challenges|Over the past 30 years, food chains in Europe have undergone a dramatic transformation resulting from technological, economic and other societal changes. In turn, this evolution has opened multiple new areas of research for food economists, and this review attempts to summarise major developments in the field by focusing on four salient topics: (i) the formation of retail food prices in the context of rising concentration in the food chain; (ii) the continuous process of differentiation of the goods exchanged on food markets, and concurrent decline in the importance of commodity markets; (iii) the issue of consumer trust in the safety of the goods supplied by the food chain, following several food scares; and (iv) the problem of the growing burden of diet-related chronic diseases. After summarising the main methodological and empirical contributions in the analysis of those issues, we conclude by identifying gaps in knowledge and unanswered questions which food economists may want to turn their attention to in the coming years.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L00|Digital distribution and the prohibition of resale markets for information goods|An existing theoretical literature finds that frictionless resale markets cannot reduce profits of monopolist producers of perfectly durable goods. This paper starts by presenting logical arguments suggesting this finding does not hold for goods consumers tire of with use, implying the impact of resale is an empirical question. The empirical impact is then estimated in the market for video games, one of many markets in which producers may soon legally prevent resale by distributing their products digitally as downloads or streamed rentals. Estimation proceeds in two steps. First, demand parameters are estimated using a dynamic discrete choice model in a market with allowed resale, using data on new sales and used trade-ins. Then, using these parameter estimates, prices, profits, and consumer welfare are simulated under counterfactual environments. When resale is allowed, firms are unable to prevent their goods from selling for low prices in later periods. The ability to do so by restricting resale outright yields significant profit increases. Renting, however, does not raise profits as much due to a revenue extraction problem. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2013
L00|Digital distribution and the prohibition of resale markets for information goods|Abstract An existing theoretical literature finds that frictionless resale markets cannot reduce profits of monopolist producers of perfectly durable goods. This paper starts by presenting logical arguments suggesting this finding does not hold for goods consumers tire of with use, implying the impact of resale is an empirical question. The empirical impact is then estimated in the market for video games, one of many markets in which producers may soon legally prevent resale by distributing their products digitally as downloads or streamed rentals. Estimation proceeds in two steps. First, demand parameters are estimated using a dynamic discrete choice model in a market with allowed resale, using data on new sales and used trade-ins. Then, using these parameter estimates, prices, profits, and consumer welfare are simulated under counterfactual environments. When resale is allowed, firms are unable to prevent their goods from selling for low prices in later periods. The ability to do so by restricting resale outright yields significant profit increases. Renting, however, does not raise profits as much due to a revenue extraction problem.
L00|Empirical Industrial Organization: A Progress Report|The field of industrial organization has made dramatic advances over the last few decades in developing empirical methods for analyzing imperfect competition and the organization of markets. These new methods have diffused widely: into merger reviews and antitrust litigation, regulatory decision making, price setting by retailers, the design of auctions and marketplaces, and into neighboring fields in economics, marketing, and engineering. Increasing access to firm-level data and in some cases the ability to cooperate with firms or governments in experimental research designs is offering new settings and opportunities to apply these ideas in empirical work. This essay begins with a sketch of how the field has evolved to its current state, in particular how the field's emphasis has shifted over time from attempts to relate aggregate measures across industries toward more focused studies of individual industries. The second and primary part of the essay describes several active areas of inquiry. We also discuss some of the impacts of this research and specify topics where research efforts have been more or less successful. The last section steps back to offer a broader perspective. We address some current debates about research emphasis in the field, and more broadly about empirical methods, and offer some thoughts on where future research might go.
L00|Shrouded Attributes, Consumer Myopia, and Information Suppression in Competitive Markets|"Bayesian consumers infer that hidden add-on prices (e.g., the cost of ink for a printer) are likely to be high prices. If consumers are Bayesian, firms will not shroud information in equilibrium. However, shrouding may occur in an economy with some myopic (or unaware) consumers. Such shrouding creates an inefficiency, which firms may have an incentive to eliminate by educating their competitors' customers. However, if add-ons have close substitutes, a ""curse of debiasing"" arises, and firms will not be able to profitably debias consumers by unshrouding add-ons. In equilibrium, two kinds of exploitation coexist. Optimizing firms exploit myopic consumers through marketing schemes that shroud high-priced add-ons. In turn, sophisticated consumers exploit these marketing schemes. It is not possible to profitably drive away the business of sophisticates. It is also not possible to profitably lure either myopes or sophisticates to nonexploitative firms. We show that informational shrouding flourishes even in highly competitive markets, even in markets with costless advertising, and even when the shrouding generates allocational inefficiencies."
L00|Les productivités des régions françaises sur moyenne période|The aim of this article is to scan, in an accurate way, the French regional labor productivities on sectoral and aggregate levels during the 80’s. Taking from Baumol or Barro & Sala-i-Martin works, this paper enhances them by pointing out the sources of growth analyzed by the new growth theories (research effort, size effects), and by underlying the impact of labor cross-sectoral reallocations. It leads to moderate the regional convergence observed globally, which results mainly from cross-sectoral composition effects. Classification JEL : L00, O41, R1
L00|Les productivités des régions françaises sur moyenne période. Une convergence de façade|[fre] Cet article se propose d'examiner de manière détaillée les productivités du travail au niveau sectoriel et agrégé pour les régions françaises sur la décennie 1980. Empruntant aux travaux initiés par Baumol, suivis par Barro et Sala-i-Martin notamment, il met l'accent sur les sources de la croissance propres aux nouvelles théories de la croissance (effort de recherche, effets de taille) ainsi que sur l'impact des réallocations inter-sectorielles de la main-d'œuvre. Il aboutit à une relativisation de la convergence régionale globalement observée, qui résulte essentiellement d'effets de composition inter-sectoriels. [eng] French regional productivities in the middle run, an outward convergence. . The aim of this article is to scan, in an accurate way, the French regional labor productivities on sectoral and aggregate levels during the 80's. Taking from Baumol or Barro & Sala-i-Martin works, this paper enhances them by pointing out the sources of growth analyzed by the new growth theories (research effort, size effects), and by underlying the impact of labor cross-sectoral reallocations. It leads to moderate the regional convergence observed globally, which results mainly from cross-sectoral composition effects.
