L16|Not All Price Endings Are Created Equal: Price Points and Asymmetric Price Rigidity|There is evidence that 9-ending prices are more common and more rigid than other prices. We use data from three sources: a laboratory experiment, a field study, and a large US supermarket chain, to study the cognitive underpinning and the ensuing asymmetry in rigidity associated with 9-ending prices. We find that consumers use 9-endings as a signal for low prices, and that this signal interferes with price information processing. Consequently, consumers are less likely to notice a bigger price when it ends with 9, or a price increase when the new price ends with 9, in comparison to a situation where the prices end with some other digit. We also find that retailers respond strategically to this consumer bias by setting 9-ending prices more often after price increases than after price decreases. 9-ending prices, therefore, usually increase only if the new prices are also 9ending. Consequently, there is an asymmetry in the rigidity of 9-ending prices: they are more rigid than non 9-ending prices upward but not downward.
L16|Promise, Trust and Betrayal: Costs of Breaching an Implicit Contract|We study the cost of breaching an implicit contract in a goods market, building on a recent study that documented the presence of such a contract in the Coca-Cola market, in the US, during 1886‒1959. The implicit contract promised a serving of Coca-Cola of a constant quality (the “real thing”), and of a constant quantity (6.5oz in a bottle or from the fountain), at a constant nominal price of 5¢. We offer two types of evidence. First, we document a case that occurred in 1930, where the Coca-Cola Company chose to incur a permanently higher marginal cost of production, instead of a one-time increase in the fixed cost, to prevent a quality adjustment of Coca-Cola, which would be considered a breach of the implicit contract. Second, we explore the consequences of the Company’s 1985 decision to replace the original Coke with the “New Coke.” Using the model of Exit, Voice, and Loyalty (Hirschman 1970), we argue that the unprecedented public outcry that followed the New Coke’s introduction, was a response to the Company’s breaching of the implicit contract. We document the direct and quantifiable costs of this implicit contract breach, and demonstrate that the indirect, although unquantifiable, costs in terms of lost customer goodwill were substantial.
L16|If You Think 9-Ending Prices Are Low,Think Again|9-ending prices are a dominant feature of many retail settings, which according to the existing literature, is because consumers perceive them as being relatively low. Are 9-ending prices really lower than comparable non 9-ending prices? Surprisingly, the empirical evidence on this question is scarce. We use 8 years of weekly scanner price data with over 98 million price observations to document four findings. First, at the category level, 9-ending prices are usually higher, on average, than non 9-ending prices. Second, at the product level, in most cases, 9-ending prices are, on average, higher than prices with other endings. Third, sale prices are more likely to be non-9 ending than the corresponding regular prices. Fourth, among sale prices, 9-ending prices are often lower, on average, than comparable non 9-ending prices. The first three findings imply that although consumers may associate 9-ending prices with low prices, the data indicates otherwise. The fourth finding offers a possible explanation for this misperception. Retailers may be using 9-ending prices to draw consumers’ attention to particularly large price cuts during sales, which perhaps conditions the shoppers to associate 9-ending prices with low prices.
L16|Exchange Rate Shocks and Quality Adjustments|Do firms respond to cost shocks by reducing the quality of their products? Using microdata from a large Russian retailer that varies its offerings twice-yearly, we document that ruble devaluations are associated with a reduction in the observed material quality of products imported for resale, but that higher quality goods are also more profitable. We reconcile these facts using a simple multi-product sourcing model that features a demand system with expenditure switching, where more profitable products can be dropped more quickly after a cost shock. The estimated model shows that quality downgrading reduces average passthrough by 6% and has meaningful consequences for welfare.
L16|The Turnaround of the Swedish Economy: Lessons from Large Business Sector Reforms|How can a country improve productivity growth in its business sector and reach its growth potential? Sweden during the 1970–2010 period can serve as an example to help other countries understand how to efficiently reform a business sector. In the 1990s, Sweden implemented a reform package that ignited a successful reorganization of a business sector that had faltered for decades. To understand the economic forces behind this process, the paper first surveys the industrial restructuring literature and then examine the reform package using Swedish matched plant-firm-worker data. The removal of barriers to growth for new and productive firms, as well as increased rewards for investment in human capital, were crucial to the success of Sweden's reforms. The paper also discusses how the reform experience of a developed country such as Sweden can be useful for developing countries that are in the process of transforming their business sectors. The findings suggest that policymakers have much to learn from country case studies and that the Swedish experience can be a valuable case study for developing countries that are attempting to promote growth by developing their business sectors.
L16|A theory of structural change that can fit the data|We propose a dynamic theory that is consistent with the long-run structural change of consumption expenditure shares in agriculture, manufacturing and services over more than a century. We first document three robust features in the long-run data for the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada and Australia: (i) a monotonic decrease in agriculture; (ii) a hump shape in manufacturing; and (iii) an accelerated rise of services. Using historical panel data on sectoral prices and nominal expenditures from 1900 to 2014, we then test what demand side theory can quantitatively explain the observed structural change. We find that the standard non-homothetic preference specifications used in the literature - the generalized Stone-Geary and the Price Independent Generalized Linearity (PIGL) specification - struggle to do so. Within our intertemporal framework, we then consider the entire class of preferences that allows for the aggregation of individual Euler equations - the class of intertemporally aggregable (IA) preferences. This general class nests the standard specifications and allows for the identification of preference parameters from aggregate data. Moreover, its expenditure system is flexible enough to capture the non-monotonic relationship between sectoral expenditure shares. Despite the flexibility, the IA preference specification is parsimonious and can be used in a multi-sector general equilibrium model with steady growth and heterogeneity in individual consumption expenditures. In the empirical analysis we show that the standard specifications are rejected against the more flexible parameterizations of IA preferences and we document the importance of flexible income effects.
L16|The Industrial Revolution in Services|The rise in national industry concentration in the US between 1977 and 2013 is driven by a new industrial revolution in three broad non-traded sectors: services, retail, and wholesale. Sectors where national concentration is rising have increased their share of employment, and the expansion is entirely driven by the number of local markets served by firms. Firm employment per market has either increased slightly at the MSA level, or decreased substantially at the county or establishment levels. In industries with increasing concentration, the expansion into more markets is more pronounced for the top 10% firms, but is present for the bottom 90% as well. These trends have not been accompanied by economy-wide concentration. Top U.S. firms are increasingly specialized in sectors with rising industry concentration, but their aggregate employment share has remained roughly stable. We argue that these facts are consistent with the availability of a new set of fixed-cost technologies that enable adopters to produce at lower marginal costs in all markets. We present a simple model of firm size and market entry to describe the menu of new technologies and trace its implications.
L16|Productivity, structural change and skills dynamics: Evidence from a half century analysis in Tunisia and Turkey|This article explores the contribution of structural change and the skill upgrading of the labor force to productivity in Tunisia and Turkey in the institutional context of the post-World War II period. Our growth decomposition shows that productivity is mainly explained by intra-industry changes for both countries during the import substitution period. Structural change played an important role in Turkey for a longer period of time than in Tunisia. Based on an instrumental variable regression setting, we find evidence that overall, the change in the share of high-educated workers had a causal impact on productivity levels in Turkey, but no such relation was found in Tunisia. Secondly, we show that this productivity increase has mainly been driven by the reallocation of higher educated labor between sectors rather than the absorption of highly educated workers within sectors. In Tunisia we do not find evidence of links between education demand and productivity. Moreover, the evidence from the instrumental variable regressions show that when we exclude the government sector in Tunisia, the overall skills upgrading is negatively associated with productivity growth, suggesting a downward return to educated labor demand over time.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L16|Exploring the role of industrial structure for regional economic resilience|The evolutionary approach of regional economic resilience suggests that an external shock can lead to a structural change and the development of new industrial specializations. Among its determinants, a role is played by the industrial structure where a certain degree of specialisation or diversification may influence the response of regions to shocks. The article aims at investigating the role of the relatedness of new specialisations to the existing industrial structure in favouring resilience of territories. Evaluating the resilience of Italian provinces in relation to the economic crisis of 2008, the analysis seeks to understand if provinces who resisted and recovered better, followed a ?related? or ?unrelated? diversification strategy. Conclusions discusses the implications for the policy debate on smart specialisation.
L16|Skill Mismatch and Skill Transferability: Review of Concepts and Measurements|The notion of skills plays an increasingly important role in a variety of research fields. Since the foundational work on human capital theory, economists have approached skills through the lens of education, training and work experience, whereas early work in evolutionary economics and management stressed the analogy between skills of individuals and the organizational routines of firms. We survey how the concept of skills has evolved into notions such as skills mismatch, skill transferability and skill distance or skill relatedness in labor economics, management, and evolutionary approaches to economics and economic geography. We find that these disciplines converged in embracing increasingly sophisticated approaches to measuring skills. Economists have expanded their approach from quantifying skills in terms of years of education to measuring them more directly, using skill tests, self-reported skills and job tasks, or skills and job tasks reported by occupational experts. Others have turned to administrative and other large-scale data sets to infer skill similarities and complementarities from the careers of sometimes millions of workers. Finally, a growing literature on team human capital and skill complementarities has started thinking of skills as features of collectives, instead of only of individuals. At the same time, scholars in corporate strategy have studied the micro-determinants of team formation. Combined, the developments in both strands of research may pave the way to an understanding of how individual-level skills connect to firm-level routines.
L16|Accounting for Innovations in Consumer Digital Services: IT Still Matters|"This paper develops a framework for measuring digital services in the face of ongoing innovations in the delivery of content to consumers. We capture what Brynjolfsson and Saunders (2009) call ""free goods"" as the capital services generated by connected consumers' stocks of IT digital goods, a service flow that augments the existing measure of personal consumption in GDP. Its value is determined by the intensity with which households use their IT capital to consume content delivered over networks, and its volume depends on the quality of the IT capital. Consumers pay for delivery services, however, and the complementarity between device use and network use enables us to develop a quality-adjusted price measure for the access services already included in GDP. Our new estimates imply that accounting for innovations in consumer content delivery matters: The innovations boost consumer surplus by nearly $1,800 (2017 dollars) per connected user per year for the full period of this study (1987 to 2017) and contribute more than 1/2 percentage point to US real GDP growth during the last ten. All told, our more complete accounting of innovations is (conservatively) estimated to have moderated the post-2007 GDP growth slowdown by nearly .3 percentage points per year.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
L16|Structural changes and growth regimes|Abstract We study the relation between income distribution and growth, mediated by structural changes on the demand and supply sides. Using the results from a multi-sector growth model, we compare two growth regimes that differ in three aspects: labour relations, competition and consumption patterns. Regime one, similar to Fordism, is assumed to be relatively less unequal, more competitive and to have more homogeneous consumers than regime two, which is similar to post-Fordism. We analyse the parameters that define the two regimes to study the role of the economy’s exogenous institutional features and endogenous structural features on output growth, income distribution, and their relation. We find that regime one exhibits significantly lower inequality, higher output and productivity and lower unemployment compared to regime two, and that both institutional and structural features explain these differences. Most prominent amongst the first group are wage differences, accompanied by capital income and the distribution of bonuses to top managers. The concentration of production magnifies the effect of wage differences on income distribution and output growth, suggesting the relevance of competition norms. Amongst structural determinants, firm organisation and the structure of demand are particularly relevant. The way that final demand is distributed across sectors influences competition and overall market concentration; demand from the least wealthy classes is especially important. We show also the tight linking between institutional and structural determinants. Based on this linking, we conclude by discussing a number of policy implications that emerge from our model.
L16|The Role of Trust in Regional Development|Regional development is a dynamic process where relatively stable periods are interrupted by phases of more rapid transformation and disruption. Such dynamics are heavily influenced by the scope and nature of knowledge networks. Trust is a key mechanism influencing the mobilization of networks for learning and innovation and thereby an important factor for understanding regional development. This paper sets out to unpack the role of trust in regional development by advancing a differentiated view that sheds light on why, when, and how trust affects regional development dynamics in a positive or negative way. Avenues for future research are identified.
L16|Structural Transformation and Quality Ladders: Solving the “Theil's Cube”|We propose a decomposition of weighted Theil index of export concentration into the quantity- and quality-driven terms and calculate the proposed components for 5038 product groups and 120 countries. We link our findings to the debate on the role of quality upgrading in structural transformation. The results do not support the idea that climbing quality ladders (or quality upgrading within the actually exported products) is the best way to proceed with structural transformation: for most countries, the share of the quality-driven component of weighted Theil index doesn’t exceed 20 per cent
L16|Going Places: Rail Transport in Japan|The purpose of this short paper is to summarize the state of rail transportation in Japan and to recount recent developments. Points of focus here are organization and types of competition in the rail industry in Japan, the evolution of passenger and freight rail transportation, yardstick regulation as a competition tool, and recent vertical separation in Japan. Several distinguishing factors of the Japanese rail industry are discussed. First, passenger rail transportation is still vital in Japan, but the freight rail business is weaker than in other major industrial countries. The second notable feature of the rail industry in Japan is the extraordinary number of rail operators, the vast majority of which are privately owned passenger railways. Third, most railways are vertically integrated, and entry into and exit from the market are not free but are regulated. Fourth, there are eight types of competition, among which is yardstick competition, an indirect form that is applied to separate markets and has existed in Japan since the 1970s. Fifth, as for the evolution of passenger and freight rail transportation, two developmentsâ€”the Ekinaka business for passenger rail and the Eco-Rail-Mark certificate system for freightâ€”are underway in the rail industry. Sixth, yardstick regulation is effective to some degree, but it is unknown how long the effect will continue. Last, while vertical integration is the norm in Japan, there are cases of vertical separation in some urban area operations. Recently, however, new types of vertical separation have been emerging, mostly for financial reasons. As competition in Japanâ€™s rail industry has been very limited up to now, Japanese policy makers would be wise to seek lessons from the European experience.
L16|Intersectoral Network-Based Channel of Aggregate TFP Shocks|This study investigates the role of intersectoral networks in the transmission of aggregate technology shocks to sectors’ growth. First, we develop a theoretical model to obtain insights into the propagation of shocks through input-output linkages, which suggests that the network effect arises via sectoral downstream linkages. We then quantitatively assess this theoretical implication with US manufacturing industries, where the aggregate technology shocks are derived from a dynamic factor model. We find that aggregate technology shocks lead to an increase in the output growth of the sector, both directly and indirectly via its intersectoral linkages. More interestingly, we document a crucial role of the intersectoral network channel, which contributes about 50 percent of the total effect. In addition, the network-based effect comes mostly from downstream linkages of sectors, which is broadly consistent with theory.
L16|Digital transformation in the automotive supply chain: China, Germany, Italy and Japan in a comparative perspective|A wide literature on digital transformation in manufacturing and services has explored its impact on long term changes in labour demand and skills and on productivity and growth. A new perspective on the ongoing digital transformation has been prompted by Oecd to highlight specific metrics needed to assess its impact on the economy and society and to support innovation policies. Drawing on these contributions, this paper aims to shed light on the impact of digital transformation on the reorganization and relocation of the various segments of the automotive supply chain. In particular, it will focus on the effects generated by different paces of adoption of digital technologies in this supply chain, with regard to both the various segments and the various sizes of companies, in different countries. The causes of this heterogeneity will be discussed and the implications for the full impact of the ongoing transformation will be considered in relation to industrial and innovation policy in Europe. The paper addresses the issue by reviewing empirical evidence on the automotive supply chain, which includes the most advanced manufacturing and service companies that are now adopting digital technologies. Evidence from case studies in the automotive industry in China, Germany, Italy and Japan will help in identifying the main challenges of digital transformation for European countries, which will involve a strongly interrelated supply chain both within and outside Europe.
L16|Digital upgrade in the automotive supply chain in Mexico: issues and challenges|The ongoing digital transformation poses diverse challenges to the automotive sector. While the process of digitalisation will lead to technical and organisational changes across and within the global value chains, the ongoing changes in the trade agreements spurred by the Trump administration may change the location advantages of previous plants and their specialisations. In addition, investment in the electric car may offer first-mover advantages in markets, while requiring the re-organisation of the value chains. Mexico, ranked in 2018 as the seventh producer at world level, is an important case study for several reasons: among these, its cost advantages, its former privileged access to the US market, that attracted many OEMs from Europe, Asia, the US, and its role in the prospective regionalization of world trade. By using interviews to automotive suppliers, experts and business associations of the automotive industry, the paper aims at providing a first outline on issues to be addressed in an analysis looking at how these changes are affecting opportunities for the OEMs in their value chains based in the Mexican automotive system.
L16|Are Price-Cost Markups Rising in the United States? A Discussion of the Evidence|A number of recent papers have argued that US firms exert increasing market power, as measured by their markups of price over marginal cost. I review three of the main approaches to estimating economy-wide markups and show that all are based on the hypothesis of firm cost-minimization. Yet different assumptions and methods of implementation lead to quite different conclusions regarding the levels and trends of markups. I survey the literature critically, and argue that some of the startling findings of steeply-rising markups are difficult to reconcile with other evidence and with aggregate data. Existing methods cannot determine whether markups have been stable or whether they have risen modestly over the past several decades. Even relatively small increases in markups are consistent with significant changes in aggregate outcomes, such as the observed decline in labor’s share of national income.
L16|The Price to Consumers of Generic Pharmaceuticals: Beyond the Headlines|"Generic drug prices have been the focus of much attention in recent years, with Congressional committees, executive agencies and private organizations all conducting investigations into the pricing patterns for generic drugs. Price spikes for selected old, off-patent drugs have also been widely reported in the media. To place these generic price increases into context, we construct two chained Laspeyres consumer price indexes (CPIs), using the 2007-2016 IBM MarketScan Commercial Claims and Encounters Research Database. The first (""direct out-of-pocket CPI"") measures consumers' direct out-of-pocket payments to the dispensing pharmacy, while the second (""total CPI"") represents the total revenues received by the dispensing pharmacy – the consumers' direct out-of-pocket payments plus the amount paid to the pharmacy by the insurer on behalf of the consumer. We find the chained direct-out-of-pocket CPI for generic prescription drugs declines by about 50% between 2007 and 2016, while the total CPI falls by nearly 80% over the same time period. The smaller decline in the direct out-of-pocket CPI than in the total CPI is due in part to consumers' increasingly moving away from fixed copayment benefit plans to pure coinsurance or a mixed package of coinsurance and copayments. While consumers are experiencing more cost sharing that in fact shifts more of the drug cost burden on to them, on balance in the US consumers have experienced substantial price declines for generic drugs."
L16|If You Think 9-Ending Prices Are Low, Think Again|9-ending prices are a dominant feature of many retail settings, which according to the existing literature, is because consumers perceive them as being relatively low. Are 9-ending prices really lower than comparable non 9-ending prices? Surprisingly, the empirical evidence on this question is scarce. We use 8 years of weekly scanner price data with over 98 million price observations to document four findings. First, at the category level, 9-ending prices are usually higher, on average, than non 9-ending prices. Second, at the product level, in most cases, 9-ending prices are, on average, higher than prices with other endings. Third, sale prices are more likely to be non-9 ending than the corresponding regular prices. Fourth, among sale prices, 9-ending prices are often lower, on average, than comparable non 9-ending prices. The first three findings imply that although consumers may associate 9-ending prices with low prices, the data indicates otherwise. The fourth finding offers a possible explanation for this misperception. Retailers may be using 9-ending prices to draw consumers’ attention to particularly large price cuts during sales, which perhaps conditions the shoppers to associate 9-ending prices with low prices.
L16|Decomposing a decomposition: Within-country differences and the role of structural change in productivity growth|In this article, we investigate the relevance of structural change in country-wide productivity growth considering within-country differences. For this purpose, we propose a two-step decomposition approach that accounts for differences among subnational units. To highlight the relevance of our procedure compared to the prevalent approach in the existing development literature (which usually neglects subnational differences), we show an application with data for the Mexican economy. Specifically, we contrast findings obtained from country-sector data on the one hand with those obtained from (more disaggregated) state-sector data on the other hand. One main insight is that the qualitative and quantitative results differ substantially between the two approaches. Our procedure reveals that structural change appeared to be growth-reducing during the period from 2005 to 2016. We show that this negative effect is driven mainly by the reallocation of (low-skilled) labor within subnational units.
L16|Lage und Trends im deutschen Onlinehandel|Dieser Report analysiert die Bedeutung und Entwicklung des Onlinehandels in Deutschland und identifiziert Zukunftstrends. E-Commerce hat in den vergangenen Jahren in Deutschland stark an Bedeutung gewonnen. Mittlerweile ist er für mehr als zehn Prozent des Einzelhandelsumsatzes verantwortlich. Dabei gibt es Unterschiede zwischen den Warengruppen. Vor allem der Lebensmittelhandel findet zum großen Teil noch offline statt. In der nahen Zukunft ist mit einer weiter steigenden Bedeutung des E-Commerce zu rechnen. Trotz starker Kannibalisierungseffekte wird es keine vollständige Ablösung des stationären Handels durch den Onlinehandel geben. Die zukünftige Entwicklung des Onlinehandels wird zu einem großen Teil durch die Logistik determiniert. Die Versandlogistik ist derzeit der Flaschenhals des Onlinehandels und kann diesen auch zukünftig erheblich ausbremsen. Für Händler kann es deshalb vorteilhaft sein, eigene Logistikstrukturen aufzubauen oder zumindest neue Logistikdienstleistungen zu prüfen. Dies gilt insbesondere, da die Versandlogistik zu einem hohen Grad die Kaufentscheidung im Onlinehandel determiniert und damit erfolgsentscheidend für Händler ist.
L16|Shedding Light on the Dark: The Impact of Legal Enforcement on Darknet Transactions| Darknet markets have been increasingly used for the transaction of illegal products and services in the last decade. In particular, it is estimated that drugs make up two-thirds of darknet market transactions. The growth of illicit transactions on darknet markets have led enforcement agencies to invest greater proportion of time and efforts to monitor and crack down on criminal activities on the darknet websites. Despite the successes in convicting perpetrators, it is unknown whether these policing efforts are truly effective in deterring future darknet transactions, given that the identities of the transacting parties are very well protected by the markets’ features. To this end, this study attempts to empirically evaluate the susceptibility of darknet markets breaking down upon police arrests of dealers and buyers. Using drug review data from a few major darknet markets, we discovered a deterrence impact – the transactions in the targeted country would decrease on the market where arrests occurred. More interestingly, we find that disclosure of the arrests will influence the transactions of vendors not only from the same country but also those from other countries that did not experience any arrest incidents. As the darkweb techniques have led to a considerable proliferation of online drug trading, we believe that study findings that reveal the nature of these illicit markets will have key policy and theoretical implications to law makers, enforcement agencies, and academicians.
L16|The decades-long dispute over scale effects in the theory of economic growth|The so-called ‘new growth theory’ is characterized by the now Nobel Prize winning insight that ideas are a non-rival input to and output from endogenous investment in innovation. Non-rivalry implies increasing returns to scale, but this also unintentionally creates an empirically-disputed scale effect that a growing population implies an ever-increasing growth rate. Empirical evidence supports fully-endogenous growth without scale effects, but theoretical issues sustain the decades-long dispute over exactly how to negate the scale effect. This article surveys theoretical approaches to resolving the scale effect and shows how four generations of endogenous growth theory are defined by the maturing of modeling techniques for constraining increasing returns. The synthesis suggests that the dispute over scale effects is really a narrative about how the powerful application of increasing returns has followed a standard theoretical development pattern. This implies that a fourth generation is now emerging that negates the scale effect while retaining fully-endogenous growth without relying on assumptions of linearity. Instead, the market response to excessive increasing returns to innovation constrains explosive growth by expanding the market, rather than by a linear assumption. This latest class of endogenous growth models may be the final chapter to resolving the long running dispute.
L16|Pakistan Input-Output Table 2010-11|This paper develops Pakistan’s first Input-Output table (IOT) that follows the 2008 System of National Accounts. An IOT examines the structural changes in an economy. The present paper provides Pakistan’s IOT 2010-11 in an industry-by-industry format (42*42). The analysis of backward and forward linkages reveals that manufacturing of food products, beverages, textiles, electricity, gas, steam, air-conditioning and accommodation sectors have strong backward linkages while mining and quarrying, wood products, chemicals and chemical products, electricity, gas, steam, air-conditioning, warehousing and support activities for transportation sectors have strong forward linkages. For national economic growth to be sustainable, the government should facilitate economic activities in these sectors.
L16|Exchange Rate vs Foreign Price Pass-through: Evidence from the European Gasoline Market|We show that European retail gasoline prices respond slower to changes in the dollar exchange rate than to changes in the international spot price of wholesale gasoline, which is quoted in dollars. This differential passthrough is not specific to the Euro, and is observed both for Euro-member states and also for those using national currencies. We examine the possibility that this pattern is driven by differences in either the variability and or persistence of exchange rates changes relative to those of the dollar price of gasoline, but find minimal supporting evidence for either. Refinery supply contracts treat changes in the dollar price and the exchange rate symmetrically, and are thus also an unlikely explanation. Other possibilities, such pricing to the market or pricing based on the country of origin are precluded by the nature of the product. There is evidence, however, that exchange rate fluctuations are more strongly correlated with country-specific economic conditions, which reduces the ability of firms to pass-through price increases and lessens their incentive to pass-through price decreases. Moreover, consumers likely draw a more direct link between the crude oil and retail gasoline prices, affecting their price expectations and search intensity, and optimal passthrough.
L16|The Pollution Release and Transfer Register System in the U.S. and Japan: An Analysis of Productivity|This study analyzes productivity in the context of environmental regulations on the provision and dissemination of environmental information. Our study measures total factor productivity (TFP) by considering the emission of toxic chemical substances in the U.S. and Japan and the two countries’ corresponding policies. We apply the directional distance function to measure the Luenberger productivity indicator to estimate TFP. The data for U.S. and Japanese manufacturing firms include 386 firms over 1999 and 2007 and 466 firms over 2001 to 2008, respectively. This paper focuses on nine industries with highest pollution intensity: rubber and plastic, chemicals and allied products, paper and pulp, steel and non-ferrous metal, fabricated metal, industrial machinery, electric products, transportation equipment, and precision instruments. These nine sectors are categorized into two industry groups: the basic materials group and the processing and assembly group. The results show that productivity improved in all industrial sectors in the U.S. and Japan from 2001 to 2007. In particular, the electric product industry improved rapidly after 2002 for both countries. The enforcement of RoHS and the REACH directive in Europe might be one of the reasons for these increases. These stringent restrictions on toxic chemical substances give U.S. companies that export to the European market a strong incentive to treat their toxic chemical substances.
L16|Transport Price, Product Differentiation and R&D in an Oligopoly|This study incorporates transport price and endogenous product differentiation in an international oligopoly. Assuming endogenous determination of transport price based on the profit maximization of the transporter and using a three-stage game, we analyze the effect of the degree and difficulty of product differentiation on transport price. We show that both negatively affect the endogenous transport price. The intuition of this result comes from that the positive effect of a decrease in endogenous transport price on the demand for the differentiated products is greater than the negative effect on the price.
L16|Promise, Trust and Betrayal: Costs of Breaching an Implicit Contract|We study the cost of breaching an implicit contract in a goods market, building on a recent study that documented the presence of such a contract in the Coca-Cola market, in the US, during 1886?1959. The implicit contract promised a serving of Coca-Cola of a constant quality (the “real thing”), and of a constant quantity (6.5oz in a bottle or from the fountain), at a constant nominal price of 5¢. We offer two types of evidence. First, we document a case that occurred in 1930, where the Coca-Cola Company chose to incur a permanently higher marginal cost of production, instead of a one-time increase in the fixed cost, to prevent a quality adjustment of Coca-Cola, which would be considered a breach of the implicit contract. Second, we explore the consequences of the Company’s 1985 decision to replace the original Coke with the “New Coke.” Using the model of Exit, Voice, and Loyalty (Hirschman 1970), we argue that the unprecedented public outcry that followed the New Coke’s introduction, was a response to the Company’s breaching of the implicit contract. We document the direct and quantifiable costs of this implicit contract breach, and demonstrate that the indirect, although unquantifiable, costs in terms of lost customer goodwill were substantial.
L16|Cambodian place in the International trade of Textile and Clothing: Threat and Opportunity|This paper analyzes the threat and opportunity of textiles and clothing industry in Cambodia by employing SWOT analysis, quantitative method of revealed comparative and competitive advantage. The findings reveal that Cambodia has both comparative and competitive advantage of garment industry comparing to another Asian garment exporting countries-namely India, Pakistan, Thailand, and Vietnam, except Bangladesh. Whereas the Cambodian textile industry experiences both comparative and competitive disadvantage as it obtains the lowest score among counties in this study. Our analysis shows that the Cambodian T&S sector faces the risk of EBA, negative impact on the US-China trade war. Vietnam’s readiness, along with good trade policy between India and Bangladesh, is also has a negative impact on Cambodia. Cambodia must consider long-term and medium-term strategies to expand competitiveness for T&S exports. Nevertheless, the term of trade could obtain positive growth since the price of garment and textile products experiences an increasing trend.
L16|Stochastic Structural Change|We propose a tractable algorithm to solve stochastic growth models of structural change. Under general conditions, structural change implies an unbalanced growth path. This property prevents the use of local solution techniques when uncertainty is introduced, and requires the adoption of global methods. Our algorithm relies on the Parameterized Expectations Approximation and we apply it to a stochastic version of a three-sector structural transformation growth model with Stone-Geary preferences. We use the calibrated solution to show that in this class of models there exists a tension between the long- and the short-run properties of the economy. This tension is due to the non-homothetic components of the various types of consumption, which are needed to fit long-run structural change, but imply a counterfactually high volatility of services, and counterfactually low volatilities of manufacturing and agriculture in the short-run.
L16|Sectoral shocks and home substitution|We show that the effect of a sectoral shock on the composition of sectoral shares crucially depends on whether the goods produced in the sector are home-substitutable or not. When a productivity shock hits the market sector that produces non-home-substitutable goods (e.g. manufacturing goods), the shock largely affects the composition of consumption shares of market sectors. On the other hand, when a shock hits the market sector that produces home-substitutable goods (e.g. service goods), relocation in shares mainly occurs between the sector and the home sector. We compare our results to those of the traditional three-sector model without a home sector, and show that the missing of the home substitution effects predicts completely different implications for the response of consumption shares to sectoral shocks.
L16|Horizonatal and Vertical Polarization: Task-Specific Technological Change in a Multi-Sector Economy|"We analyze the effect of technological change in a novel framework that integrates an economy's skill distribution with its occupational and industrial structure. Individuals become managers or workers based on their managerial vs. worker skills, and workers further sort into a continuum of tasks (occupations) ranked by skill content. Our theory dictates that faster technological progress for middle-skill tasks not only raises the employment shares and relative wages of lower- and higher-skill occupations among workers (horizontal polarization), but also raises those of managers over workers as a whole (vertical polarization). Both dimensions of polarization are faster within sectors that depend more on middle-skill tasks and less on managers. This endogenously leads to faster TFP growth of such sectors, whose employment and value-added shares shrink if sectoral goods are complementary (structural change). We present several novel facts that support our model, followed by a quantitative analysis showing that task specific technological progress|which was fastest for occupations embodying routinemanual tasks but not interpersonal skills|is important for understanding changes in the sectoral, occupational, and organizational structure of the U.S. economy since 1980."
L16|Organizing Global Supply Chains: Input-Output Linkages and Vertical Integration|"We study whether and how the technological importance of an input - measured by its cost share - is related to the decision of whether to ""make"" or ""buy"" that input. Using detailed French international trade data and an instrumental variable approach based on self-constructed input-output tables, we show that French multinationals vertically integrate those inputs that have high cost shares. A stylized incomplete contracting model with both ex ante and ex post inefficiencies explains why: technologically more important inputs are ""made"" when transaction cost economics type forces (TCE; favoring integration) overpower property rights type forces (PRT; favoring outsourcing). Additional results related to the contracting environment and headquarters intensity consistent with our theoretical framework show that both TCE and PRT type forces are needed to fully explain the empirical patterns in the data."
L16|Sources of Labor Productivity Growth in the German Brewing Industry|We decompose aggregate industry labor productivity growth into seven distinct components: input deepening, technical change, technical efficiency, scale effect, between-firm reallocation, effects from exits and entry. The first four components measure the productivity growth within a firm. The latter three components capture industry dynamics. Applied to a sample of 118 small and medium sized breweries in Germany over 13 years, we found that within-firm effects, in particular technical change and the scale effect, clearly dominated the effects from industry restructuring.
L16|Sectoral deindustrialization and long-term stagnation of Brazilian manufacturing|In Brazil and in the world, diagnoses of deindustrialization are concentrated in aggregate manufacturing, so policies can be ineffective if deindustrialization has a sector-specific component. This study quantifies and analyzes deindustrialization for the individualized manufacturing sectors. In order to do so, unpublished series from 1970 to 2016 of the manufacturing sectors' share in the Brazilian GDP were created based on official IBGE data. The results show that the manufacturing sectors have deindustrialized at different intensities and periods of aggregate manufacturing, and a sectoral approach reveals traces ignored by the literature on the quality of deindustrialization. It is concluded that the Brazilian deindustrialization is normal (and expected) for the labor-intensive manufacturing sectors, but premature (and undesirable) for the technology-intensive sectors. Therefore, it has negative consequences for the future scientific and technological development of the country.
L16|Productive densification and hollowing-out process in the Brazilian manufacturing|Brazilian industrialization by import substitution provided high levels of productive densification, however, these levels reduced after the trade opening. However, the existing studies used sectoral disaggregation that does not allow the identification of productive niches that are densified or hollowed-out among the manufacturing sectors. This work mapped and analyzed, for the first time for Brazil, the degree of productive densification of all 258 industrial classes based on unpublished data obtained from IBGE. Thus, the study identified the more and less densified niches, possible targets of public policies. Results show that the low and middle-low technology classes are still predominantly densified, but half of the high and medium-high technology industrial classes have moderate to high productive rarefaction, and some technological classes are already maquiladoras. It is concluded that the productive hollowing-out process of the more technological industrial classes can delay the Brazilian development, especially in Science, Technology, and Innovation.
L16|If You Think 9-Ending Prices Are Low, Think Again|9-ending prices are a dominant feature of many retail settings, which according to the existing literature, is because consumers perceive them as being relatively low. Are 9-ending prices really lower than comparable non 9-ending prices? Surprisingly, the empirical evidence on this question is scarce. We use 8 years of weekly scanner price data with over 98 million price observations to document four findings. First, at the category level, 9-ending prices are usually higher, on average, than non 9-ending prices. Second, at the product level, in most cases, 9-ending prices are, on average, higher than prices with other endings. Third, sale prices are more likely to be non-9 ending than the corresponding regular prices. Fourth, among sale prices, 9-ending prices are often lower, on average, than comparable non 9-ending prices. The first three findings imply that although consumers may associate 9-ending prices with low prices, the data indicates otherwise. The fourth finding offers a possible explanation for this misperception. Retailers may be using 9-ending prices to draw consumers’ attention to particularly large price cuts during sales, which perhaps conditions the shoppers to associate 9-ending prices with low prices.
L16|Productivity, structural change and skills dynamics: Evidence from a half century analysis in Tunisia and Turkey|This article explores the contribution of structural change and the skill upgrading of the labor force to productivity in Tunisia and Turkey in the institutional context of the post-World War II period. Our growth decomposition shows that productivity is mainly explained by intra-industry changes for both countries during the import substitution period. Structural change played an important role in Turkey for a longer period of time than in Tunisia. Based on an instrumental variable regression setting, we find evidence that overall, the change in the share of high-educated workers had a causal impact on productivity levels in Turkey, but no such relation was found in Tunisia. Secondly, we show that this productivity increase has mainly been driven by the reallocation of higher educated labor between sectors rather than the absorption of highly educated workers within sectors. In Tunisia we do not find evidence of links between education demand and productivity. Moreover, the evidence from the instrumental variable regressions show that when we exclude the government sector in Tunisia, the overall skills upgrading is negatively associated with productivity growth, suggesting a downward return to educated labor demand over time.
L16|Structural Transformations and Cumulative Causation: Towards an Evolutionary Micro-foundation of the Kaldorian Growth Model|We build upon the evolutionary model developed in prior works (Ciarli, Lorentz, Savona and Valente 2010b), which formalises the links between production, organisation and functional composition of the employment on the supply side and the endogenous evolution of consumption patterns on the demand side. The main contribution resulting from the exercise proposed here is to derive the Kaldorian cumulative causation mechanism as an emergent property of the dynamics generated by the micro-founded model. More precisely, we discuss the main transition dynamics to a self-sustained growth regime in a two-stage growth patterns generated through the numerical simulation of the model. We then show that these mechanisms lead to the emergence of a Kaldor-Verdoorn law. Finally we show that the structure of demand (among others the heterogeneity in consumption behaviour) itself shapes the type of growth regime emerging from the endogenous structural changes, fostering or hampering the emergence of the Kaldor Verdoorn law.
L16|FDI, multinationals and structural change in developing countries|Economic development can be defined as a process in which output growth is accompanied by qualitative changes in the structures of production and employment. Can FDI affect this process? This paper looks for answers in two ways. First, it reviews the extant knowledge about the relationship between MNE activity and economic development in developing countries. Core theoretical and conceptual issues are presented and the key findings of both microeconomic (FDI linkages and spillovers) and macroeconomic (FDI-growth nexus) empirical studies are discussed. The main message of both streams of literature is that FDI has the potential to catalyse development, but actual outcomes are contingent on several factors, such as the absorptive capacity of domestic firms and the level of development of local financial markets. Second, the paper addresses the relationship between FDI and structural change more directly, in a cross-country context, using a two-step estimation approach that is consistent with both theoretical arguments and previous empirical findings which suggest that the FDI-development nexus is highly country-specific. The results confirm such heterogeneity and suggest that the interaction between the sectoral concentration of FDI and the development stage of the country plays a role in determining the development impact of FDI.
L16|The Structural Dynamics of Income Distribution:Technology, Wages and Profits|In the last four decades, an increasingly skewed income distribution has favored capital at the expense of labour and has been coupled with ever growing inequalities. Merging a Neo-Schumpeterian approach to innovation with a Post-Keynesian theoretical framework, this work contributes to the analysis of the structural determinants of functional income distribution. Building on Pianta and Tancioni (2008), we propose a simultaneous model on wage and profit dynamics identifying technological change, offshoring strategies and role of trade unions as key factors which shape the power relations between capital and labour. On the empirical ground, we perform an industry-level analysis extending and improving the Sectoral Innovation Database (SID), which accounts for 38 manufacturing and service sectors for six major European countries (France, Germany, Italy,Netherlands, Spain and United Kindgom) from 1994 to 2014. We find that, despite the structural asymmetries between industries? patterns of evolution, labour productivity growth and product innovation have a positive impact on both distributive components, while a rather negative effect of process innovation on wages is detected. Offshoring processes generally emerge as profit-enhancing while represent a reliable firms? weapon to reduce labour costs, although a remarkable heterogeneity arises when the technological nature of offshoring strategies is accounted for; finally, union density tends to be positively associated with wage dynamics, suggesting the relevance of labour market institutions in conditioning the patterns of income distribution.
L16|Relatedness, economic complexity and convergence across European regions|The aim of this paper is to analyze how the heterogeneous structure of the European regions has affected their patterns of convergence or divergence. We analyse data collected by Eurostat, from a balanced panel of 191 regions and 55 economic branches over the period 2003-2015. In this way, we are able to describe and capture technological proximity across the regions and analyse how it has evolved over space and time. Limiting the analysis to the manufacturing activities, we are also able to measure the degree of economic complexity of the regional production systems and assess how this affects their patterns of growth. Our findings suggest that there are pushing (enhancing convergence) and pulling (exacerbating economic gaps) forces to economic convergence. Spatial effects tend to push towards convergence, with the Eastern regions that started from relatively low levels of GDP per capita and experienced higher growth rates. Nevertheless, the different level of economic complexity tends to widen the gaps between territories: for example, the German regions, whose economic structures are more complex, have kept on widening the gap between themselves and the other European regions. The two different forces are also interconnected as the Eastern regions combine a relatively low level of GDP per capita with a significant level of economic complexity. During the period considered, the improvement in living standards has corresponded to the upgrade of their manufacturing production structures.
L16|The CICE impact on prices: a twofold analysis on individual and sectoral data|The Competitiveness and Employment Tax Credit (CICE) is a major policy reducing labor cost, which could have been used by firms to decrease prices. In this study, we aim at measuring the impact of this cost shock on price dynamics both at the sectoral and at the firm levels. We respectively exploit between-sector and between-firm-within-sector comparisons in the tax credit exposure, namely the share of eligible labor cost. The sectoral analysis suggests that differential exposure to the CICE induces a price moderation in industrial sectors at the upper end of the production chain, and in services sectors close to final demand. However, this deflationary effect cannot be distinguished from a generalized cut in prices in these sectors. The hypothesis of a transmission through intermediate consumption via sectoral links is explored, as it could explain that the direct effect of the cost shock translates in fine into a common decrease in prices, uncorrelated with sectoral initial exposure. So as to circumvent transmission effects, the firm-level analysis is carried out sector by sector. In some sectors, prices moderation is indeed correlated with the tax-credit-induced reduction in cost. It is the case in some industrial sectors such as metallurgy, but also in services: we find a significant correlation in transport activities, specialized construction and administrative and support services activities. These sectors share a common feature: when classifying sectors along the share of eligible labor cost on total costs, they hold the top positions.
L16|Pro-competitive effects of globalisation on prices, productivity and markups: Evidence in the Euro Area|Global trade has recently slowed down after a peak in the 1990s and early 2000s. Existing literature shows evidence of pro-competitive effects of trade liberalisation during this booming period on prices, productivity and markups. The goal of this paper is to assess whether such pro-competitive effects are still carried on in the manufacturing industry of five Euro Area countries (Austria, Germany, Spain, France and Italy). Our analysis is based on Melitz and Ottaviano’s (2008) theoretical framework and its empirical setup by Chen et al. (2004, 2009). Our contribution is twofold. First, we use traditional trade indicators (gross and value added exports and imports) but also novel indicators that account for the development of global value chains. Second, from the findings of Chen et al. (2004, 2009), we go further by investigating the effect of trade at sector level with respect to quality upgrading and firm concentration. We find that pro-competitive effects are more significant when using import penetration in value-added terms and such effects are particularly strong in sectors with low concentration. Indeed, higher concentration seems to mitigate the trade-induced competition. However, our model focuses on price competition and further research on the quality upgrading would be complementary to our results.
L16|A genie in a bottle?: Globalisation, competition and inflation|Declining inflation in many countries over the past few decades at the same time as rising global competition has led to a debate on the importance of globalisation for domestic inflation. This paper explores the implications of global value chain (GVC) integration and market contestability for inflation using a range of industry-level and micro-data sources. We provide evidence that rising participation in GVCs has placed downward pressure on producer price inflation, by increasing the ability of firms to substitute domestic inputs with cheaper foreign equivalents. We investigate the channels, which suggests that increased GVC participation contributed to lower inflation via downward pressures on unit labour costs – by raising productivity and reducing wages – in the importing country, especially when low-wage countries are integrated in supply chains. We then present industry-level evidence to support the conjecture that a higher level of GVC integration dampens producer price inflation by accentuating the impact of global economic slack on domestic inflation. However, we also find an increasing trend in mark-ups, suggestive of rising market power, particularly in services sectors. Thus, looking forward, there is a risk that stalling globalisation since the crisis, coupled with stronger aggregate demand and declining market contestability, could lead to inflationary pressures in the medium term, thereby letting the inflation genie out of the bottle.
L16|Multinational enterprises and global value chains: the OECD analytical AMNE database|In order to better understand the interdependencies between trade and investment in global value chains (GVCs), the OECD has developed a new dataset on the Activities of Multinational Enterprises (AMNE). This dataset starts from official AMNE statistics and combines the information with Inter-Country Input-Output (ICIO) tables to provide new insights on the trade-investment nexus in GVCs. This dataset allows the contribution of domestic firms, multinational enterprises (MNEs) and their foreign affiliates to global trade and production to be assessed. This paper details the methodology that was used to create the data, as well as the main assumptions and challenges in the work.
L16|Multinational production and trade in services|Using the OECD analytical AMNE database, this paper provides new evidence on the services activities of multinational enterprises (MNEs) and discusses the relationship between cross-border trade in services and the production of services through foreign affiliates (“mode 3” trade in services in the General Agreement on Trade in Services). An econometric analysis indicates that policies restricting trade in services (as captured in the OECD Services Trade Restrictiveness Index) are associated with a lower output of foreign affiliates not only in services industries but also in the manufacturing sector. Moreover, services trade restrictions also impact the choice of firms when it comes to engaging in exports or in foreign direct investment to serve foreign markets. Overall, the results in this paper demonstrate the intertwined nature of manufacturing and services activities in global value chains.
L16|Endogenous Sunk Cost, Scale Economies, and Market Concentration|This paper offers a theoretical explanation of the recent sales concentration in the U.S. economy. The model is based on in-house R&D, which is involved in scale economies. An R&D subsidy helps the expansion of larger firms and allows them to take higher markups. Thus, it induces a concentrated market structure.
L16|Sustainable development, environmental policy and renewable energy use: A dynamic panel data approach|The aim of this paper is to cast light on the relationship between sustainable development environmental policy and renewable energy use. We utilize a dynamic GMM approach over a panel of 34 European Union (EU) countries spanning the period 2005–2013. Our findings reveal a positive monotonic relationship between development and pollution. Energy saving positively affects environmental degradation, while energy intensity increases air pollution. Our findings have important policy implications for policy makers towards sustainability. Despite the fact that the Europe ‘20–20–20’ climate and energy package strategy seems to be achieved, the recently adopted Energy Roadmap 2050 must be updated on a regular basis in order to be effectively implemented and monitored by government officials and firms' stakeholders. Therefore, we argue that EU countries must increase the use of new technology and renewable energy capacity in order to align environmental policies towards more efficient energy use and sustainable development among the EU periphery.
L16|Economic drivers of greenhouse gas-emissions in small open economies: A hierarchical structural decomposition analysis|The Paris agreement has prescribed strict Greenhouse Gas (GHG) reduction targets for participating countries. Implementation of climate protection policies is challenging, especially if the economy is export driven. We introduce a hierarchical structural decomposition model in order to investigate the effects of exports, imports, economic structure, consumption patterns, consumption level, outsourcing and insourcing on national GHG emissions. This model is applied to the data of national environmental accounts and to a harmonized and price-deflated series of national input-output tables of Austria for the years 1995, 2000, 2005 and 2010. Over the whole time period, the results indicate that the final demand effect was the main driver of GHG emissions, with exports as most important factor. Surprisingly, emission intensity contributed to an increase of GHG emissions during the period 2000-2005 as well, mostly due to increasing emission intensity in the transport sector.
L16|Application of Artificial Neural Networks in Cold Rolling Process|Rolling is one of the most complicated processes in metal forming. Knowing the exact amount of basic parameters, especially inter-stand tensions can be effective in controlling other parameters in this process. Inter-stand tensions affect rolling pressure, rolling force, forward and backward slips and neutral angle. Calculating this effect is an important step in continuous rolling design and control. Since inter-stand tensions cannot be calculated analytically, attempt is made to describes an approach based on artificial neural network (ANN) in order to identify the applied parameters in a cold tandem rolling mill. Due to the limited experimental data, in this subject a five stand tandem cold rolling mill is simulated through finite element method. The outputs of the FE simulation are applied in training the network and then, the network is employed for prediction of tensions in a tandem cold rolling mill. Here, after changing and checking the different designs of the network, the 11-42-4 structure by one hidden layer is selected as the best network. The verification factor of ANN results according to experimental data are over R=0.9586 for training and testing the data sets. The experimental results obtained from the five stands tandem cold rolling mill. This paper proposed new ANN for prediction of inter-stand tensions. Also, this ANN method shows a fuzzy control algorithm for investigating the effect of front and back tensions on reducing the thickness deviations of hot rolled steel strips. The average of the training and testing data sets is mentioned 0.9586. It means they have variable values which are discussed in details in section 4. According to Table 7, this proposed ANN model has the correlation coefficients of 0.9586, 0.9798, 0.9762 and 0.9742, respectively for training data sets and 0.9905, 0.9798, 0.9762 and 0.9803, respectively for the testing data sets. These obtained numbers indicate the acceptable accuracy of the ANN method in predicting the inter-stand tensions of the rolling tandem mill. This method provides a highly accurate solution with reduced computational time and is suitable for on-line control or optimization in tandem cold rolling mills. Due to the limited experimental data, for data extraction for the ANN simulation, a 2D tandem cold rolling process is simulated using ABAQUS 6.9 software. For designing a network for this rolling problem, various structures of neural networks are studied in MATLAB 7.8 software.
L16|Estimating retail gasoline price dynamics: The effects of sample characteristics and research design|The study shows that much of the variation in the findings of the literature on retail gasoline price dynamics is systematic rather than sample variation from using different data. Estimates of pass-through rates depend systematically on research design and features of the data, such as the sampling frequency, the choice of upstream price, whether taxes are included or not, the sample length, and the postulated lag structure. In addition, there are systematic differences between time periods and countries. Using a 20 year-long dataset of 28 European Union countries we quantify the extent of estimate variation that arises from the choice of data structure from that arising from temporal and country heterogeneity and sampling variation. We also show that country heterogeneity itself has systematic components, with wealthier countries experiencing slower adjustments. Our results inform the interpretation of results on pass-through rates derived from Error Correction Models. They are also of relevance for the broader literature estimating the transmission of price shocks in the economy.
L16|Re-examining the Asymmetric Gasoline Pricing Mechanism in EU: A Panel Threshold Analysis|We employ a pooled panel threshold model along the lines of Seo and Shin (2016) within an error correction framework to re-investigate the “rockets and feathers” hypothesis. The empirical results confirm the superiority of the threshold model compared to the baseline linear specifications, while attributing the asymmetric gasoline adjustment mechanism to Exchange Rate Pass Through (ERPT).
L16|Bounded learning by doing, inequality, and multi-sector growth: A middle-class perspective|This study presents a multisector model of middle-class-led economic growth, whereby, on the one hand, the middle class plays a key role in determining technical progress, while, on the other hand, both its size and income share are the result of past economic growth. Learn- ing by doing, which is assumed to be sector-speci c, bounded from above, and constrained by a minimum scale restriction, is the primary source of productivity gains. The emphasis is then placed on the entire income distribution, which a¤ects the composition of demand -span of goods consumed- and in turn, the speed and the extent of the learning process in the set of goods produced. The model exhibits an inverted-U relationship between inequality and economic growth, which re ects the following trade-o¤: An economy cannot learn both quickly and simultaneously in a wide range of sectors. It is constrained in this respect by its income/skill distribution and the size of its labor force, with consequences on growth-enhancing strategies by means of income redistributions.
L16|Structural change, labour productivity and the Kaldor-Verdoorn law: evidence from European countries|Over the last two decades mature European countries experienced a slackening in economic growth and stagnating labour productivity. Such stagnating productivity may result both from poor ‘within sector’ growth and/or ‘structural change’. The contribution of the paper with regard to these issues is twofold. First, we assess the weight of ‘structural change’ versus ‘within sector’ growth in affecting overall productivity dynamics by means of a shift-share analysis. Second, we empirically investigate the impact of demand factors on ‘within sector’ productivity growth: to do so, we estimate Kaldor-Verdoorn long-run coefficients in response to the dynamics of autonomous demand by implementing an ARDL cointegration-based methodology. With regard to major European countries for the 1980-2015 timespan, we find that: (i) productivity growth is mainly driven by the ‘within sector effect’, with a relatively smaller role played by structural change, particularly after 1999; (ii) autonomous demand growth is relevant in determining productivity dynamics, especially in manufacturing. A major policy implication to deal with structural change issues is that coordinated expansionary macroeconomic policies would matter for productivity growth in the EU, and at the same time contribute to sustain employment.
L16|Business cycle survey and B2B buying decision|The objective of the paper is to determine the degree of agreement between the anticipated industrial demand and the subsequent development of the indicators of economy performance, considering the time period. The methodology of the research compares the balances of business cycle indicators, to the balances of real industry performance in the machining sector. The analyzed time period was 2003 ? 2017, and it was split into several parts on account of diverse economic development. It was proved that the reliability of the selected data varies in accordance with the development of economy. The results indicate that there is a dependency between the assessed variables; the more positive economic development, the more reliable the data. The research was realized in the Czech industry with the intention of providing a tool for another potential user ? so far, an underestimated one ? an industrial business. The results should serve as a tool for mitigation of the B2B market purchase decision uncertainty.
L16|What happens after an investment spike - investment events and firm performance|Our study aims at investigating the relationship between investment spikes andsubsequent productivity development at the firm level. We propose a novel identification scheme for the effects of an investment spike, using matching techniques andadequate econometric modelling. It allows us to find efficiency differentials againstmatched firms. We showed that TFP falls after an investment spike and slowly recovers thereafter, which is consistent with learning-by-doing effects. For smaller firmsthe fall is more pronounced and the subsequent recovery is longer. On the contrary, labor productivity rises after an investment spike, driven mainly by capital deepen-ing. The increase of sales after a spike suggests that expansion is the main purpose of an investment spike and rising employment confirms that this type of investmentis complementary to labor. As firms with spikes are on average more efficient andinvestment spikes attract resources and production factors, it suggests that improved allocative efficiency is an important factor driving positive macroeconomic correlation between investment and TFP.
L16|Structural Change and Global Trade|"Services, which are less traded than goods, rose from 50 percent of world expenditure in 1970 to 80 percent in 2015. Such structural change restrained ""openness""—the ratio of world trade to world GDP—over this period. We quantify this with a general equilibrium trade model featuring non-homothetic preferences and input-output linkages. Openness would have been 70 percent in 2015, 23 percentage points higher than the data, if expenditure patterns were unchanged from 1970. Structural change is critical for estimating the dynamics of trade barriers and welfare gains from trade. Ongoing structural change implies declining openness, even absent rising protectionism."
L16|En quoi la dépense d'investissement des entreprises françaises est-elle énigmatique ?|Cette étude offre une description et caractérisation de l’investissement des entreprises françaises. Tout d'abord, la dépense d'investissement des entreprises françaises est soutenue en valeur absolue et en intensité (taux d'investissement) relativement à ses partenaires. Si la crise a affecté fortement l'investissement des entreprises françaises, celui-ci a continûment augmenté depuis les 20 dernières années. Ce qui caractérise la France, c'est une évolution moins cyclique relativement aux autres pays et une augmentation tendancielle du taux d'investissement avec ou sans construction. Il est frappant aussi d'observer la proximité des taux d'investissement allemands et français en niveau et en évolution hors investissement de construction sur l'ensemble du secteur marchand. Ensuite, l'investissement français se singularise par une faiblesse des investissements en équipements et machines alors qu'au contraire les investissements en actifs immatériels comme la R&D et les logiciels et bases de données sont importants dans la dépense d'investissement. Si on observe le taux d'investissement dans les actifs matériels hors construction, la France sous- performe par rapport à ses partenaires Enfin, la trajectoire du secteur manufacturier relativement aux autres secteurs explique une grande partie des caractéristiques de l'investissement du secteur marchand. La faiblesse de l'intensité en robots résulte de la faiblesse de la part du manufacturier et notamment du secteur de l'électronique.
L16|Good mine, bad mine: Natural resource heterogeneity and Dutch disease in Indonesia|We analyse the local e ect of exogenous shocks to the value of mineral deposits at the district level in Indonesia using a panel of manufacturing plants. To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to model and estimate the effect of heterogeneity in natural resource extraction methods. We find that in areas where mineral extraction is relatively capital-intensive, mining booms cause virtually no upward pressure on manufacturing earnings per worker, and both producers of traded and local goods benefit from mining booms in terms of employment. In contrast, labour-intensive mining booms drive up local manufacturing wages such that producers of traded goods reduce employment. This source of heterogeneity helps to explain the mixed evidence for `Dutch disease' effects in the literature. In addition, we find no evidence that fiscal revenue sharing between sub-national districts leads to any spillovers.
L16|Global Value Chains and Upgrading: What, When and How?|This paper focuses on explaining how technological capabilities interact with trade and GVCs participation to foster upgrading. We analyse trade performance of 74 developing countries in 2000 and 2010 from a perspective of learning, to understand what variables account for technological diversification over time when countries trade, including through GVCs. We find that technological capabilities not only condition the initial determination of local firms in trade and GVCs, but they also determine the extent to which local firms in developing countries manage to leverage knowledge flows and move into activities of greater technological complexity from a dynamic perspective. Our results point to the critical role of national learning variables in countries' performance over time. While emerging economies have synergistic relationships between variables that explain technological capabilities and their trade and GVC performance, this is not the case for developing countries as whole in our sample.
L16|Organizing Global Supply Chains: Input Cost Shares and Vertical Integration|We study how the technological importance of inputs – measured by cost shares – is related to the decision to “make” or “buy” that input. Using detailed French international trade data and an instrumental variable approach based on self-constructed input-output tables, we show that multinationals vertically integrate high cost share inputs. A stylized incomplete contracting model with both ex-ante and ex-post inefficiencies explains why: technologically more important inputs are “made” when transaction cost economics type forces overpower property rights type forces. However, additional results show that both types forces are needed to explain the full patterns in the data.
L16|Structural change and convergence across European regions|The aim of our paper is to analyze the structural diversity of the European regions assuming the complexity of production spaces approach (Hidalgo C.A., B. Klinger, A.L. Barabási, R. Hausmann 2007). This stream of economic literature is the natural companion of the evolutionary theory of economics, where development is seen as the endogenous learning process led by the initial knowledge basis, which tends to expand in its proximity (Boschma 2005). The first step of our analysis is to map the EU regions according to their economic structure. We exploit information conveyed by Eurostat data, which are available for a balanced panel of 241 regions and 86 economic branches in 2010 and 2015. In this way we are able to construct a space characterized by technological proximity of regions. The underlying assumption is that territories with similar production structures display similar production knowledge. The second step is the construction of the network space based on the correlation matrix. In order to obtain the clusters of regions based on the similarity of their economic structure, we apply a modularity algorithm to the network. Such measures define groups based on the degree of connectedness of the observations between them and allows to measure how such groups explain the network connections using as benchmark a case in which edges where assigned randomly. Our findings suggest that regions, which are more dynamic in terms of structural change, are those with manufacturing capabilities located in Eastern European countries. Such regions were able to upgrade their competences towards more complex productions and this resulted also in a fast catch-up of their GDP per capita level with respect to other mid income regions in Western Europe. Most prosperous regions are found to be urban areas with developed creative service activities and in regions with advanced manufactures (machinery, automotive, electronics, etc.); whereas backwardness is detected in regions with a cumbersome weight of tourism related activities.
L16|Structural Change, Trade and Global Production Networks|An ‘Appropriate Industrial Policy’ for Peripheral and Catching-up Economies The global economy has been undergoing rapid structural change the impressive development processes in a range of emerging economies have induced strong shifts in global trade shares; international production networks (IPNs) are characterising regional and global trading relationships and we observe also persistent changes in the positions of countries in global value chains due to rather rapid technological and human capital upgrading. The aim of this paper is to assess these developments, but also discuss the importance of – what we call – ‘appropriate industrial policy’ (AIP) for countries at different developmental stages to support their position in the current global context. We emphasise in particular the role of AIP for European low- and medium-income economies (LMIEs) as the recent financial and economic crisis has shown that they are particularly vulnerable with respect to ‘structural external imbalances’ and thus policies to support their tradable sectors are of great importance.
L16|What kind of related variety for long-term regional growth?|We investigate the evolution of relatedness linkages between Swedish industries during five sub-periods between 1991 and 2010. Distinguishing between the stable ties (present in all sub- periods) and non-stable ties (emerging, disappearing, etc), we demonstrate that the relatedness linkages change considerably over time. Furthermore, we show that the changes in the relatedness matrix matter for the impact of related variety on regional employment growth. We argue, therefore, that the relatedness linkages have a ?best before date? and that the choice of what relatedness indicator to apply and how deserves more consideration than it is usually given.
L16|Tele-Communications 2.0: The Age of the Internet|Over the past few decades, the Internet has become the major tool for communication, greatly replacing the traditional telecommunication technologies. We use industry-level evidence from 21 European countries and the period 1997–2007 and identify the changing effects of traditional telecommunication technologies and the Internet on the functioning of markets. Specifically, we show that the effect of the traditional telecommunication technologies on competition in services and goods markets has dissipated and has become insignificant during this period. In contrast, the effect of the Internet has gained a significant momentum.
L16|Entrepreneurship in the Information Age: An Empirical Analysis of the European Regions|Decelerating productivity in recent years raised questions about technology diffusion in the economy. This study focuses on one particular diffusion channel, entrepreneurship, and inspects the mechanics through which it interacts with digitalization. The composite indicator of digitalization is split into separate components which enables analyzing digitalization’s interplay with entrepreneurship as a dynamic process. Based on the econometric analysis of Eurostat regional data covering the period 2008-2015, I find significant links between digitalization and entrepreneurship. Specifically, digitalization is associated with an increase in the rate at which firms are created and with a decrease in their survival rate after 3 years. The paper demonstrates that the interaction is dynamic in its nature as the effects of initial stages of digitalization reverse or vanish in its later phases. A sectoral analysis shows the persistence of the results across industries. Moreover, there is evidence that professional, scientific and technical activities are especially sensitive towards digitalization, experiencing strong, yet short-term shock in the firms’ birth, death, and survival rates. Accounting for geographic variation reveals heterogeneity between regions but not large enough to affect the overall results.
L16|En quoi la dépense d’investissement des entreprises françaises est-elle énigmatique ?|Cette étude offre une description et caractérisation de l’investissement des entreprises françaises. Tout d'abord, la dépense d'investissement des entreprises françaises est soutenue en valeur absolue et en intensité (taux d'investissement) relativement à ses partenaires. Si la crise a affecté fortement l'investissement des entreprises françaises, celui-ci a continûment augmenté depuis les 20 dernières années. Ce qui caractérise la France, c'est une évolution moins cyclique relativement aux autres pays et une augmentation tendancielle du taux d'investissement avec ou sans construction. Il est frappant aussi d'observer la proximité des taux d'investissement allemands et français en niveau et en évolution hors investissement de construction sur l'ensemble du secteur marchand.Ensuite, l'investissement français se singularise par une faiblesse des investissements en équipements et machines alors qu'au contraire les investissements en actifs immatériels comme la R&D et les logiciels et bases de données sont importants dans la dépense d'investissement. Si on observe le taux d'investissement dans les actifs matériels hors construction, la France sous- performe par rapport à ses partenaires. Enfin, la trajectoire du secteur manufacturier relativement aux autres secteurs explique une grande partie des caractéristiques de l'investissement du secteur marchand. La faiblesse del'intensité en robots résulte de la faiblesse de la part du manufacturier et notamment du secteurde l'électronique.
L16|Structural Change and Global Trade|Services, which are less traded than goods, rose from 58 percent of world expenditure in 1970 to 79 percent in 2015. In a trade model featuring nonhomothetic preferences and input-output linkages, we find that such structural change has restrained the growth in world trade to GDP by 16 percentage points over this period. This magnitude is similar to how much declining trade costs have boosted openness. Moreover, structural change dampens the measured gains from trade by incorporating endogenous responses of expenditure shares to the trade regime. Ongoing structural change implies declining openness, even absent rising protectionism.
L16|Endogenous Growth in Production Networks|We investigate the interplay between technological change and macroeconomic dynamics in an agent-based model of the formation of production networks. On the one hand, production networks form the structure that determines economic dynamics in the short run. On the other hand, their evolution reflects the long-term impacts of competition and innovation on the economy. We account for process innovation via increasing variety in the input mix and hence increasing connectivity in the network. In turn, product innovation induces a direct growth of the firm's productivity and the potential destruction of links. The interplay between both processes generate complex technological dynamics in which phases of process and product innovation successively dominate. The model reproduces a wealth of stylized facts about industrial dynamics and technological progress, in particular the persistence of heterogeneity among firms and Wright's law for the growth of productivity within a technological paradigm. We illustrate the potential of the model for the analysis of industrial policy via a preliminary set of policy experiments in which we investigate the impact on innovators' success of feed-in tariffs and of priority market access.
L16|What drives markups? Evolutionary pricing in an agent-based stock-flow consistent macroeconomic model|This article studies coordination between firms in a multi-sectoral macroeconomic model with endogenous business cycles. Firms are both in competition and interdependent, and set their prices with a markup over unit costs. Markups are heterogeneous and evolve under market pressure. We observe a systematic coordination between firms of each sector, and between each sector. The resulting pattern of relative prices is fairly consistent with the labor theory of value. These emerging features are robust to technology shocks.
L16|Étudier les chaînes globales de valeur comme une forme d’organisation industrielle|?This article discusses the origin and uses of the concepts of global value chains and global production networks. It traces the intensification of the circulation of these concepts in the 1990s and 2000s among researchers in sociology, management, geography, and economics. The article then discusses the reasons why, over the past decade, they have been appropriated by international institutions and governments in order to define development and growth policies focused on competitiveness. It also questions the theoretical fragility of these analytical frameworks and points to the need to take greater account of the role of supply chain integration as a particular means of organizing the division of labor. The last section briefly introduces the articles that make up this special issue of the ? ?Revue d??conomie industrielle? ?. ? JEL classification: F15, F23, F6, L16.
L16|A Forward Calibration Method for New Quantitative Trade Models|This article introduces an innovative and exible dynamic forward calibration method for disaggregated new quantitative trade models, particularly the Eaton and Kortum model, within a computable general equilibrium framework. The model is parameterized based on distinct, consistent future development scenario assumptions about EU climate policy, economic growth, energy efficiency, the electricity mix and structural change (sectoral shifts) derived through a complex scenario-creation process. The model equations and the scenario assumptions are implemented as side constraints of an optimization problem minimizing the difference between historical and targeted technology levels (sectoral productivities). This method is combined with input-output data disaggregation methods to separate Northwest Germany from the rest of Germany and to represent different power generation technologies. This setup enables the comparison of alternative regional sustainability-oriented long-term policy pathways. Despite the importance of the policy pathways envisaged by Northwest Germany's governments to society, they have limited macroeconomic effects in the simulations. In contrast, the future development scenario assumptions significantly affect European economies, particularly via the EU climate policy costs that drastically increase towards 2050. If Northwest Germany's energy transition fails, then its climate policy costs will increase extraordinarily.
L16|Regional Growth Paths: From Structure to Agency and Back|The study of regional growth paths is a key theme in economic geography and of elemental interest for policy makers concerned with regional development. Evolutionary theory explains the path-dependent nature of regional development, and points to its open-ended nature. This paper addresses the interplay between path-dependent, structural forces and the construction and utilization of opportunities through agentic processes. Extending to the evolutionary framework, it is argued that not only history but also perceived future opportunities influence agentic processes in the present and thus shape regional growth paths. Building on recent work about foresightful, strategic and distributed agency, this paper identifies three forms of agency, Schumpeterian innovative entrepreneurship, institutional entrepreneurship and place leadership, that call for and necessitate each other in the process of shaping regional growth paths. It is argued that such a holistic view is essential to understand regional development processes and in particular structural change as manifested in economic diversification and new industrial path development.
L16|サービスの質・価格と消費者の選好|本稿は，個人を対象としたサーベイに基づき，サービスの質・価格に対する消費者の選好に関する観察事実を提示するものである．具体的には，サービスの質の向上への認識，質の高いサービスに対する支払意思，サービス価格の変化に伴う異時点間の代替及び家計内サービス生産との代替について考察する．その結果によれば，消費者は多くのサービスの質が向上していると評価しており，サービス産業の生産性上昇率が過小評価されている可能性を示唆している．質の高いサービスに対する支払意思額の存在が確認されるが，個人間での異質性が大きく，年齢・所得水準等の個人特性の説明力は限られている．サービスの異時点間の代替の価格弾力性は比較的大きく，適切な価格設定を通じた需要平準化の余地が大きいことを示唆している．市場サービスの家計内サービス生産との代替可能性は，一部のサービスではかなり強いが，個人差も大きい．
L16|サービスの質・価格と消費者の選好|本稿は，個人を対象としたサーベイに基づき，サービスの質・価格に対する消費者の選好に関する観察事実を提示するものである．具体的には，サービスの質の向上への認識，質の高いサービスに対する支払意思，サービス価格の変化に伴う異時点間の代替及び家計内サービス生産との代替について考察する．その結果によれば，消費者は多くのサービスの質が向上していると評価しており，サービス産業の生産性上昇率が過小評価されている可能性を示唆している．質の高いサービスに対する支払意思額の存在が確認されるが，個人間での異質性が大きく，年齢・所得水準等の個人特性の説明力は限られている．サービスの異時点間の代替の価格弾力性は比較的大きく，適切な価格設定を通じた需要平準化の余地が大きいことを示唆している．市場サービスの家計内サービス生産との代替可能性は，一部のサービスではかなり強いが，個人差も大きい．
L16|Demand, Supply and Markup Fluctuations|The cyclical behavior of markups is at the center of macroeconomic debate on the origins of business-cycle fluctuations and policy effectiveness. In theory, markups may fluctuate endogenously with the business cycle due to sluggish price adjustment or to deeper motives affecting the price-elasticity of demand faced by individual producers. In this article we make use of a large firm- and product-level panel of Portuguese manufacturing firms in the 2004-2010 period. The biggest empirical challenge is to separate supply (TFP) from demand shocks. Our dataset allows to do so, by containing information on product-level prices at a yearly frequency. Furthermore, markups are mismeasured when calculated with the labor share. We use the share of intermediate inputs instead. Our main results suggest that markups are pro-cyclical with TFP shocks and generally counter-cyclical with demand shocks. We also show how markups become procyclical if the markup is obtained using the labour share instead of intermediate inputs. Adjustment costs create a wedge between the labour share and the actual markup which explain the observed correlations. JEL codes: C23, E32, L16, L22
L16|Business cycles and start-ups across industries: An empirical analysis of German regions|We analyze whether start-up rates in different industries systematically change with business cycle variables. Using a unique data set at the industry level, we mostly find correlations that are consistent with counter-cyclical influences of the business cycle on entries in both innovative and non-innovative industries. Entries into the large-scale industries, including the innovative part of manufacturing, are only influenced by changes in the cyclical component of unemployment, while entries into small-scale industries, like knowledge intensive services, are mostly influenced by changes in the cyclical component of GDP. Thus, our analysis suggests that favorable conditions in terms of high GDP might not be germane for start-ups. Given that both innovative and non-innovative businesses react counter-cyclically in ‘regular’ recessions, business formation may have a stabilizing effect on the economy.
L16|Marshallian vs Jacobs Effects: Which One Is Stronger? Evidence for Russia Unemployment Dynamics|This paper is devoted to the study of diversification and specialization influence on one of the main indicators of Russian labour market, the unemployment growth. The purpose of the work is to find out which effects dominate in the Russian regions, Marshallian or Jacobs, and whether this predominance is stable for different time intervals. The following hypotheses were empirically tested: 1) the dependence of the unemployment rate on the degree of concentration or diversification is non-monotonic due to possible overlapping effects of urbanization and localization; 2) the influence of the degree of concentration or diversification on the level of unemployment depends on the time period. To test these hypotheses nonparametric additive models with spatial effects were used. Both hypotheses found empirical confirmation. It was shown that in Russia, depending on the period, various effects dominated: in 2008-2010, and 2013-2016 Marshallian effects predominated, while in 2010-2013, Jacobs effects dominated.
L16|New Education Models for the Workforce of the Future|This paper addresses the directions to follow when designing new educational systems and school-to-work transition regimes to adhere to the needs of Industry 4.0. Although a high level of general education will be important for its training content to develop adaptability, it is not the only component to develop. What will be more and more important are work related skills, both the general ones and the ones which are job-specific and need, therefore, on-the-job training to develop. This will require important educational reforms to favour an ever-better integration between educational institution and the world of work. Young people and their families alone will not be able to adapt on their own to the new human capital requirements of Industry 4.0 production. A new framework for an integrated action by governments, firms, educational institutions and families is needed to smooth the school-to-work transition in the future. The duality principle is the basis for a strong diversification of the supply of education.
L16|The Compositional Nature of Productivity and Innovation Slowdown|A growing number of studies identify a generalized slowdown in labor productivity growth. The very existence of the slowdown ignited a series of academic debates suggesting that secular stagnation or 'mismeasurement' problems are at the root of the observed trends. We posit that the composition of aggregate productivity matters. In a nutshell, we make the analysis of productivity growth slowdown more fine-grained by shifting the focus to the industry level, considering that the downward trend identified at the macroeconomic level emerges from the aggregation of diverse industry-level productivity trends. We perform an analysis of the structural dynamics of labor productivity by conducting a non-parametric dynamic decomposition exercise that separates within (improvement) and between (structural change) effects for 10 OECD countries. By pooling industries in groups identified according to two different taxonomies - one related to R&D intensities rankings, and the other built upon the Pavitt taxonomy of sources of technological change -, this study assess the industry-level contributions to the slowdown and the trends over time of the within and between components. We interpret our findings highlighting common patterns and suggest two related technological explanations for the productivity slowdown: one based on a Baumol-disease-like effect driven by structural change and another based on implementation lags and/or on an exhaustion of technological opportunities - that is, on decreasing returns in innovative activities. To investigate that, we complement our productivity analysis with evidence on innovation slowdown trends, looking at aggregate and compositional trends. We explore the innovation slowdown using an array of indicators based on the notion of 'idea- TFP' and show that there is a generalized evidence for its occurrence. Eventually, we relate productivity and innovation slowdowns deriving tables of trends co-movements, weighted by input-output matrices coefficients, and clustered by Pavitt industry group. We interpret these relationships and highlight patterns and clusters of significant correlations.
L16|Price Updating in Production Networks|This paper evaluates how firms change their prices in response to cost shocks and other price changes in their environment. We first document three new facts on the heterogeneity of firm-level producer prices and their relationship to buyers and suppliers in a production network. We then develop a non-parametric framework of how producers update their prices, taking into account this production network. The framework is very general, and accounts for the heterogeneity in price changes and the production network from the stylized facts. Moreover, the framework is consistent with various price setting mechanisms, and does not impose a particular market structure or demand functional form. Exploiting rich data on producer prices and the network structure of production in Belgium, we estimate the model to evaluate the importance of both channels in the data. We find that, on average, input price pass-through is incomplete and very much below one, while firms also strongly react to other prices in their environment. This implies that firms can adjust their markups in response to both cost shocks and prices of other firms. Furthermore, firms react differently to common shocks than to idiosyncratic shocks, on average completely passing through common shocks, but much less idiosyncratic shocks
L16|What happens when firms invest? Investment events and firm performance|The aim of the study is to investigate the firm-level relationship between investment spikes and subsequent productivity developments. We used census data of Polish firms with employment above 9 persons, we measured investment spike and constructed a control sample for comparison. We showed various performance indicators before and after investment spike. We tested for the effects of a spike using generalized difference-in-difference models. The results suggest different effects for SMEs and larger companies. In smaller firms investment spike is associated with subsequent sales and employment expansion and lagged labor productivity rise, consistently with learning-by-doing model. TFP of smaller firms falls directly after a spike and only gradually rises thereafter. In larger firms investment spike also result in expansion of sales, but labor productivity is not improving relative to control group, despite a drop of employment. Moreover, capital deepening of larger firms results in significantly lower TFP, both in absolute and relative terms.
L16|Dancing with the Stars: Innovation Through Interactions|An inventor's own knowledge is a key input in the innovation process. This knowledge can be built by interacting with and learning from others. This paper uses a new large-scale panel dataset on European inventors matched to their employers and patents. We document key empirical facts on inventors' productivity over the life cycle, inventors' research teams, and interactions with other inventors. Among others, most patents are the result of collaborative work. Interactions with better inventors are very strongly correlated with higher subsequent productivity. These facts motivate the main ingredients of our new innovation-led endogenous growth model, in which innovations are produced by heterogeneous research teams of inventors using inventor knowledge. The evolution of an inventor's knowledge is explained through the lens of a diffusion model in which inventors can learn in two ways: By interacting with others at an endogenously chosen rate; and from an external, age-dependent source that captures alternative learning channels, such as learning-by-doing. Thus, our knowledge diffusion model nests inside the innovation-based endogenous growth model. We estimate the model, which fits the data very closely, and use it to perform several policy exercises, such as quantifying the large importance of interactions for growth, studying the effects of reducing interaction costs (e.g., through IT or infrastructure), and comparing the learning and innovation processes of different countries.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L16|Public Policy in an AI Economy|This paper considers the role of policy in an AI-intensive economy (interpreting AI broadly). It emphasizes the speed of adoption of the technology for the impact on the job market and the implications for inequality across people and across places. It also discusses the challenges of enacting a Universal Basic Income as a response to widespread AI adoption, discuss pricing, privacy and competition policy the question of whether AI could improve policy making itself.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L16|The Rise of Cloud Computing: Minding your Ps, Qs and Ks|Cloud computing—computing done on an off-site network of resources accessed through the Internet—is revolutionizing how computing services are used. However, because cloud is so new and it largely is an intermediate input to other industries, it is difficult to track in the U.S. statistical system. Moreover, there is a paucity of systematic information on the prices of cloud services. To begin filling this gap, this paper does three things. First, we define the different segments of cloud computing and document its explosive expansion. Second, we develop new hedonic prices indexes for cloud services based on quarterly data for compute, database, and storage services offered by Amazon Web Services (AWS) from 2009 to 2016. These indexes fall rapidly over the sample period, with quickening (and double digit) rates of decline for all three products starting at the beginning of 2014. Finally, we highlight the puzzle of why investment in IT equipment in the NIPAs has been so weak while capital expenditures have exploded for IT equipment associated with cloud infrastructure. We suggest that cloud service providers are undertaking large amounts of own-account investment in IT equipment and that some of this investment may not be captured in GDP.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L16|Organizing Global Supply Chains: Input Cost Shares and Vertical Integration|"We study whether and how the technological importance of an input - measured by its cost share - is related to the decision of whether to ""make"" or ""buy"" that input. Using detailed French international trade data and an instrumental variable approach based on self-constructed IO tables, we show that French multinationals vertically integrate those inputs that have high cost shares. A stylized incomplete contracting model with both ex ante and ex post inefficiencies explains why: technologically more important inputs are ""made"" when transaction cost economics type forces (TCE; favoring integration) overpower property rights type forces (PRT; favoring outsourcing). Additional results related to the contracting environment and headquarters intensity consistent with our theoretical framework show that both TCE and PRT type forces are needed to fully explain the empirical patterns in the data."
L16|From Population Growth to Firm Demographics: Implications for Concentration, Entrepreneurship and the Labor Share|The US economy has undergone a number of puzzling changes in recent decades. Large firms now account for a greater share of economic activity, new firms are being created at a slower rate, and workers are getting paid a smaller share of GDP. This paper shows that changes in population growth provide a unified quantitative explanation for these long-term changes. The mechanism goes through firm entry rates. A decrease in population growth lowers firm entry rates, shifting the firm-age distribution towards older firms. Heterogeneity across firm age groups combined with an aging firm distribution replicates the observed trends. Micro data show that an aging firm distribution fully explains i) the concentration of employment in large firms, ii) and trends in average firm size and exit rates, key determinants of the firm entry rate. An aging firm distribution also explains the decline in labor’s share of GDP. In our model, older firms have lower labor shares because of lower overhead labor to employment ratios. Consistent with our mechanism, we find that the ratio of nonproduction workers to total employment has declined in the US.
L16|Working Paper 299 - The Structure and Performance of the Ethiopian Manufacturing Sector|Although Ethiopia has emerged as one of Africa’s fastest-growing economies, its manufacturing sector is still far from being an engine of growth and economic transformation. It currently plays a marginal role in employment creation, exports, and output, and falls short on stimulating domestic linkages. The sector is dominated by small firms and resource-based industries, low-value and low technology products, and weak inter-sectoral and intra-sectoral linkages. The manufacturing sector’s export orientation has been low and stagnant. Based on data and evidence from the past 25 years, the paper provides an in-depth analysis of the structure. and performance of the Ethiopian manufacturing sector and further explores the reasons behind the ‘paradox’ of the slow growth of industrial outputs and structural shifts. Since the mid-2010s, however, there are some promising signals that the manufacturing sector might be coming out of its doldrums and showing positive dynamics. The paper summarizes the growing challenges of building an industrial workforce and domestic capability, together with export capacity. The findings from this study show a bias for hope, as well as a potential structural transformation. JEL classification: L16, L60, L67, 014. Keywords: Ethiopia, firms, industries, manufacturing, structural transformation, industrial structure, industrialization, industrial policy, linkages, industrial parks.
L16|Working Paper 303 - Industrial Policy and Late Industrialisation in Ethiopia|Ethiopia has emerged as one of the fastest-growing economies in Africa in the early twenty-first century. Despite this rapid growth, however, structural transformation of the economy remains the country’s central challenge. This paper reviews the origins of Ethiopia’s industrialization and industrial policymaking process in the 20th century. The Ethiopian government has pursued developmentalism and practiced an active industrial policy since the early 2000s. However, a review of industrial policies in various priority sectors shows that the outcome has been uneven across sectors, indicating the importance of the strong interaction between industrial structure, linkage dynamics, and politics/political economy for the evolution and effectiveness of an industrial policy. After examining the fundamental weakness in Ethiopia’s economic structure, this paper will illustrate why and how industrial policy must focus on manufacturing and exports to generate structural transformation and accelerate catch-up. The Ethiopian experience shows that an activist industrial policy goes hand in hand with an activist state.JEL classification: L16, L50, L52, 014, 025Keywords: Ethiopia, structural transformation, industrialization, industrial policy, policy learning, activist state, linkage effects, industrial parks.
L16|"Productivity Differentiantion Along the Development Process: a ""Meso"" Approach"|"""Firms are different"" and everyone knows it by direct experience: tendency toward a productivity differentiation is a consequence of the fact that, generally speaking, new goods and new processes are continuously introduced in the market. Nevertheless, imitation and firm selection tend to act as counter-balancing forces. It is possible to imagine that forces increasing firm differences (in term of productivity) act stronger in developing countries, and that, contemporaneously, the selection process is weaker in these same economies. Fragmentary empirical indications suggest that productivity differentiation among firms/sectors is effectively higher in poorer countries. This paper is a step to deep this question in more general terms: it proposes and empirically tests a ""development"" perspective to analyze productivity differentials, and this seems a substantial novelty. Results, with a few limits, support the hypothesis that inter-industry productivity differentials are negatively associated with the level of development."
L16|Games without winners: Catching-up with asymmetric spillovers|Dynamic game with changing leader is studied on the example of R&D co-opetition structure. The leader benefits from higher followers' innovations rate and followers are enjoying a spillover from the leader. Leadership changes because of asymmetric efficiency of investments of players. It is demonstrated that under sufficiently asymmetric players there is no long-run leader in this game and all players act as followers. Moreover this outcome may be the socially optimal one. In decentralised setting additional complex types of dynamics are observed: permanent uctuations around symmetric (pseudo)equilibrium and chaotic dynamics. This last is possible only once strategies of players are interdependent. Cooperative solution is qualitatively similar for any number of players while market solution is progressively complex given all players are asymmetric. Results are extended to an arbitrary linear-quadratic multi-modal differential game with spillovers and the structure necessary for the onset of non-deterministic chaos is discussed.
L16|Common Ownership Concentration and Corporate Conduct|The question of whether and how partial common-ownership links between strategically interacting firms affect firm behavior has been the subject of theoretical inquiry for decades. Since then, consolidation and increasing concentration in the asset-management industry has led to more pronounced common ownership concentration (CoOCo). Moreover, recent empirical research has provided evidence consistent with the literature's key predictions. The resulting antitrust concerns have received much attention from policy makers worldwide. However, the implications are more general: CoOCo affects the objective function of the firm, and therefore has implications for all subfields of economics studying corporate conduct -- including corporate governance, strategy, industrial organization, and all of financial economics. This article connects the papers establishing the theoretical foundations, reviews the empirical and legal literatures, and discusses challenges and opportunities for future research.
L16|Good mine, bad mine: Natural resource heterogeneity and Dutch disease in Indonesia|We analyse the local effect of exogenous shocks to the value of mineral deposits at the district level in Indonesia using a panel of manufacturing plants. To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to model and estimate the effect of heterogeneity in natural resource extraction methods. We find that in areas where mineral extraction is relatively capital-intensive, mining booms cause virtually no upward pressure on manufacturing earnings per worker, and both producers of traded and local goods benefit from mining booms in terms of employment. In contrast, labour-intensive mining booms drive up local manufacturing wages such that producers of traded goods reduce employment. This source of heterogeneity helps to explain the mixed evidence for `Dutch disease' effects in the literature. In addition, we find no evidence that fiscal revenue sharing between sub-national districts leads to any spillovers.
L16|Experimental Evidence on the Cyclicality of Investment|We report laboratory experiments investigating the cyclicality of investment. In our setting, optimal investment is counter-cyclical because investment costs fall following market downturns. However, we do not observe counter-cyclical investment. Instead, heuristic investment models where firms invest a fixed percentage of their liquidity, or a fixed percentage of anticipated market demand, better fit our data on average than does optimal investment. We also report a control treatment without cost changes and a treatment with asymmetric investment liquidity. Both of these extensions support our main result.
L16|Efectos del crédito hipotecario sobre el precio de la vivienda nueva NO VIS en Medellín|No abstract is available for this item.
L16|Efectos del crédito hipotecario sobre el precio de la vivienda nueva NO VIS en Medellín|No abstract is available for this item.
L16|Common-Ownership Concentration and Corporate Conduct|The question of whether and how partial common-ownership links between strategically interacting firms affect firm objectives and behavior has been the subject of theoretical inquiry for decades. Since then, the growth of intermediated asset management and consolidation in the asset-management sector has led to more pronounced common ownership links at the beneficial-owner level. Recent empirical research has provided evidence consistent with the literature’s prediction that common ownership concentration (CoOCo) can affect product market outcomes. The resulting antitrust concerns have received worldwide attention. However, because CoOCo can change the objective function of the firm, the potential implications span all fields of economics that involve corporate conduct, including corporate governance, strategy, industrial organization, and financial economics. This article connects the papers establishing the theoretical foundations, reviews the empirical and legal literatures, and discusses challenges and opportunities for future research.
L16|Dancing with the Stars: Innovation Through Interactions|An inventor's own knowledge is a key input in the innovation process. This knowledge can be built by interacting with and learning from others. This paper uses a new large-scale panel dataset on European inventors matched to their employers and patents. We document key empirical facts on inventors' productivity over the life cycle, inventors' research teams, and interactions with other inventors. Among others, most patents are the result of collaborative work. Interactions with better inventors are very strongly correlated with higher subsequent productivity. These facts motivate the main ingredients of our new innovation-led endogenous growth model, in which innovations are produced by heterogeneous research teams of inventors using inventor knowledge. The evolution of an inventor's knowledge is explained through the lens of a diffusion model in which inventors can learn in two ways: By interacting with others at an endogenously chosen rate; and from an external, age-dependent source that captures alternative learning channels, such as learning-by-doing. Thus, our knowledge diffusion model nests inside the innovation-based endogenous growth model. We estimate the model, which fits the data very closely, and use it to perform several policy exercises, such as quantifying the large importance of interactions for growth, studying the effects of reducing interaction costs (e.g., through IT or infrastructure), and comparing the learning and innovation processes of different countries.
L16|The real exchange rate, innovation and productivity : regional heterogeneity, asymmetries and hysteresis|We evaluate manufacturing firms' responses to changes in the real exchange rate (RER) using detailed firm-level data for a large set of countries for the period 2001-2010. We uncover the following stylized facts: In export-oriented emerging Asia, real depreciations are associated with faster growth of firm-level TFP, higher sales and cash-flow, and higher probabilities to engage in R&D and to export. We find negative effects for firms in other emerging economies, which are relatively more import dependent, and no significant effects for firms in industrialized economies. Motivated by these facts, we build a dynamic model in which real depreciations raise the cost of importing intermediates, affect demand, borrowing-constraints and the profitability of engaging in innovation (R&D). We decompose the effects of RER changes on productivity growth across regions into these channels. We estimate the model and quantitatively evaluate the different mechanisms by providing counterfactual simulations of temporary RER movements and conduct several robustness analyses. Effects on physical TFP growth, while different across regions, are non-linear and asymmetric.
L16|Prices under Innovation: Evidence from Manufacturing Firms|We study how firms' innovations impact prices with endogenous productivity and markup, under imperfect competition and dynamic pricing. Absent innovation, productivity plus markup changes curb price growth to half of variable inputs cost growth. Innovation's additional impact on costs is negatively correlated with markup changes. We detect two prevalent strategies. When marginal cost goes down, firms cash-in innovation by increasing the markups to enlarge profits. When marginal cost goes u firms practice countervailing pricing by decreasing markups. With no innovation aggregate manufacturing price growth had multiplied by 1.4, but innovation without cash-in strategies had multiplied it by 0.8.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L16|Does Capital Flow More to High Tobin's Q Industries?|We examine whether capital flows more to high Tobin's q industries and find that it flows more to high q industries from 1971 until 1996 but not from 1997 to 2014. This change is due to a decrease in the q-sensitivity of equity funding resulting mostly from the increased q-sensitivity of repurchases after 1996. The increase in intangible assets, the aging of American firms, and the impact of the China shock explain much of the change in the q-sensitivity of equity funding and repurchases. The results are robust to how q is estimated and to a non-q measure of growth opportunities.
L16|Prices under Innovation: Evidence from Manufacturing Firms|We study how firms' innovations impact prices with endogenous productivity and markup, under imperfect competition and dynamic pricing. Absent innovation, productivity plus markup changes curb price growth to half of variable inputs cost growth. Innovation's additional impact on costs is negatively correlated with markup changes. We detect two prevalent strategies. When marginal cost goes down, firms cash-in innovation by increasing the markups to enlarge profits. When marginal cost goes u firms practice countervailing pricing by decreasing markups. With no innovation aggregate manufacturing price growth had multiplied by 1.4, but innovation without cash-in strategies had multiplied it by 0.8.
L16|Agiles Business Model Management mit dem Canvas Business Model|Es wird in diesem Working Paper untersucht, in wie weit sich das Canvas Business Model zum agilen Business Model Management für Unternehmen in der Vorgründungs- und Gründungsphase eignet.
L16|New Education Models for the Future of Work Force|This paper addresses the directions to follow when designing new educational systems and school-to-work transition regimes to adhere to the needs of Industry 4.0. Although a high level of general education will be important for its training content to develop adaptability, it is not the only component to develop. What will be more and more important are work related skills, both the general ones and the ones which are job-specific and need, therefore, on-the-job training to develop. This will require important educational reforms to favour an ever-better integration between educational institution and the world of work. Young people and their families alone will not be able to adapt on their own to the new human capital requirements of industry 4.0 productions. A new framework for an integrated action by governments, firms, educational institutions and families is needed to smooth the school-to-work in the future. The duality principle is the basis for a strong diversification of the supply of education.
L16|The role of FDI in structural change: Evidence from Mexico|Foreign direct investment (FDI) flows to Mexico are substantial and play an important role in the Mexican economy since the mid-1990s. These investments reflect the activities of multinational firms that shape to some extent the economic landscape and sectoral structure in this host country. We illustrate that there is considerable variation in the amounts of FDI and structural change within the country and across time. Based on this, the paper's main purpose is to analyze whether there is a significant impact of FDI on structural change. We conduct an empirical analysis covering the period 2006-2016. We use the fixed-effects estimator where the unit of observation is a Mexican state for which we calculate structural change from the reallocation of labor between sectors. The results suggest that (if any) there is a positive effect from FDI on growth-enhancing structural change. This effect depends critically on the lag structure of FDI. Moreover, there is some evidence that the positive effect (i) arises from FDI flows in the industry sector and (ii) is present for medium- and low-skilled labor reallocation.
L16|Mid Caps: der große Mittelstand. Die Wirtschaftspolitik berücksichtigt die Relevanz der Mid Caps nicht ausreichend|Die Struktur der deutschen Unternehmenslandschaft wird durch die von der Europäischen Union (EU) vorgegebene strikte Trennung zwischen kleinen und mittleren Unternehmen mit weniger als 250 Beschäftigten einerseits und Großunternehmen andererseits nur schlecht wie-dergegeben. Denn die deutsche Wirtschaft ist stark durch größere Mittelständler - so genannte Mid Caps - geprägt, die mit mehreren hundert oder sogar über 1.000 Mitarbeitern typisch mittelständische Strukturen aufweisen. Hierzu zählen größere Familienunternehmen wie auch kleinere Kapitalgesellschaften. Viele von ihnen sind international agierende Hidden Champions mit starken Exportaktivitäten, die durch zielgerichtete Innovationen führend in ihrem Marktsegment sind. In diesem Policy Paper sollen daher Strukturen und Potenziale des größeren Mittel-stands bis zu einer Schwelle von 3.000 Mitarbeitern in Deutschland näher untersucht werden. Seit 2003 ist die Anzahl der Mid Caps ebenso wie ihre Beschäftigtenzahl jeweils um mehr als ein Drittel angestiegen. Hierzu hat auch ihre starke Präsenz auf Auslandsmärkten innerhalb und au-ßerhalb Europas beigetragen. Doch es gibt auch Risiken für die zentrale Position, die sich Mid Caps und große Familienunternehmen im deutschen Wirtschaftssektor erarbeitet haben: Zwar ist ihr Forschungs- und Entwicklungsleistung beträchtlich, doch die Anzahl innovierender Unternehmen ist insgesamt rückläufig. Ohne kontinuierliche Innovationen werden jedoch die Herausforderungen der Digitalisierung und Globalisierung zukünftig nicht zu meistern sein. Die Studie schließt daher mit Empfehlungen, wie die Wirtschaftspolitik auf die große Bedeutung des größeren Mittelstands angemessen reagieren und vor allem die noch bestehenden Defizite etwa im Forschungs- und Entwicklungsbereich reduzieren kann. Besonders wichtig sind eine steuerliche Forschungsförderung auch für das Mid Cap-Segment und ein wirkungsvoller 'Bürokratie-TÜV' durch Berücksichtigung der Mid Caps im KMU-Test sowie im Mittelstandsmonitor für nationale und europäische Gesetzesvorhaben.
L16|Mid Caps in der Metall- und Elektro-Industrie: Der größere Mittelstand spielt eine entscheidende Rolle|Mittelständisch strukturierte Unternehmen, die die eng definierten Grenzen für kleine und mittlere Unternehmen (KMU) sprengen, spielen eine große Rolle in der deutschen Metall- und Elektro-Industrie (M+E-Industrie). Diese Unternehmen mit 250 bis unter 3.000 Mitarbeitern werden auch als Midrange-Unternehmen oder kurz als Mid Caps bezeichnet. Im Jahr 2016 wurden 2.464 M+E-Unternehmen in dieser Kategorie des gehobenen Mittelstands gezählt, die 1,5 Millionen Mitarbeiter beschäftigten. Mit einem Umsatz von 399 Milliarden Euro trugen sie 31 Prozent zu den Gesamtumsätzen der M+E-Industrie bei und erwirtschafteten 54 Prozent der industriellen Umsätze im Größensegment der Mid Caps. Dabei werden die Mid Caps jedoch sta-tistisch und in den EU-Richtlinien im Allgemeinen als Großunternehmen eingestuft, obwohl es sich bei ihnen ganz überwiegend um mittelständisch strukturierte Firmen mit starker Bindung an ihren jeweiligen Heimatstandort - oft außerhalb der boomenden deutschen Ballungszentren - handelt. Sehr oft sind Unternehmen dieser Größe in Deutschland familien- oder eigentümergeführt. Viele Mid Caps zählen zudem zu den export- und innovationsstarken Hidden Champions, die von hoher Relevanz für den Wirtschaftsstandort Deutschland sind. Doch rückläufige Innovatorenanteile sind ein Warnsignal, dass Forschung und Entwicklung in Deutschland keinen ausreichenden wirtschaftspolitischen Stellenwert besitzen.
L16|Klimaanpassung in Land- und Forstwirtschaft: Ergebnisse eines Workshops der Ressortforschungsinstitute FLI, JKI und Thünen-Institut|Das Working Paper stellt die Ergebnisse einer Umfrage und eines Workshops zusammen, die von Wissenschaftlern und Wissenschaftlerinnen der Ressortforschungsinstitute Thünen-Institut, Julius Kühn-Institut (JKI) und Friedrich-Loeffler-Institut (FLI) im Herbst 2016 zusammengetragen und diskutiert worden sind. Ziel des Workshops und der Umfrage war, den Stand des Wissens zu Klimaanpassungsthemen in der Ressortforschung des BMEL und die zukünftigen Herausforderungen einer Anpassung an den Klimawandel in der deutschen Land- und Forstwirtschaft zu analysieren. Die deutsche Land- und Forstwirtschaft ist von primären Klimafolgen wie stetig steigenden Durchschnittstemperaturen, veränderten Niederschlagsmustern und immer häufiger auftretenden, regional und saisonal sehr unterschiedlich ausgeprägten Extremwetterereignissen betroffen. Zudem führen sekundäre Klimafolgen wie ein erhöhter Schaderreger- und Infektionsdruck, Probleme bei der Bekämpfung von Schadnagern in Land- und Forstwirtschaft, eine Verschiebung der Vegetationsphasen oder eine Änderung der Produktqualität zu höheren Anbau- und Produktionsrisiken. Viele ertragswirksame Faktoren wie z. B. steigende Ozon-Konzentrationen und deren Interaktion mit Schädlingsbefall und Extremwetterereignissen sind noch weitgehend ungeklärt. Der CO2-Düngeeffekt, höhere Temperaturen und die Verlängerung der Vegetationsperiode bieten aber auch Chancen für die deutsche Landwirtschaft, vor allem für den Pflanzenbau. Im Vergleich zu anderen Regionen der Welt werden die Produktionsbedingungen in Mitteleuropa voraussichtlich auch künftig stabil und günstig für den Pflanzenbau bleiben. Damit verbunden sind Möglichkeiten, stabil hohe und ggf. höhere pflanzenbauliche Erträge zu erzielen und die Wettbewerbsfähigkeit der deutschen Landwirtschaft an den Weltagrarmärkten zu verbessern. Zum Teil kann durch eine Anpassung der Produktionssysteme von Kulturpflanzen und in der Tierhaltung mit relativ einfachen Maßnahmen auf Klimaänderungen reagiert werden. Es werden jedoch weitere Maßnahmen und vor allem auch Strategien für den Umgang mit Klimafolgen und Extremwetterereignissen benötigt. Insgesamt wird eine regionalspezifische Ausrichtung der Produktionssysteme immer wichtiger. Im Forst ist es von essentieller Bedeutung, die am besten an die zukünftigen Klimabedingungen einzelner Standorte angepassten Baumarten und Herkünfte zu identifizieren und in die Bestände zu integrieren. Parallel dazu sollte die Identifizierung der genetischen Grundlagen einzelner Resistenz- und Toleranzmerkmale gegenüber abiotischen und biotischen Schadfaktoren verstärkt erforscht und die Ergebnisse für die gezielte Züchtung resistenter Bäume genutzt werden.Für den Ackerbau werden angepasste und tolerante Sorten sowie Ertragsmodelle benötigt, die sowohl Schäden durch Extremwetterereignisse als auch durch Schaderreger vorbeugen, aber auch positive Faktoren und Interaktionen nutzen können. Die Modelle werden auch als Grundlage der Bewertung von Risikomanagementsystemen benötigt. Zudem besteht Bedarf an der Entwicklung von (digitalen) Entscheidungshilfen für den bestmöglichen und effektivsten Düngezeitpunkt, eine gezielte Bewässerung oder auch die Anwendung von Pflanzenschutzmitteln. Anpassungsmaßnahmen sollten anhand ihrer Kosten und Nutzen aus ökonomischer, ökologischer und gesellschaftlicher Sicht bewertet werden. Um Handlungsempfehlungen zum Anbau einzelner Kulturen an verschiedenen Standorten erarbeiten zu können, ist neben der wissenschaftlichen Analyse der Risiken ebenso die weitere Erforschung der Chancen, die sich durch die erwarteten Klimaänderungen ergeben könnten, erforderlich. [...]
L16|The role of FDI in structural change: Evidence from Mexico|Foreign direct investment (FDI) flows to Mexico are substantial and play an important role in the Mexican economy since the mid-1990s. These investments reflect the activities of multinational firms that shape to some extent the economic landscape and sectoral structure in this host country. We illustrate that there is considerable variation in the amounts of FDI and structural change within the country and across time. Based on this, the paper's main purpose is to analyze whether there is a significant impact of FDI on structural change. We conduct an empirical analysis covering the period 2006-2016. We use the fixed-effects estimator where the unit of observation is a Mexican state for which we calculate structural change from the reallocation of labor between sectors. The results suggest that (if any) there is a positive effect from FDI on growth-enhancing structural change. This effect depends critically on the lag structure of FDI. Moreover, there is some evidence that the positive effect (i) arises from FDI flows in the industry sector and (ii) is present for medium- and low-skilled labor reallocation.
L16|End of 9-endings, price recall, and price perceptions|Prices that end with 9, also known as psychological price points, are common, comprising about 70% of the retail prices. They are also more rigid than other prices. We take advantage of a natural experiment to document an emergence of a new price ending that has the same effects as 9-endings. In January 2014, the Israeli government passed a new regulation prohibiting the use of non 0-ending prices, bringing an end to 9-ending prices. We find that seven months after 9-ending prices have disappeared, 90-ending prices acquired the same status as 9-ending prices had before the new regulation was adopted. Thus, 90-ending prices became the new psychological price points, partially eliminating the regulation’s intended effect.
L16|End of 9-Endings, Price Recall, and Price Perceptions|Prices that end with 9, also known as psychological price points, are common, comprising about 70% of the retail prices. They are also more rigid than other prices. We take advantage of a natural experiment to document an emergence of a new price ending that has the same effects as 9-endings. In January 2014, the Israeli government passed a new regulation prohibiting the use of non 0-ending prices, bringing an end to 9-ending prices. We find that seven months after 9-ending prices have disappeared, 90-ending prices acquired the same status as 9-ending prices had before the new regulation was adopted. Thus, 90-ending prices became the new psychological price points, partially eliminating the regulation’s intended effect.
L16|End of 9-Endings and Price Perceptions|We take advantage of a natural experiment to document an emergence of a new price ending that has the same effects as 9-endings. In January 2014, the Israeli parliament has passed a law prohibiting the use of non 0-ending prices. We find that one year after 9-ending prices have disappeared, 90-ending prices acquired the same status as 9-ending prices had before the law was passed. 90-ending prices became the new psychological price points. The retailers and the shoppers both reacted to the regulatory intervention optimally, which has eliminated the regulation’s intended effect.
L16|Trade, technology, and prosperity: An account of evidence from a labor-market perspective|Trade and technological change continually alter the workplace and labor-market outcomes, with consequences for economy-wide welfare and the distribution of real incomes. This report assesses the state of economic research into those areas, with a particular focus on empirical methodologies and their adequacy for an assessment of general-equilibrium outcomes. While difference-in-differences techniques and instrumental- variable approaches provide answers, they exhibit shortcomings that limit conclusiveness. Recent advances in structural estimation of multi-country and multisector models that allow for reallocation frictions in domestic labor markets hold promise to deliver more definite empirical answers. Interestingly, a conclusion from a two-decades old strand of literature seems to be vindicated by conclusions from a related recent literature: roughly one-quarter of changes in labor-market outcomes (wage inequality then and manufacturing job losses now) was predicted by trade integration and roughly one-third by technological change. The remainder of changes in labor-market outcomes remains unaccounted. The report offers candidate explanations, rooted in recent evidence, how interactions between globalization, technological progress, and structural change may account for that remainder.
L16|The long-run growth effects of R&D policy|We assess the long-run growth effects of public policies to business R&D using data for US manufacturing industries and taking Schumpeterian growth theory as guideline. Our analysis indicates that R&D policy in the form of R&D tax credits fosters the rate of productivity growth over the long-term horizon. This effect is quantitatively important: increasing R&D tax credits by 10% raises the growth rate of labour productivity by 0.4% per year. We show that our findings are robust to controlling for several policy instruments, growth determinants and econometric issues. Moreover, the overall evidence is consistent with the predictions of second-generation fully-endogenous growth models.
L16|Structural Adjustments and International Trade: Theory and Evidence from China|This paper studies how changes in factor endowment, technology, and trade costs jointly determine the structural adjustments, which are defined as changes in distributions of production and exports. We document the structural adjustments in Chinese manufacturing firms from 1999 to 2007 and find that production became more capital-intensive while exports did not. We structurally estimate a Ricardian and Heckscher-Ohlin model with heterogeneous firms to explain this seemingly puzzling pattern. Counterfactual simulations show that capital deepening made Chinese production more capital-intensive, but technology changes that biased toward the labor-intensive sectors and trade liberalizations provided a counterbalancing force.
L16|Crecimiento económico y productividad en Latinoamérica. El proyecto LA-KLEMS|Background: The purpose of this article is to analyze economic growth, productivity and its determinants in five countries in Latin America (Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia and Mexico) during the period 1990-2010. This analysis applies to the aggregate economy as well as to nine economic sectors. Methods. A new database, LA-KLEMS, is used that will serve as a fundamental tool for empirical and theoretical research in the area of economic growth and productivity for Latin America. The variables are organized around the growth accounting methodology, which provides a clear conceptual framework for consistent analysis of interaction between the variables. The LA-KLEMS figures highlight discrepancies between countries and give a new perspective to understand how the series evolve over time. Results. Results show that the sluggish economic growth is basically driven by the negative contribution of total factor productivity (TFP) in all countries and in almost all sectors, despite the investment efforts made in the last 20 years. Latin American countries face a genuine problem of productivity, as the shift-share analysis shows. Conclusions. The problems of TFP are common to all industries and do not seem to be driven by structural change, that is the reallocation of resources from low to high productive industries.// Antecedentes. El objetivo de este artículo es analizar el crecimiento económico, la productividad y sus determinantes en cinco países de América Latina (Argentina, Brasil, Chile, Colombia y México) durante el periodo 1990-2010. Este análisis se aplica tanto a la economía agregada como a nueve sectores de actividad económica. Metodología. Se utiliza una nueva base de datos, LA-KLEMS, que servirá como herramienta fundamental para la investigación empírica y teórica en el área de crecimiento económico y productividad para América Latina. Las variables se organizan en torno a la metodología de contabilidad del crecimiento, que proporciona un marco conceptual claro para el análisis coherente de la interacción entre las variables. Las cifras de LA-KLEMS ponen de relieve las discrepancias entre los países y dan una nueva perspectiva para entender cómo evolucionan las series con el tiempo. Resultados. Los resultados muestran que el lento crecimiento económico se debe básicamente a la contribución negativa de la productividad total de los factores (PTF) en todos los países y en casi todos los sectores, a pesar de los esfuerzos de inversión realizados en los últimos 20 años. Los países latinoamericanos se enfrentan a un auténtico problema de productividad, como muestra el shift-share análisis. Conclusiones. Los problemas de la PTF son comunes a todos los sectores de actividad económica y no parecen estar impulsados por el cambio estructural, es decir, la reasignación de recursos de industrias de baja a alta productividad.
L16|Learning by Doing, Inequality, and Sustained Growth: A Middle-class Perspective|This paper presents a theory of demand-driven economic growth whereby the middle class plays a prominent role in determining technical progress, while at the same time being a growth outcome. Emphasis is placed on the development and implementation process rather than on the innovation process. The entire income distribution affects the composition of demand and both the speed and extent of the learning process, which remains within an intermediate range of activity sectors for which there is middle-class-led consumption. Our framework exhibits an inverted-U relationship between inequality and growth, which has implications for growth-enhancing strategies by means of income redistributions.
L16|How Fast are Semiconductor Prices Falling?|The Producer Price Index (PPI) for the U.S. suggests that semiconductor prices have barely been falling in recent years, a dramatic contrast to the rapid declines reported from the mid‐1980s to the early 2000s. This slowdown in the rate of decline is puzzling in light of evidence that the performance of microprocessor units (MPUs) has continued to improve at a rapid pace. Over the course of the 2000s, the MPU prices posted by Intel, the dominant producer of MPUs, became much stickier over the chips' life cycle. As a result of this change, we argue that the matched‐model methodology used in the PPI for MPUs likely started to be biased after the early 2000s and that hedonic indexes can provide a more accurate measure of price change since then. MPU prices fell rapidly through 2004 on every price measure we present, with the PPI declining at an even quicker pace than the hedonic indexes. However, from 2004 to 2009, our preferred hedonic index fell faster than the PPI, and from 2009 to 2013 the gap widened further, with our preferred index falling at an average annual rate of 42 percent, while the PPI declined at only a 6 percent rate. Given that MPUs currently represent about half of U.S. shipments of semiconductors, this difference has important implications for gauging the rate of innovation in the semiconductor sector.
L16|Markup heterogeneity, export status ans the establishment of the euro|We investigate the effects of the establishment of the euro on the markups of French manufacturing firms. Merging firm-level census data with customs data, we estimate time-varying firm-specific markups and distinguish between eurozone exporters from other firms between 1995 and 2007. We find that the establishment of the euro has had a pronounced pro-competitive impact by reducing firm markups by 14 percentage points. By reducing export costs, the euro represented an opportunity for eurozone exporters to increase their margins relative to other firms. Quantile regressions show that the euro has led to a reduction in the variance of markups.
L16|External and Internal Factors Influence to the Return on Equity and Risk Investment in Jakarta Islamic Index (JII)|"""Objective – This study aims to analyze the direct influence of external factors (inflation, foreign exchange rates, interest rate of Bank Indonesia) and internal (capital structure, liquidity) on Return On Equity (ROE) in companies that went public in Jakarta Islamic Index, analyze the indirect influence of external and internal factors on the risk of investing in companies that go public in Jakarta Islamic Index, analyze the effect of ROE on the risk investment in companies that go public in Jakarta Islamic Index. Methodology/Technique – The sample used 10 companies using purposive sampling. Analysis tools using path analysis. Findings – Results showed inflation and exchange rates (foreign exchange rates / USD) no significant effect on ROE and Investment Risk. BI rate has no effect on ROE but significant effect on the risk of investment. Capital structure and liquidity significantly influence the ROE but had no effect on the risk of investment. ROE has no effect on the risk of investment. Novelty – Results of research it pays advisable for investors and prospective investors pay attention to internal factors (capital structure, liquidity and other fundamental factors) companies due to internal factors will affect the profitability of Integration."""
L16|Upstream Product Market Regulations, ICT, R&D and Productivity|Our study aims to assess the actual importance of the two main channels via which upstream anti-competitive sector regulations are usually considered to impact productivity growth, i.e. by acting as a disincentive to business investments in R&D and in ICT. We estimate the specific impacts of these two channels and their shares in the total impact as opposed to alternative channels of investments in other forms of intangible capital that we cannot explicitly consider for lack of appropriate data such as improvements in skills, management and organization. To achieve this, we specify an extended production function explicitly relating productivity to R&D and ICT capital as well as to upstream regulations, and we specify two factor demand functions relating R&D and ICT capital to upstream regulations. These relations are estimated on the basis of an unbalanced panel of 15 OECD countries and 13 industries over the period 1987-2007. Confirming the results of previous similar studies, our estimates find that the impact of upstream regulations on total factor productivity can be sizeable, and they provide evidence that a good part of the total impact, though not a predominant one, is transmitted through investments in both R&D and ICT, and particularly the former<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L16|How many want to drive the bus? Analyzing the number of bids for public transport bus contracts|This paper examines how different factors related to contract characteristics and the operational and tender environments affect the number of unique bidders placing bids in tenders for bus contracts. A generalized Poisson model is used with a comprehensive data set containing most of the recently tendered bus contracts in Sweden, spanning the period 2007–2015.
L16|The distance factor in Swedish bus contracts: how far are operators willing to go?|One of the factors differentiating operators the most in bus services is, arguably, the respective distances from their workplaces to the area of a procured contract. More dead running kilometers implies higher costs, and the same should affect operators’ probability to participate in tenders. As previous studies have discussed, this is a relevant competitive factor, but the transport literature lacks studies aiming to assess the size of this distance factor. This paper examines what impact operators’ distance to tendered bus contracts has on their probability to participate in the tender, and how this probability differs across operator types. To address this, an econometric analysis was undertaken using probit regressions with data on tendered Swedish bus contracts over the period 2007–2015 along with operator workplace data. The results show that operators’ distance from a contract has a significantly negative effect on their probability of placing a bid for the contract. While being located near the contract gives, on average, an over 90 percent probability of participating, being 10 kilometers away results in a 30 percent probability. The rival’s distance to the contract also has an effect, but only to a limited extent. Large operators are found to be less affected by their distance to a contract, and they are also more inclined to bid if the procuring authority offers a depot to use.
L16|Who creates jobs and who creates productivity? Small versus large versus young versus old|We propose a new method to analyze employment and productivity dynamics in a consistent way. Using Swedish data we find that net jobs were mainly created in young, small firms and productivity gains were mainly created in large old firms.
L16|Transformation Capacity of the Innovative Entrepreneur: On the interplay between social structure and agency|Structural change features prominently in public policy and scientific debates. While a large body of work is concerned with barriers to structural change, this paper focusses on the interplay between structure and agency by focussing on the transformation capacity of innovative entrepreneurs. Transformation capacity is defined as the ability to combine knowledge and resources across different social structures and stimulate institutional change. The paper discusses why and to what extent transformation capacity rests on three key mechanisms: multiple positions, positional mobility, and networks across social structures. The paper elaborates on potential unintended consequences and pre-conditions for transformation capacity.
L16|Origins and Pathways of Innovation in the Third Industrial Revolution: Sweden, 1950-2013|This study examines the factors that have shaped the long-term evolution of the ICT industry in Sweden, 1950-2013. Exploiting a new historical micro-database on actual innovation output, the driving forces and technological interdependencies in the third industrial revolution are chronicled. The results of this study support some stylized facts about innovational interdependencies in general-purpose technologies: a closely knitted set of industries have provided positive and negative driving forces for the development of ICT innovations. The historical evolution of the GPT surrounding microelectronics can in this perspective be described as a sequence of development blocks.
L16|市場サービスの質・価格と家計内サービス生産|本稿は、個人を対象とした独自の調査に基づき、サービス消費に関するいくつかの新しい観察事実を提示するものである。具体的には、サービス需要の構造変化、サービスの質の変化、サービスの業態間及び異時点間での代替、市場サービスと家計内サービス生産との代替について検討する。分析結果によれば、多くのサービスについて消費者は質が向上していると評価しており、サービス産業の生産性上昇率が過小評価されている可能性を示唆している。平均的にはサービスの異時点間の代替の弾力性は比較的大きいと見られ、価格設定行動を通じた需要平準化の可能性を示唆している。市場サービスの家計内サービス生産との代替関係はかなり強いが、個人特性による違いも大きい。
L16|市場サービスの質・価格と家計内サービス生産|本稿は、個人を対象とした独自の調査に基づき、サービス消費に関するいくつかの新しい観察事実を提示するものである。具体的には、サービス需要の構造変化、サービスの質の変化、サービスの業態間及び異時点間での代替、市場サービスと家計内サービス生産との代替について検討する。分析結果によれば、多くのサービスについて消費者は質が向上していると評価しており、サービス産業の生産性上昇率が過小評価されている可能性を示唆している。平均的にはサービスの異時点間の代替の弾力性は比較的大きいと見られ、価格設定行動を通じた需要平準化の可能性を示唆している。市場サービスの家計内サービス生産との代替関係はかなり強いが、個人特性による違いも大きい。
L16|The Impact of Unionization Costs when Firm-selection Matters|How does an increase in unionization costs, i.e. costs which arise when workers are organized by a union, affect the productivity distribution of active firms, wage inequality and welfare? In this paper, we build a model with costly, endogenous unionization, heterogeneous firms as well as free market entry/exit. If unionization costs are rel- atively low (high), we find that an increase in these costs decreases (increases) average productivity and welfare decreases (increases). Additionally, we find a hump-shaped relationship between unionization costs and wage inequality. These results suggest that policies aiming to reduce unionization could worsen economic performance.
L16|Choosing Right from Wrong: Industrial Policy and (De)industrialization in Central and Eastern Europe|Over the past two and a half decades, the economic landscape of Central and Eastern European economies went through several waves of transformation. The demise of traditional industries and the rise of the service sector during the 1990s inclined economic structure towards deindustrialization. The events over the next years paved the way for the rise of new industries in many of these countries and embarked them on the route of reindustrialization. However, in some countries the rise of new industries was more modest and took place at a much slower pace. Such development can be attributed to the process of industrial restructuring as well as industrial policies. The recent rise of awareness about the importance of industrial development for the growth and well-being of nations makes it relevant to investigate the sources behind changes in the economic structure of Central and Eastern European countries. Our findings reveal two groups of CEECs, defined as reindustrializing and those going through deindustrialization. The research identifies loss of competitiveness as the principal driving force of such an outcome. No support was found for horizontal policies. The reindustrialization mainly takes place through productivity improvements in less knowledge and technology intensive activities. Such findings are in line with those on the position of CEECs in global value chains.
L16|Market Concentration and Sectoral Inflation under Imperfect Common Knowledge|We show empirical evidence that sectoral inflation persistence, measured by autocorrelation of monthly changes in US producer prices, is starkly dispersed and negatively correlated with market concentration across sectors. To account for such empirical observation, we develop a dynamic stochastic model of firms' pricing strategy in which monopolistically competitive firms set their prices while receiving private signals on cost shocks. In the model, an increase in the number of competing firms raises strategic complementarity among the firms in the same sector. Using the model, we analytically show that, under imperfect common knowledge, sectoral inflation persistence is monotonically decreasing in market concentration.
L16|Business Cycles and Start-ups across Industries: an Empirical Analysis for Germany|We analyze whether start-up rates in different industries systematically change with business cycle variables. We mostly find correlations that are consistent with counter-cyclical influences of the business cycle on entries in both innovative and non-innovative industries. Entries into the large-scale industries, including the innovative part of the manufacturing sector, are more strongly influenced by changes in the cyclical component of unemployment, while entries into small-scale industries, like the knowledge intensive services, are merely influenced by changes in the cyclical component of GDP. Business formation may therefore have a stabilizing effect on the economy.
L16|Sectoral change and labour productivity growth during boom, bust and recovery in Central and Eastern Europe|Abstract This paper assesses the extent of structural or sectoral change and its importance for aggregate productivity growth during times of boom, bust and recovery. The analysis covers 10 EU countries from Central and Eastern Europe over the years 2001–2012. The reallocation of labour across sectors was substantial during the boom, very extensive in 2009 at the depth of the crisis and modest in the subsequent recovery period. The contribution of sectoral change to aggregate productivity growth is computed using various decomposition methods. Changes in labour productivity within sectors play the dominant role for aggregate productivity growth, while reallocation of labour between sectors is less important. This pattern is found through most of the sample period despite large differences in the extent of sectoral change during the boom, crisis and recovery.
L16|Horizontal differentiation and economic growth under non-CES aggregate production function|Abstract We present a model of economic growth driven by horizontal innovation in which, unlike the existing literature, the final output sector employs a non-specified, non-CES, additive production function. Our motivation in conducting such analysis is based on the recognition that the use of a CES aggregate production function in the final output sector leads to the unrealistic conclusion that the gross markup of price over marginal costs set in the monopolistically-competitive intermediate sector is constant. We derive necessary and sufficient conditions for an equilibrium with perfect competition in the final output market to exist even in the presence of a non-CES technology. These conditions generalize the usual properties of the CES case. We also analyze the long-run relation between economic growth and variable markups.
L16|Is deregulation of product and labour markets promoting employment and productivity? A difference-in-differences approach|This paper examine the impact of labour and product market reforms on sectoral employment and productivity, following a difference-in-differences approach. Using industry-level data for the period 1997-2013, we show that employment protection deregulation has a positive effect on sectoral employment for industries more exposed to labour market legislation, despite having a non-positive impact on productivity. Upstream product market deregulation also increases sectoral employment for the downstream sectors more dependent on upstream inputs. Nevertheless, it has mixed effects on sectoral productivity: while upstream sectors face productivity losses, the downstream sectors more exposed to the deregulated sectors grasp productivity gains.
L16|Could China Be the Winner of the Next Industrial Revolution?|This paper attempts to give a comprehensive picture of China’s current position and prospects for growth in the next industrial revolution, assessing whether the country can emerge as one of the “global winners” of the coming transformation. We provide an overview based on a review of the literature on the main driving megatrends of the so-called Fourth Industrial Revolution and present the most important socioeconomic implications affecting China. We progress by analysing China’s current economic situation and growth prospects, reviewing secondary data. We find that to ensure a positive grow path, there is a need to enhance productivity via innovation, and we thus evaluate the innovative capacities of Chinese industry. We conclude that China is already a world leader in various industries based on consumer-focused, efficiency-driven innovation, and while Chinese players have not attained global competitiveness yet in engineering and science-based industries, if the country can follow its current path of development in promoting R&D, with no major systemic disturbances, it is only a matter of time before Chinese players will also emerge as world leaders in high-tech sectors.
L16|The Macroeconomic Impact of Microeconomic Shocks: Beyond Hulten's Theorem|We provide a nonlinear characterization of the macroeconomic impact of microeconomic productivity shocks in terms of reduced‐form nonparametric elasticities for efficient economies. We also show how microeconomic parameters are mapped to these reduced‐form general equilibrium elasticities. In this sense, we extend the foundational theorem of Hulten (1978) beyond the first order to capture nonlinearities. Key features ignored by first‐order approximations that play a crucial role are: structural microeconomic elasticities of substitution, network linkages, structural microeconomic returns to scale, and the extent of factor reallocation. In a business‐cycle calibration with sectoral shocks, nonlinearities magnify negative shocks and attenuate positive shocks, resulting in an aggregate output distribution that is asymmetric (negative skewness), fat‐tailed (excess kurtosis), and has a negative mean, even when shocks are symmetric and thin‐tailed. Average output losses due to short‐run sectoral shocks are an order of magnitude larger than the welfare cost of business cycles calculated by Lucas (1987). Nonlinearities can also cause shocks to critical sectors to have disproportionate macroeconomic effects, almost tripling the estimated impact of the 1970s oil shocks on world aggregate output. Finally, in a long‐run growth context, nonlinearities, which underpin Baumol's cost disease via the increase over time in the sales shares of low‐growth bottleneck sectors, account for a 20 percentage point reduction in aggregate TFP growth over the period 1948–2014 in the United States.
L16|Regularities in Prices of Production and the Concentration of Compositions of Capitals|Recent developments in price of production models have proposed a hypothesis on the structure of the input coefficient matrices to explain the empirical near-linearity and monotonicity found in prices as a function of income distribution - the tendency towards zero of subdominant eigenvalues. The objective of this paper is twofold: First, based on the behavior of observed eigenvalues, the paper shows that they cannot explain by their own the regularities found in prices of production. Second, it is shown theoretically and empirically the existence and relevance of an additional force acting on the input matrix and the labor coefficient vector: the concentration of industries' vertically integrated compositions of capital around their average. It is argued that the combined effect of these two factors produces the empirical regularities in relative prices. The tendency of the vertically integrated labor to means of production proportions to cluster around their average reveals the existence of an economic force acting on the structure of technology of observable economies and calls for an explanation. The paper relies on the US 1987- 2007 Input-Output accounts, at the highest disaggregation level (between 370-466 sectors), for the empirical evidence in this paper.
L16|Demand-driven technical change and productivity growth: Evidence from the US Energy Policy Act|We study how demand shocks affect productivity by provoking technical change. Our model shows that increasing demand leads to technical change and productivity improvements through a direct market size effect and an indirect competition effect. We test the predictions using a natural experiment in the US corn industry where changes to national energy policy created exogenous increases in demand. Estimates show that the increase in demand caused technical change as corn producers adopted new technologies which in turn raised productivity by 5.7% per annum in the five years after the policy change. Although both channels are found to motivate technical change, the economic magnitude of the direct effect substantially outweighs the indirect effect.
L16|Boosting productivity in Mexico through integration into global value chains|Mexico’s structural reforms are already boosting productivity, but more can be done. This paper focuses on issues that have led to the success of the “modern” Mexico, and have led to difficulties with the “traditional” Mexico. These include the success of Global Value Chains (GVCs) in advancing the trade integration and linkages of key sectors, as well as how competition problems, excessive local regulation, and weak legal institutions have led to misallocation across firms. This paper examines in particular Mexico’s successful integration into GVCs. OECD research suggests that GVC participation can bring economic benefits in terms of productivity, diversification and sophistication of production. Understanding what drives integration into GVCs provides policy guidance to support a wider integration.
L16|Structural inequality: The case of Sweden|Structural trends not directly related to labour market functioning and redistribution have made a sizeable contribution to inequality and poverty in Sweden, but occupy only limited space in the income inequality debate. To fill this gap, we put a quarter of a century of rising inequality in Sweden in a new perspective by quantifying the effect of changing household composition, age structure, industry structure, educational attainment and immigration on inequality. The influence of structural changes on inequality is derived from micro-data from Statistics Sweden. We re-weigh subgroups of the population with certain characteristics by their population shares in 1987 to construct counterfactual income distributions for 2013 and derive inequality measures that we compare to their actual 2013 values. We find that almost half of the inequality increase between 1987 and 2013 can be mechanically ascribed to these factors.
L16|Financial Inclusion and Women Entrepreneurship: Evidence from Mexico|Financial inclusion and women entrepreneurship concern policymakers because of their impact on job creation, economic growth and women empowerment. Women in Mexico do engage in paid work but many of them work in the informal sector because they lack opportunities to work in the formal sector. Moreover, financial exclusion rate in Mexico remains the highest amongst OECD countries, affecting women in particular. This paper uses an individual-based panel dataset over the period 2009-2015 to examine the determinants of women entrepreneurship in Mexico and to determine the relationship between women entrepreneurship and financial inclusion across informal and formal work and across economic sectors. The results suggest that financial inclusion is positively linked with entrepreneurship and it can open up economic opportunities for women entrepreneurs. Various financial access points like banking branches, POS terminals, banking agents, ATMs and microfinance banks can be a gateway to the use of additional financial services which can allow businesses development through access to credit facilities. However, the positive relationship between women entrepreneurship and financial inclusion does not hold for women entrepreneurs working in the informal sector or women working in the commerce sector, highlighting lower entry barriers, including financial, in the informal sector and problems pertaining to financial illiteracy. Results also highlight that the probability of a women being an entrepreneur in the informal sector is higher than in the formal sector. Education, age, income, marital status (married or divorced), and income level at the municipality level are amongst other significant determinants which are positively linked with women entrepreneurship. The results also highlight the existence of gender disparity in the status of entrepreneurship across formal and informal work in Mexico. On average, women are about 56% less likely to be entrepreneurs in the formal sector and 63% more likely to be entrepreneurs in the informal sector, as compared to men, after taking into account other relevant individual and municipality level characteristics that are important in explaining entrepreneurship.
L16|Reigniting growth through productivity-enhancing reforms in Colombia|Over the past decade, sound macroeconomic policies and an improved business environment have helped generate relatively strong GDP growth. Investments in infrastructure are improving connectivity and trade integration has been facilitated by lower tariffs. Simplification in opening of businesses, getting construction permits, registering property and payment of taxes improved the ease of doing business. Nevertheless, labour productivity remains low with large differences between firms and regions, and the contribution of technological progress to growth has been negative in recent years. Low productivity growth reflects poor educational and managerial quality, still large infrastructure gaps, low investment in innovation and R&D and stringent regulations in some sectors. To raise productivity growth Colombia should focus on some key areas. First, reverse the drop in public investment and reduce high transport and logistics costs. Second, intensify trade links and participation in GVCs, by further improving trade facilitation, to encourage firms to adopt the best technologies and know how. Third, create better incentives for firms to invest on R&D, and strengthen the links between the business sector and research institutions to foster innovation. Fourth, increase competition and reduce regulation in specific sectors to promote investment and facilitate the allocation of resources towards most productive firms. And fifth, upgrade the quality of education to develop better skills and professional management to enhance the creation and diffusion of new technologies. In 2016, the government established the National Policy for Productive Development to address the impediments to increased productivity. This Working Paper relates to the 2017 OECD Economic Survey of Colombia (www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/economic-survey-colombia.htm)
L16|End of 9-Endings and Price Perceptions|We take advantage of a natural experiment to document an emergence of a new price ending that has the same effects as 9-endings. In January 2014, the Israeli parliament has passed a law prohibiting the use of non 0-ending prices. We find that one year after 9-ending prices have disappeared, 90-ending prices acquired the same status as 9-ending prices had before the law was passed. 90-ending prices became the new psychological price points. The retailers and the shoppers both reacted to the regulatory intervention optimally, which has eliminated the regulation's intended effect.
L16|Endogenous Mergers in Markets with Vertically Differentiated Products|This paper studies the incentives of firms selling vertically differentiated products to merge. To this aim, we introduce a three-stage game in which, at the first stage, three independent firms can decide to merge with their competitors via a sequential game of coalition formation and, at the second and third stage, they can optimally revise their qualities and prices, respectively. We study whether such binding agreements (i.e. full or partial mergers) can be sustained as subgame perfect equilibria of the coalition formation game, and analyze their effects on equilibrium qualities, prices and profits. We find that, although profitable, the merger-to-monopoly of all firms is not an outcome of the finite-horizon negotiation, where only partial mergers arise. Moreover, we show that all stable mergers always include the firm initially producing the bottom quality good and reduce the number of variants on sale.
L16|On the Degree of Scale Economies when Firms Make Technology Choice|We construct a simple model to demonstrate how the firm-level degree of scale economies (D-SE) is determined when firms make technology choice. In particular, we illustrate the importance of external factors that affect the efficiency of firms' technology choice, such as public knowledge stock, when determining D-SE. A change in public knowledge stock affects D-SE both directly and indirectly through a change in the firm's output. When output is endogenized in a monopolistic competition model with a variable mark-up rate, an increase in public knowledge stock raises D-SE through technology choice if the mark-up rate is increasing in output.
L16|Structural Change, Aggregate Demand And The Decline Of Labour Productivity: A Comparative Perspective|Over the last three decades, many advanced economies have experienced significant changes in their productive structures, with a decline in the share of workers in manufacture and a transition towards the service sector. This structural change can be considered as one of the main causes behind the poor performance of aggregate labour productivity. Moreover, these changes have been associated with a process of reforms in the labour market - i.e. an increase in labour flexibility and a reduction in employees’ protections - and a compression of the wage share. Our hypothesis is that these institutional and economic processes can also be harmful to labour productivity. We submit our hypotheses to empirical scrutiny. The results are as follows: the share of employment in manufacture is positively related to labour productivity. On the other hand, the share of employment in several service industries and labour flexibility negatively affect it.
L16|Is inequality harmful for innovation and growth? Price versus market size effects|Abstract We introduce non-homothetic preferences into an R&D based growth model to study how demand forces shape the impact of inequality on innovation and growth. Inequality affects the incentive to innovate via a price effect and a market size effect. When innovators have a large productivity advantage over traditional producers a higher extent of inequality tends to increase innovators’ prices and mark-ups. When this productivity gap is small, however, a redistribution from the rich to the poor increases market sizes and speeds up growth.
L16|Horizontal and Vertical Polarization: Task-Specific Technological Change in a Multi-Sector Economy|We analyze the effect of technological change in a novel framework that integrates an economy's skill distribution with its occupational and industrial structure. Individuals become managers or workers based on their managerial vs. worker skills, and workers further sort into a continuum of tasks (occupations) ranked by skill content. Our theory dictates that faster technological progress for middle-skill tasks not only raises the employment shares and relative wages of lower- and higher-skill occupations among workers (horizontal polarization), but also raises those of managers over workers as a whole (vertical polarization). Both dimensions of polarization are faster within sectors that depend more on middle-skill tasks and less on managers. This endogenously leads to faster TFP growth of such sectors, whose employment and value-added shares shrink if sectoral goods are complementary (structural change). We present several novel facts that support our model, followed by a quantitative analysis showing that task-specific technological progress--which was fastest for occupations embodying routine-manual tasks but not interpersonal skills--is important for understanding changes in the sectoral, occupational, and organizational structure of the U.S. economy since 1980.
L16|Endogenous Recombinant Growth And Intellectual Property Rights|We show that, even in a framework in which monopolistic exploitation of patents does not occur, patents still give rise to serious drawbacks. We build on Weitzman’s (1998) recombinant growth model which provides a stylized but clear description of the formation of knowledge externalities. In our framework a benevolent government buys immediately new patents in a competitive market and releases their contents for free. We show that inefficiencies nevertheless arise and welfare can be improved by correcting the market price through a tax-subsidy scheme. We characterize the (asymptotic) steady state equilibrium, and some properties of the transitional path. We show that if certain conditions are met, then the economy will converge to its (asymptotic) balanced growth path, and along such a path growth will be independent of the policy parameter; conversely, transition dynamics are affected by the choice of the policy parameter. We then quantitatively analyze the effect of different policy interventions on welfare, and show that stricter tax (weaker appropriability) regimes lead to higher social welfare.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L16|Applying the Growth Identification and Facilitation Framework to Nepal|This paper analyzes opportunities for growth in Nepal by applying the policy tool of New Structural Economics â€“ Growth Identification and Facilitation Framework (GIFF). Drawing on firm level surveys, stakeholder interviews, and existing datasets it aims to contribute to policy discussions in Nepal and to demonstrate the use of the GIFF for other least developed countries. The report argues that Nepal should seek to capture industrial transfer from China to establish a foothold in global value chains, create employment and catalyze structural transformation. The report identifies product-level advantages arising from preferential market access and sector-specific binding constraints, and proposes how to use Special Economic Zones to mitigate identified constraints to set Nepal on a path of structural transformation.
L16|Rentabilité et coût du capital dans le projet industriel algérien-Le cas de la Société Nationale des Véhicules Industriels (SNVI)|La restructuration des entreprises publiques en Algérie en vue de leur insertion dans un modèle d’économie de marché a nécessité depuis les années 1980 la mise en place d’un ensemble d’institutions et la transition d’un mode de régulation monopoliste vers un mode plus concurrentiel. Cependant, l’institution Etat est restée jusqu’à nos jours l’institution clé soutenant un régime d’accumulation dépendant des ressources en hydrocarbures. La politique budgétaire et financière de l’Etat a donc soutenu et financé la restructuration des entreprises publiques dans le cadre d’une nouvelle stratégie industrielle orientée vers la substitution d’importation et la diversification des exportations. La restructuration de la SNVI opérée depuis les années 1990 s’est inscrite dans une démarche globale de politique industrielle visant à assainir les entreprises publiques et refinancer les investissements productifs en vue de pouvoir soit privatiser, soit nouer des partenariats. Cette stratégie a nécessité le transfert de ressources budgétaires pour financer les investissements et assainir la dette et les découverts bancaires qui a constitué un coût du capital supporté par l’Etat. La politique de partenariat avec des investisseurs étrangers vise à poursuivre un processus de restructuration et de restauration de la compétitivité sur un marché ouvert à la concurrence mais sous régulation sous régulation de l’Etat.
L16|Wage and Price Setting. New Evidence from Uruguayan Firms|This paper presents new evidence on wage and price setting based on a survey of more than 300 Uruguayan firms in 2013. Most of the firms set prices considering costs and adding a profit margin; therefore, they have some degree of market power. The evidence indicates that price increases appear quite flexible in Uruguay (prices are downward rigid). Most of the firms adjust their prices without following a regular frequency which suggests that price changes in Uruguay are state-dependent, although wage changes are concentrated in January and July. Interestingly, the cost of credit is seen by companies as an irrelevant factor in explaining price increases. We also find that cost reduction is the principal strategy to a negative demand shock. Finally, the adjustment of prices to changes in wages is relatively fast
L16|Privatisation and the unusual case of Belarusian accession to the WTO|The accession negotiations of Belarus to the WTO are unusual since, due to its obligations in the Eurasian Economic Union, WTO accession is not expected to impact its tariffs or formerly substantial trade distorting agricultural subsidies. Nonetheless, we estimate that WTO accession will increase welfare by 8.8 percent per year in Belarus in the medium term. We show that inclusion of (i) foreign direct investment; (ii) reduction on non-discriminatory barriers against services providers; and (iii) our model with imperfect competition and endogenous productivity effects together produce esti-mated gains eleven times larger than a model of perfect competition with only cross-border trade in services. Our analysis is enabled by our production of a dataset on both discriminatory and non-discriminatory barriers in services and their ad valorem equivalents. Based on a new dataset on labor productivity by sector and type of ownership, in our central model we estimate that privatization will increase welfare by 35.4 percent. We find substantial variance in the estimated gains from privatiza-tion depending on model assumptions; but all the estimates of the impacts of privatization indicate substantial welfare gains.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L16|Markups and fiscal policy: analytical framework and an empirical investigation|The paper focuses on the effects of fiscal policy on the industry-specific profit margin of a sector of an economy. This is a deviation from the existing literature, which focuses mainly on the effects of fiscal policy on the profit margin of the economy as a whole. In this work the price cost margin at the industry level is expressed as a function of the fiscal balance and other market variables such as industry share and price which are usually absent in a macro-analysis environment. Using a panel of ten European Union member countries for the period 1988-2005 we obtain the statistical results that support the existence of a non trivial relationship between price cost margin and fiscal policy, as it is expressed by the fiscal balance of a country. There are differences, however, between countries as well as industries reflecting different production and labor market conditions.
L16|Catching-up and falling behind: Effects of learning in an R&D differential game with spillovers|In this paper we analyze the dynamics of an R&D differential game allowing for technological spillovers and sigmoid learning functions of multiproduct oligopolies. We demonstrate how the presence of learning together with spillovers may generate a rich set of outcomes, varying from constant leadership to catching-up and falling behind as well as from technology lock-in to a situation with a large number of high quality products. These types of outcomes are qualitatively different both from the single firm dynamics with learning and from the duopoly case with spillovers and without learning.
L16|Techno-Globalisierung, Leitmärkte und Strukturwandel in wirtschaftspolitischer Sicht|Die Globalisierung der Wirtschaftsbeziehungen – inklusive hat in Verbindung mit der Digitalisierung der Wirtschaft neuen Anpassungsdruck erzeugt. Mit der zunehmenden grenzüberschreitenden Entwicklung von Forschungsaktivitäten von multinationalen Unternehmen und der grenzüberschreitenden Kooperation forschender Firmen – der Technoglobalisierung – hat die Globalisierung der Wirtschaft eine zusätzliche Dimension entwickelt. Chinas ökonomischer Aufstieg sorgt dabei für globale Mehrnachfrage, aber auch eine verschärfte internationale Innovationskonkurrenz und zumindest zeitweise wurde u.a. von daher auch der Anreiz zu internationaler F&E-Kooperation gerade in OECD-Ländern gestärkt. Die Internationalisierung gibt einer internationalen Auswahl von Leitmärkten für Produktinnovationen neue Optionen und zugleich stellt sich die Frage, wie die Politik auf die veränderte Dynamik reagieren soll. Am Beispiel Österreichs sieht man mit Blick auf die Technoglobalisierung, dass auch kleine Länder durch gezielte Innovationsinternationalisierung via mehr Direktinvestitionen technologisch und ökonomisch aufholen können – ein möglicher Ansatzpunkt für eine neue Wachstumspolitik etwa der ostdeutschen Länder, aber auch von osteuropäischen EU-Beitrittsländern bietet sich an. Für Deutschlands westliche Bundesländer wäre eine stärkere Weltmarktorientierung und Fokussierung der Innovationsförderung wichtig, insbesondere in NRW. Eine Schwäche Deutschlands ist das Zurückhängen beim digitalen Breitbandausbau. Österreichs Probleme in der EU-Passivhaus-Vermarktung zeigen exemplarisch ökologisch-industriepolitische Defizite im EU-Binnenmarkt bzw. bei der EU-Leitmarktpolitik und der EU2020-Agenda. Innovationsorientierte Beschaffungsprogramme in EU-Ländern sind bislang wenig untersucht, dürften allerdings am ehesten in Verbindung mit Cluster-Initiativen erfolgversprechend sein. Technoglobalisierung erscheint als ein anhaltender Prozess, in den Deutschlands Wirtschaft eingebunden ist – mit besonderen Chancen, wenn es gelingt, mehr Hochtechnologiefirmen aus dem Ausland anzuziehen.
L16|The Nuclear Safety Authority in France: A Dogma of “Independence” and Institutional Fragility|The fragility of the independence of the Nuclear Safety Authority (ASN) is underlined by demonstrating the inadequacy of the parameters which are intended to protect it. Secondly, the focus is placed on transparency, presented by the safety authority as an acquired value. This transparency is in fact very limited. But, in particular, the “provision of information” is not a sufficient condition of transparency. Finally, by using the illustrative case of the mine tailings census (Borloo circular, 2009), it is assumed that the economic logic strongly limits the conditions of production of technical knowledge for information purposes. JEL Codes: O30, K32, L16
L16|Structural adjustments and international trade: theory and evidence from China|This paper studies how changes in factor endowment, technology, and trade costs jointly determine the structural adjustments, which are defined as changes in distributions of production and exports. We document the structural adjustments in Chinese manufacturing firms from 1999 to 2007 and find that production became more capital-intensive while exports did not. We structurally estimate a Ricardian and Heckscher-Ohlin model with heterogeneous firms to explain this seemingly puzzling pattern. Counterfactual simulations show that capital deepening made Chinese production more capital-intensive, but technology changes that biased toward the labor-intensive sectors and trade liberalizations provided a counterbalancing force
L16|Efectos de mecanismos institucionales en el precio de la vivienda nueva en Medelli?n|El objetivo de esta investigacio?n es determinar el impacto que tienen los mecanismos de trasmisio?n de la poli?tica pu?blica en la determinacio?n del precio de la vivienda nueva en Medelli?n, Colombia. Utilizando un modelo de Vectores Auto Regresivos Estructural los principales resultados evidencian que el impacto de un choque de la Unidad de Valor Real (UVR) sobre el precio de la vivienda nueva en Medelli?n es que el precio del metro cuadrado es ela?stico ante variaciones en la UVR en el corto plazo. Adema?s, por medio de un modelo de ecuaciones simulta?neas, estimado por Sistema de Ecuaciones Aparentemente no Relacionadas y Mi?nimos Cuadrados en Tres Etapas, el Fondo de Reserva para la Estabilizacio?n de la Cartera Hipotecaria (FRECH) presenta una relacio?n positiva sobre la demanda de vivienda, mientras que la tasa de intere?s hipotecaria tiene una relacio?n negativa con la demanda. En la medida en que se implementan subsidios como estos, la demanda de vivienda tiende a incrementarse y, a su vez, genera una presio?n al alza del precio de la vivienda nueva. En este sentido los mecanismos institucionales son un incentivo fundamental para el buen desempen?o del sector de la construccio?n.
L16|La industria colombiana 1975-2014: inequidad entre trabajo y capital|Como parte de una investigación sobre transnacionalización del gran capital colombiano, se analiza la distribución funcional de la riqueza creada en la industria durante casi 40 años. Se destacan los cambios en la composición de su producción bruta, así como la concentración de la producción y la centralización del capital, fenómenos liderados por grupos financieros que datan del siglo pasado. También se indaga sobre la evolución de la productividad laboral y del empleo, y los eventuales efectos de los cambios tecnológicos en este sector. Se concluye que en la distribución del valor agregado industrial gana peso relativo el capital, con detrimento de la parte que corresponde al trabajo.
L16|Price Dynamics With Customer Markets|Using microdata from a U.S. retailer we document that customer turnover responds to pricing. We study the optimal price setting of a firm when its demand has an extensive margin that is elastic to price due to customers' opportunity to search for an alternative supplier. The price pass‐through of idiosyncratic productivity shocks is incomplete, with the most productive firms passing through more. Firm demand is more persistent than price. Higher demand is associated with lower markups due to higher search intensity, despite flexible prices. We find empirical support for these predictions in microdata from the retail industry.
L16|Monetary Neutrality with Sticky Prices and Free Entry|Monetary policy is neutral even with fixed prices, if there is free entry and variety is determined optimally as in Dixit and Stiglitz (1977). When individual prices are sticky, entry substitutes for price flexibility in the welfare-based price index. In response to aggregate demand expansions, the intensive (quantity produced of each good) and extensive (number of goods being produced) margins move in offsetting ways, leaving aggregate production unchanged. Deviations from neutrality thus occur only when variety is not optimally determined (preferences are not Dixit-Stiglitz) or when entry is subject to frictions.
L16|Servicification of Firms and Trade Policy Implications|In the OECD countries, the decline of manufacturing and its employment implications have long been matters of concern. Recently, policymakers in several countries have set out to achieve reindustrialization. The servicification of firms is related to these concerns and aspirations. However, servicification and particularly its role in trade policy have received limited attention. I review micro-level evidence and discuss implications. I find that imported, domestic and exported services are all important to contemporary firm competitiveness and participation in international value chains. Therefore, historic policymaking divides between trade in manufactures and services, between export and import interests, and among modes of supply are becoming less relevant. I conclude by suggesting potential steps forward.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L16|Caracterización de los actores del clúster BPO - ITO - KPO en Cali (2014 - 2016)|Studies based on cluster mapping allow to understand the potential of certain industrial sectors and its relevance in the economy of a region, in such a way that businessmen, the academia and State, can have a reference for decision making that will promote the cluster’s dynamism and as a consequence, the socio-economic development of the region. This document is the result of the study of the socio-economic characterization of the actors, based on the technique of cluster mapping of the sectors BPO KPO and ITO and related to the city of Cali, Valle del Cauca, Colombia in 2014 and 2016. The motivation to carry it out was based on the support that the Pontificia Universidad Javeriana Cali has been providing to the Major’s office of Cali, initially to the “Program of Cluster Promotion and Strengthening of the Secretary of Planning” (Programa de Fomento y Fortalecimiento de Clúster de la Secretaría de Planeación), as support to cluster-related initiatives; in this case, to PacificShore, businessmen that received a copy of this study in June 2016 to be analyzed. More recently (August 2017), the study for the recently constituted Secretary of Economic Development of Santiago de Cali has been updated, that has the purpose of encouraging the development of this type of industries in the city. The version here presented corresponds to the updated study.
L16|Do petrol prices increase faster than they fall in market disequilibria?|This paper tests the idea that petrol prices respond more quickly to price increases than to decreases. We show that the results previously documented in the literature for Australia are spurious due to failure to establish the stationarity property of the price series, and the co-integration relationship between retail and wholesale prices when neglecting to account for a regime shift in the data. Using a robust approach involving a threshold error correction model, we find little evidence to support the contention that retail petrol price reverts asymmetrically to long-run equilibrium. Asymmetric adjustments in retail prices are found only in four of the twenty-eight retail gas stations in Queensland. These results cast doubt on the previously reported pervasiveness of this asymmetric price response phenomenon in Australia. We further caution on erroneous inference with the use of weekly rather than daily data, and when failing to account for a regime shift in the data.
L16|Finite Lifetimes, Patents' Length and Breadth, and Growth|We study the implications of patents breadth and duration (length) to growth and welfare, in an overlapping generations economy of finitely living agents. This demographic structure gives room to inter-generational trade in old patents and life-cycle saving motive, which prove to be relevant to the implications of different patent-policy dimensions. Patent breadth protection affects life-cycle saving and thereby aggregate investment, and the allocation investment between patents and physical capital. Patents duration affects also the stock of, and trade in, old patents. We show that, these unique characteristics of the OLG economy provide a case for incomplete patent breadth protection and finite patent duration, which are both growth and welfare enhancing. Furthermore, we show that the implications of patent policy to growth depend on whether the differentiated inputs are intermediate goods or investment goods. Our results contrast with the ones derived in previous studies that employed the same technologies and preferences in model economies of infinitely living agents. Hence, this work highlights the importance of the assumed demographic structure to the implications of patent policy.
L16|The political process - sustainability through power, decisions and behavior|The article examines issues related to the sustainability of the political process. Specific features of its implementation are highlighted in connection with power-exercising, decision-making and behaviour of the governors. In particular, an unusual characteristics of power is made, in connection with its determinants. Furthermore, issues associated with political power and the connections and dependencies in policy-making are analyzed. Issues of control and self-control over political power are discussed and the role of the crowd as a corrective or source of management policy is considered. The specifics of political decisions and the options of manifestation during the implementation of the political process are considered. Political behaviour is presented as a function of political power and political decisions. Emphasis is placed on the forms and motives for manifestation of various types of political behaviour.
L16|An inquiry into manufacturing capacity in Italy after the double-dip recession|This paper investigate the effects of the prolonged double-dip recession on the productive capacity of the Italian manufacturing sector, employing three methods: a production function approach, a survey-based methodology and a statistical filtering of the industrial production series. We estimate that between 2007 and 2013 capacity contracted by 11ï¿½17%, depending on the method. We also conduct an exercise to quantify the loss with respect to a counterfactual evolution of capacity in a ï¿½no-crisisï¿½ scenario in which pre-2008 trends are extrapolated: in this case the loss is close to 20% for all methods. Finally, we identify the main sectors of activity responsible for the reduction in capacity in the baseline and counterfactual scenarios, and find that they donï¿½t always coincide, reflecting uneven dynamics across sectors before and during the recession.
L16|How Monetary Policy Changes Bank Liability Structure and Funding Cost|U.S. banks obtain most of their funding from a combination of zero-interest deposits and interest-bearing deposits. Using local demographic variations as instruments for banks' liability composition, I show that when monetary policy tightens, banks with a larger proportion of zero-interest deposits on their balance sheet experience larger increases in their interest-bearing deposit rate. This happens because tight monetary policy reduces the quantity of zero-interest deposits available to banks. Banks react issuing more interest-bearing deposits, but pay an interest rate that increases with the quantity being borrowed. This new evidence supports the existence of the bank lending channel of monetary policy.
L16|Bank Competition And Financial Stability: Much Ado About Nothing?|The theoretical literature gives conflicting predictions on how bank competition should affect financial stability, and dozens of researchers have attempted to evaluate the relationship empirically. We collect 598 estimates of the competition-stability nexus reported in 31 studies and analyze the literature using meta-analysis methods. We control for 35 aspects of study design and employ Bayesian model averaging to tackle the resulting model uncertainty. Our findings suggest that the definition of financial stability and bank competition used by researchers influences their results in a systematic way. The choice of data, estimation methodology, and control variables also affects the reported coefficient. We find evidence for moderate publication bias. Taken together, the estimates reported in the literature suggest little interplay between competition and stability, especially in developing and transition countries, even when corrected for publication bias and potential misspecifications.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L16|Unemployment Compensation and the Allocation of Labor in Developing Countries|This paper studies the effects of the introduction of unemployment compensation (UC) in countries characterized by pervasive informality. We provide a simple framework to analyze the impact of UC on the allocation of workers between formal and informal activities, as well as the allocation of workers between sectors featuring different incentives to go informal. We show that a reasonable amount of UC may reduce informality, while larger amounts of UC induce large disincentives to go formal because of the level of taxation involved. We also argue that the financing of UC should be part and parcel of a well- conceived UC system. We show that UC finance based on payroll taxes is likely to entail an excess level of informality resulting from cross-subsidies between heterogenous sectors. The introduction of a simple layoff tax meant to finance the UC system is then shown to reduce informality, hence highlighting how a well-designed financing scheme may be used as a supplementary instrument to curb informality.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L16|Knowledge licensing in a model of R&D-driven endogenous growth|I model knowledge (patent) licensing and evaluate intellectual property regulation in an endogenous growth framework where the engine of growth is in-house R&D performed by high-tech firms. I show that high-tech firms innovate more and economic growth is higher when there is knowledge licensing, and when intellectual property regulation facilitates excludability of knowledge, than when knowledge is not excludable and there are knowledge spillovers among high-tech firms. However, the number of high-tech firms is lower, and welfare is not necessarily higher when there is knowledge licensing than when there are knowledge spillovers.
L16|Le « marché augment頻 de l’énergie, des transports et du numérique|This article focuses on the contemporary permeability between the energy, transport and ??digital?? industries, formerly organized in silos. It echoes the literature on connected products, Internet of things and ?big data?. The specificity of this paper is to propose an original interpretation in terms of ?augmented market strategy?. The latter refers to a strategy of expanding the boundaries of a market through the networking of industries that mobilize concomitantly a same intangible (knowledge, information, etc.) or physical (infrastructure, technology, etc.) basis, at various levels of the value chain. The aim of this paper is twofold. On the one hand, it aims to contribute to the exploratory analysis of such strategies, to characterize them, to identify their key determinants and to illustrate their contemporary forms. On the other hand, we seek to evaluate the theoretical scope of our concepts and to position them in the field of industrial convergence. JEL Codes: L11, L16, L22, L25, L62, L90
L16|Le Mexique à l’heure des réformes structurelles|In 2013, Mexico implemented a comprehensive set of structural reforms aimed at removing the obstacles hindering the economy to renew with growth, in fields as diverse as education, public finance, financial sector, energy and telecommunication. It became therefore one of the few countries to have succeeded in voting such a large number of structural reforms in such a short period of time and accompanied by a broad political support. The reduction of monopolies and oligopolistic organizations that generated inefficiencies and the increase in low-cost access to credit for households and businesses could lead to a rise in Mexico?s potential growth by almost one percentage point. If some of the reforms begin to show their effectiveness, the global positive effects on growth are taking time to appear. This delay is especially long given that reforms did not deal with several roots of the fragility of the Mexican growth model. Paradoxically, the Mexican economy shows strong and sound macroeconomic fundamentals, resilience, and great trade openness but remains poorly inclusive, largely informal with endemic corruption and generates strong geographical and income inequalities. Classification JEL: D40, L16, O54.
L16|Multiproduct firms, firm dynamics, and the productive mix of Brazilian manufacturing firms|This is a pioneer study on the Brazilian manufacturing sector focused on: i) the role and characteristics of multi-product (MP) plants; and ii) on the determinants and impact of product switching within firms. MP corresponds to 37% of the manufacturing firms, but generates 81% of the output. They employ more workers, are more likely to be exporters, have higher labor productivity and higher TFP. The extensive margin due to adding and retirement of products contributes more to output growth than entry and exit of firms. Among continuing firms, half of the annual output growth (from 2005 to 2009) was originated in firms that switched products. Firms that have net added (dropped) items had higher (smaller) increase in output, in employers, and in the TFP. Higher TFP, more employers, or being exporter increased the probability to only add or only drop items in the future.
L16|Mining Matters : Natural Resource Extraction and Local Business Constraints|We estimate the impact of local mining activity on the business constraints experienced by 22,150 firms across eight resource-rich countries. We find that with the presence of active mines, the business environment in the immediate vicinity (<20 km) of a firm deteriorates but business constraints of more distant firms relax. The negative local impact of mining is concentrated among firms in tradeable sectors whose access to inputs and infrastructure becomes more constrained. This deterioration of the local business environment adversely affects firm growth and is in line with a natural resource curse at the sub-national level.
L16|The Impact Of Human Capital On Labour Productivity Regarding ‘Et 2020’ Targets|This paper is intended to clarify the European Commission’s Education and Training (ET 2020) strategy, focusing primarily on the dimension of educational attainment. According to the ET 2020, the percentage of the population aged between 30 and 34 who have completed their tertiary education, should be at least 40% by 2020. Meanwhile, also forecasts a reduction in the early school leaver rate to less than 10%. The purposes of this study are to explore the present educational attainment performance in various OECD countries and to analyse the determinants of productivity growth regarding these educational targets. We found that in long run, an increase in the level of human capital resulted in a greater increase in productivity in those countries where the tertiary education and early school leaver ratios targets are achieved. Our conclusions highlight that educational reforms are needed to rethink the establishment of knowledge societies.
L16|Determinantes del precio de la vivienda nueva No VIS en Medellín: un modelo estructural|Esta investigación a diferencia de otras realizadas en el sector busca a través de la utilización de un modelo de ecuaciones estructurales, en el cual se utilizan variables observables y no observables, identificar los determinantes del precio de la vivienda nueva No VIS en Medellín, entre 2009-2014, con el fin de explicar la formación de precios desde la organización industrial del sector. Los resultados indican que el empleo, el crecimiento económico y las políticas públicas (subsidios) influyen directamente –la inflación tiene injerencia negativa– sobre las condiciones del mercado de vivienda (CMV); simultáneamente, las CMV afectan la oferta y la demanda, fuerzas que, a su vez, inciden en la formación de los precios de mercado. Los principales hallazgos de la investigación se centran en la consolidación de un esquema que permite integrar la interdependencia entre variables para la explicación de la formación de precios y la identificación de la incidencia de las políticas públicas en el aumento de los precios.
L16|Análisis input-output de encadenamientos productivos y sectores clave en la economía mexicana|Este artículo busca identificar las industrias clave de la economía mexicana. Para este propósito, se aplican las siguientes metodologías basadas en el análisis input-output: a) el método Chenery-Watabane (1958) para el cálculo de encadenamientos productivos directos; b) los métodos Rasmussen (1963) para el cálculo de encadenamientos productivos totales; c) el enfoque de demanda de Leontief (1985) para cuantificar los encadenamientos hacia atrás directos y totales; d) el enfoque de oferta de Ghosh (1958, 1968) para la cuantificación de los encadenamientos hacia delante directos y totales. Finalmente, los resultados de estas aplicaciones muestran que los sectores clave de México son las industrias de bienes intermedios y bienes de capital.******This article seeks to identify the industrial sectors that are key to the Mexican economy. To this end the following methodologies are employed, all based on input-output analysis: a) the Chenery-Watabane Method (1958) for calculating direct productive linkages; b) the Rasmussen Methods (1963) for calculating total productive linkages; c) Leontief’s demand focus (1985) for the quantification of direct and total backward linkages; and d) the supply focus of Ghosh (1958, 1968) used to quantify direct and total forward linkages. Finally,
L16|Monopoly Power and Endogenous Product Variety: Distortions and Remedies|The inefficiencies related to endogenous product creation and variety under monopolistic competition are two-fold: one static—the misalignment between consumers and producers regarding the value of a new variety; and one dynamic—time variation in markups. Quantitatively, the welfare costs of the former are potentially very large relative to the latter. For a calibrated version of our model with these distortions, their total cost amounts to 2 percent of consumption. Appropriate taxation schemes can implement the optimum amount of entry and variety. Elastic labor introduces a further distortion that should be corrected by subsidizing labor at a rate equal to the markup for goods, in order to preserve profit margins and hence entry incentives.
L16|Growth through Heterogeneous Innovations|We build a tractable growth model in which multiproduct incumbents invest in internal innovations to improve their existing products, while new entrants and incumbents invest in external innovations to acquire new product lines. External and internal innovations generate heterogeneous innovation qualities, and firm size affects innovation incentives. We analyze how different types of innovation contribute to economic growth and the role of the firm size distribution. Our model aligns with many observed empirical regularities, and we quantify our framework with Census Bureau and patent data for US firms. Internal innovation scales moderately faster with firm size than external innovation.
L16|Endogenous Market Structure, Occupational Choice, And Growth Cycles|We model an industry that supplies intermediate goods in a growing economy. Agents can choose whether to provide labour or to become firm owners and compete in the industry. The idea that entry is determined through occupational choice has major implications for the economy’s intrinsic dynamics. Particularly, the results show that economic dynamics are governed by endogenous volatility in the determination of both the number of industry entrants and in the growth rate of output. Consequently, we argue that occupational choice and the structural characteristics of the endogenous market structure can act as both the impulse source and the propagation mechanism of economic fluctuations.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L16|An Analytical And Numerical Search For Bifurcations In Open Economy New Keynesian Models|We explore bifurcation phenomena in the open-economy New Keynesian model developed by Gali and Monacelli (2005). We find that the open economy framework brings about more complex dynamics, along with a wider variety of qualitative behaviors and policy responses. Introducing parameters related to the open economy structure affects the values of bifurcation parameters and changes the location of bifurcation boundaries. As a result, the stratification of the confidence region, as previously seen in closed-economy New Keynesian models, remains an important research and policy risk to be considered in the context of the open-economy New Keynesian functional structures. In fact, econometrics and optimal policy design become more complex within an open economy. Dynamical inferences need to be qualified by the risk of bifurcation boundaries crossing the confidence regions. Policy design needs to take into consideration that a change in monetary policy can produce an unanticipated bifurcation, without adequate prior econometrics research.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L16|Mining Matters: Natural Resource Extraction and Local Business Constraints|We estimate the impact of local mining activity on the business constraints experienced by 22,150 firms across eight resource-rich countries. We find that with the presence of active mines, the business environment in the immediate vicinity (
L16|Why Does Capital No Longer Flow More to the Industries with the Best Growth Opportunities?|With functionally efficient capital markets, we expect capital to flow more to the industries with the best growth opportunities. As a result, these industries should invest more and see their assets grow more relative to industries with the worst growth opportunities. We find that industries that receive more funds have a higher industry Tobin's q until the mid-1990s, but not since then. Since industries with a higher funding rate grow more, there is a negative correlation not only between an industry's funding rate and industry q but also between capital expenditures and industry q since the mid-1990s. We show that capital no longer flows more to the industries with the best growth opportunities because, since the middle of the 1990s, firms in high q industries increasingly repurchase shares rather than raise more funding from the capital markets.
L16|Economic Efficiency Rating of Russian Industrial Enterprises|The objective of this study addresses a specific rating technique to assess the efficiency of enterprise performance. The article touches upon the rating methods commonly applied to obtain a complex rating value on the basis of a comprehensive enterprise activity assessment, such as ranksum method, rank-score method, scale interval method and rating number method. Here we present a specific approach to rating with a focus on the efficiency of enterprise performance in particular. We also give reasons for the advantages the approach we suggest obviously provides, such as time saving, gain in information content as well as applicability of the rating results as a reliable tool to a company’s productive capacity management. The article presents the results of the efficiency ratings assigned to a number of Russian industrial enterprises which are based on the assessment of their performance efficiency premised on the key efficiency values. As the result of the rating, enterprises engaged in extraction of commercial minerals have been assigned the top positions. The analysis of the indices used for calculating profitability values has led to a conclusion that profit growth and expenditure reduction will favor the raise of their efficiency and, therefore, upgrade their positions in the rating.
L16|Cambios estructurales en la industria brasileña (1995-2009)|El objetivo de este artículo consiste en analizar los cambios estructurales en la industria brasileña entre 1995 y 2009, teniendo en cuenta sus relaciones intersectoriales. Para ello se utiliza el análisis de insumo-producto basado en el método de descomposición estructural y el cálculo de los índices de eslabonamiento. Los resultados muestran que la expansión de la demanda final desempeña un papel importante en el crecimiento de la industria en el ámbito del empleo, el valor agregado y el valor bruto de producción. Se destaca el crecimiento de la industria intensiva en recursos naturales. Por otra parte, se constata el debilitamiento de la demanda intersectorial, especialmente en los sectores intensivos en escala y con tecnología diferenciada.
L16|On the emergence of scale-free production networks|We propose a simple dynamical model for the formation of production networks among monopolistically competitive firms. The model subsumes the standard general equilibrium approach à la Arrow–Debreu but displays a wide set of potential dynamic behaviors. It robustly reproduces key stylized facts of firms׳ demographics. Our main result is that competition between intermediate good producers generically leads to the emergence of scale-free production networks.
L16|Economic crisis in the European periphery: An assessment of EMU membership and home policy effects based on the Greek experience|In this paper we examine the evidence on the impacts on the Greece economy of enhanced transfer assistance from the EMU as well as that of the domestic policies of the Greek government. A simple macroeconomic model is constructed to incorporate the issues related to the formation of the economic and financial crisis in Greece, and to analyze the impacts of Greek government's domestic policies. The model's solution is employed to highlight the outcomes that we believe could be related to EMU membership and Greek government policies after assuming membership. Our finding is that intervention by the Greek government either worsened the harmful impacts of the transfers, or altered the outcomes in a deleterious fashion; the policies which were put in place were of a nature leading unavoidably to a severe economic crisis and eventual bankruptcy.
L16|Externalities, endogenous productivity, and poverty traps|We present a version of the neoclassical model with an endogenous industry structure. We construct a distribution of firms׳ productivity that implies multiple steady-state equilibria even with an arbitrarily small degree of increasing returns to scale. While the most productive firms operate across all the steady states, in a poverty trap less productive firms operate as well. This results in lower average firm productivity and total factor productivity. The distributions of employment by firm size across steady states are consistent with the empirical observation that poor countries have a higher fraction of employment in small firms than rich countries. Differences in output and total factor productivity across steady states are increasing in the degree of returns to scale, the capital share, and the Frisch elasticity of labor supply.
L16|Structural estimation of price adjustment costs in the European car market|This paper characterizes the price adjustment costs that are consistent with observed price dynamics in the European car market. We estimate a dynamic model of international multiproduct firms that set prices in different currencies while facing price adjustment costs. We find that large price adjustment costs are not needed to rationalize the substantial degree of price inertia we observe in the data. Intuitively, since GDP, wages and exchange rates exhibit such a large degree of autocorrelation, small adjustment costs can explain very persistent prices. Also, accounting for country-specific price sensitivity, wages, GDP and exchange rates, the price adjustment costs should differ substantially across producers and markets to match the data.
L16|The role of two frictions in geographic price dispersion: When market friction meets nominal rigidity|This paper empirically investigates and theoretically derives the implications of two frictions, market friction and nominal rigidity, on the dynamic properties of intra-national relative prices, with an emphasis on the interaction of the two frictions. By analyzing a panel of retail prices of 45 products for 48 U.S. cities over the period 1985–2009, we make two major arguments. First, the effect of each type of friction on the dynamics of intercity price gaps is quite different. While market frictions arising from physical distance and transportation costs have a positive impact on volatility and persistence of intercity price dispersion, nominal rigidities have a positive impact on persistence but a negative impact on volatility. This empirical evidence is different from what is predicted by standard theoretical cross-country models based on price stickiness. Second, complementarities exist between market frictions and nominal rigidities such that the marginal effect of a market friction dwindles as nominal rigidities increase. We provide an alternative theoretical explanation for this finding by extending the state-dependent pricing (SDP) model of Dotsey et al. (1999) and show that our two-city model with nominal rigidity and market frictions can successfully explain the salient features of the dynamic behavior of intercity price differences that have not been captured in previous analysis.
L16|The rise and fall of unions in the United States|Union membership in the United States displayed a ∩-shaped pattern over the 20th century, while income inequality sketched a ∪. A model of unions is developed to analyze these facts. There is a distribution of productivity across firms in the economy. Firms hire capital, plus skilled and unskilled labor. Unionization is a costly process. A union chooses how many firms to organize and the union wage. Simulation of the model establishes that skill-biased technological change, which affects the productivity of skilled labor relative to unskilled labor, can potentially explain the observed paths for union membership and income inequality.
L16|Factors determining capital structure and corporate performance in India: Studying the business cycle effects|This paper empirically investigates the linkage of corporate sector performance with the capital structure and macroeconomic environment. Using a balanced panel data of 1594 Indian corporate firms over 14 years (1998 to 2011), we find empirical evidence to support the hypotheses relating to the relevance of asymmetric information, agency cost, trade off theory, signaling and liquidity aspects in determining firm's capital structure decisions in emerging market economy. It is found that macro economic cycle significantly influences corporate financing decisions and hence performance. The endogeneity between capital structure and corporate performance has also been resolved through a two step dynamic panel generalized method of moments (GMM). The study suggests that the performance of any company hinges around its ability to operate on a capital structure. With the widening of scope of sourcing of capital, the right blend of instruments needs to be meticulously worked out to optimize cost of capital.
